

“GAELIC” WHISKY.
R. G-. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
| HOBART,
Hadleys Orient jotel.
ROTH WELL’S m
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBAN
The Best Value 8 6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’s IbSG HAT STORE. [2
Rust on, Proctor
and Co.'s
-■. - • -
HAVE LARGE CYLINDER AREA AND AMPLE BOILER CAPACITY
MAKING THEM
PORTABLE STEAK
mm
FOR FULL PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SOLE AGENTS—
}usg i ‘*oo *8 aii-Lva ‘Nosaio
Take it back ,
I must have
PineAppkßrartd MAMS ®
RES
saFES
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Walei Branch i
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Offloe Australian Mutual Provident
Sociofc y>- W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Motive Agents and Oanvassere Wanted. “•(,
cUl t
to
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
M G INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
w
4
m
BENSDORPS
1
the Queen of all Cocoas
a
FOR
ASK
FOR
0^
PALE ALE
< ■
£<d
5m
*“z
>-
Q
ft*
few
X
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
700 Prizes,
New Zealand Loan * Mercantile Agency Co.
—— BYDIVET,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
AU Consignments ol SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, utl MABSGPIAL
SKINS .re oerefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay speoiel
attention to weighing, .lasting and disposing to Tory bee. adrantags. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by thie Company to WHEAT growers for froo storage of
their grain. Full particulars will bo furnished on application.
HELIDON SPA.
Gcllin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1359. j
[Thursday, March 1, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


This Week's
New Books .
Harvey, Irish Life and Humour, Is 3d, post 3d.
Bard, The Chinese at Home, 9s, post 6d.
Guntu, Prince in the Garret, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Clark Russell, Yarn of the Old Harbour Town, paper
2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
McTeague, Practical Irrigation, Ss 6d, post 6d.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
THE DEBTOR, by Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, author of “ A New England Nun *
paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
THE SWORD OF THE OLD FRONTIER, by Randall Parish, author of “My
Lady of the North,” cloth tinted, illustrations, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hinds, Days with Velasquez, 9s, post Bd.
German Official Account of the War in S. Africa, Vol. 2.
Mitford, Secret of the Lebombo, 3s 6d, post sd.
Boswell, Life of Johnson, “Standard Blog.,” 1/3, post 4d
Mac Coll, Symbolic Logic, Its Application, 6s 6d.
Lambert, Glue Gelatine, etc., 7s, post 4d.
71 OASTL6REAGH STREET,
BYDNEY'
IJ§
:'
m
m.
m
the Great
aseptic Remedy
for* Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthmas all affections of
tfagvforo&t & lungs, & for prevention of Consumption,
A
r <Qfi*Tf&t‘ec£
st Wee on receipt of stamps frem the Sole Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemlst,lpswloh.
Y DEPOT—6 and 7 Queen's Place. Agencies in all tbe Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT-W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W.
THE RED PAGE.
A LIVING ARTINT
A BOOK recently published in Sydney,
The First Discovery of Australia and
New Guinea , by George Collingridge de
Tourcey, draws attention anew to the
remarkable career of a remarkable man. This
book is a fully-illustrated summary, for the use of
schools and students, of the author’s larger work,
The Discovery of Australia, published in 1895.
it would be difficult in a survey of Australasian
literature to point to a work upon which more
intelligent labour has been spent. It was indeed a
labourof love, and one for which—asdesigner, wood-
engraver, and linguist—Collingridge was singu-
larly well equipped. Though in the field of
Australian cartography there had been pioneers
before him, there was no one with greater learn-
lnS' —f lO 9 ne "'ho carried inquiry so far. As a
contribution to geographical science the value of
The Discovery of Australia consists chiefly in this:
that it traces the maps of the earliest Portuguese
and Spanish discoveries to their first known
sources, and eliminates errors that had made
previous accounts of these discoveries something
like a geographer’s myth. Where others stopped
short, Collingridge went as nearly as possible to
the fountain heads, and his investigation is an
exemplary piece of comparative geography. As a
piece of book-making, The Discovery of Australia
brought for the first time copies of the earliest
maps of the earliest voyages—thanks to Colling-
ridge s artistic talents within the reach of
ordinary readers.
Even now there is much that is vague—much
that never will be cleared up. The paradox of
early American discovery is paralleled by that of
Australia. It is belibved that Columbus landed
in the Bahamas, yet in all the islands of the
Bahamas there is not one that bears out his
description of the harbour that he found—large
enough to float the navies of the world. And
when, previous to the American World’s Fair of
1893, • the task of settling upon which island
Columbus landed was given to three eminent
geographers, each decided upon a different
island. Concerning Torres and De Queiros and
their voyages, there is much also that can be but
guessed at. Torres coasted Northern Australia,
through the straits that bear his name, and never
knew that he had discovered a continent : he
thought that the headlands he saw were merely
the capes of an island. De Queiros, on the other
hand, reaching the New Hebrides, was proud of
the discovery of a continent.
George Collingridge was led to his inquiry
fourteen or fifteen years ago, when some copies of
rare old manuscript maps of Australian voyages
were made for the public libraries of Sydney,
Melbourne, and Adelaide. These maps were re-
ported upon by the Sydney press and the Geo-
graphical Society. Collingridge was not satisfied
with the conclusions arrived at. and went to the
Sydney Library to inspect the maps. A conti-
nental land named Jave-la-Grande, supposed to
represent Australia, had been reported in The
S. AT. Herald as being New Guinea. Running
the longitudes and latitudes, Collingridge saw that
this was an error. So he was led to make a
special study of the old documents. After some
years he grew so interested in his work that he
made a point of reading everything that had been
written on the subject in English, French,
Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese ; and he studied
the cartography, accumulating a valuable library
of maps, photographs, and books. Asked by a
firm of publishers whether he would undertake to
write upon the subject, he accepted the pro-
position, and The Discovery of Australia was the
outcome. It is a noble monument of learned
labour.
jfi,
George Alphonse Collingridge de Tourcey was
born at Godington, Oxfordshire, England, on 29th
October, 1848. He lives to-day at “Jave-la-
Grande,” Hornsby, near Sydney, in his 58th year;
after many narrow escapes of dying. The first was
when he jumped down from a haystack as a boy,
and was picked up apparently moribund. The last
occurred only a few weeks ago, when he jumped
upon a moving train, missed his footing, hiing bv
one hand to the guard-rail until the train was
stopped—and was picked up bruised and bleeding
to remain five days in bed. A whole career of
reckless gallantry lies between.
Collingridge sprang from an artistic family, and
was educated to art in France. He should, he
declares, have become an architect; and he was
hesitating about becoming a pupil of Viollet-le-
Duc’s when an advantageous offer was made him
to undergo an apprenticeship in wood-engraving.
The year was 1863,"when Gustave Dore was pro-
ducing his masterpieces, and xylography was at
its apogee. Young Collingridge’s merit was such,
and the prices paid for his work were so good, that
at the end of the first year he was earning £25 a
week for his teacher. When his time expired,
wishing to make a special study of painting, he
entered Chapon’s studio, and followed classes with
Harpignies. About that time an appeal was made
for Catholic volunteers to fight Garibaldi. Many
of Colhngridge’s friends were going to Italy
—some to study art, others to enlist. The
regiment of the Papal Zouaves, after the
disaster of Castel Fidardo, had been reorganised ;
Garibaldi was threatening an invasion of the
Papal States; and Collingridge joined De
Charetfee’s corps, and remained in Italy two years.
During his military career he was in seventeen
different engagements with the Garibaldians,
including Monte Rotondo, Nerola, Mentana, and
Lungaretta, and received several decorations for
distinguished bravery.
Returning to France in 1869, he continued work-
ing as a wood-engraver until the Franco-Prussian-
war broke out. During the siege of Paris he went
to London, coming back on the proclamation of
peace. After he had journeyed to Spain in the
seventies with Yierge, his brother Arthur, who
had settled in Australia, wrote a request to
“come over and help on The Illustrated Sydney
News.” Collingridge arrived in time for the
International Exhibition, and shortly afterwards
the brothers founded the Art Society of N.S.
Wales. Presently Collingridge married and
“ settled down ” —to teach art, to write books, to
cultivate his garden, and to agree that a rightly-
governed Australia might be for a fine race of men
and women the finest country in the world....if
only the Italian proverb were untrue, that “ the
fish stinks first at the head.”
SHINING STAGERS
JR. TUTIN, of Albert Avenue, Hull,
# appears to be the unusual publisher
who prints poetry because he loves
it, and sells it for a little more than
a song with intent to edify the unedifying
England of to-day. One can scarcely con-
ceive the British workman being led aside
from beer and betting to contemplation of
Sir Philip Sidney ; or “the smart set”
ceasing the pursuit of bridge to enjoy the
society of “The Matchless Orinda.” Bu;
degenerated cities and brutalised villages a
not all England ; and there is in the Englis i
character a valorous quality that persists : n
many a mind and home—a homely virt
that does not sparkle and can no longer sin r,
yet remains staunch in its instincts of n -
bility and beauty. Though learning is
longer set on high, and poetry is a seldo
occupation, there must be (if one could fine
them !) many readers in England to who
Tutin’s booklets will be a treasure. In Au
tralia there are a few.
Jt
The authors are chosen mostly from the
17th century—that Eflglish age when the
high-leaping flames of the great Elizabethan
had died down, but the embers of romanc
were still red and glowing. ’T was an age o :
fancy rather than of imagination—of fane
sporting in a thousand ingenious devices o’
conception and phrase, scarcely thrillin
doubtfully inspiring, but packed with such
steadfast thought, such dainty imagery, tha ;
a musing mind can find no better solace.
The booklets are well printed in a gooc
form, and the choice of poems possibly coui
not be varied with advantage. Time, indeec,
exercises upon verse the settling and ripei
ing influence that it has upon wine : th
sediment sinks to the bottom of the flask
and the clear liquor offers itself to posterit
scarcely called upon to make a consciou
judgment. Tutin is able to give his forty-
eight pages for fourpence, sixty-four for
sixpence ; and at these prices there is no on
who cannot afford to enjoy the fruit of h: s
enthusiasm. One book is devoted t
Katherine Philips—“The Matchless Orinda
to whom Gosse gave a chapter in his Seven
teenth Century Studies. Abraham Cowley
has thus summed up her poetry :
“’Tis solid and ’tis manly all,
Or rather’t is angelical ;
For as in angels we
Do in thy verses see
Both improved sexes eminently meet:
Ibey are than Man more strong, and mor
than Woman sweet.”
J*
Cowley would have been interested in the
controversy over the sex of angels tha;
excited New York last year, when Gutzon
Borglum, a sculptor commissioned by the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine to execute
statues of the Angel of Annunciation and the
Angel of Resurrection, duly delivered two
female angels which the Cathedral autho
rities refused, on the ground that angels
have always been held to be masculine. The
dispute ended by the sculptor going to the
church with a mallet and chisel and destroy-
ing his female angels. One need not deal so
vigorously with Cowley’s too-complimentary
opinion. Orinda, one fears, was but an
echo, though an agreeable echo, and “ the
wonder is not that she has written so well,
but that she has written so at all.” Though
she died in 1664, her woman’s weakness
seems to anticipate the frigidity of the
eighteenth century, when all but the last
heat had left the poetical ashes, and writers
contented themselves with ornamentation of
the reliquary urn.
One likes the eulogy of the “ Irish Grey-
hound,” with its closing couplet:
Few men of him to do great things have learned,
And when th’ are done to be. so unconcerned !
The difficult word business was referred to
recently, yet it comes quite easily in Orinda’s
manner. To cite the passage from her lines
on “ Friendship ” will give a sufficient indi-
cation of her talent :
Let the dull brutish world that know not love
Continue heretics, and disapprove
That noble flame ; but the refined know
’T is all the heaven we have here below.
Nature subsists' by love, and they do tie
Things to their causes but by sympathy.
Love chains the different elements in one
Great harmony, linked to the heavenly Throne.
And as on earth, so the blest quire above
Of saints and angels are maintained by love:
That is their business and felicity,
And will be so, to all eternity.
That is the ocean : our affections here
Are but streams borrowed from the fountain there;
And’t is the noblest argument to prove
A beauteous mind, that it knows how to love.
Those kind impressions which fate can’t control.
Are Heaven’s mintage on a worthy soul,
For love is all the arts’ epitome,
And is the sum of all divinity.
JX
Thomas Carew was closer to the great age,
and his Pegasus is a steed of brighter mettle.
Those who know him only from anthologies
will assuredly be glad to receive for four-
pence this little bookful of his merit. The
introductory note, correct in the main, leaves
an insufficient impression of his value. We
have almosb*iost the art of conceits such as
Carew finds for his mistress’ lips :
When they part themselves asunder,
She breathes Oracles of wonder.
Or his declaration that her
Every step begpts a lover.
And we can rarely turn verses like these :
In her fair cheeks two pits do lie,
To bury those slain by her eye ;
So, ’spite of death, this comforts me,
That fairly buried I shall be,
My grave with rose and lily spread ;
O’t is a life to be so dead !
Come then, and kill me with thy eye :
For, if thou let me live, I die.
When I behold those lips again,
Reviving what those eyes have slain,
With kisses sweet, whose balsam pure
Love’s wounds, as soon as made, can cure,
Methinks ’t is sickness to be sound,
And there’s no health, to such a wound.
Come, then, and kill me with thy eye :
For, if thou let me live, I die...
Another booklet collects English versions
of the odes and fragments of Sappho, ver-
sions that are more curious than efficacious.
One finds none better than Maurice Thomp-
son’s paraphrases, here given some years
ago, and one misses lines like that for
Atthis,
Loved once, loved madly, loved so long ago...
or the couplet,
Dark petals of a hyacinth, odorous still,
Crushed by rude feet on many a windy hill!
Probably the translators, being men, have
lost that feminine note which, as P. L.
Bickley wrote in The Academy, is Sappho’s
alone—“ the entire abandonment to passion,
an all-pervading and. over whelming emotion.
Probably, indeed,” Bickley continued in
lines well meditated, “it is this very emo-
tion which in its omnipotence stifles articu-
late poetic utterance in women, being too
great for words. But this one time it has
found expression, if not allayment, in
splendidly articulate song.” And a few
lines further :
Shelley, whose nature had in it so much that
was feminine, approaches Sappho more closely
than any other in this respect. Such verses as
those beginning:
“ Far, far away, O ye
Halcyons of Memory,"
such a phrase as “ I wander and wane like the
weary moon,” are expressions of a more essential
emotion than is perceptible in the most passionate
utterance of Mr. Swinburne or Catullus. Mr.
Yeats has something of this feeling too, with the
difference that his poetry is not Greek in spirit,
but Celtic ; grey, not golden.
Other booklets reprint selections from Sir
Phillip Sidney and his sister, from Thomas
Vaughan, John Norris of Bemerton, and
from Bertram Dobell’s recent discovery,
Thomas Traherne. Traherne was worth
discovery. His crystal mind, his simple
expression, remind one of Blake :
The streets were paved with golden stones,
The boys and girls were mine,
Oh how did all their lovely faces shine !
Yet he has ideas that are quite modern in
their scope : as in this “Of Contentment,”
to conclude the survey.
Contentment is a sleepy thing !
If it in Death alone must die,
A quiet Mind is worse than Poverty,
Unless it from Enjoyment spring !
That ’s.Blessedness alone that makes a King !
Wherein the Joys and Treasures are so great,
They all the powers of the Soul employ,
And fill it with a Work compleat,
While it doth all enjoy.
True Joys alone Contentment do inspire.
Enrich Content and make our Courage higher.
Content alone’s a dead and silent Stone ;
The real life of Bliss
Is Glory reigning in a Throne.
Where all enjoyment is,
The Soul of Man is so inclin’d to see,
Without his Treasures no man’s Soul can be,
Nor rest content Uncrown’d !
Desire and Love
Must in the height of all their Rapture move,
Where there is true Felicity.
Employment is the very life and ground
Of Life itself ; whose pleasant Motion is
The form of Bliss:
All Blessedness a life with Glory Crown’d :
Life ! Life is all; in its most full extent
Stretcht out to all things, and with all Content!
Seven Angels of the Renascence, by Sir Wyke
Bayliss (Lond., Pitman; 10s. 6cf. net), is a book
that does not preserve the promise of its begin-
ning. The “angels” are “messengers”—those
who carried the tidings of the Renascence, and
Bayliss gives the name to Cimabue, Leonardo,
Michael Angelo, Titian, Raphael, Correggio, and
Claude Lorraine. His book sketches the life and
work of each of these men in their relation to the
general progress of art; and as he is painter him-
self (President of the Royal Society of British
Artists) his material is usually well chosen, and
his comments are often apt. Much labour and
knowledge are needed to make such a survey.
Bayliss fails as Ruskin failed (he reads curiously
like a Ruskin who has adapted himself to journal-
ism) —because throughout he has seen his subject in
a false light. He has not been content to take his
artists as they were, and to consider their work as
it stood or stands, without reference to his own
preconceptions. Like Ruskin, he endeavours to
state Art in terms of his notion of the Glory of
God, and he judges the painters of the Renascence
partly from the standpoint of Christian dogma
One naturally enquires what he has to say about
Leonardo—that great artist and sceptic. It is a
pity, but Leonardo will not fit Bayliss’s Christian
scheme: he is the ugly duckling who cannot be
brought into the religious brood. “ I wish I cou
be as sure in my estimate of the relation in whic
Leonardo da Vinci stands to the renascence o
art,” says Bayliss, rather sadly.—This defect robs
the book of permanent value. Still, for peop
who can endure partial glimpses, it is not a bac
book ; and people who prefer to know all that ca
be known may find here an addition to their sui
of knowledge. Such a summary as the followin
is convenient, and has some justice:
The foundations of the renascence of art were laid b
da Vinci on the finest lines of scholarship and SGientif i
knowledge. A new splendour came upon it through tl
impassioned imagination of Michael Angelo. It wi
enriched with colour through the palette of Titian,
became more lovely through the tenderness and grace o
Correggio—more stately and balanced through the com
pleteneSs of Raphael.
Bayliss repeats a Cellini anecdote with a pro
found moral. Cellini kicked his heels at th
court of France for an appointment. He was
offered one with a salary of 300 crowns only, anc
straightway remembered that he had vowed t
visit the Holy Sepulchre and devote his life anc
art to religious themes. So he started. Th
king sent after him the pleasant tidings that the
salary would be raised to 700 crowns, with a pre-
liminary bonus of 500 and extra pay for wore
done—and Cellini forgot all about the Hoi
Sepulchre.
As the book proceeds, Bayliss has too man
words that give too little help. Some of hi
chapters are only reviews of other men’s books
some merely a dilution of Vasari; and hi
sentiments grow stodgy, his sermon stale
What one really approves is the remarkabl
series of portraits and illustrations, admirabl e
chosen—sometimes with curious autographs, saic
to be original, attached to the portraits. Some o'
these illustrations have an air of being dragged
by head and shoulders—like the pictures of Jesu
to illustrate the author’s theory that the picto
rial representation of Jesus has not varied
throughout the ages ; —but pictures and portrait
are so interesting that one cannot wish onq away
The Melbourne maga. Life has had its share o;:
uncompromising criticism, so it seems fair to say
that the Feb. number prints an interesting yarn
from Charles Nuttall abaut the American girl
Nuttall doesn’t draw badly, but one is inclinec
to say that he writes better than he draws. This
little picture of the American at home in New
York is perfect:
A gentleman who occupies rooms next to mine, in an
apartment house, is in the habit of coming to visit me
and, incidentally, to smoke, chew, expectorate, and tc
furnish me with information concerning the ways of his
compatriots. Only last week he was speaking on this
subject of social precedence. “ Yassir,” he said, aiming
at my cuspidor, and scoring a miss that was much worse
than a mile. “ Yassir ; the women-folks here see that
each other toes the line. Now, yew b’lieve me. The gir
who does shorthand and plays on a typewriter won’t be
seen walkin’ with a mere clerk. An’ the mere clerk, she
reaches for her smellin’-bottle when she passes a
saleslady. An’ the saleslady throws a fit ii
a milliner speaks to her. An’ the milliner,
if she gets into the factory department by mis-
take, she curls up on the floor an’ hollers for the police
An’ the factory girl, when she sees a domestic servant
sweepin’ off a front stoop, why she goes home in a ambu-
lance, overcome with cerebro-spinal-meningitis ! Yassir,
it’s a fact. An’then ag’in. Right, here in this hash-mil'
that you an’ me is the bright partickler ornaments of,
there’s an old hairpin on the floor above whose name is
Van Dopper ; an’ she’s an aristocrat. Yassir, she ain’t got
enough money to buy herself warm socks in the win-
ter, an’ she’s shaped like three water-melons. But
her name’s Van Dopper, an’ that’s enough for her an’ the
other women. She won’t look at any of ’em except the
landlady, who’s a reduced duchess of some kind. (Never
knew a landlady that was born to the business. No
matter how well they’re doin’, they’ve always come
down.) Yassir. An’ she takes the landlady in for a cup
of tea-royal twice a week, whiles the other women grieves
alone in their rooms. There ain’t one of ’em, ’at would
n’t keep a samovar goin’all day if she’d only come in,
an’ she knows it, an’ that’s herway of enj’yin’ life.”
■Jt
Thomas E. Spencer, a Bulletin contributor—
whose remarks in verse upon O’Toole and
M'Sharry, and how McDougall topped the score,
appear in The Bulletin Reciter —makes his bow in
a book of his own, published by N.S. W. Bookstall
00. (3s. 6d.), with a portrait of a pleasant-faced
elderly gentleman and illustrations complete.
The title of the volume is (once more) How
McDougall Topped the Score —and other Verses
and Sketches—some of which appear to share
M‘DougaH’s celebrated fitness for bush recitation.
Spencer makes no especial literary claim, but his
rhymes have an individual character, and some of
them are brightly pointed and neatly versified.
His sentimental pieces scarcely read as well as the
humorous, and need a voice and a platform to
make them real—though one owns to being hit by
the rhyme of the London-Australian who has
made his pile :
. “The Rouseabout ” displays Spencer’s comical
idiosyncrasy. One likes “Did You Ever,” and
“The Irony of Fate,” and “The Haunted
Lagoon,” and “The Stockman’s Serenade,” but
clings to “ O’Toole and M'Sharry ” after all.
Spencer has a mind with a really humorous kink
m it, and if the book were on a level with his best
one would like him as well as Leland. Luckily or
unluckily, he has had to mix his ore for the
public crushing. The second part of the book is
occupied with the reflections and reminiscences
of Mrs. Bridget M‘Sweeney, which begin by
saying :
The great drawback to this climate is that the hottest
days all come in the summer, whin we could do without
’em, and the cold ones in winter, whin we don’t want
era—
and look likely to be popular.
A.S.R.
But the Voice keeps on saying “ Come Back
To the bush and the wallaby track,
To the bush with its sadness,
Its grandeur and gladness,
Its space and its freedom. Come back 1 ”


Have a Very Strong Market.
Write to us for Particulars -
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Limited
WOOL and PRODUCE
SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
SIMMONS,
The Sydney Sports Depot.
FOOTBALLS.
H'CTO-DB'S' CCR. .iASSOCI^TIOXX.
•C- ROVAU v
root ft
m
X-/
m
iSt
111
&
..• M'U'--. lU■ .. • l /. •; .• ■ >: l . 4 V?*5Aj ■}-ffit’i\vt>.'
All Balls Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
RUGBY or ASSOCIATION.
Postage on Men’s Football—N.S.W., 6d ; Inter-State, Bd.
No. I—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match 11., Hand-sewn .. .. 9s 6d
No. 2—Nicholson’s “ Royal Special ” (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3—Nicholson’s “Royal ” Match II 7s 6d
No. 3 is an exceptionally strong, useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, hut suitable for practice.
The “Nicholson” Royal Special Match Ball is gua-anteed the best value on the market, made from Selected
Crome Leather, Hand-sewn, in accordance with the N.S.W. Rugby Union's specifications, and fitted with
best quality Imported Red Rubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match 11., Hand-sewn 12s 6d
BRYAN'S “Grasshopper” Match 11., Hand-sewn 13s 6d
“ A.N.A.” Special Match 11., Rugby only 13s 6d
SYKES’ Match 11., Special Value 7s 6d
“ALBION” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 11s 6d
“RIVAL” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 10s Od
“DIADEM” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 13s 6d
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 15s Od
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 2s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) 3s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) .. .. .. 4s 3d
Solid Hide, Match 11. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
ASSOCIATION each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage id.) 2s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 3s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) 3s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) 4s 6d
Solid Hide, Match 111. (Postage 6d.) ~ .. 5s Od
BOYS* RUGBY, Extra Special Value (Postage 3d).
No. X, Is 9d each. No. 2,2 s 3d each. No. 3,2 s 9d each.
Football Bladders (imported)—Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
Each.
No. 1 (Postage 2d.) Is Od
No. 2 (Postage 2d.) Is 4d
No. 3 (Postage 3d.) Is 7d
Each.
.. Is lOd
.. 2s 3d, 3s 3d
.. 2s 9d, 3s 3d
No. 4 (Postage 3<\)..
No. 5 (Postage 3 !.)..
No. 6 (Postage 3d.)..
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Piices if required.
SH/N GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.) Is Od pair
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 31.) Is 3d pair
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.).. .. .. .. Is 6d pair
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.) 2s Od pair
Gold Cape, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) .. .. .. .. 2s 9d pair
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather straps (Postage 4d.) 3s Od pair
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) 4s Od pair
Same as above, larger size (Postage 4d.) .. i. .. 5s Od.pair
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is; Inter-State, Is Bd.
Best Quality English made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Rugby
Extra Quality English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps, with and
without ankle pads, per pair .. .. .. 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
10s 6d
14s 6d
13s 6d
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each.
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 2d),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6d each.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post. 2d), 3s 9d.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
Miok
Simmons.
Brass
Inftators.
Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d each
BRASS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d) ..
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3jlb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
Illustrated Fishing- Tackle, Sports, Tobacco List 3, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Aotion, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Exti a Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
"THE MAINE
Pifle
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
'SNCIAItAIIS MOllrtl
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2|lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
, _ Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Ride, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight lb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
13s
18s
16s
6d
Od
Od
Winchester
1904
Model.
irimniiimYipiiiß
21in. heavy
adjustable ri
sight with
tarnish, we
N\ C,'l V . ;Rs
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22" short or long rim fire cartridges,
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
ear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
patent alloyed tip, which will not
light about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
2d Tnter-Rtate\
25s
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “Little Krag,’’ bolt action, blued steel round barrel,
20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep sight, but
may be had with Y sight if required at 6d extra, length over all
36in., weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s Sd Inter-State)
21s
Stevens’ “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ; jp ■* -i a_
3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. I IWo
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open f* a
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d .. .. w^
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
I
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’3 D.
rebounding locks, left
Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d
8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ;
.8.8. L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.13.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S. W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, o/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
“The Reliable
£6 12s Gd
PRICE
MICK SIMMONS.
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Tnter-State.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke,° side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2fin. 'cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the jP-flO "j O c
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. : 5s 2d Inter-State *'**! 1
Remittance and Freight must accompany Order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. p or pjfe Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or lleiw Zealand HSg- AT LOWEST CUrtKENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. It. J. Black, JI.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
otT General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
SPIRITS.
The Best Brands Only of
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
yvmcHssrm
A«.
Model 1905 Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By All Dealers.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., New HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
©
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA;
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sea Capsule marked ENO'S • FRUIT SALT.* Without it you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Praparod only by J. O. ESNO. Ltd.. * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
’ M All T~ft 1 J _ Ml - _ .
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... , TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men
iiGdjunen ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin’ Diseases,
Gravel Sores. U rinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liiver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office s 547 GEOROE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, VV.A.; 11l HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
n LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Weak Women
anti
Btre
££
Sefejfe,
fromalP
GranpWeras
li/cludiryj j
Record^
SlgnortooDANl
FimwnriMsa
NICOLE—
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
$
The Colonial,
The New Standard,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING, AGENT. 316 George St
SYDNEY.
ANOTHER CONVINCING PROOF.
THIS TIME AT MERRYLANDS.
THE CASE OF MR . H. ALMOND .
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
Whilst much of the anguish and grief which exist in some families as the result of ill-health is hid from
the gaze of the outside world, and is known only to those who are immediately concerned, sufficient tran-
spires to excite the sympathy of every genuine philanthropist, and to bring forth strenuous efforts on behalf
of suffering humanity. Here is an instance in which the reader will recognise a desire on the part of Mr.
Henry Almond, storekeeper, Park-road, Merrylands, to extend a helping hand to any who may be afflicted as
he was some years back.
“In what way was your health affected?” inquired the reporter.
“ Well, for two years previous to coming here, and for a good while after starting this business, I was
always mad with neuralgia, and you may guess that having a complaint like that so long must have had
a direful effect upon my system generally. Really, sometimes I was fairly raging, owing to the agony I
was in, and many a time wished that I was dead and out of the world altogether. Oh, it was a life of fearful misery,
and I pity any poor soul in similar straits. You may rest assured that I resorted to pretty well every known treat-
ment in the hope of gaining some relief, but success evaded all my efforts. My gums, my jaws, the cheekbones were
the parts where the torture principally existed ; but, curiously enough, there" were days when one side of my face
and head was affected till nightfall, and then the pains shifted over to the other side. And, as for sleep—well, do
you think anybody could sleep under such adverse circumstances? I know I couldn’t, as a rule ; though, at long
intervals, when nature could not hold out any longer, I lapsed into a state of unconsciousness that might be called
sleep, and whilst it lasted I had the worst dreams you could think of.”
“ I don’t suppose you were usually fit to do much work ?”
“ Indeed, I was not; and I was also so low-spirited that I did not seem to care whether I was ever able to work
again or not. Shortly after the neuralgia attacked me I noticed that my digestion was getting bad, and so it con-
tinued to fail, until eventually my internal organs were so completely upset that even the lightest food could not be
assimilated. My tongue had a dirty coating, and the taste in my mouth of a morning was most disagreeable—clearly
indicating the bilious state I was in ; and another thing that troubled me was my sight—very poor indeed sometimes—
while my eyes felt twice their proper size, and as heavy as lead. Between my shoulders I had more pains to bear,
and I ached so much across the loins that it was painful to walk even a short distance. But you’ve no idea of the
fearfu| state of nervousness I got into—used to give little jumps and twitches, as though I had St. Vitus’s Dance
sometimes, and the unsettled frame of mind I was in-gave rise to much mental misery also. Simple matters irritated
me, and caused undue excitement, and I tell you candidly I couldn’t find a moment’s peace or happiness anyhow.”
“After so much ineffective, treatment, how did you.manage to get well again?”
“This way: A new customer came to the shop one day, and, seeing how ill I was, said, ‘Did you ever
try Clements Tonic? Well, try a bottle; it won’t break you;’ and at last I did, for which I am devoutly
thankful. Oh ! it was like something you read about in a novel the way Clements Tonic served me ; but
it was a joyful reality nevertheless. To think that I had suffered for years, and only then had got a
remedy to do me good, was something to be thankful for, and I was, too. Why, Clements Tonic began
to soothe my nerves when I had only taken two or three bottles, and you couldn’t credit the amount of ease
it had given me already. It roused the weakened energies of my system, and stimulated my appetite to
such a degree that before long I was eating as well as ever—when the neuralgia had entirely gone, of course
you can guess how grateful I was. It is also in regard to indigestion that Clements Tonic is deserving of
recognition at my hands, for that was, after all, one of the principal things from which I suffered. Yes ;my last
remedy fairly opened my eyes as to what medicine really can do when it is of the right kind, for, in spite of every-
thing else failing, Clements Tonic set to work and put me right in no time. A few weeks’use of it made such an
altered man of me that I had nearly forgotten what it was like to get up feeling half dead with weariness. My breath
was sweet, and I had no unpleasant taste in my mouth of a morning ; my eyes were bright, and the sight good ;
I slept soundly each night, every pain had gone, so what more could any man wish for? You can publish my story
in any way you wish.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ALMOND, of Park-road, Merrylands, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements, which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) HENRY ALMOND.
Subscribed and declared at Merrylands this twenty-third day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me.
GEORGE J. FINLAYSON, J.P.
HARROW ESTATE
Eton Vale) Cambooya, Queensland.
— ; ♦
NOW OPEN FOR SALE in Farms ranging from
20 to 500 ACRES, all ready for the Plough.
The very pick of the Darling Downs, and right on the main railway
line from Sydney to Brisbane, and close to Toowoomba.
The best of Wheat, Lucerne, and Dairying country.
Factories on the Estate. Well watered by permanent Rivers.
Rainfall over 30 inches per annum. Climate cool and bracing.
Prices range from £4 to £5. Terms exceptionally easy.
Purchasers will receive return of steamer fare and cost of Queensland
rail ticket on payment of first deposit. Survey free.
Over £150,000 distributed last month by Dairy Factories within
a radius of 20 miles. Write for Priced Lithographs
The Manager, Harrow Estate,
Cambooya, Queensland.


While thin hair and baldness are
undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of v/omen
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
Tire hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from neglect. So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should uso
Mger's
%Ai © % ©
fiair Vigor
yi_.
•S3*.
■
rz**..
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in
any way troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Ilair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap imitations which will only
disappoint you. Make sure you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
f you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use ...
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
JELLY CRYSTALS.
Superior flavors, and
very transparent.
"M OI R’S
WORCESTER SAUCE
It is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIR. AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. f 3
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THc LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
For Sunburn
or Sore Byes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calveht & Co., Manchester
England.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement*
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of s lies will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINCTON’S.”
m
WDRfZ!Cg3S)gfZie
12,000,000 of these
watches now in use.
All Waltham
watches are guaran- !
teed by American j
Walth am Watch j
Co., the largest i
watch movement j
manuf ac turing j
concern in the world, j
L. I, FLEGELTAUB
ROYAL JEWELLER- - - -
HOROLOGIST,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT.
Exceptional Value |
Qun Metal Watch VAS
Post Free Everywhere.
With our Guarantee of Accuracy for years.
96 King St, Sydney, n.s.w.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Will Someone Sing a Song?
I want to sing a song—
The song Australia needs
To set the warm blood gushing
In the veins of stern men rushing
On to brave and mighty deeds.
Its music (O, so sweet and strong !)
Shall thrill the nation’s heart
With its rhythmic passion tender,
Rich in all the magic splendor
Of the true-born singer’s art.
Aye, that grand, inspiring song shall be
Of Young Australia’s history
An era and a part
I want to sing a song—
The song my land awaits,
With its longings ripe for stirring,
With its great heart fit for daring
All the fair or frenzied Fates.
Its music shall be rich and rare
And bear no paltry theme,
But shall rise in exultation
For the youngest, fairest nation
In the great all-worldly scheme.
Yea, its melody shall roll and rise
In grandeur to the arching skies
Like songs of which we dream.
Australia waits a song,
But the years roll swiftly by,
And O ! my brother singers—
Young Australia’s message-bringers—
Who shall sing it, you or I ?
Its music must be rich and rare,
Inspiring, deep, and strong ;
It shall be our nation’s greeting,
Sung to set the warm hearts beating
In the bosoms of the throng.
Yes, a blazoned part that song shall be
Of our Australia’s destiny-
. . . Will someone sing Her Song !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Deep Down.
Death comes in with his icy hand,
Places it on your forehead damp,
Upsets the things that you lately planned,
And sets you off on your last long tramp.
He whispers softly you must not stay,
It’s fully time you were on the track,
An 1 tells your friends you’re going away,
And it’s more than likely you won’t be back.
Bury me deep, bwry me deep.
Shoot me down a thousand feet,
Lay me not where the violets creep ;
Drop me down ivhere the breakers beat.
Bury me deep, bury me deep;
What does it matter when I die ?
So when at last I fall asleep,
On the bed of the ocean let me lie.
“ When I am dead,” the rich man said,
“Give me a funeral great and grand,
And raise a monument over my head,
Marble hewn by some master hand.
Sing my praises o’er all the earth,
Whisper my name in a reverent tone,
Tell the world of my sterling worth,
Give me in heaven a golden throne.”
So when he died they buried him deep,
The multitude followed and bowed its head,
And the minister said, ‘ ‘ May he peaceful sleep,
The great good man who now lies dead.”
But they did 'not state that he sold his soul
For land and gold and cattle and sheep ; ■
Down with the worm and the snouted mole
On the road to Sheol they buried him deep.
VIC.
BURNETT GRAY.
Bluebells.
They told me it was fancy when I heard the
bluebells ring,
But I turned away and smiled at them in scorning ;
Will they tell me it was fancy that I heard the
magpie sing,
As I wandered in the bushland in the morning ?
And the chimes on every breeze
Were wafted through the trees,
Such a dainty pealof fairy music ringing ;
And when the breeze was past,
And thp chimes grew faint at last,
Then I fancied I could hear the fairies singing.
The daisies bloom so sweetly, and the grasses
proudly wave,
Where the plains beneath the drowsy sun are
sleeping ;
For the Springtime’s borrowed garlands deck the
Autumn staid and grave,
Though afar I see old Winter slyly peeping.
But he’s far and far away
This sunny noon in May,
When the earth with golden radiance is glowing.
While the sky is densely blue,
And the same fair azure hue
Is reflected in the bluebells round me growing.
Every pulse is madly thrilling with the joy of
being here,
In the world which people say is dull and dreary,
For the singing and the ringing to my heart are
very dear,
How in Nature’s arms can I be sad and weary ?
Other folic may toil and strive
For the right to be alive
In the city lanes ’mid sin and sorrow sighing ;
But I cross the plains of Day,
And my heart is light and gay
As the bluebells, and the birds above me flying.
N.S.W.
STELLA.


PASTORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export oyer 4-0,000 carcases
per month—keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at ...
H>adoffjc«, -is Phillip St., SYDNEY.
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
The Peerless Aperient,
Lollie-Like Laxative,
The Gentle Regulator,
Not a Violent Purgative.
The Favorite Family Remedy*
Equally good for Adults & Children*
Sold by All Progressive Chemists*
One Shilling a Box of 25 Lozenges*
REVOLUTION IN TALKING MACHINES.
THE MARVELLOUS SOUND-MAGNIFYING
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE
Reproduces the Ordinary Gold-Moulded Record
SIXTEEN TIMES LOUDER than any Phono-
graph. MARVELLOUS" IN ITS VOLUME
and DISTINCTNESS.
The Very Latest Invention, embodying absolutely New Principles never before
made public. Write for full particulars to —
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.,
tS£SS2SZ~*. 25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
For The CHILD, The INVALID hnd The AGED.
NESTLE’S MILK
Nestle’s * Milk • Food
ia S
BOTH HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME,
The
Missing*
Advt.
SSH»
v>
a?
m
%>■
mim
'i u
>'■4
MAN from the other side of Mooroobooloo —the land of Anchor Pence—writes : “There wasn’t any Ruberoid
Roofing advertisement in The Bulletin last week.” No; the space was used for Giant Paper, and on
the 7th of December it was occupied with Anchor Pence. GIANT PAPER and ANCHOR PENCE are
just as necessary to, the man on the land as RUBEROID ROOPJNG. With GIANT PAPER he lines and ceils
his house, making it dust, damp, wind, moisture and insect proof. With ANCHOR PENCE he has the cheapest,
safest, and most durable fence that money can buy. Later on, we will tell you something about AYENARIUS,
the destroyer of White Ants, a preservative of wood above and below ground or water.
Wholesale
Agents s
E,. RICH &. CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, (or Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1369.
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1906.
Prick 6d.
Here behold Princess Ena of patten-
berg on her way to be married and,
incidentally, converted to Rome. It
will be noticed that she “ puts up
proper show of reluctance.
(This Picture is allegorical, and is
drawn in the decadent manner, as all
allegorical pictures should he.)
“ He considered every flinister should Visit the
country and see men toiling and sweating on the
land, when they would be better able to under-
stand their requirements to make the soil more
productive.”—Joey Carruthers at Tuoiut.
Sweat always is an edifying sight-on the brow
of the other fellow.
Q. H. REID’S LATEST
ADVERTISING DODGE.
“1 must do some-
thing to keep myself
before the public. They jolly soon forget one 1
GOOD ENOUGH FOR A MONKEY.
'* Prince Arthttr of Connaught invested the
Mikado with the insignia of the Order of the Garter.”
The Monkey: “ Now, t wonder whether King Ned sent this to me to prove
how much he values my friendship, or how little he values such baubles ? ”
A GROWING PROBLEM.
The superfluous boy. What are you
going to do about him ?
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
"Australia for the A nstraliiins.’f
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.;- Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Onlj')
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tins Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
II ow to A ddress Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents o f this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowled t in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions .bmitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin toill return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ItlaoJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Qotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <fc Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 32 Queen’s Road, Bong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Sprecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x lhin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1906.
OUR BLOATED COUNTRY.
The latest batch of banking returns show
Australia to be in the same remarkable position
which it occupied when The Bulletin last dealt
with this subject a few months ago. There have
been three good seasons in succession, and just
now this is a bloated land which doesn’t know
what to do with its money—and at the same time
it is an enormously indebted land which is still
borrowing, and which doesn’t know what on
•arth to do with its liabilities. These anomalies
may seem impossible, but, thanks to an amazing
course of bad management, they exist. Australia
just now is full of cash and running over. There
was never, in all its history, so much money lying
idle in its banks—the unemployed gold has
increased by over £5,000,000 in twelve months—
yet just because the money is lying idle
through bad management, it doesn’t help the
worker to find employment. And, curiously
enough, so far as producing an income
goes, the superfluity doesn’t help the capitalist
much more than it does the worker. The
banks have had to cut down their interest
rates in order to discourage the inrush of
deposits for which they can’t find an
investment, and £lO,OOO on deposit now
only yields about as much return as £7OOO or
£BOOO did a while ago. It may be pleasanter to
have the £lO,OOO, but as far as the profit goes
there is no more advantage in it. There are only
a handful of securities quoted on the Stock Ex-
changes in which money can be invested, and in
the rush to find investments for money they have
risen till in many cases £lO,OOO of capital returns
no more than £5OOO did a year or two ago. All
the favorite stocks have gone up till they are
hardly worth buying at the price; yet, at the
same time, high as they are, they are hardly worth
selling at the price, because the man who realises
on the stock that has gone up doesn’t know what
to do with the proceeds except invest them in
another stock which has gone up m the same
crazy fashion. One striking example of the situ-
ation is the Commercial Bank of Australia, which
has still a deficit of nearly £1,200,000 to make
good out of profits ; there isn’t the ghost of a
visible show that its ordinary shareholders
will get a dividend for a whole string
of years ; yet the ordinary shares, which, on the
face of things, are worth less than half the
10s. per share paid up on them have lately sold
at 10s. 3d., and 11s. is now demanded. People
are actually buying at more than its face value a
stock which pays no dividend at all. And this
hilarious jest is not an isolated case.
* * * . .
The man who has money to invest may, of
course, put it into land or bricks and mortar, but
they have also gone up till they are hardly worth
buying. And meanwhile all this bulging out of
the aggregate bag of gold does hardly anything to
provide work for the people. The fact that in-
vestors, by reason of an unusual abundance of
cash, are paying ridiculous prices for the ordinary
shares of the Commercial Bank, furnishes no
toiler with a job. The fact that land has gone up
doesn’t make the land employ a single extra man ;
it merely causes the State to be robbed of something
extra when it repurchases the land for closer
settlement. An increased number of people are
going away to spend an unusually gorgeous holi-
day in Europe, and to buy there the clothes and
jewellery they would otherwise get in Australia, but
that doesn’t appreciably assist the toiling masses.
And at a time when the banks are being offered
far more money than they want at per cent,
the fool Government of N.S.W. is borrowing
money in London at rather over that figure, and
the public debt keeps increasing, and the struggle
to renew the old debts as they fall due is as severe
as ever. And while the N.S.W. Government
borrows money in London at 3J per cent, or more,
Australian money is being lent in London—in
some cases at much under 3J per cent. —to prevent
it lying wholly idle. It is about the most elabo-
rately capsized system of finance on record.
• • * »
This is a time when, if Australia had a sane
tariff, its manufactures would be growing at a
pace compared to which Jonah’s gourd would
seem a lame and overloaded caterpillar, and the
Commonwealth would be starting out to overtake
the United States in population and import-
ance. The country wants, merely for its own
supply, cotton, woollen, linen, silk and jut©
mills, carpet factories, steel, iron and zinc
works, copper and brass foundries, establish-
ments for the making of machinery, and countless
other things. Also it wants population, and the
way to get population is to supply employment.
The money to create these industries is spilling
about the country loose ; the desirable white men
to work them are wandering about the world
without the necessary coin to get even reasonably
tight. But Labor legislation has put up wages
and reduced working hours till it is impossible for
any industry which enters into competition with
the importer to exist except under high Pro-
tection, and the Labor party, by refusing to put
high Protection, or any other kind of Protection,
on its programme, has paralysed all efforts to get
a tariff which will make great industries possible.
Even if there were forty times as much unem-
ployed money in Australia as there is, it wouldn’t
help the establishment of a single industry while
the Australian manufacturer is required to pay
almost the highest wages on earth for the shortest
hours on earth, and yet compete, with very little
Protection —sometimes with none at all—against
all the world, and while his infant industry is
expected to hold its own, on level terms, against
huge concerns which, by the size of their opera-
tions, can raise economy to a science.
% * * *
Again, the Commonwealth owes over £231,000,000
of public debt, and is greatly harassed over the
renewal of the huge sums that are constantly fall-
ing due. Every year now there are big loan* to be
floated for the repayment of other big loans; and
every time the operation has to be done this country
is tottering on the verge of the Pit. London has,
before now, flatly refused to put up the money
asked for, but these were new loans, so nothing
very startling happened by reason of the refusal.
The day London refuses to put up the money for
a huge renewal loan, Australia, so long as it does
nothing to help itself, is liable to become bank-
rupt. If the trouble strikes it in a bad season,
bankruptcy is almost certain. The present is the
best time Australia has seen in the last 20
years for scraping together five or six or
ten millions by economy, extra taxation, and
other means, and putting them into a sinking
fund for the reduction of those liabilities which
constitute such a dizzy gamble. It would be a.
case of investing five or six or ten millions qf our
own money in our own securities at a little over
3| per cent., and Australia has just now a lot of
money for which it isn’t getting 3| per cent. And
when a few millions were taken off the over-loaded,
money market the amount which remained would
fetch so much better interest that the investor
would be better off than he is now. There would
be an immediate dropping of stocks to something
more like their real value, and it would no longer
be necessary to pay 10s. 3d. for a 10s. share that
pays no dividends. The country would save
enormously in taxation later on through the
reduction of its debt, and with a sinking fund it
would be far less likely to be remorselessly
squeezed over its renewals or to meet the
spectre of Public Insolvency suddenly in its
path. The blank indifference of the Labor
party to this question is a mattter which
The Bulletin has always regarded with amaze-
ment. A sinking fund is the most socialistic in-
stitution that could be imagined. It is a common
fund, in which every citizen has a common in-
terest. It is a scheme for gradually buying
£231,000,000 worth of our securities out of the
hands of the individual rich man—the individual
usurer and money-lender—and making them public-
property. It is a method whereby the poor man
will ultimately cease to pay interest to the rich
man, and it is that paying of interest which makes
the rich man constantly richer and enables him to
get a bigger mortgage On the poor. The party
which makes such a fuss about nationalising a
tobacco industry, worth a poor, miserable million
or two, and yet takes no interest in nationalising
an investment worth £231,000,000, and carrying
an income of over £8,000,000 a year, is an anomaly.
* •* * *
There are a few other things that might well be
done, by public or private enterprise, in this time
of sudden abundance. There is money enough
floating around to found one or two new banks
and pastoral and finance companies, and half-a-
dozen new fire insurance concerns —State-owned
or privately-owned ; but to make room for them
it would be necessary to discourage a number of
foreign institutions right off our premises by
means of an absentee-tax. Has anyone heard of
the absentee-tax lately? Again, the two trans-
continental railways which are absolutely essen-
tial, for defence purposes and for many other
purposes, are still waiting to be built —out of
revenue. They would return perhaps 2 per cent.,
and a great deal of Australian money is not even
yielding 2 per cent, just now. Then this is a
time when the small farmer who wants to buy out
his unwilling landlord, and who requires to raise
money on mortgage for the purpose, can get money
more cheaply than usual, therefore this is especi-
ally the time for the Federal graduated land-tax
to appear, in order to force the reluctant landlord
to put his property on the market. There is a.
little more talk than usual about the Federal
graduated land-tax, but it still looks painfully
remote. In short this is, above all times, a time
for Australia to be up and doing with feverish
energy, and Australia is not up and doing by any
means.
• * * *
Apparently, under the present system of sleepy
and incompetent government, there is nothing to
be done with our momentary superfluity of wealth
save make a Boom with it. On present appear-
ances it must be employed in gambling in town
and suburban allotments and in land generally, in
share-jobbing, in wild-cat mines, in trips to
Europe, in clothes, yachts, and liquor, in expen-
diture on fast women and slow horses. If it can’t
be put into manufactures by reason of the fool
tariff, if no Government has sense enough to
reduce the public liabilities with part of the
surplus or to build publicly-owned railways with
it, it it can’t go into legitimate agriculture because
the big landlord is in the way—then there seems to
be no alternative save to make a Boom and a Public
Drunk with it, followed by a memorable Bust if
the good seasons last long enough to make the
Boom a fine large one. The drought will come
back, of course, and if the present policy continues
the end of the good times will find this country
with a bigger debt burden and a larger interest
bill than it had at the beginning, and with no
better a show, in proportion to population, of
manufacturing industries —the drought-proof in-
dustries which should tide the country over bad
years—-than it had before. Then, presumably,
the big loans, and the public works which are
really relief works, will start again, only perhaps
London will be tired of Australian loans by that
time, and will not want to hear from Owe’Sul-
livan. And in that case the result will be plain
Famine—the kind they have in India and Japan.
THE CONGRESS OF THE HIGHLY
CIVILISED RACES.
According to all the available evidence, there are
more people on the globe to-day than at any pre-
vious period in history. The birth-rate, despite
all the discussion about its falling off, keeps
further ahead of the death-rate than it has been
known to do since statistics commenced, and of
the multiplication of humanity there is no visible
end. Sanitation has reduced mortality. The
white man wanders about the earth interfering
with the methods—slavery, cannibalism, tribal
war, infanticide, &c. —by which his backward and
undesirable colored brother used to diminish his
own numbers. The missionary passes round the
hat with feverish energy to get funds for the pre-
servation of races which have never shown them-
selves worth preserving—races which take up
ground that might otherwise be occupied by pro-
gressive and energetic peoples—and by so doing
he restricts the growth and increase of these pro-
gressive and energetic peoples. And the awful
Bruce Smith kind of person wants to promote the
further expansion of the races which have never
done anything for humanity, and seeks to trans-
plant them to the few patches of the world which
the white man occupies, and to restrict the multi-
plication of the white peoples —if not to actually
kill them off—by crowding them out with niggers,
Chinamen, and sundries. The human race, in the
aggregate, keeps increasing, but a great deal too
much of the increase is the wrong kind of increase.
* • * •
Then there is an uneasy theory that the habit-
able part of the globe is growing smaller, that the
ice-cap is creeping southward from one Pole
and northward from another, and that there is
less room while there are more people wanting
room. Gut of this idea a French scientist evolved
a more or less comforting theory of a periodical
deluge which is to clear off most of the human
race and give the globe a fresh start. Isow and
then, he reasoned, in the interminable procession
of centuries, the two Polar ice-burdens grow so
heavy that the earth suddenly loses its balance.
The last ounce of ice makes it spin round and
start revolving on a new axis; the tropics shift
into the polar regions and the polar regions
become the tropics; and the sudden whirl tears
the seas from their beds and sends them hurtling
over the land, washing away all save the inhabi-
tants of the highest tablelands or the furthest
inlands. Then the ice melts in its new loca-
tion ; the weary old globe—now a much larger
globe so far as its habitable area is
concerned —recovers its ancient balance and
goes back to rotate on its old axis; and
again the sudden whirl tears the seas from
their location and starts them careering over
the land. And when all this shake-up is
finished the mere handful of people and animals
that remain crawl down from their highlands to
inspect their lone and muddy earth, and find dead
whales decaying up in the Alps, and all civilisa-
tion washed away ; and they start to people the
world afresh. It is an interesting theory, but
being a very remote and dubious one it may be
ignored so far as concerns any question of the
possible overcrowding of this very small speck of
circular dust.
* • * *
The human population consists of races that are
■worth preserving, and other races. Roughly
speaking, the progressive races, or those capable
of real civilisation, are distinguished by three
prominent characteristics. They have the self-
governing capacity—a thing which all white
peoples have shown to a greater or less degree,
and of which the colored tribes have exhibited
hardly a trace. They have the national instinct i
the nation holds together by its own cohesion, and
is not simply an aggregation of units whose terri-
torial borders consist of as much land as the
tyrant of the moment can grab, or as little as he
can save from the clutch of the adjacent tyrant.
All the white races and some of the colored ones
have this national instinct; a large section of the
•colored races seem wholly without it. And, by
way ot a third distinction, the progressive white
races have an almost illimitable capacity for the
development and use of machinery ; the unpro-
gressive colored ones show little or no ability in
this direction. As a general rule, too, it may be
set down that the race which never showed any
ability to develop a real civilisation of its own
can’t permanently assimilate the civilisation of a
more advanced people. It may be veneered or
painted or patched with it, as the Maori, the
Kanaka, the Chinaman, the Turk, the Malay,
and the Javanese have been, but if the white man
•ceased to veneer him by main force the colored
brother would go back to his old savagery in a
handful of years, and be the same incurably
inferior person as of old.
* * ■* *
Some day, if the world becomes overcrowded,
the scientific and educated white man will begin
to think hard over these matters. He will find
that the white race has ceased to increase because
a community which wants to rear its progeny on
the expensive lines of modern progress can t
afford to increase any further. He will notice
that the colored races, which can live more cheaply
by dispensing to a great extent with clothes, fur-
niture, and education, are still multiplying. H e
will bring up with a shock against the choice of
two crimes—the wholesale extirpation of the less
desirable races to make room, or the whole-
sale murder of the unborn progeny of the
highly civilised races to economise room. Then
he will probably decide, in a odious, scientific
way, that the more useless races are boin"
preserved and encouraged in their multiplica"
tion chiefly to feed the vanity of the mission-
ary and to make profit for the employer of cheap
labor. It will probably be about this time that
the Congress of Highly Civilised Races will meet
at Berlin or Paris or London or Philadelphia to
discuss means for the obliteration, by some
tremendous and painless process, of one or two
continents-full of the unprogressive tribes—the
ones that can best be spared—so that the more
progressive communities may resume the process
of expansion. And then, also, there will be
scrambled together, at Pekin or Timbuctoo or
elsewhere, the wild, staring, panic-stricken Con-
gress of the ¥nprogressive Races, to devise means
for tumultuously taking up its axe and spear, and
its antiquated gun, and its lassoo, and its old clead-
and-gone cannon and its broken rock, against the
wrath to come. One will be a congress with a
bulging forehead and a cold business-like eye and a
brain stuffed full of knowledge. The other will
be a frantic combination which has dropped its
Gainfully acquired veneer of civilisation, and gone
ack frankly to first principles. And between the
two camps will probably rage the wild unpractical
preacher with his old unheeded tale that all men
are equal—a frantic individual with a long-tailed
coat whirling in the wind and his mouth full of
texts and dogmas, vainly trying in the midst of
the world’s greatest tragedy to take up the last
collection for the conversion of the pagan and for
the purchase of pants for the small nigger.
« * *
And somewhere in between the two camps there
will also be the tragic figure of the nation whicli
wasn’t invited to attend the Congress of Highly
Civilised Races, but which has worn its veneer of
culture so gracefully and with such an air of
realism that it can hardly believe that it is really
intended to leave it out of the list of the de-
stroyers, or to include it among the destroyed.
Its capital will be a surging mass of frantic
humanity, all asking if this horror can be pos-
sible, and its statesmen will be pouring in then-
assurances of support to the utterly unresponsive
Congress of Highly Civilised Races, and its boss
tyrant will either be drunk in his palace or hur-
riedly tying up his bag of wealth and preparing
to fly and leave things to their fate. And, mean-
while, from the Conference of Lost Races will
stream in perspiring brown and black and yellow
ambassadors urging the undecided community to
realise its doom, and to boldly throw in its lot
with the Lost, and thereby so strengthen them
that they may, perhaps, win in the great
struggle after all. And the boss tyrant of the
nation that is still hoping against hope-
the tyrant who is either drunk or wildly
packing his carpet-bag for flight—will probably
decapitate some of these ambassadors (not neces-
sarily for publication, but as evidence of good
faith) and send their heads to the Congress of
Highly Civilised Races with a frenzied assurance
that he is with the Congress heart and soul, and
that, though his invitation unfortunately mis-
carried, his envoy is on the way to join in the pro-
ceedings, and sool the Congress on to kill every-
body. And still there will be no reply. And
meanwhile more ambassadors, hotter, madder,
fiercer and muddier than the first lot—brown,
yellow and black ambassadors, each frothing at
the mouth with rage—will keep pouring in to
state that, if they get no satisfactory reply, the
Lost Nations will at least do one great and
righteous act of vengeance before they go under,
for they will stamp flat and utterly destroy and
root out the people who tried to sit on a
rail, and refused to join them in their
hour of trouble. And after that the boss
tyrant of the nation, which is spurned by one side
and which still dare not join the other, will pro-
bably go crazy with terror in his palace, and make
his last public appearance gibbering on a gndea
minaret, with his crown over his ear, and ms
Grand Vizier or Prime Minister or Commander-
in-Chief trying to pull him down by the leg, while
below him millions of his subjects surge to and
fro, and try to drown their horror in drink, and
aim futile rocks at the elevated potentate who
could save neither them nor himself.
* * * ,
Then will come the last act, when the forces of
science and progress start out to clear the ear
and make room for more science and more
progress, while on the other side the motley
battle line of the Unprogressive Races sketches
500 miles long as it goes to its *ast hope
less fight. It will be the boss discord ot
history—soo miles of brown, black, yeUow and
copper-colored humanity, 500 miles 0
and pigtails and shaven cramums, 500 mi es
of mixed languages, ignorance, retrogression,
savagery, frenzy, antiquated weapons, old battle
cries, excited priests, bonzes, dervishes, and othe
clerics, 500 miles of all the old circumstances of
the earth seen under the strangest, maddest con
ditions ever known beneath the sun As it rnoves
two small specks will be engulfed before it like
ants in the Atlantic-the iast namsionary trymg to
fixuo a reconciliation and the last cheap la
advocate urging the inadvisability of destroying
so much valuable and innumerable coolie. An
then the science of the 30th century will
with the tumult that was left over the back
regions of the ages, with the usual result, ana
man will have entered on a new epoch.
* * * *
After the breakage of that great line the
rest will be just plain butchery. Also, an ad
“ement will appe.r in tl.e papers celling to
tenders for the disposal of the dead.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Political Flicker.
George Reid last week collected togeth< b ral
10 followers to decide on a policy for next^
election, and the ten made very little progre^
Reid’s own idea is to run the elec
Socialism, which is a poor skinny dewme
promise. A programme which doesn‘ tbin „ is
to do anything, but only to be agamst someth g
a very sad little affair, even when it s strong
against a well-defined something , wbl . P an
which consists solely of vague
ill-defined something is miserable. Ihe d
party doesn’t profess to be Sociahst pa _ D
though some of its members may candi-
a matter of fact, theN.S.W. Socialists run »
dates of their own quite apart from th
party. Not being a Socialist party, it bein g
need to define Socialism ; but Ge°RGe ReiD,
anti-Socialist, certainly needs to define**** He
in order to explain what he is wor k,
hasn’t made much progress in tms


so far, but he is energetically whacking at a mist
with a feather. George desires to sink the fiscal
issue so far as to leave the present tariff alone, and
to combine the retrogressives of both fiscal parties
in his anti-Socialist campaign. Conroy barks
back at him that Protection is Socialism, being
a paternal and interfering device to benefit the
manufacturing and artisan class, and that a
person like himself, who lives up in a tall, cold
atmosphere of frozen contempt for any scheme for
benefiting anybody, can have no truck with Pro-
tectionists. Conroy might go a bit further and
add that the carrying of the farmer’s produce at
unprofitable rates to help the man on tne land is
also Socialism, but he doesn’t. And though he
professes himself a real all-wool Freetrader, he
seems to be the same old fraud that the N.S.W.
Freetrader has always been. At least, the world
still waits in vain for a declaration from Conroy
that he is in favor of abolishing the Protectionist
duties imposed by N.S.W. Freetraders in favor of
beer, sugar, wine, tobacco, and the like ; that he
wants to knock off every Protectionist duty ; that,
where duties must be levied —for the sake of
revenue —on articles that can be made locally, he
advocates an exactly equal excise on the local
product; and that he is in favor of extinguishing
all the surreptitious advantages given to local pro-
ducts by reduced railway freights, reduced harbor
dues, etc. So Conroy, the sham Freetrader, and
Reid, the sinker of the fiscal issue, have appar-
ently split over their various degrees of bogusness;
and the small party which has no policy except
that of promising to combat in some way not
specified something that it doesn’t define,
threatens to go to the country in two halves.
At present these are the parties that have risen,
or are likely to rise, on the political horizon :
(1) The Protectionist Democratic party.
(2) The Labor party divided into
(a) Protectionist Laborists.
(b) Allegedly Freetrade ditto.
(3) The anti-Socialist Opposition divided into
(a) Freetrade retrogressionists.
(b) A few Protectionist ditto.
(4) The other Opposition which calls itself Freetrade
and anti-Socialist, but which will have nothing to do with
the Protectionist retrogressionists on the ground that no
Protectionist can retrogress far enough. This party con-
sists at present of Conroy.
(5) The as yet completely missing Real Freetrade party
which wishes to lives up to its creed and give no
preference of any kind to any Australian product.
(6) The Dill-Macky crowd.
(7) Reid’s dog, if it can be found.
If a real Freetrade party would only turn up
things might sort themselves out a little at the
December elections, but the continued absence of
that institution and the impossibility of getting
the anti-Socialists to define the thing they are
“ anti ” leaves politics looking like the flicker of a
biograph.
: —«.
The American Life Assurance Problem.
That great American spread-eagle life assurance
co., the Equitable of New York, has definitely
announced its intention of retiring from the pur-
suit of business in Australia. The other two
“ American Giants,” it is alleged, may also retire,
but as regards the Equitable the announcement is
definite. This opens a long vista of possibilities
for Australian policy-holders. If the Equitable
sells its big buildings, realises its other Australian
investments, and leaves only an agent to collect
premiums on existing policies and remit the cash
to the Land of the Fried Nigger, the security, left
for Australian policy-holders will become both
small and precarious. It will consist only of any
•current premiums that can be attached in the
hands of the agent; and as policies turn into
claims, and living men who pay pre-
miums are replaced by dead men whose
representatives want large sums of money,
the security, which is likely to be very
insufficient to begin with, will become less and
less. In the end it will probably become so much
less that for the last batch of policy-holders it will
be a minus quantity. According to all appear-
ances a time will come when the Equitable, if it
pleases, may refuse to pay any Australian claims,
and a judgment against it in the Australian
courts will, in the absence of assets, be worth
only the blot on the legal document. The judg-
ment, of course, could be carried to the United
States courts. What they are most Australians
only know, or guess, by reading American papers
and magazines, and American facts and American
fiction or alleged fiction ; but if any reliance can
be placed on these authorities, Sodom and Gom-
orah were about as promising places to
secure justice as the United States when
a wealthy corporation is the defendant. In
modern tales by American writers the
honest judge is the amazing and incredible ex-
ception, and the bought judge is the rule.
Of course, it may be said that a company like the
Equitable would never refuse to pay a just claim
even if, in the absence of assets here and the'
absence of justice in the U.S. courts, the claim
could not be enforced. That may be so, but, in
view of recent revelations, outsiders do not feel
too wildly confident just now in the honor of U.S.
life assurance magnates, and they would like a
better guarantee. In this case, the example of
Germany—sober, sensible, prompt, business-like'
Germany, where they rise to the occasion and Do-
Things—isworth noting. When a great American
life assurance concern proposed to clear out of
Germany, the State promptly put in a receiver to'
take charge of the German assets and the German
income from premiums, rents and interest on
investments, and to see that not one penny of the
accessible funds left Germany till every local
policy-holder was paid. Any surplus, when affairs
are cleared up, will go back to the United States,
but the interests of the German policy-holder come
first in the ideas of the German Government, and it
has no idea of trusting these interests to any justice
that may be obtained by scrambling in the U.S.
Courts. The Bulletin has much too humble an
opinion of the courage and energy of the Australian
Government to expect that it will follow this-
example, but it quotes the example on spec. If
the Australian Parliament and the Deakin
Cabinet are what they ought to be, there will be-
an early session, and one of the first doings will be-
the passing of an Act to lay hands on all the
accessible funds of any life office which is clearing
out of Australia, and to put them under a respon-
sible State manager, who will hold them till the
last Australian policy matures and is paid in full..
c
Trades Union Law.
The Royal Commission appointed in Great-
Britain to consider the “ Taff Yale decision,” has-
presented a report, but does not take the respon-
sibility of making a recommendation on the one-
vital issue referred to it. The “Taff Vale decision,”'
and subsequent judgments amplifying it, stripped
trade-unions of all the privileges and immunities-
previously allowed to them by law in the
•organisation of strikes. The British com-
mission reports that those privileges and
immunities were never, strictly speaking,
legal, and that the Judges who now declare
against them are quite in tne right. That much,
with all deference to the eminent lawyers forming
the Commission, was quite well known from the
first. A strike is necessarily an illegal weapon.
What one man may do legally—leave his work —a
collection of men may not agree to do simultane-
ously with the object of embarrassing their em-
ployer, for that is a conspiracy. But British law,
wiser in practice than in theory, had, for many
years before the “ Taff Yale decision,” decided to
tolerate the illegality of strikes, the “ conspiracy ”
of workmen to hold up their employers’ works, and
even the efforts of those workmen to prevent others
from taking their places. It would be difficult to
over-estimate the value of this tolerance to the
peaceful growth of British freedom. Unrest,
which might have become liot, perhaps revolu-
tion, was kept by tolerance within bounds. Em-
ployers found their tendency to tyranny checked
by the fact that their workers could —if they cared
to face the test of hunger—stop work and go to
serious lengths to prevent “blacklegs” from
taking their places. Workers found some sense
of justice and amelioration in a social system
which gave them very little, but did allow them
the right to strike when goaded beyond endurance,
and even winked at a certain amount of violence
when “blacklegs” put in an appearance to com-
plicate the issue. But there was never any legal
basis for the tolerance of the strike, which alvvays
was, in the eyes of the Common Law, an injurious
conspiracy; or the boycott, or the picket. It
advantages nothing, therefore, for a Royal Com-
mission to solemnly give an assurance that the “ Taff
Vale decision ” was “ good law.” Of course it was
good law, but was it good sense ? That is the real
problem. Should the safety-valve of strikes be
locked down, and the discontent which theyallowed
to dissipate be kept from expression until it
reaches explosive force ? Or should some more
civilised means of dealing with labor’s grievance
than the tolerance of the strike be designed ? In
New South Wales B. R. Wise made a courageous
attempt to deal with the problem by an Arbitra-
tion Act, which admitted and punished the ille-
gality of the strike, but at the same time set up a
tribunal of justice to take the place of the arbitra-
ment of force. With strange folly the Tory party
in the State has carried on a strenuous
campaign of slander against that Act; the
Judges have taken the opportunity of every
legal quibble to whittle away its powers;
and at the present time the labor unions are
seriously considering whether they will not have
to revert to the strike method. (Yet in Maori-
land an Arbitration Act on the same lines has
been a conspicuous success, and there is never
mention of a strike in that country.) The position
which the Tory in every civilised country must
face is that, education having taught the workers
something of their rights and powers, they will
not be content with anything less than justice.
All that the rich can hope for is that the process
of change will be made as gradual as possible and
be accompanied with as little harsh unsettlement
of existing conditions as possible. But the
change itself is inevitable. It may be effected
peacefully and gradually by arbitration laws and
other legislation appropriating more and more of
the worker’s product for himself, or it may come
by the rough road of Revolution. Come it must.
If British law forbids strikes, it must supplement
the prohibition with means for arbitration, other-
wise the suppressed discontent will one day ex-
plode.
The Financiers.
[For The Bulletin.]
Peace and war to-day are in the hands of a group of
cosmopolitan capitalists.—John Burns.
We are the people that pull the strings
Behind the scenes, and the puppets dance.
Ministers, princes, and queens and kings,
In all of their pomp and circumstance,
Wait on our orders ; and if, perchance,
We say the word that a million slays—
Sullies the sword and reddens the lance—
What do we care—so long as it pays ?
'The high heart’s hope that the poet sings—
The smile of a Phryne fresh from France—
Little it matters, so either brings
Grist to the mills of high finance.
Nothing so low as to miss our glance,
Nothing so high as beyond our gaze.
Let the race recede, let the race advance—
What do we care—so long as it pays ?
The patriot’s heart to one land clings.
We know no home, for the world’s our stance.
We follow the nations’ bickerings,
Like the evil birds of old romance.
, We shed the light of our countenance
Where streets run red and roof-trees blaze.
The poor and weak —they must tak*> their
chance —
What do we care —so long as it pays ?
You may curse us kings of high finance,
And speak of the ape and the tiger’s ways;
But it’s honi soit qui mal y pense,
What do we care—so long as it pays ?
MAORILAND. TAIWA.
•
The N.S.W. Bench and the Lands Scandals.
It is rumored that there will be shortly one or two
judicial resignations in N.S.W., and that the
Carruthers Government is preparing to fill the
vacancies. The Bulletin hopes that existing
Judges will be sufficiently patriotic to retain their
seats on the Bench until, at least, Parliament
meets. It is, of course, possible that Parliament,
when it does meet, will be just as friendly to this
Willis Government as it was last session,
in spite of the latest developments pointing
more strongly than ever to Cabinet insincerity in
the prosecution of the Lands Inquiry. But there
is, at any rate, some reason to hope that, even at
the eleventh hour, Parliament will act with
honesty and courage. The community, for the
present, has the right to benefit by that hope. It
would be a serious scandal if, whilst the Govern-
ment is under suspicion, almost under trial, it
should be able to exercise the power of filling one
or two Supreme Court vacancies. The State
might thus be cursed with a friendly-to- Willis
Bench, as well as a friendly-to- Willis Govern-
ment, and in the near future the spectacle may
be seen of a Judge baulking at the execution of
his duty as this'Government has baulked. The
Lands revelations, so far as they have gone, point
with deep suspicion to several friends of the
Government; with less suspicion, but still with
suspicion, they point to certain members of the
Government. It is even a conceivable possibility
that in the future, with a rigorous and honest
inquiry—if such is ever secured —steps would have
to be taken against some members of the Govern-
ment. That, it is to be hoped, will not be the
case ; but the public is deprived of any asaurauoe
that it will not by the sedulous smothering up
of the inquiry. In such an event what would be the
public view if the country saw a Judge appointed
by the present Government trying the cases . Or,
indeed, what would the public view be of a Judge
appointed by this Government trying any of the
Lands scandals cases which may happen to come
to a judicial trial ? The State has a right to
expect of Chief Justice Dahi.ey and his colleagues
that they will protect the Bench from being
touched by the breath of the Lands scandals;
and any judicial appointment by the present
Government is likely to set the Lands scandals
breathing very heavily around the Bench.
4.
Another Freetrade Lie.
When the Tariff Commission was in Westralia,
the local attorneys for the absentee dividend-
grabbers wailed for the removal of all duties on
mining machinery, declaring that the machines
which Westralia wanted “could not be made in
Australia.’' To support this yarn, a list of a dozen
classes of machinery which Australia “ could 11 1
produce” was prepared. Since then the Com-
mission has been in Melbourne, where, having
been blessed with Protection for some years, they
know how to make many things; and Manager
Rigby (of the Austral-Otis Engineering Co.) was
asked what he had to say on the subject of that
list. In effect this is what he had to say :
Tubular boilers : Babcock and Wilcox’s have been built
in Australia. When prospects of increased duty appeared,
B. and W. began negotiations to have them made regu-
larly in Australia. .
Blowers for furnaces: A common and Simple class of
manufacture.
High-class air compressors : Have been made already,
with royalties paid for patented parts.
Biedler valves : One Arm (Thompson, Castlemaine)
makes them in every form, denying the validity of the
patent. .
Patented rock crushers : None known to be in opera-
tion in the Commonwealth. Witness’s co. prepared to
make any kind. . .
Gates’ crusher : Has been manufactured m victoria tor
years.
Patented briquette machinery : The only such ma-
chinery tried was in Westralia, and that was a total
failure.
Patented conveyors: As far as construction goes, can
be made in a blacksmith’s shop. Protection would
enforce their manufacture here.
Concentrating tables: Wilfley tables do nine-tenths of
the work done in the Commonwealth ; and by arrange-
ment the Austral Otis Co. makes them, paying royalties.
Converters : Half a dozen in use in the Commonwealth,
some made locally.
Condensing plant, with special fittings: Possibly
patented parts, such as valves, would need the payment
of royalty. , ~ ..
Rock drills : Have been manufactured all over the
States for many years. Australian drills have been sent
to America as models.
Consumers, heat-economisers and super-heaters: Easiest
and roughest kinds of engineering work.
Winding and mill engines: Witness’s co. built the
milling engine at the Great Boulder (750h.p.) and the big
winding engine at the Boulder Perseverance.
Which evidence seems to dispose in a practical
way of the little list from Westralia, and shows
up that list as the usual mean Freetrade lie
devised for the destruction of Australian industry.
Also Rigby disposes of the shriek that, unless the
duties are removed, Westralia will have to reduce
wages, or import coolies, or let vast quantities of
ore go untreated. And if there is any part of the
yarn that it doesn’t knock out, then the experience
of, say, Bendigo disposes of it, because Bendigo, in
protected Victoria, for years past has paid divs.
out of stone which no Freetrade country on earth
can look at.
An Australian Brotherhood.
The following is a sample of the literature circu-
lated by a society calling itself the Australian
Brotherhood (its address is Post Office, Emma-
ville, N.S.W.). On its principles the Brother-
hood deserves the support of every Australian
who is even remotely worthy of the name :
We wish to place before you a few suggestions as to
Unification, or the placing of the government of the
States in the hands of one Government—that is, the Aus-
tralian or Commonwealth Government. The franchise
for this is the most liberal in the world, and it is in our
power to make it a thoroughly Australian and Democratic
one if we use our own judgment instead of allowing the
unreliable lying press of Sydney and elsewhere to form
our opinions for us. By doing away with the State Legis-
latures we would knock on the head those reactionary
Legislative Councils. We would also do away with the
Imported Figureheads, the Agents-General, and many
superfluous frills now costing us so dearly.
Remember that the animosity to the Australian Federa-
tion or Commonwealth comes from the Calico Jimmy
push and sore-headed tinpot politicians who have been
left behind in the talking-shop at Macquarie-street.
There is not one AUSTRALIAN SENTIMENT in the
crowd. They are insensate parochialists, unworthy of
the least notice, unless it is to cast them into outer dark-
ness at the coming elections. They are men of too paltry
minds to grasp the National phase of politics. These
people who now howl against the Commonwealth Govern-
ment have been disappointed in Federation, as they had
hoped that the Plutocratic boodling crowd would have
been installed in power ; but, instead, the Democratic or
People’s Party triumphed. Hence those tears.
The Australian people would save a quarter of a mil-
lion sterling per annum alone by abolishing the six State
Legislatures, not to mention the blessing of being rid of
a crowd of small-minded legislators. Remember, the
People elect every member of the Commonwealth Go-
vernment, both House of Representatives and Senate,
and if we put the wrong men in it is our funeral. In the
States we have no voice in electing the Councils, and no
power over them. They are simply there to thwart the
Democratic aspirations of the people. If, instead of
yelping about the Capital Site and trying to restrict it to
the size of a cabbage garden as near as possible to Sydney,
we n-ave the whole State as a site for the Federal Capital,
and abolished the Sydney talking shop, then what is maud-
linly termed the Mother State would be in the first position,
beino- the chief State of the Federation, with the supreme
Government. Then there would be some chance to see
about making Australia ready to defend itself, to popu-
late the island by making work for people in making our
own goods, and a hundred other things of vital import-
ance. As it is, there is little done, and we are deafened
with the dismal jeremiads of the un-Australian or anti-
Australian crowd, masquerading as Liberals, &c. Most of
these people would as soon be under Japanese as British
rule, and they are one and all potential National Scouts.
We ask you to remember that by Unification, or one
Government for the whole Island, you would get rid of
about 500 of the common or garden politicians ; at least
500 of the Upper House fossils, who are not paid and are
dear at the price ; six imported Figureheads, costing at
least £lOO,OOO per annum ; six Agents-General, costing at
least £20,000 per annum ; and numerous other frills which
are neither useful nor ornamental. In all, you would save
at least £250,000 per year, which would go to pay Cohen
some of the vast debt owing to him, or for an Australian
Navy. There would then be some chance of National
business going ahead when the parochial crowd had been
sat upon, none of whom have a soul above buttons.
Now, paste this last part in your hats. Do not vote for
a pro-nigger advocate, who tells you the way to get rich
is to give what little work you have to the nigger ; the
Foreign Trader, who tells you you will get rioh by buying
your goods from any country but your own ; the Sectarian
Savage, who believes in dividing the people into factions ;
the man who favors Trusts and Monopolies ; and you can
hardly make a mistake 99 times out of 100 if you add
Lawyers to the list. All these are noxious animals
(politically), and should be treated as such.
«.
A Side-Light on Bent.
Bent’s abortive attempt to provide Attorney-
General Davies with a present judgeship and a
subsequent retiring pension has raised a ques-
tion as to whether there is any need for appoint-
ing anybody to the billet which Iceberg Irvine
and Davies (under pressure) have lately declined.
The work of the Victorian Supreme Court is a
diminishing quantity. Litigants are fewer than
of yore, because the public is more wary of having
its leg pulled by legal advisers. 1 Also the juris-
diction of the County Court has been widened to
admit of cases under the Employers Liability
Act being settled with a reasonable regard tor
costs, and there is an Act of Parliament
passed a year ago, but not yet adopted by the
antagonistic Crown Law Department, which will
convert the County Court into a minor Criminal
Court. Moreover, the Federal High Court is
beginning to take appeal cases from the hands of
the local Full Court. In short, the old gag that
Chief Justice Madden and his Supreme colleagues
are overworked is no longer an effective gag.
It deceives nobody. Though they sometimes
appeared to have too much to do, a good
deal of what they did—each in turn—has
been work that demands no supreme ability from
the Judge—work that could be done just as well,
or even better, by a court of common sense. Cases
involving delicate points of law and matters of
grave interest to many people have been kept
waiting whilst an “over-worked” Judge of the
Supreme order was taking in the indelicate points
of divorce suits and trying to look shocked, whilst
he was merely noting details for a smoking-room
story. Under the improved legal system, which
the Crown Law Department has hitherto delayed,
these spicy divorce bits will fall to the lot of the
County Court Judges, and the banquets, as a rule,
will be less prolonged than of old. People are
asking how it happened that Bent’s “ Reform
Government came to pigeon-hole an Act of Par-
liament intended to lighten the duties of the
existing Supreme Court Judges. A theory readily
suggests itself. The Crown Law Department,
controlled by Attorney-General Davies, delibe-
rately ignored the new Act in order to give Bent
a color of excuse for appointing one of his political
pals to an unnecessary judicial billet!
»
“ T.D.” FROM London :
Here in Britain I have seen the making of yet another
Labor party. Its advent as a strong political force
closely resembles the inception of the party. which
entered the N.S.W. Parliament in the early nineties.
Men like John Burns and Burt and Keir Hardie had
proved a sound investment as Parliamentarians, and after
experimenting with them, the British workers thought
they would be justified in sending a definite party of the
same type to represent them. Their organisations got
quietly to work, and even the success which they obtained
at one or two bye-elections didn’t open the eyes of their
opponents to the strength of the new force, for these
bye-elections, notably that of Will Crooks at Woolwich,
were fought in essentially working-man constituencies.
There were several reasons why the old-established
parties should hold them in derision. First, the workers
hadn’t the advantage of an all-round manhood suffrage.
Second, it is the habit of the young lordlings
and esquires of Great Britain to nurse consti-
tuencies for four or five years before they yenture
to offer themselves as candidates. They start with the
support of their own families and their own tenants, and
the parsons over whom they hold the patronage, and
numerous other people of a parasitic tendency. Their
“ nursing ” consists in frequent attendance on the plat-
forms at local meetings and bun-struggles, repeated para-
graphic beslobberment in the local papers, and a liberal
distribution of guineas among village cricket clubs, parish
pump-erection committees and such institutions. None
of these things were possible to the prospective working
man candidate. Even had he the time to attend the
average village meeting, he would be forcibly ejected if
he attempted to take a place among the frock-coats on
the platform or to make a few remarks. Therefore, in
the majority of cases, the fact that the working man
cherished political ambitions was quite unknown, and he
entered the arena a month or two before the election as a
surprise and a subject for sneers. But he has arrived 50
strong or thereabouts (at time of writing there are many
seats still to be contested), and once the Labor party arn ves
as a definite entity, Australasian experience has proved
that it stays, and assumes increasing force with the
years. One thing the new force will make imperative,
and that is the more frequent attendance of members of
the British Commons in their places, and the conversion
of the mother of Parliaments from the status of an excel-
lent club to that of a national business machine. Seddon
and others have lasted as long as the extinct Salisbury-
cum-BALFOUR Ministry, but they did it by sheer work,
whilst Balfour and his crowd simply lay under the
Official Fig-tree, and eventually expired by effluxion of
time. With Labor in, a domestic policy will simply have
to be, whereas the Balfour Parliament utterly forgot that
there was any necessity for laws for home consumption.
+
Australia is abundantly cursed with a silly kind
of newspaper which holds that this is a poor, help-
less dog of a country which can never be expected
to do anything for itself. A recent case in point
was a screech in Sydney Evening News headed
“ Playing at Navy-making. 5 ’ Its burden was that
Australia, for some unexplained reason, can never
maintain any vessels for its own defence, and the
one argument advanced in support of the theory
was that Minister Playford used to grow cab-
bages. France, with nine times our population,
maintains about 360 serviceable vessels, so it looks
as if we could maintain 40 with no great strain.
Britain, with ten times our population, maintains
about 410 vessels, so again it looks as if we might
support 40. Holland, with not much more- than
our population, has nine serviceable battleships
and eight modern cruisers, and is building 53
torpedo craft. But the Australian, according to
the logic of the Evening Snooze, is a miserable,
low-down wretch, who can’t do anything for his
own defence Or the defence of the empire, and if
any evidence is needed the fact that Senator
Playford once ran a market-garden settles every-
thing. If Playford had once been a solicitor
the position might be different.
* *
The Federal Commission on Old Age Pensions
has completed its work, but it can’t be said that
it has completed it very well. It recommends a
scheme which is estimated to cost £1,400,000 or
£1.500,000 a year, and which may run to
£2^000,000 ; and all it says about finding the money
is that the cash should come out of the Consoli-
dated Revenue. Some futile suggestion has been
made to the effect that the thing is as broad as it
is long, because it is merely a question of changing
a State pension for a Federal one, but it isn’t; it
is a question of changing a pension system which
only affects two States for one which will affect
six. The Labor party is.solid for the Federal old
age pension, hut with its usual loose, way of: wink-
ing at the fiscal issue it doesn’t Seem to fyave
taken the trouble to become at all solid about
how to meet the cost of it. In fact,- some ’mem-
bers of the party, instead of raising extra revenue
to.meet the old age pension expenditure, .want to
burst up what revenue thifre is by taking off
Customs duties. Of course, w’ien the Braddon
clause expires, and the Commonwealth is. no
longer bound to return three-quarters of the tariff
• revenue to the States, the cost can be met easily
enough, so far as the Australian Treasury is con-
cerned, but that isn’t solving the financial
problem; it is merely passing it on to the
State Governments. And the more problems are
passed to the State Governments the more power-
ful the State Governments become, to the detri-
ment and weakening of the Federal authority.
This seems a good time for the Labor party to..get
a comprehensive financial policy. It plainly Oftfi't
get on much further without one.


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
ms
If you die 9 who will have the Farm 7
Your Family or the Mortgagee 7
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch op the Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment.
1 was born
Name
Address
Mahers’
<TqDACCc
i
mi.
jhavestoodthe;
f TEST of TIME
& ABE GOING STRONG
p WITHOUTTHEAID
OFTKUSTorCPMBINE
The Quality alone
assuring success
-H*
OK ft
vs VO
¥1 v!f u
o io > *“S %j
O
»=
©
The most humorous yarn told before the N.S.W.
Lands Commission is that of the official who
arrived at the Governor’s country residence in the
smallest hours of the morning, and wanted to
drag his Ex. out of bed that he might help to
defraud the country in his nightshirt. Under the
Act any State tenant. whose lease was signed
before 31st December, 1903, could get it re-
appraised, and, if he pulled the proper strings,
get the rent reduced. In other words, he could
keep the land and yet do the State a beautiful
light brown by backing out of part of the pay-
ment. This was a handy device for people who
knew how to work it; when Smith offered 6d.
rent in all good faith, Jones could get ahead of
him and offer Bd., and then, having secured the
land by offering Bd., he could get the rent reduced
to 3d. A batch of leases, on some of which a
very impudent dodge of this kind was to be
worked, was sent up to be signed by the
Governor on the last day of grace. The
messenger missed the train and when he
arrived distractedly at Moss Vale it was
one minute to midnight. Plainly he couldn’t
gallop three miles, drag the Governor out of bed,
explain things to him, and get his signature all in
sixty breathless seconds ; still he flew through the
darkness to the best of his ability, though flying
didn’t seem to be his strong point. About half-
past 12 he was tearing out his Ex’s door-bell by
the roots. About 1 o’clock he was explaining to
a bored secretary that the matter was urgent, and
making very little impression on the secretary.
Finally, the leases were signed sometime on
January 1, but they were made to falsely appear
as having been signed on December 31, and the
suffering country was thus made liable to fall in,
as usual. And it seems to have fallen in as usual.
During the past 12 months there have been
several healthy signs of a reaction against the
spirit of borrow and drift. Even the heavy old
Conservative journals are beginning to get the
notion that there is something wrong. A few
days ago the Australasian printed an article on
the subject in which it said •
The whole subject of the public debt of Australasia
demands a far more serious study than it is at present
receiving... The system (of refloat loans) can scarcely go
on for any considerable time longer, for it is evident that
the repayments will become so numerous and so heavy
as to be a constant source of anxiety, or even danger...
The position of the Treasurers who have the task of these
latter redemptions is not one to be envied... The policy
is one of drift...
And so on. Our public debt is some £230,000,000,
a truly enormous sum, and it comes due in huge
lumps of £15,000,000, £14,000,000, £32,000,000,
and so on. If a problem of this sort does not
“demand serious study” then nothing does.
But Carruthers is looking for a fresh capital site
so as not to have to look for Willis. Bent is recit-
ing cricket reminiscences, and Rason, whose State
is in the worst predicament of all, is sulking in a
corner, and won’t attend the Premiers’ conference
(where the debt will be, or ought to be, the prin-
cipal topic) because Carruthers put the stamp
on liis in vitation upside down.
4
Dave Richards writes
Have recently returned to Sydney, and cannot
help noticing tlie general usurpation of men’s billets
by the women and girls. Everywhere I go, where
formerly there were men there, is the skirted
person with the towsy head and the injured
expression hotels, restaurants, stores, curio shops,
libraries, agencies, everywhere. And everywhere, also,
is the man assisting the verandah or lamp-post to main-
an unintoxicated appearance. And yet there is the cry of
Freetrade, of a declining birth-rate, of more immigrants.
What common-sensible country wants other countries to
make its wares when its own workmen can find nothing
to do? And what self-respecting man will marry a girl
who earns the household toast and salad and ragout?
And what birth-rate can increase to any extent without
marriage? We want immigrants, although our own
people are now very much unemployed, and there is a
way of assassinating both chickens with one brick. Give
us a good hierh tariff not a poor, half-hearted,
knock-kneed, trembling thing, which doesn’t appear to
know whether it is Protection or an invitation to all and
sundry to dump their wares on our wharves and sell them
at ridiculously low prices, but a cheeky, well-made, un-
mistakable article that will represent the Alpha and
Omega of coming prosperity—and factories will spring up
“ like mushrooms, in the night,” and swallow all our own
unemployed and half of Europe’s. Australia, with its
present snivelling, doubtful, hybrid thing, is keeping
down, down, down, and will continue to do so till we
realise that we are men, and begin to supply our own
wants by supplying ourselves. Then it will go up, up,
up, and our “ great natural resources ” will be no longer
a butt for the world ; our markets and oilr harbor will be
full; our men will all be working with vigor and smiles,
and our women will be making babies’ clothes and boiling
the carrots.
The latest allegation of political patronage against
Yic. Premier Bent is too astounding to be
credited until it is proved in court. _ Rumor states
that the inquiry re the Sunday train accident on
the Gembrook line is to serve as an excuse for
Bent to provide another fat legal job for his old
friend Croker. The Railway Department
will be placed on trial, as it were —a
decidedly mock-looking trial—by the Go-
vernment, the Crown Solicitor appearing to
defend the Department, whilst Croker “instructs
counsel on behalf of the public.” This practically
means that “ the public,” who keep the State
railways going, must pay costs on both sides of
an inquiry in which a little third lot of parties—
the parties claiming damages for injuries received
—will also be represented. Where does the neces-
sity for Croker come in? All the damaging
facts that can be advanced against the Railways
Department will be brought forth by lawyer
Woolf appearing for a number of compensation-
seeking travellers. In representing the private
interests of these few citizens Woolf must neces-
sarily act on behalf of the general public. For that
matter he has already notified the Department of
his intention to attack the policy of narrow-gauge
lines. Will Mr. Croker, “on behalf of the pub-
lic,” also attack the Railway management, or will
he assist the Crown Solicitor in defending it?
What are the public to get from him in return for
his bill of costs ? The long-drawn-out Butter
Commission of last year has resulted thus far in
nothing of greater importance than Croker’s bill
for £6OOO. which has not yet been settled by
Bent. The re-employment of Croker suggests
that if his enormous claim lie taxed he is to find
consolation in the prompt settlement of another
big bill.
A recent advertisement in Sydney Telegraph
read :
ANTED two barmaids, £1 a week, for Ceylon.
It is up to the authorities to make inquiries into
such advertisements as this. The barmaid as we
know her is never heard of in Ceylon. Her place
is taken by the male nigger who goes about in
bare feet, wears a white petticoat and a jacket,
and has his long hair done up in a roll
behind with a circular comb stuck in it. (When
you first see him in front, the ends of the comb
look like two small horns, and you take him for
the devil.) But the nocturnal rickshaw man (the
only horse that turns round in the shafts and
argues with the passenger) takes you by night,
when you aren’t expecting anything of
the kind, to strange little dens in the
native quarter of Colombo, where you find
the white barmaid. Poor wretch ! She often
came fully expecting to be a barmaid, and not
having the money with which to get away, she
stayed and became something else. The house is
stuffy, ill-furnished and full of assorted humanity.
The almost naked horror in the shafts of the rick-
shaw (if you are out at night he always assumes
that the direction you gave him at the door of the
hotel was only intended to disguise your evil
purpose, and so he rushes you straight to the
stuffy emporium) turns round excitedly and
perspires at you and says “Nice gal!” Some-
times he amplifies it and says “French gal!
English gal ! Chinese gal ! Cingalee gal ! All
kind of gal! ” If the Australian steamer is just
in he suspects your origin and says “’Stralian
gal!” A baggy she-horror (generally some kind
of half-breed) comes to the door with something
like a slush lamp and urges you to come in. About
500 natives pour out from nowhere and encircle
you. And then, if you have any sense of smell
left, you smite hard on the nudity in the shafts
with your gamp, and drive him headlong on his
way, followed by the anguished yelp of the baggy,
elderly half-breed with the slush-lamp. “Wanted,
two Barmaids, £1 a week, for Ceylon ! ”
4
Japanese Count Hirosawa, who was educated at
Cambridge, has been re-visiting England. Says
he: —
There has been a great increase of luxury in the army
—some of the officers wear corsets —and the people seem
lighthearted over its condition. . . . With the purchase
of food from abroad, the concentration of the masses in
towns, and the absence of physical training or the teach-
ing of patriotism, the conditions are artificial. ... In
public life there are a great many men with axes to grind
in Parliament, in the army, arid on the press. ... The
Anglo-French entente indicates love of ease, rather than
strength of national character, and the suggestion that
Japanese troops might be used to protect the Indian
frontier could only come from a nation that knows its
decline has set in. . . . England is forsaking her maritime
habits—employing foreigners in her ships. Several
million people in England barely make a scanty living.
How could they be patriotic ?
Finally the Count expresses the opinion that
War with a first class, scientific Power would be disas-
trous to England.
When you consider that the Monkey has that
opinion about his ally, and then consider what his
opinion about himself is, it isn’t wonderful that he
curls his tail in the air and requests the exploded
lion to get a move on.
The photograph of Hongkong Chinese
merchant Chu Wun Man—who says that his
class must have equal privileges under the Aus-
tralian Immigration Restriction Act with Japs
and Hindus—is published in a Brisbane paper.
Chu Wun Man ! The name sounds cannibalistic.
“ Our highly-civilised ally,” the Jap, has
been demonstrating his value as an Australian
citizen. At Chillagoe (Q.), the other day, one
of him cut the throat of a white girl while
she was walking with a male friend, and
then suicided. The girl’s condition is critical.
And about the same day, over Fremantle (W.A.)
way, another of him cleft the skull of a constable
with a butcher’s cleaver, The constable’s con-
dition is also critical.
N.S.W.’s third Rhodes scholar, who
follows Barton and Rogers to Oxford, is Mungo
(not Mango) MacCallum, a clever son of
Mungo MacCullum, the diminutive Scotch pro-
fessor of English at Sydney University. The
deceased Rhodes laid great stress on the fact that
athletic prowess was to be considered in the selec-
tions just as much as erudition. MacCallum’s
title to fame in the field of Brawn and Muscle is
that he has occasionally been picked in the “ B ”
team of the ’Varsity Lawn Tennis Club, which
seems as feeble a title of that of C.M.G. Happily
Eing-pong is a bad dream of the past, or we might
ave found the runner-up in the P.P. Champion-
ship posing as a representative of Australian
athletics.
A campaign is now being carried on by the
Wolfe’s Schnapps people in Sydney against pub-
licans who sell other schnapps or gin when asked
for Wolfe’s. But the proprietors find their cam-
paign hampered by the refusal of the Board of
Health to give any help. What they ask is that
Board of Health inspectors should be allowed to
enforce the firm’s rights, provided that the firm
pays the. cost of their so doing. It is an
eminently reasonable request. Apart from
any question as to the merits of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
and its superiority or otherwise to Dog’s Bites or
the attacks of any other animal, the public
which asks for Wolfe’s Schnapps has a clear right
to get it, and nothing else ; and the Government
should help to see that the public does get what it
calls for, provided it calls before 11 p.m. and
doesn’t call on Sunday.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY E-SOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Palace Knight-Jeffries Co.
Her Majesty's.. “ The Shop GirL”
Theatre Royal. “ La Fille du Tambour Major.”
Criterion “ Little Mary.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Sindbad the Sailor.”
Her Majesty’s “ Leah Kleschna.”
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Certain recent “discoveries” in psychic
phenomena would lead us to believe that the
ghosts of the departed take an intelligent interest
in all that goes on on this planet. When the
name of a Dead and Gone is mentioned, he is
immediately on the spot to hear the said and see
the sayer. Consequently David Garrick’s spook
was no doubt at Sydney Palace Theatre on
Saturday night to witness the revival of the play
which has been pegged on to the distinguished
author-actor. As he is only dead some 150 years,
Garrick’s spook would be a quite young and highly
interesting wraith —quite a baby spook compared
to such old veterans as Cain and Goliath. Anyhow,
the ghostly Garrick could not feel affronted at
Julius Knight’s portrayal of him. In fact, one
(if one has a vagrant imagination) can imagine
ghost Garrick saying to his phantom wife (the
Garricks lived very happily), “Eva Maria, my
love, this young man does me very well. He
wears his brocades and satin small clothes and
ruffles superbly; and I’m not sure that his legs are
not better than mine were. Of course, upon no
consideration whatever, would I have made
such a dashed fool of myself as to sham
drunkenness to cure any whining girl of
her stage-struck love for me, but that’s
exactly how I would have treated yon saucy mer-
chant Gresham. Gadzooks, but was I ever like
that varlet when I was a wine merchant! I would
not be jealous, Eva Maria, if Mister Knight were
buried with me in Westminster Abbey. I might
spook the Dean and chapter with an idea to that
end.” And Eva Maria Violette, the celebrated
dancer, now Mrs. David Garrick, was doubtless
absorbed in watching Miss Unie Russell who
played the part of Violet Gresham, the girl who
loves the greatest actor and in the play
marries him. “As she is 150 years too
late, David, I don’t feel a bit jealous. But
I had more fire in me! Still I’m glad she
wasn’t earlier and in your company before we met.
That blue Juliet frock and her unsophisticated
eyes and fair hair had been rivals even to my
incomparable twirlings. Do you remember how
I used to spring off the point of one big toe ! ”
MADAME LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS.
The rest of the company, being only imagi-
nary persons, would have no ghost-doubles to
watch them and criticise. But George Carey is
capital as the mullet-headed merchant who
tells Garrick that actors are rogues and
vagabonds by Act of Parliament, and Harry
Plimmer is horsey and dare-devil enough to be a
buckjumper or the rider of one. Also the other
members of the company do not shock the sensi-
bilities of the audience in any way. As a cur-
tain-raiser “ Comedy and Tragedy” comes on well
enough. Miss Maud Jeffries is most of the piece,
and raises the pulse of the audience to a state
of high fever with her tragic acting whilst her
stage husband (Plimmer) is fighting a duel with
the Regent of France. “ Wounded to the death,”
announces the gentleman, and all is happiness.
What would happen to an officer who slew the
Regent of France in a duel the dramatist sayeth
not.
* * * •
The co., which is received with great joy
by big audiences, will play “The Sign of the
Cross” on Thursday, and on Saturday night
“Beaucaire” will be revived.
#* * *
At Sydney Boyal, ‘ ‘ La Fille du Tambour
Major ” runs more smoothly now for the week’s
practice the performers have had, and, as the
houses have been consistently good, they are
probably doomed to much more practice. There
is an unlimited demand in Sydney for light opera,
and any well-staged production can be sure of
good patronage.
“The Passport,” staged by the Brough-
Flemming Co., at Sydney Criterion, to fill a gap
whilst “Little Mary ” is being prepared, is a merry
farcical comedy hinging on the fact that Mr.
Sinclair, who is a widower, passes off Mrs. D’Arey,
who is a widow, as his wife, for passport purposes,
on the Russian frontier. It is generally under-
stood that almost anything may happen on the
Russian frontier, so that is a handy place at which
to locate an incident. In the fullness of time both
widow and widower marry again; and, on the
widower’s bridal morning, the lady who wasn’t his
wife, but who passed as such to defeat the bloated
Muscovite tyrant, turns up at the house. Here,
then, is a nice chance for complications. The re-
married widow is persuaded that her first husband
is still alive by folk who think Mr. Sinclair was
that first husband. The young bride is convinced
that her husband is a bigamist since the lady sup-
posed to be his first mate walks the earth. With
much comical explosive wrath the situations giggle
through three acts, and two minutes before cur-
tain-drop all is explained. A good deal of the
enjoyment gained by the average audience from a
farce of this description arises fromasense of rAental
superiority. The congregation knows that Mrs.
D’Arcy’s relations with Mr. Sinclair were quite
proper, and that Mr. D’Arcy is really dead, and
that Sinclair hasn’t committed the bigamy of
which he is darkly suspected ; but the people on
the stage blunder along wdthout a glimmer of the
intelligence that bulges out the foreheads of the
folk in the circle and stalls. And these folk feel
good over their superior cleverness, and have a
sensation of being akin to Sherlock Holmes.
* * * *
“The Passport” is briskly and cleverly
acted throughout. Miss Beatrice Day, on whom
the bulk of the burden falls, plays with a cheerful
gaiety that is very convincing. Admirable char-
acter sketches—so valuable in farce —are given by
Herbert Flemming and Edgar Payne, and Sin-
clair is a bright, natural character in the hands of
Carter Pickford. For Saturday next the play
about the pantry is announced.
** * *
The Shop Girl is coiling the last string
of imitation pearls about her neck, and pinning
the final item in bells and rolled-gold elephants on
her frock, and scurrying round to find “The
Boiled Bloater ; being a sequel to a Prince in
Disguise,” to read while going in per tram. The
Bulletin hasn’t any settled idea as to whether
J. C. Williamson’s Shop Girl, who will toil in the
Universal Providery at Her Majesty’s for the first
time next Saturday night, is this Sydney sort of
shop-girl; it makes the foregoing remarks with
an open mind, and in view of the necessity to say
something by way of introducing the new musical
comedy, in which, so it is promised, the whole
strength of the Comic Opera Co. will be em-
ployed.
** * *
Barnard’s Marionettes fill the biggest hole
made in the Sydney Tivoli bill by the withdrawals
at the end of last week, and fill it with laughter.
Afterwards, of course, you’ll swear that it was the
easily-amused ass sitting next you who was
laughing and spluttering—that what interested
you was the mechanical ingenuity of the business.
The Scotch Meisters supply a mostly new pro-
gramme of song, and the same distressingly old
programme of jokes. Apparently this first-class
MR. LESLIE HARRIS.
Two “Society Entertainers ” who will shortly
tour Australia under the management of Mr.
Allan Hamilton.
quartette is trying to make Australia believe that,
after all, it is true that the Scotchman jokes with
difficulty. Fred. Bluett makes a warmly wel-
comed reappearance, and Mdlle. Cerito sings
three songs, mostly with the help of an immense
quantity of limelight. They are rather good
songs, but Mdlle. Cerito hasn’t the smallest idea
what to do with them.
** * *
“The Prodigal Son,” pruned of a little
verbiage and relieved of little Cissy’s painful song
since the first night, should have a prosperous
four weeks run at Melbourne Royal. Hall Caine’s
drama is in two respects an admirable change
from previous Drury Lane melodramas. The
interest is confined to the story, and the little group
of woe-stricken characters get into trouble with-
out outraging the audience’s sense of probability.


The argument as to Shakspeare’s brand of
politics and religion occurs at irregular intervals.
In regard to the modern genius the query is what
is his brand of whisky ? And the evidence shows
that genius as well as common sense plumps for
D.C.L. Shakspeare lived too soon or he would
certainly have plumped for D.C.L. whisky.*
re no hairbreadth escapes from perilous
Tb ere . ar n 0 false accusations against un-
-Bituationn s > v . otimg of extraor dinary circumstances,
fortunate urff i ar y or arson in the piece. But
no “Ineople have bad luck. It is freely dis-
all g ven the Sentimental Prodigal and his
tnhutea- s j ste r-in-law can grumble at their
u npW IC 'P j ien t jj ey ra j se 100,000 crowns on the
luck,j°b t ures G f their respective Icelandic
forged B | trope to break the bank at Monte
parents, back tbe bill before it is presented.
, °tlie unlawful affection which brings them to
a very excusable yearning that might
g riet t 0 two kindred souls in any other well-
i family, especially when the lady soul
regubit auburn b a f r . “ The Prodigal Son” drama
'’tnTympathy with human nature all the time.
Nevertheless, its specimens of human nature
lNolayed in the worst possiblelight. I’hesweet,
Women (among them a gentle mother,
- ° ly played by Miss Maggie Knight) are too
1 llp to counteract the sourness of the narrative.
Th men other than the one miserable sinner, are
J ll ‘ e , t ’ m ake themselves unpleasant to one
, an d the unluckiest fellow of the crowd
to deserve all the sorrow he gets. Moments
tT f cheerfulness are supplied by the minor charac-
‘ , . uK i the tuneful Icelandic supers., and the
"liiv denizens of a casino. Moreover, the ending
I'!hanpy for everybody except the Prodigal, who
]v ‘ r gg in the final tableau as a benefactor out in
the cold, with snowflakes falling on his nose.
** * *
\t Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the virile
, maa tile performance of Miss Tittell Bruneis
a " jng “La Tosca” through a second week, and
Melbourne speaks very highly of that clever little
: lis t in her latest part. Perhaps she is more
cveuly effective in “La Tosca” than in “Theo-
dora’’ where she was better able to look the
character. Miss Brune, all things considered, is
wonderfully successful as the heroine of Sardou’s
K „riest tragedy, and in contrast to an unconvincing
Searpia and a dull, mechanical Mario, the leading
lady shines like a spark of inspiration. On Satur-
day the bill will be “Leah Klescbna,” and the
managerial advt. is expressing itself in very ex-
cited language concerning the event.
* * *- *
“Sindbadthe Sailor,” late of Sydney, is
coming to the Princess’s on Saturday, with the
modest intention of staying for twelve nights only.
The same panto., or something similar under the
same title, was staged by Anderson at the Loyal
last year, since when Melbourne has probably
acquired an appetite for a brief revival thereof.
The panto, habit dies hard.
* * *
At Melbourne Town Hall, which is rarely
in evidence of late, a concert will be given by
Mis. Palmer on Wednesday (7th) next week.
The avowed object of the concert is Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson, and it seems that the lady, who is pre-
sumably a singer, will make her only appearance
on this promised occasion.
* * * • *
At the Opera House a pair of tambourine
spinners are the latest arrivals, and their short
turn is sufficiently amazing. The Primrose bri-
gade appear as Eight Pierrots some of the time
when they are not putting their best legs upper-
most. Also the abbreviated Crimmins and the
prolonged Miss Gore have changed the subject
matter of their duologue, and Miss Raymond is
devoting her brass instruments to other melodies
than she blew aforetime, and the rest of the pro-
gramme has introduced, some variations.
** & *
Adelaide theatres are beginning to wake
from their summer sleep. The Royal is showing
a brief season of “ Theatrescope,” with miles of
Wins that are for the most part obviously—‘though
most ingeniously- 11 faked. ” The Town Hall has
in a similar show that relied mostly on London
scenes. The artist who supplied the realistic
noises rather' overdid things, insomuch that a
’are-footed oby jumping off a rock was fitted with
a sound like a dog falling downstairs. The Tivoli
is about to re-open, after its alterations, with an
all-round Rickards co. ....
Queensland Government has issued, by
warigement with the Howard Smith Company, a
. ter elegantly printed and well got up book
n 1 ec t * Queensland, the Queen State of the
the Winter Paradise of Austral-
.™ted with green ink, profusely illus-
of tl Photographs of buildings and scenery
d„r.t,', n ° rt ? er , n ®tate, the work is an elegant pro-
inf “ peculated to rouse more than a passing
interest in the country it describes.
the es Q' a liai\ woman is wondering what’s
of division and multiplication if the
W retpS ent won,t lct you apply the rules of the
ever v J fh m ' s - She had friends up country, and
four n. 96 C * or about three months she sent them
instead f fS / rom Gollie, each paper bearing,
quarter * he accessary half-penny stamp, a
bably *,) a twopenny stamp, carefully cut. Pro-
y ou ld have gone on quartering the
each y stam P, and getting her friends fined Id.
and Warnedv. ° nly a? 1 offi< ? ial took on her,
ha’-nenn,, • Now she wants to know if a
t quarter of 2d., and what the
it’s no vonrW m era i means b y being. so silly. And
toonen tn j in S ber that to allow this would be
doesn’t nin doo f . to much frau d, since the P.O.
thepo°t^^ era^e a a i ara P as it goes
drowned a^reman kl e (W. A.) the other day a
a eounk^f 11 Was sor ted out of the seaweed, and
body as P as s er s-by promptly identified the
I,, ‘ an d-&o. Nothing was found in the
BD ?°W. iv a Q'P 6 ’ an d So-and-So was a non-
®ind abo„t ®y er theless a Perth paper made up its
I? 1111 a W • gutter straightway, and fossicked
? w hotiK nfr lnci dents in So-and-So’s career. A
that ne\ V n,,n er Publication So-and-So walked into
r Ne a i r [? c Per office, and, for a drowned man,
tin i <a commotion. The police are still
Ve asked tl °i' t w , lO was actually drowned, and
a ter tin's style •— 1 papers to insert paragraphs
Mllb^o^oJidPotifin^l- 01 man unknown at Fremantle,
ali. nis to it Lei Ration was a va ilable, but everything
6 ’ l te poii C( .'i,, ttiat of Captain . If the latter be
As , 1 ‘p e w Quid be pleased to hear from him.
to any what may happen in N.S.W.
a wb o doesn’t hire the proper land-
who . as l t°ld to the Lands Commission
$3O ir.v, f°°H up an improvement lease, and
tv- Ce the d. an< J a su rvey fee, yet could never
>rabl e • ‘ i f l art m en t to survey his area. Not
visain’ whinU abse uce of a survey, to find out
J " any of cb was Ins area, he couldn’t culti-
df.s A put a boot of stock on it, and
i ®trenjjous life for 15 months on the
re;!SSi C n° rSt ® P ’ he tbrew the thing up.
h3,-%y e . v f o^ OU w %! lve bim a verdict for the
nA 5 ?be } nn f u nd oo ° compensation, but he
by an , P , the compensation to avoid being
IQt e])g a b als. All of which shows the folly
5 gln S the proper land-agent.
A N.S.W. LAND TRANSACTION.
Fancy picture of a Governor dragged out of bed to sign undated improvement leases in the
small hours of the morning. (Observe the perspiring messenger and the outraged flunkey.)
AT POVERTY POINT.
Francie Adler, the plump little Melbourne girl who last
appeared in Australia as a singer in the Rickards Co.,
when her warble was merely “ tricky,” is engaged for the
next grand opera season at Covent Garden. She shares
the distinction with three previous Australian artistes—
Melba, Lalia Miranda, and Frances Saville. Adler, now
known as Madame Alda, appears to be a further proof of
Marchesi’s capacity for bringing her pupils along if the
artistic feeling is born in them. The old lady must have
found Francie Adler a pretty tough subject at first. Her
grandmother, the accomplished Madame Simonsen
(mother of Frances Saville), could do very little with the
rebellious damsel, and she eventually refused to give her
any more lessons. The voice was there. Madame and
her husband, poor old Martin Simonsen, had a profound
admiration for their grandchild’s vocal organ. It had a
unique quality, they said, but the peculiarity of tone made
it more difficult to train than an ordinary sweet voice. And
Francie wouldn’t stick to her lessons. She went her own
wilful way, and when she presently got an opening in
Williamson’s chorus, and was given chances to come to
the front, her incisive voice often sounded out of harmony
with the others. On the Rickards stage she sang cheap
ballads, and put in her own variations. Front Europe,
she was first heard of as singing at concert halls in Ger-
many or somewhere. Then she devoted herself to serious
study under Marchesi before getting an engagement as
prima donna in Brussels. Two years work at the Brussels
theatre led to her London engagement. Adler, or Alda,
is presumably a lyric rather than a dramatic soprano,
more likely to appear as Michaela in “ Carmen,” and
Lola in “ Cavalleria Rusticana,” than to undertake a
heavy character with a woe-stricken top-note.
Marie Narelle’s success as a ballad singer in America is
evidenced by the fact that reserved seat tickets for her
farewell recital at the Astor Gallery, New York, were
issued at two dollars each. The farewell was fixed for
February loth, and the advt. stated that it was “ prior to
Miss Marie Narelle’s departure for a concert tour through
England, Ireland and Australia.” The songstress has
been giving her entertainment with only two assistants—
a German ’cellist and the ex-Melbourne damsel, Gladys
Ure, as pianist. There was some talk of the beauteous
Gladys travelling with Miss Narelle, but it seems that
she is now established in New York on her own. Two of
the songs she composed last year are highly spoken of,
and she is to appear in opera shortly.
“Melb.”: We are plunged into six weeks of A.N.A.
competitions for the sucking elocutionists, singers, piano
punchers and what not. A boundless propagation of
conceit, and a mischievous thing.
A new version of an old trick is played in the Islington
(London) current pantomime. Comedian sings a topical
song ; one verse of it reflects on the police. Constable
stands up in the stalls, and says that no reference to the
Force can be permitted. Manager comes on to the stage
to tell the bobby he has no right to be there, and there is
a proper time and place to object to anything that may
be wrong. Constable is very sorry, must do his duty, has
orders from the Inspector. He makes bis way on to the
stage. House on its feet, wildly excited. “ What shall
you do if I continue to sing the verse ? ” asks the comedian.
“ Sing it with you ! ” says the man in blue, and dances
furiously, and throws his helmet into the middle of next
week. Audience, which at first thought Magna Charta
had been burst up and that the “ liberty of the subject ”
was in 1 danger, sinks sadly into its seat and feels sold.
Armes Beaumont, the popular tenor, is now* 65 years of
age. His public musical experiences date from ’55, when
he made his debut in the Brunswick-street (Fitzroy)
Wesleyan Chapel. His first appearance in opera was in
“ The Bohemian Girl,” in Sydney, November ’63.
“The Modern Milo” writes from W.A. re “Poverty
Point ” par (B. 18/l/’06): “I thank you for your graceful
compliments, but wish to correct your correspondent’s
statement that I appeared in a recent panto, show at
Melbourne Cyclorama. My name, Pansy Montague, was
appropriated by some person, and dodgered (without my
permission) by a reckless management. Further, I was
not educated at Fitzroy, as stated. I schooled at Haw-
thorn, but that is by the way.”
Things from San Fran, papers about Nellie Stewart’s
first American appearance:—“Miss Stewart is Nell
Gwynne” . . . “ Better than Miss'Stewart’s Nell need not
be asked . . . Come to stay” . . . “ These Australians act
too much ” (it is Ashton Stevens who is writing this bit).
“ There is in their work an excess of elocution, facialism,
posture and gesture. This elaborate, finical, over-wrought
scheme of acting is at strange variance with the crisp
modernity of stage garniture and stage management.
And yet this acting, for what it is, is splendidly balanced.
The only question is this: Will Americans accept the
kind of acting ?... American curiosity will make a
success for the friends from Australia.” “A dream of
beauty . . . simply great... a darling ”... “ She co-
quetted with her audience until they were bound hand
and foot—hers without a struggle ” . . . “ She acts now,
not in the light key of the plausible, but in that peculiar
surcharged one of comic opera. Her voice is attuned to
an unnatural richness that at times becomes positively
sticky."
“0.P.” : Americans are more Australian than Aus-
tralians. Nellie Stewart was received with a eooee
chorus at the San Francisco theatre. I never beard a
cooee in an Australian one. The first cooee heard in
America is said to have been at a big meeting in Cinci-
natti. A Yank on the platform said to an Australian,
“ Any of your country people here ? ” The reply was, “ I
don’t know, but I’ll soon find out.” With that he gave a
cooee, which was echoed by a lady at the back of the hall.
The audience was greatly tickled, and kept on cooeeing.
Strauss’new opera, “Salome,” is said to break every
known rule in musical composition, and consequently
threatens to be the most marvellous production of the
age. But Strauss’ music is always of the surprising and
unconventional order. In “ Salome,” when 0 major is
sounded, he thinks nothing of letting a trombone play A
flat or D' sharp or any other old note that happens to
strike him ; and in one place he has five old Jews, singing ‘
$, $ and 4-4 time simultaneously. This is no doubt the
eccentricity of genius.
Said the San Francisco Bulletin, protesting against
them calling Sweet Nell “the Bernhardt of Australia”
(which is poor description, anyhow): “ This young woman
does not need to be tagged the anything of anywhere.
She is too complete a personality to want to be anybody
else.” To want to be, yes. But if that critic only knew,
Sweet Nell spends hours and hours fighting the born
mimic within her.
Septuagenarian George R. Ireland is to have a benefit
night at Melbourne Princess’s in the middle of April, and
if he can get a good assortment of items into the bill a
big audience should result. The veteran actor himself
will appear in one or more Shakspeare scenes with Miss
Chariot te Hemming, and probably his handsome daughter,
Miss Harrie, will be able to take part in the performance,
seeing that the Bland Holt Co. will just then be only
preparing for its re-appearance in Sydney.
The Wirths, when last heard of, were cursing the Perth
(W.A.) Railway service in language of the deepest dye.
The circus arrived at Freemantle t’other Sunday after-
noon, and was due to open at Perth on the Monday (bank
holiday) night. It could have walked the intervening 13
miles, and the steamship people, it seems, advised George
Wirth that he had better go on the march at once if he
wanted to make sure of a show thirty hours later. But
he trusted to the W.A. Railway Department and was
eventually left blaspheming. The menagerie and every-
thing appertaining to the circus was ready to b«
entrained by 11 o’clock on the Monday morning,
and then the trouble began. There was no engine
provided to do the shunting of the loaded trucks
until the elephants had done most of it, and the
scornful onlookers had jeered an engine-driver into action.
Then the “ narked ” Railway obstructionists protested
that the stuff was not securely loaded by the “ amateur”
circus hands, and the train was delayed until the job had
been subjected to red-tape requirements. Anyone who
has seen a bijj circus staff handling the luggage will
appreciate the bitterness of George Wirth’s shriek—“ Our
lashings not good enough ! Not blanky good enough !
I suppose our men have lashed more circus pro-
perty on to railway trucks than ever Westralian men
have seen." It goes without saying that the Wirthians
gave their local tormentors a choicer assortment of
tongue-lashings than they had ever previously heard.
Died, the other day, W. H. Vernon, who came to Aus-
tralia with Genevieve Ward, and supported that impress
sive actress in “ Forget-Me-not,” “ The Queen’s Favorite,”
and other plays. Vernon was broken up, mentally, for
Some time before his death, and the statement that his
age was only 71can be taken witha grain of salt. Vernon
narrowly escaped celebrity as an actor. He had a light,
buoyant style in any sort of comedy, farcical or senti-
mental, and he could put plenty of force and weight into
a display of passion or stern command. He wasn’t phy-
sically cut out for heroic characters. As a modern man
of the world he acted better than many a capable Ham-
let, but his figure and profile disqualified him for the
picturesque parts in classic drama.
“ Edyson”: Seeing “Utopia Limited,” one wonders that
it has been kept from the Australian stage for so long, and
wonders more at its failure in England and elsewhere.
That it has been a comparative failure is proved by the
infrequency of its re-appearances since the original Lon-
don production—if there has been any re-appearance-
Yet managerial enthusiasm enlarges upon the “ tremen-
dous initial success.” In truth, the fate of the opera in
London led to its being boxed in Australia for all these
years ; yet it has practically all the popular elements of
the big G. and S. money-makers, “Mikado” and “ Gon-
doliers.” There are even more numerous opportunities
for comedians than usual, and brightly acted by a good
set of musical merry men and a few engaging dancers,
“ Utopia ” would be a delicious entertainment. On this
Melbourne occasion it gets the treatment it deserves only
in a few features, and those comparatively minot;
“Falk”: Grieve to see “T.D.” (B. 4/l/’O6) joining'the
gang who throw petulant bricks at Richard Strauss. We
know the tone of them so well in the English papers, the
same old gang who howled at Wagner and jeered at Mere-
dith (they find it convenient to forget that now), and are
just wondering whether it isn’t time to save their face
about Ibsen. What gives away the anti-Straussians is the
white-hot fury that burns in them ; why not -stay away
and be happy? I can only give my feelings as against
“ T.D’s.” The first time I heard the “ Domestica,” I had
to stand. I can only take music, as a rule, in a long
chair, with a pipe and a tankard. This time, I was
further weighted with a big dinner and two pints o
Burton ale. I stood on my ten toes for 55 minutes (there
are no breaks between the movements), and nothing
moved but my hair. I couldn’t do more for the music
of the Spheres.
“ Melb.” : I never saw a play cut so deep into an audi-
ence as “ The Prodigal Son,” on the first night. “ The un-
foreseen only happens ” is a term that might be truly
applied. A Bland Holt drama without Bland is a trifle
like Hamlet without the Melancholy One: That was a
surprise. His clever acting, combined with managerial
prestige, upsets the equilibrium of a play. When Miss
Ross died in the second act, the Bland Ilolters, especially
the femininity, said, “We know all about that." Of
course she couldn’t be dead, with two acts more to come,
but she was, and a tong-bell kept up its dirge to remind
us. Baker really led .me to think of what G. V. Brooke
must have been like. How striking that scene where he
rushes out with his gun, to shoot his profligate brother.
He bursts into the room where the brother’s wife, his own
love, lies dead, and exclaims “Thank God ! Thank God ! ”
Why ? Two reasons. Because he is turned from his pur-
pose, and because she has gone where the wicked eease
from troubling and the weary are at rest.
“Two Seas”: I notice that a recent
arrival from Ceylon, named Beed, or Feed, is so
awfully concerned about the sufferings of the poor
white fireman on the mail boats that he wants to
tear him forcibly from his job and put a nigger in
his place. This newly-arrived person, named
Weed, or Greed, appears to imagine that the
white fireman is artfully snared in a trap, and
kept at his work by armed sentries. But he isn’t,
really; he actually applies for the billet, and if
Mr. Treed or Speed tears his job from him, and
doesn’t provide him with another one, he will
probably murder Mr. Bleed.
The recently-assaulted “Pastor*’ Abbott,
of Melbourne, palmist, phrenologist, faith-healer,
and successor to John Alexander Dowie, is a
suave, soft-voiced, white-haired, white-mous-
tached, and white-handed gentleman. For years
he acted as the parson at Holt’s matrimonial
agency, and makes it his boast that he has
married more people than any other person in the
country. He omits to mention that the Divorce
Court has probably unmarried more marriages of
his than of any other man.
It is announced that Nicholas Willis
quitted Australia in such a hurry that he left an
unpaid tailor’s bill of £5 7s. 6d. behind him. Still,
tailor Price, of King-street, Sydney, who is the
man at the other end of the bill, says he has no
fear about the money, and probably he is right.
Willis is a man who “ thinks in continents”—at
least he has thought about a pretty large section
of this continent—and he doesn’t go after small
game. Tailor Price doesn’t ascribe his bankruptcy
to Willis, but to “helping people in a friendly
way,” and to people helping themselves to goods
out of his shop in an unfriendly way. A drink
cure, run by a “ boy politician,” was one of his un-
lucky investments.
British politician T. Gibson Bowles, now
standing against Balfour for a London seat, on
Chamberlain, during the recent elections: “To
betray successively two leaders, to break up two
parties, this is a depth of political infamy not
hitherto sounded. In comparison with this the
Thugs of India are faithful friends, and Judas
Iscariot himself entitled to a crown of glory.”
Also, Lord Hugh Cecil : “Mr. Chamberlain did
not like people to disagree with him anywhere,
but to do so in Birmingham was something more
than wicked: it was profane—something like
brawling in church.” But, alas ! Chamberlain
got in by a big majority, while Cecil and Bowles
were defeated—the latter by a narrow seven
votes.
During 1905 the Commonwealth gained
2216 people by excess of arrivals over departures—
that is to say, it gained 4502 white people, and
lost 2286 colored people, leaving a total of 2216 to
the credit of White Australia. New South Wales
is still the greatest gainer by Federation ; it
gathered in a surplus of 9925 immigrants in 1905 !
the other States lost 7709. The surest test of a
country’s prosperity is the extent to which it
attracts immigrants, and this is N.S.W.’s record
in recent years :
1900 .. .. Loss, 1518 1903 .. .. Gain, 4539
1901 6913 1904 6597
1902 .. .. Gain, 6901 1905 9925
N.S.W. hasn’t struck such a patch of luck since
1891 —in fact, the whole period from 1892 to 1901
was a time of loss. It was only when N.S.W.
began to be ruined by Federation that things
looked up.
The Minister of Defence has bumped up
against the alleged fact that, if a small arms and
ammunition factory were established in Australia,
it would have to work on such a small scale, by
reason of the small population and the small local
demand, that the rifles it turned out would be
absurdly expensive. Well, let them be absurdly
expensive. It would be 20 times more expensive
if war came, and our supply of imported arms was
cut off, and this country, for want of that factory,
had to face the invader with road metal. Why
not reduce the expense by putting a prohibitive
duty on imported weapons, and catering for the
local private trade ? Also, why not try to work
up an export trade in shooting material ?
“E.W.” on a food matter :
Despite the cables confirming the comfortable condi-
tion of German workmen, recently published in the
Sydney Telegraph, that paper has discovered another
proof that Germany is being ruined owing to its high
tariff, for the other day it gravely informed its readers
that many of the wage-earners were “ driven to eat rye-
bread.” Now, all over northern Europe rye-bread is, and
always has been, the staple diet. It is eaten by rich and
poor, is found on every well-appointed table, is extremely
nutritious, building* up bone and muscle, and is largely
responsible for the splendid physique of the Teuton and
Slav races. The fine wheaten bread, the ordinary diet of
the Anglo-Saxon all the world over, is probably the cause
of that race steadily degenerating in stature, for the most
valuable portion of the grain has been carefully ex-
tracted. It fills and it may fatten, but it does not form
bone and sinew, and its consumption should be discour-
aged. Years ago it was common to meet bush families of
ten or a dozen children, all fine, burly fellows, standing,
when full-grown, 6ft. and over in their stockings. They
grew their own wheat, ground it in a kind of large coffee-
mill, and the product made excellent bread, containing
all that is necessary to build up a vigorous body. In
these days such families are the exception. At the age
of 14 or 16 the teeth begin to decay, and one rarely meets
a girl of 20 with a really sound set of molars. If part of
the price of Protection is to eat wholesome bread I, for
one, am willing.
From the first issue of Adelaide’s new
(and rather bright) weekly, The Gadfly ;
The Sydney people are fond of alluding to their country
as the “ Mother State,” but Great Grandmother would be
a ipord fitting prefix, judging by the senile outpourings
of Premier Joey Carruthers and his mob of stupid pro-
vinjcialists.; ’Tis a thousand pities that Australia never
made a complete job with a Bill for absolute unification
while the Federal enthusiasm was seething. Besides the
gre'at monetary saving by dispensing with twelve super-
fluous legislating machines and six toy Governors, the
suffering people would have been spared the incessant
blithering of little State panjandrums, who fear that
their half-pint measure is being obscured by the federal
bushel. The Sydney Joey waxes frantic in his efforts to
keep the limelight on his. microscopic person. He has
long since ceased to be amusing, and throughout the
other States there has been formed, with a large and
increasing membership, a society for being tired of New
South “ Wails.” The Sydney gang howls unceasingly of
the wealth of the great grandma State ; they claim that
it is ihe whole body of the Commonwealth, the lesser
units being merely tentacles ; but if the Federal Go-
vernment contemplates spending about ninepence out-
side of the great rich State, the Sydney Town Hall is
engaged for a number of importers to give a public
exhibition of foaming at the mouth over the attempt
to ruin the before-mentioned old lady. Over the federal
capital site question Carruthers is like a dancing Der-
vish when an expected patron passes him by. He
claims that the decision of a body of irresponsible State
Premiers, committed to a scrap of waste paper, and until
recently lost, overrides the Constitution. According to
Joseph, it was decided that the Federal Parliament
should meet in Anthony Hordern’s new Sydney shop, or
something equally ridiculous, -c ihat the provision in the
Bill fixing the conditions for Dhe establishment of the
capital are null and void. A S.A. suburban model Par-
liament some time ago decided that Federation was a
Hass, and the union should be dissolved. This decision
was entered in red ink in a threepenny exercise-book,
which if produced will bust up this portion of the Empiah
—that is, according to the logic of St. Joseph.


Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
From Sydney Telegraph cable notes, Feb.
23 (re disturbances in Natal): —
The murderers were, it appears, semi-civilised members
of ’Mveli’s tribe, in other words, na'i- cs rendered insolent
by missionary teachings.
A fine tribute to the “missionary effort” for
which the Australian small boy is always being
urged to contribute his trouser button.
“ Viking” : There is nothing much wrong
with the Webley revolver issued to the police,
except the short barrel. Also, Eley’s cartridges
are the very best. But the weapon issued is too
frequently left at home. The fact is that it is
rather heavy, and so the intelligent officer spends
7s. 6d. of his pay on a cheap and ineffective pistol
with a l|-inch barrel. This is light and is not a
burden when worn. It will not shoot straight,
nor seriously hurt anyone that it does hit, but
that doesn’t seem to concern “ the force.” When
used with cheap ammunition it has no more effect
than a catapult. I have used every make of large
calibre Webley issued since 1872, and they were
all first-class weapons. I have an old ‘442 now,
and after 30 years’ use and neglect it is powerful
enough to stop the rush of a hill tribe. The shot
that didn’t hurt that kanaka who exploded in
Sydney may have come from a Webley, but a
bad Webley is so rare that any revolver-using man
will have his doubts about it.
* * * *
“OK.” complaineth with justifiable
bitterness :
The Australian Exhibition in Melbourne (which I hope
to see further popularised next year under the catchy
phrase of “ The Industries ”) struck me as being least
attractive in the one department where it might have
shone brilliantly. Among local town industries there is
none so popular with the noil-patriotic class as afternoon
tea, and this would naturally be expected to show its
highest form of development at an Australian Exhibition,
intended to impress the unpatriotic. Hut the afternoon
tea exhibit was utterly unworthy of Melbourne. I speak
from experience. Ordering refreshment for self and
ladv, I was served at a bare, uninviting table, with two
large thick cups of tea that had been previously
“ milked ”at the counter. The incidental sugar supply
harmonised with the tea service. Refreshments
were supplied on the typical Sunday-school picnic scale
of magnificence. A rather aggressive waitress, whose
appearance was in keeping with the cups and saucers,
brought a couple of small, dry scones, with some dabs of
yellow butter sandwiched in the middle of them, and
made a peremptory demand for a shilling as she banged
the ugly delf plates on the table. I thought of what
might have been at this exhibition of Australian products
and manufactures : Artistic tables and chairs, repre-
senting local work in various kinds of Australian
timber. Pretty specimens of Australian glassware for
flowers and sugar—the best Queensland sugar—and
milk, and if there is not yet any fine pottery
work in this country [But there is.—Ed. B.], the local
tinware might have been fetchingly represented by
glorified pannikins and embossed platters. Also, the tea
might have been served in smart little teapots by charm-
ing Australian girls. The best products of local industry
in any country are the girls, and they should be repre-
sented by choice specimens at a national exhibition.
* * * *
At Mackay (Q.), recently, one Mundeen, a
gentleman of color, joined matrimonial hands with
a Danish girl. Before they breathed as one the
coffee-colored sugar-planter put £lOO into the bank
to the credit of his prospective bride. In addition
he gave her mother and all the members of her
family complete outfits of clothing, and promised
his wife a White Australian pony and a set of
silver-plated harness. The marriage festivities
lasted three days, and were attended by all the
Butta Singhs within a radius of many miles.
Mundeen and his girl were married by a parson, as
is usual in such cases. There is badly wanted in
White Australia a law against “ mixed marriages ”
of this sort. Some years ago an aborigine turned
up at Singleton (N.S.W.) with a young white girl,
and asked the local Registrar to be the Voice that
Breathed o’er Eden in their case. The officer
refused to Breathe. Straightway they went to
the study of a local Wesleyan parson, and he per-
petrated the official deed.
* * * •
Richard Seddon, junior, of Maoriland,
one time a captain in the Boer unpleasantness,
was lately presented at Wellington with an
address and £7OO in cash. The affair took place
at a smoke concert at which the old man’s
brother diggers and political supporters gathered
in great force, but the farm-burners who went to
Africa with the hero of the evening were a very
thin gathering. The ex-looters feel bitter about
young man Seddon. Some of them are minus a
limb, some are minus other things, one is a
paralytic with a damaged spine, another is trying
to live mostly on his V.C. And a whole lot of
these vigorous old thieves and combustibles think
that they are much more in need of £7OO than
Seddon, junior.
SHE HAD HIS MEASURE.
“Go on; do you think I could deceive my own wife?"
“ Georye, darling, I know you couldn't; but I believe you are foolish enough to try it.”
The latest method of child-slaughter, as
explained by Coroner Candler, of Melbourne, is
by alcohol poisoning. A woman, whose husband
was “found drowned ” in the Victoria Dock last
September, took to drink. She took to it so suc-
cessfully that she stayed drunk, and didn’t even
bother to get sober on Jan. 5, when her child was
born. The poor infant was supplied with nutri-
ment that was mostly alcohol, and developed two
or three hyphenated diseases, of which it died.
Coroner Candler, after hearing the evidence at the
inquest, took 24 hours to think, and then fell on
the woman like a shipload of Nemesis. After
explaining what he thought of her, he committed
her for trial for manslaughter, and fixed a bail
that was virtually prohibitive. She will probably
be acquitted by a jury ; but the coroner has at
least set a new precedent going.
THE N.S.W. NEW PUBLIC SCHOOL
SYLLABUS.
FATTO (after the exam.): “ Hoo! What price
you, Snowy? I thort yer was gain' to knock
spots off Stinker Plummer."
SNOWY : “So I was, only he was too good for me
in the ambidextral class.”
A Sydney Herald advt. :
O T I 0 E.
NORTHERN WAIROA HOSPITAL.
We, the undersigned Medical Staff of the Northern
Wairoa hospital, beg to intimate to intending appli-
cants for the positions of Medical Superintendent and
Assistant Medical Officer to the above Institution,
that we have resigned our positions owing to the
regulations and bylaws adopted by the Board of Trus-
tees. We also beg to notify intending applicants that
we are already settled in practice in the district, and
any gentleman accepting the position under exist-
ing circumstances will not be entitled to any assist-
ance from us. Intending applicants are invited to
communicate with one of us.
JAMES C. COLLINS,
WILLIAM 11. HORTON,
Medical Staff.
This effort on the part of two medical trades-
unionists to “picket” their old job and intimi-
date blacklegs from coming to it probably deserves
sympathy (The Bulletin doesn’t know the facts
of the case, but gives the trades-unionists the
benefit of the assumption that their case is a
good one). But supposing these two gentlemen
were coal-mihers and not doctors, what wouldn’t
the Herald have shrieked about conspiracy and
intimidation ?
A Victorian P.M. —one Burrowes —lately
exposed the fallacy that the Law “ regards every
man as innocent until he is proved guilty.” An
accused person at Warracknabeal, who, being on
hail, had twice come all the way from Melbourne
to answer a charge, only to have the case adjourned
because the Government analyst was too busy to
test certain matters, mildly asked if he had any
claim for expenses. Burrowes said he had “ never
had such a request made to him, before and
accused must have forgotten himself ” ; but to the
ordinary citizen it looks as if the Law had forgotten
itself and forgotten the accused as well. In fact, it
apparently forgot everything but the prosecution;
that was looked after all right. Suppose, the next
time the unpunctual Law calls on that man to
come all the way from Melbourne to Warrackna-
beal on a fool’s errand he hasn’t the money to pay
his fare —what then ?
Redgum, a soli-
*! w f ho depends
on the few crumbs
to be picked up at
a suburban court
awoke, the other
Sunday morning, to
find himself i n a
cell attached to the
court in which he
practises. He pro-
cured bail, and on
Monday morning ar-
rived at court well-
groomed and looking
as if he had never
dreamt of becoming
acquainted with alee
hob When he heard
the call for “Num-
ber 28, drunk and
disorderly,” he jump-
ed up in his custom-
ary place with “ 1
appear for this man.
your Worship. Ho
had rather more
than was good for
him—hot night—
not accustomed to
drink —very sorry -
rather unwell this
morning.” He had
the 10s. tine usually
imposed on bailecl-
out drunks all ready,
but Stringy bark, J. lb,
was peevish. “Yes,
but where is this man ?
I want to see lnm. ” ‘ ‘ He’s
rather too unwell to appear
this morning,” repeated Red-
gum, swearinginwardly. Stringy-
bark glanced at Ins list of
prisoners, murmuring, “ H’m,
No. 28, .Ralph Eustace Red-
gum.” As he glanced at the
solicitor over the top of his
spectacles he seemed to be
thinking out an idea that ho
had heard the name before
somewhere. So Redgum blurted
out, “Oh, well, your Worship,
I may as well tell you ; I’m the
man.” There was a mirthful
roar from the crowd, and Red-
gum saved his 10s., as theJ.P.
discharged him after a lecture.
But the lecture was wasted.
Several acquaintances came to congratulate Ked-
cmm in a liquid way on saving his hue-money,
which helped to start him on another spree.
♦ ■* * *
The big timber-yard blaze at Pyrmont
fSvdnev), last week, was quite a society event
People just emerging from the theatres jumped
into cabs and galloped down to see the
spectacle. And, as a show, it heat any-
thing Blandolt ever dreamed of in
wildest visions. Two hundred feet
flame roared and waved, and wheni themod
freshened it bent down and streamed like the
banners of Michael’s angel army rushing to the
attack. Down below in the water-sodden sheets
haughty “toffs,” in evening dress, were helping
to w g orkthe hose, and the ladies o the plutocracy
stood by, their jewels flashing in the giare, Ulki g
in little groups and imagining their John, e
friends on the hose-line were perfect heroes,
land engines were too numerous, a
supplv inadequate. To cope with anything like
a general conflagration, Sydney wou ld
more pressure and larger mains. * tbe
have been much more damage done but or the
presence of the tire-ship Pluvius. Sate benma ne
bulwarks, the marine firemen stood close i to t
attack and poured a mighty torrent^ of salt water
into the raging volcano. There is
toxicating about a fire. Quite were con-
went mad, and, rushing into he were co^
sumed. The vast crow / s p^ at ° a “ e d closer and
the scene by tram and cab P res ?> ,1.,,;,. onera-
closer, and impeded the firemen in> force £ bem
tions, and when the police tie to fchreat to
back, they behaved like wild A gifting one
turn the hose on them was the m * knows what
fire-maddened throng. Heaven y as a matter
they wanted to press so close for, sin ’ Jid t a
of fact, the spectacle was much more^en* 1
reasonable distance. In the str “? g ® ra i others
man was very badly handled, andseveral
came in for nasty knocks. Out on the wate., q
a little fleet of motor lannch'3 ‘ ith s ; g htseers.
crowded to the last availab drift home,
It was 1 a.m. before they s t art ® d a id a splendid
and cabs and all-night tram ,P 6 had taken a
harvest. Crowds °f tbem selves
twopenny ride to see the bla i o urney, and
bailed up for 6d. the return jour y,
unable to pay it, ref n sed * on g the trams
majority of cases the . gave their
paid for the stranded ladies, but &
names and addresses. Altog open it
night out; if the pubs had only oee
would have been an ideal occasion.
Melbourne is at dWIJi
in the preacher of the Free Chri newhat mixed
Pastor Abbott. The trouble s tfae pohce
at present, and is liable to , ou t, it seems
court, but as far as it can he s wben riding
that the good man fell off his ho se waSSUC .
“in Maoriland,” some 2dy® ar D ’ be promptly
coured by a man with whose sister f blesS ecl
fell in love. The twc> marmA and dy
with three little Abbotts. married be-
told her husband that she had bee living ,
fore, and that her husband wi livin g
but as he had a P re s he (Mrs.
when the marriage took Abbott's
Abbott) was, nevertheless, wg * tQ have
wife. Hereabouts -A-bbott nC j torn by
departed in great mental dl £ tres g s b 0 gtlll
conflicting emotions, hut, t 0 f the tale
maintains his children. T tbere enters
chops off suddenly just here, aSS widow
a Mrs. Haldane, a friend and
Abbott. Mrs. H. dwells in M allege d
harasses the good pastor by o fhis “church
bad conduct before the commit _ d tbe o tber
and calling him a depraved egg , Trn perance
Sundav afternoon she.entered the the
Hall in the middle of the indignant e X;
platform carrying a brolly an tbe preacher,
pression, and tried to v P, tbe lady wl |‘
Abbott departed in disorder, an Just nOW the
the gingham departed in hys dj n 8 matters a
pastors threatens law and P üb lic wears
great length, while the hea
cynical expression. *
• * * . ■nPinP’-wafcer i s
A certain effect of bad vv qf keep th®
bowel trouble —Wolfe’s S^^-Thert. *
bowels in perfect order. C ~to lFE’ s.
genuine aromatic schnapps »u
by its full name.*
EASTER CAMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Commonwealth Military Board has approved of
the following-Easter camps of training.”— The Age, 6/2<’o6.
There’s a stir up at the barracks, which for months have
been half dumb,
For the summertime is passin’ and the autumn’s nearly
come ;
There’s rustlin’ in the offices, and bustlin’ on the square,
And officers and others wear a hurried, flurried air.
The Commandant’s a-callin’ for returns, and maps, and
plans;
The Stores Department’s checking stores from guns to
billy-cans ;
And the D.A.A.G.’s cussin’; and the O.C.A. fair ramps—
All the dazzlin’ staff’s a-fussin’—gettin’ ready for the
comps.
Yes ; the Easter camps are cornin’,
That’s the reason things are hummin’,
We are goin’ to play at soldiers—goin’ to have our annual
treat;
It’s our regular occasion
For “ preparin’ for invasion,”
And we’re goin’ to learn to paralyse the blokes we’ve got
to meet.
Every mornin’ there’s a lev6e from some bold militia
corps,
Chiefly adjutants and colonels, waitin’ at the general’s
door ;
They are showe'd in, lookin’ solemn, and they find him in
his chair,
And they line up in a column with a highly martial air.
And they listen most respectful while he tells them of his
plan
To “ reorganise the army ” and knock feathers off Japan !
And he asks them “What’s your muster? Is your
corps a doin’ well ? ”
And they answer in a fluster “ they can hardly rightly
tell.”
Or perhaps they mention sadly
That the corps’s been treated badly ;
That it hasn’t got equipment nor a proper place to drill ;
That they need four hundred rifles,
And a thousand other trifles,
And practical encouragement before their ranks ’ll fill.
Then the Commandant dismisses ’em, and tells ’em with
a snort,
That “the wisest thing that they can do is send in a re-
port”;
And adds that they should “ send it to the D.A-Q-M.G.,
Who will read and recommend it, and then forward it to
ME.”
And so the deputations—and the mornings—pass away,
Full of plans and consultations for our cornin’ Easter
fray;
And the whole Defence Department and the staffs dig
and explore,
And examine—to discover what they always knew be-
fore !
That we’re short of ammunition—
What we have’s not in condition —
That we need ten thousand saddles, and twelve batteries
of guns ;
That we cannot make a cartridge,
Or a gun to shoot a partridge,
Let alone to arm Australia’s hundred thousand fighting
sons 1
And out upon the barracks square they’re marchin
round and round ;
You can tell they’re gravel-crushin’, half-a-mile off, by the
sound;
And it’s “ As you were ! ” and “ ’Tenshun ! ” and “ Form
fours ! ” and “ Squad, salute ! ”
(There’s an officer a-passin’)—but that don’t teach men to
shoot! ”
And it’s “ Dress there, Number Twenty ! ” and it’s “ Stand
up, Seventeen !”
“ Ceremonial drill ” there’s plenty—and thank God for the
canteen
When it’s hundreds in the shade—and there ain’t no
shade ouside !
Ah, they teach them all about parade, but never how to
ride 1
Yes; the sergeant-major drills ’em,
And the captain nearly kills ’em,
Till they get set up so stiff and straight you’d think
they’d got the cramps !
But their marchin’s simply splendid,
“ Open order ” or “ extended ; ”
Ho 1 we take the bun for marchin’ at our pleasant Easter
Camps 1
Then last —but no means least—of all, our gallant volun-
teers
Are “ gettin’ ready for the camps,” as they have done for
years.
They’re packin’ up their uniforms, their beds, their
kitchen gear,
With demijohns of whisky and a cask or two of beer ;
They’re takin’ patent-leather boots, pyjamas and cigars,
And mandolins and violins to serenade the stars ;
They’re takin’ hymn and prayer books in the more re-
ligious corps,
For a hymn-book is so handy when you're goin’ to train
for war 1
With all this par’phernalia
They’re goin’ to save Australia—
Goin’ to learn to paralyse the Germans, Japs, and other
scamps.
Heaven help the hapless foeman,
Chow or Russian, Greek or Roman,
Who dares to face our army when it’s holdin’ Easter
camps.
VICTORIA.
O. C. CABOT.


= HOW TO DRESS WELL=
A Morning, WalKing',
or Visiting' vSuit
Coat and Vest Best Black Worsted.
Trousers Finest Striped Tweed.
NEW WEST END STYLE. £*
£5 5s
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY.
The young lady with the_improper story,
who has been quiescent for a while, bobbed up
once more in Melbourne last week. The epi-
sode occurred at Macedon, and the bay and girl
concerned—he was 18 and she 15J—-sang in a local
church choir, and philandered on the way home.
That was her tale, though she made no mention of
the circumstance until some months later, when it
became urgently necessary to make an explana-
tion of some sort. The youth denied the charge ;
it was practically his word against hers, and hers
would probably have stood but for a severe cross-
examination. Therein the blessed damozel
admitted that, when previously in service at Mal-
vern, “she on one occasion thought she was walk-
ing out with a, man, but she had since thought it
was imagination from over-strained nerves.” The
interesting child further said she had told a
fellow-servant at Macedon that she had been
married while in Malvern (cetat 14 !), mentioned
her husband’s name and showed a wedding ring
—she thought now that she had imagined this like-
wise. Also, she had kissed various boys at sundry
times and seasons and had smoked cigars “to
cure her nervousness.’’ Altogether she appeared
such an irresponsible, imaginative, hazy person
that the jury acquitted the youth. If that girl
can write as well as she can talk she would make
a desirable acquisition to the Stinking Fish party,
which lives by imagining things of one kind and
another.
• * *
The outcome of a bogus marriage, at Wel-
lington (M.L.), a while back, was a civil
ease, in which damages were claimed by
the woman, a simple-minded creature
who couldn’t read or write, or tell
the time, or the months of the
year. She was induced to
marry the defendant, a fire-
man, at an evening party ;
and, after the ceremony,
she parted up coin
for beer, the crowd
irrigating at her
expense. Nothing
further seems to
have happened as
the result of the
“marriage.” De-
fendant said the
party was having
a spree when the
marriage was sug-
gested. They
couldn’t get any-
one present to act
as parson, so the
pubbery adjoining
was raided, and an
old derelict with
venerable whiskers was
bagged and carted
along. A copy of Zola
was placed in his hand,
and a towel thrown across his arm.
He said, “Will you ’ave this bloke
for a ’usband ? ” She said “Yairs,”
and the ceremony was concluded.
The “parson” had a drink, and
everybody else had a drink. And
then the poor girl wanted the beer-
money back, with something else for
disappointment, when she found out
it wasn’t legal. The case was dis-
missed, of course'; nevertheless, the
sort of party which would play that
sort of trick on that sort of girl de-
serves to be hit collectively with
something hard and often.
“ Group of children assisted by the Bene-
volent Society of aST.S.W.” was one of Sydney
Telegraph’s latest exhibitions of pictorial enter-
prise. The group consisted of twelve youngsters,
mostly barefooted, and a dog. It is a low-down
thing to publish the portraits of the kiddies and
practically label them as paupers, arid it isn’t
professed that the dog gets aid from the Bene-
volent Society.
• * * *
Chief Justice Darley lately complained of
books from the N.S.W. Supreme Court Library
being taken out of the building. One volume, badly
wanted, was discovered in a solicitor’s office.
Which recalls a Melbourne incident of long ago.
In a matter before the Full Court, in which the
leading lights appeared, a case, alleged to be in
the books, was quoted as being on all fours with
the one being argued. The book was sent for, but
the librarian could not find it. For a breathless
hour or two the earth was ransacked for that
book. A well-know Q.C. was in the case and
pooh-poohed the idea of there being any such case
as alleged, and in the end the search was aban-
doned and judgment went for his clients. Then
the book was found. The Q.C. had been sitting
on it.
♦
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
“ Hiphen ”: I possess
an athletic brother, who
goes in for physical cul-
ture, and looks for
trouble. On Christmas
eve he went to bed full
of good cheer and other
drinks, and was just
dropping to sleep, at
about 1.30, when he
heard burglars. Jump-
ing up, he went
through his exercises
to see that his muscles
were in good working
order, then crept to
the front door with
the stealth of a law-
yer crawling up to
a fee. On the mat
was a man —not a
very big one—so
my brother gave
him some ju-jitsu
and physical cul-
ture and jumped
on him often, and
hit him frequently,
and shook him at
intervals, till the
man lay down and
rested. Then my
brother put a few
grips that he had
been wanting to
practise for a long
time on him, and
dragged him inside
and lit the gas. To
our great disap-
pointment he was
not a thief—at least
not the sort my
brothcutook him for
• —only a Sal v ’army
specimen. We Could
hear his friends up the
street making noises and
Christmas carols on tin in-
struments, and taking up the
usual collection. My brother was
disgusted at wasting so'much physi-
cal culture on a mere Salv’armyist. He told me
that he was so surprised that if the man had asked
him to apologise he’d have done it. However, the
man was too weary to ask him, so we put him on the
pavement to be collected, then went to bed. We
found a collection box on the mat next morning.
We suppose it was left there as an atonement for
disturbing us.
* * * n
A case weighing 4|- tons, and alleged to
contain the bronze statue of the late Victoria, has
been dumped in Brisbane, and is waiting unopened
till they can scrape up a pedestal somehow. As
the result of much beating of the loyal tom-tom,
this pedestal will be provided, but it will be a
pretty mean affair. But, “Ah, she was a great
Queen!” they say as they drag out a reluctant
sixpence. Yet ask that man what year died this
great Queen for whom he has all this personal
affection, and 19 times out of 20 he can’t tell you.
What a hollow mockery the grief for dead
monarchs is, after all!
PAST ALL ARGUMENT.
HE : “ You think women are logical?”
SHE: “ Yes! Why man himself admits it's waste
of time to argue with a woman."
“Melb.”: Marcus Clarke’s room at the
Public Library, where he acted as sub-librarian,
has just been demolished and obliterated. It was
on the east side of the south Sculpture Gallery.
Cronies yet remember dropping in for a chat with
Marcus at his green table. Perchance one might
find Shillinglaw, Walstab, M'Crae, or Carrington
there, while Redmond Barry had been finding
some dry-as-dust job for poor Marcus.
* * * *
“Take my advice, don’t see too much
and you will get on all right here,” was the advice
one Melbourne superintendent gave a zealous
constable, according to recent testimony before
the Police Commission. Then came the comment
of the true Hibernian : “ Yis, a man in the foorce
has t’ have his eyes wide open t’ see what not t’
see.”
* * * «
Crossley, a Western District (Vic.) town-
ship, had a Wild West show of its own one night
last week, when a band of proto-cowboys invaded
it from Koroit and fusilladed roofs and chimneys
with theirguns.” The new enterprise was
attended with such success that nigger-burning
and other samples of American humor may be
expected at an early date.
THE CRY OF THE HOUR.
THE OTHER ONE (in an injured tone): “Wot!
drunk again? You ought to he ashamed of
yourself. Bah! What'll they think of yer
in England?”
“Hexham ” : Hignoranfc of hany but Hing-
lish ’istory, as usual. Sydney Telegraph can’t
find any parallel to the forcible dissolution of the:
Hungarian Parliament nearer than Cromwell’s
time. One, much more recent and infinitely more
momentous m results, was the expulsion of the
French Council of Five Hundred by Bonaparte at
the point of the bayonet, which act virtually
abolished the First French Republic. The same
paper turned on its historical authority last week
to weep about the policy of “ruthless ex-
termination’’ of the natives “practised by
the Spaniards in Mexico.” There are 14,000,000'
Mexicans—3B per cent. Indians (presumably
“exterminated ’’), 43 per emit, mixed, and 19 per
cent, people of pure Spanish descent; and the
Indian has had equal privileges with the white
for the last 82 years, and nowadays is mostly
able to put his candidate into the Presidency.
Juarez and Diaz, two Indians, between them
filled the Presidential chair for the best part of 40
years. Why doesn’t the ’Graph hire somebodv
who knows history when he sees it ?
* * * *
“ 1.P.” on a church matter :
Re Socialism and ritualistic parsons (B. 15/2/’O6). Rev.
E. S. Hughes, whose incense-burning-and green chasubles
have caused so much controversy in Melbourne recently,
is editor of a church paper which The BraLETiN once
described as “the only genuinely religious paper in
Australia.” It has ventured publicly to defend a White
Australia, to proclaim the Labor party as the best factor
in Australian politics, and to incur the reputation of
being a pro-Boer by denouncing Jingo-imperialism. Also,
it barracks straight out for Socialism. The only church
in Sydney where similar “ ritualistic” services are held is
Christ Church, near the railway station ; and it is worth
noticing that the great bulk of its congregation is drawn
from the workers. Moreover, the church officials include
several energetic trades-unionists, among them a former
colleague of J. C. Watson as an office-bearer of the
Typographical Society. “ Brother Charles,” whose sen.
sible straight talk The Bulletin' has several times quoted
with approval, is another “ ritualist,” and wears chasu-
bles—-don't know what color. While these men fearlessly
hold radical opinions and live up to them, in welcome
contrast to the usual attitude of “ the churches ” on such
subjects, no Australian democrat will be inclined to join
in the “ anti-ritualistic ” campaign of parson Digby Berry
and the Argus.
* * * *
The S.A. local option carousal resulted in
a victory for the temperance-folk in every district
except Adelaide, the one place that could
afford the loss of a few pubs. At the end of
12 months, therefore, one-third of the present
hotel licenses will be refused! in Port Adelaide
and the suburbs, and any amount of property will
be left dry on the owners’ hands. Yet, in the
matter of pubs and drunks, S.A. is a compara-
tively holy and virtuous State. Statistics show
that its population of 372,000 averages only three
drunks a day, and that, while population has
increased in ten years by 52,000, the pubs have
decreased by 126.
When the High Court gently upsets one
'«f its judgments, N.S. Wales Full Court shows
-marked impatience. But when it is its turn to
jump on an erring District Court Judge, N.S.W.
■ Supreme Court shows no mercy. D.C. Judge
Fitzhardinge recently came to the common-sensible
■conclusion that it was useless to swear, on ‘the
Christian Bible, an aborigine, and took from him
■therefore an affirmation. N.S.W. Full Court, dh
;review, held that Judge Fitzhardinge had “ made
a very great mistake,” which had resulted in'a
gross mistrial.” Which isn’t soft language'to
tuseto a brother Judge.
DIANA’S VENGEANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a meeting of the Albert Park Ladies’ Swimming
Club, Miss Smith dived from the spring-board and struck
a youth who had concealed himself in the water. He is
suffering .from concussion of the brain. —News item.
"Watching where he didn’t oughter,
Paddled long a foolish wight;
" Chin-deep, hidden in the water,
Fascinated by the sight
* Of the costumes that they wore so
Daintily in girly swims,
•Clasping close the swelling torso,
Leaving bare the russet limbs— *
3 But he had to reckon with
Miss Smith.
Had he dreamed of a collision,
Welcome would the thought have been.
When an extra-charming vision
On the diving-board was seen,
With his eyes and mouth extended,
He was fairly overcome ;
And there suddenly descended
On his hollow cranium—
From the ether’s blue zenith —
Miss Smith.
Now the youths who’d study nature
Stay without the shark-proof laths,
Sudden penalties await sure
Those who trespass ih the baths.
Safer are the swelling lenses
Of the opera-glass instead ;
So they modify their frenzies
Lest there fall upon their head,
Like some old avenging myth—
Miss Smith.
VIC.
A.B.
Weak Heart for Years.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“•One day I fell down 'in 'a''dead faint,” said
Mrs. Harry North, 55 Lauiiin-street, Cook’s Hill,
Newcastle. “I was living at Broken Hill at the
itime. My sister thoughtd'was dying, and rushed
•away for help. By the‘ time the doctor reached
the house I had come round a little—but I could
not speak. He said my'heart was so weak that it
was almost at a standstill. He warned me to be
very careful of myself, and told me never to do
anything that would excite me at all. Another
faint might mesvmm'y death. From that out, till
Hr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me, I didn’t know
what good health was. Now, thank goodness, I
am never a-day sick. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
built me up dill I was stronger than ever. It’s
going onifewr years since they cured me—but my
ihear.t has mover given me a minute’s anxiety all
.that 'time. To-day my health could not be
better.
“ As a-girl, I was very healthy,” Mrs North went
•cm, “ but soon after I was twenty-one my health
began do break down. I worked too hard, and
•didn’it dake my meals regularly. This soon told on
ime. I grew weak and thin. Some days I don't
knowhow I got through my housework. I had
hardly 'the strength to raise a hand. My fingers
all turned yellow, and my nails went blue. As for
any face, I was afraid to look in the glass. There
wasn’t a particle of color about me. My eyes sank
•away back in my head, and my cheeks fell in.
Ifou never saw anyone look so ill and wretched.
“ Sometimes I could not feel my heart beating,
(even when I pressed my hand hard over it. At
•other times, it jumped and fluttered till I could
hardly draw my breath. These attacks came cn
without any warning. They might last for afe w
hours only—but very often I was laid up for
weeks. During these bad turns I was fit for no]
thing. I always had a feeling as if I was going to
•die. Many a night I went to bed feeling cert -.in
that I would never see morning.
“ The doctor told me my heart had hardly the
strength to keep beating,” Mrs. North added.
■“ A horrible smothering feeling came over me, and
I felt as if I couldn’t get enough air. I would have
to have sips of brandy and water every few minutes
to keep myself from fainting. That was the only
thing that kept my heart going at all. After the
•day that I fainted in Broken Hill, my life was
just hanging by a thread. My sister and I were
washing. Both of us were having a good laugh
when, all of a sudden, a sharp pain shot through
my heart—and it stopped dead. My body went
cold and rigid. I would have fallen headlong if
my sisterihad not caught me. She said that my
face turned deathly white, and that my eyes got
fixed. From that time, I never knew what hour
would benny last. There was always a chance of
me dropping off in a faint, and never coming out
of it allive.
This was my terrible state when I started Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I bought
•some at Hart and Firkin’s, the Newcastle chemists.
They suited me from the very first. They gave
me an appetite—a thing I hadn’t had for years.
Gradually they filled my heart with rich, [strong,
healthy blood, so that it worked regularly and
well. Then they put new strength into my
stomach, so that I was able to get all the
good out of everything I ate. My nerves
grew steady, and I slept better. To-day,
I am a strong and healthy woman. My heart
gives me no trouble now. I tell everyone that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills saved my life.”
Now Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills build up the
strength in just one way—they actually make new
blood. That is all they do, but they do it well.
They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They won’t cure any
disease that isn’t caused by bad blood. But, then,
nearly all common diseases spring from that one
cause—anaemia, indigestion, biliousness, head-
aches, backaches, kidney trouble, lumbago, rheu-
matism, sciatica, neuralgia, nervousness, general
weakness and the special secret ailments that
growing girls and women do not like to talk about,
even to their doctors. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
by striking straight at the cause, cure all these
adments just as surely as they cured Mrs. North.
But you must insist on getting the genuine Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. If your local retailer can.
not give you exactly what you ask for, order them
by mail from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place. Sydney—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes
15s. 3d., post free.
A Melbourne solicitor got a stern rebuke,
the other day, from an assault-and-battery woman',
He remarked that she was “ married to a Hindu j
defendant bearing a similar relationship to a
Chinkie.” “ Excuse me,” chipped in the plaintiff,
“I am married to a Mohammedan gentleman’;
and I believe she is married to a Chinese gentle-
man. ” The ladies who were married to these
gentlemen had bitten each other, or something
like that. 6


CITY ®
Positions
secured by Postal [7
Tuition in Business
Subjects.
‘Home Study ’ Post Free.
Stott & Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Sydney
TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
I wo of the three big American insurance offices
were run on the mutual principle, the same as the A.M.P.
and other Australian concerns ; and there has been just
as much scandal over them as over the one proprietary
office, the Equitable. The whole trouble has been that
they have been mutual offices in name only ; and tinally,
the directors, relying upon this, have been ■ able to do
things which other people are calling robbery
and spoliation. There is a lesson here for Austra-
lia. In connection with this movement to pur-
sue the business of the A.M.P. Outside Austral-
asia, the one cry on the directors’ side is
“ Trust the management! ” You produce figures to show
that the English expense rate is higher, the English
death-rate is higher, and the English interest rate lower ;
you produce incontestable figures to show that the result
of doing foreign business—if you get a large enough foreign
business to be worth mentioning—must be to reduce the
bonus paid to Australian policy-holders, who of course
have to share and share alike with the foreign policy-
holders ; you produce, after that, figures which cannot
be twisted or gainsaid showing that the Scottish Widows,
the greatest of the British offices, pays a 245. bonus
where the A.M.P. pays 40s. by confining itself to
Australasia. You make the chain of argument abso-
lutely complete ; and to commend the argument you
submit the names of men who have tested it; and found
it sound, and who therefore accept the conclusions —such
men as Chief Justice Parley, of N.S. Wales ; E. W. Knox,
manager of Australia’s greatest industrial concern, the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. ; Peter Proctor, for a quarter
of a century financial editor of the S.M. Hurald. And to
all this comes the one set of replies—“ Trust the directors
or “ The management should know best ” ; or “ Won’t
you accept Mr. Teece’s assurance before that of irre-
sponsible critics ? ” Never a figure in disproof; never an
argument. The directors put forward a statement at
first; then general manager Teeee put one forward ; and
the two were in hopeless conflict. After that, never a word.
Just “ Trust the directors.” Arguments were put forward
against the proposal at the meeting in January. There
were some who went there with an open mind. “ Answer
the arguments against the extension,” pleaded a N.S. W.
ex-Minister. But they didn’t answer them. They did
not attempt to answer them. It was just “Trust the
directors 1” again.
It was just “Trust the directors!” in the
American offices, too.
What A.M.P. policy-holders are asked to do
by this parrot-cry is to give up the mutual principle, to
all intents and purposes. Instead of thinking the matter
out for themselves, and governing their own affairs,
they are urged to do no thinking for themselves, to have
no mind of their own, but to just blindly follow wherever
the directors may lead. And more than follow ; they are
urged to actually authorise the directors to go in a cer-
tain direction, and still not use their own judgment as to
whether that direction is the right one or not. “Trust
the directors.” Abrogate the mutual principle, and
destroy the very essence of the system of self-govern-
ment. That is what it means. And in America it
meant—well, there is no need to go into the things it has
meant. Anyway, only this week, the papers that have
been printing day after day the parrot-cry, “ Trust the
directors ! ” printed also a cablegram to the effect that
the joint committee of the U.S. Congress “denounced
the past administration of mutual offices,” and “ recom-
mended drastic reforms.” The beginning of it all was
when policy-holders yielded to just such stupid cries as
this “Trust the directors”; when they yielded to the
argument that the directors knew more about the matter
than they did, and so handed over control to the directors ;
when at every twist and turn they strengthened the
hands of the management and weakened their own.
To escape what has come of this prostitution of
the mutual principle in America every A.M.P. policy-
holder should form his own opinion in the matter, and
then act. And the last chance he will have of acting will
be on March 9. On that date the confirmatory meeting
will be held. Meantime those who have not sent in
proxies may do so. If they believe in extension, they
should send their votes to chairman A. W. Meeks, at the
A.M.P. office ; if they don’t believe in it, then the proxies
should go to Gerald R. Campbell, Denman Chambers,
Pliillip-street, Sydney.
* • * *
Concerning the expenses of some of the smaller
Australian insurance offices, the amalgamation of which
was advocated (B. l/2/’O6). From the last N.S.W. official
figures the Metropolitan’s ordinary' premium income was
quoted as £4552, and its expenses for the mixed business
(ordinary and industrial) as £13,436. This is, no doubt,
the best the “Statistical Register” can make of the
society’s returns ; and if the figures are misleading it
is the society’s own fault for not separating the ex-
penses of the ordinary and industrial business.
Bunching all its figures, as it does itself in its revenue
account, the Metropolitan’s premium income was last
year £17,337, and its expenses w'ere £12,412. But if the
people who insured in the Metropolitan got their insur-
ance at the same cost (for management) as the A.M.P..
National Mutual, and Citizens’ average, they would pay
£2730 instead of £12,412, and the other £9682 would be
available either for the reduction of premiums or the
increase of bonuses.
* * * *
Shipping people in Sydney—in Australia for
that matter—are looking forward with some curiosity to
March, when the new contracts for sea carriage of Broken
Hill ore come into force. This business, the most im-
portant after the Newcastle coal trade in the Common-
wealth, has hitherto been given to members of the
Steamship Owners’ Federation, but this year it has been
captured by Messrs. Scott Fell and Co. The surprised
and angry' companies which have lost the job are loud in
their opinion that Fells will be unable to carry on with
the fleet at their disposal unless they charter boats from
outside Australia. It is insinuated that the new' con-
tractors intend to run the service W'ith foreign-owned
steamers, relying on the fact that the strict requirements
of the local shipping Acts, as well as the Merchant Ship-
ping Act, cannot be applied to foreign boats. The firm
in question makes a specialty of running foreign-owned
tramp steamers, and already has had a tussle with the
Sydney authorities in the case of a vessel, the Tiberius.
Should they run German and Norwegian steamers in the
inter-State trade, their opponents hope to kick up a fine
row. Scott Fell and Co. are at present dumb as oysters,
and their intentions are waited with interest.
» * * »
Private enterprise is being squeezed by a ship-
ping combine, which has a monopoly of trade to Japan
and China. The regular traders have established a system
of rebates on freight to which all shippers are entitled,
with a proviso that such rebates are only' paid to the
shippers at the end of each year. At present there is a large
demand for Australian produce for export to Asiatic ports
—so large that the available tonnage is not equal to carrying
it. Yet shippers are practically' prevented from sending
cargo by steamers other than the combine’s, because all
accrued rebates are forfeited if at any' time consignors
send their goods by' other yessels ; so shippers have to re-
fuse orders after the combine’s ships are full. Yet we
maintain commercial agents in Japan.
The Union Bank of Australia
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Aug., 1899.. £48,514 6 p.e. =£45,000 £1,030,363
Feb., 1900.. 92,002 7 „ „ 52,500 £50,000 1,019,865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 7 „ „ 52,500 25,000 1,022,190
Feb., 1901.. 86,628 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,023,818
Aug., 1901.. 95,681 8 „ „ 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
Feb., 1902.. 96,714 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
Aug., 1902.. 93,931 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
Feb., 1903.. 109,649 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug., 1903.. 126,330 .10 „ „ 75,000, 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., 1904.. 112,182 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Aug., 1904.. 115,830 10 „ „ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905.. 100,374 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
Aug., 1905.. 100,767 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
This is rather ancient history ; but the Union directors
are a very gradual body—as the whole staff is pre-
pared to swear in the matter of that percentage
reduction of salary made some years ago, and not since
restored, in spite of the fact that the dividend has mean-
time been doubled. The Union is a fine bank in most
respects, well and conservatively managed ; and it is a
pity that (it may be because of the ignorance of its
English directors regarding Australian conditions) it
should be putting up the reputation of having
about the worst-treated and, consequently, most
dissatisfied staff in the Commonwealth. Though its pro-
fits are not what they were two or three years ago, when
banks made big earnings at the cost of very big risks
which fortunately turned out all right, the Union’s
figures continue remarkably good. Shareholders’ total
funds earned £7 16s. Id. p.c. per annum—a capital re-
turn which makes the mouth of almost every “ bloated
manufacturer ”in Australia water. He, pampered man,
has to be as little dissatisfied as he can on 2£ or 3 per
cent. —and often not that. While other banks have
had great difficulty in maintaining their advances,
the Union’s total at August was £12,600,929, agaibst
£12,497,141 in 1904, and £11,968,017 in 1963 ; and its
specie, &c., and cash balances amount to £3,878,819
against £3,800,914. Certainly it has had a considerable,
though not overwhelming, increase in deposits ; but the
balance has been lent out on short call in London—a
pretty poor use to put Australian money to, yet the sort
of thing that is bound to happen till Australia has a tariff
high enough to promote great manufacturing industries
which will call for the help of the financier. On Aug. 31st,
the Union alone had £1,125,000 at call and short notice in
London ; at its last balance, the Bank of N.S.W. had
£990,000 ; the Bank of Australasia in April had £2,693,000.
Australian money this, in nearly every case—£4,BoB,ooo
of it, averaging perhaps 2 per cent. And the Australia
to whom this belongs is paying 4 per cent.; and the same
J. Bull, to whom it lends for 2 per cent., is the man who
holds the mortgage.
* * * *
The Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Deficit re-
Deficit (good- maining if
will not Capital
reckoned were wholly
Dec., Profits. Dividends. an asset), written off.
1896 .. £411,302
1897 .. £3,550 407,752 £381,211
1898 .. 5,647 402,105 375,286
1899 .. 15,524 386,581 359,509
1900.. 15,533 371,048 343,441
1901.. 26,712 344,336 316,728
1902.. 21,443 322,893 295,189
1903.. 11,024 3 percent. =£B37 312,706 284,968
1904.. 17,788 3 956 299,874 267,136
1905.. 4,911 3 „ „ ~ 1182 296,145 255,857
With which read this further comparison :
1897. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Capital .. .. £26,540 £27,737 £32,738 £40,287
Mortgages and De-
bentures .. 792,920 750,200 745,220 729,793
Other debts .. 26,598 73,769 64,127 57,645
Old real estate .. 316,225 316,225 316,225 316,225
New ditto .. 897 33,585 45,386 52,025
Sundry debtors .. 83,137 72,900 76,671 67,107
Plant, stock, etc.. 38,037 114,131 101,510 94,298
Gross profit .. 45,720 57,293 64,216 50,433
Interest paid .. 26,077 25,427 25,319 26,154
Management, etc. 16,092 19,495 20,396 19,171
Capital has been increased during the year, the result of
the acquisition of the Victoria brewery. That concern
now nominally belongs to a separate co., but the Carlton
is really the separate co. ; 75,000 new contributing
shares (paid to 25.) have been issued to provide
the capital for the new co. ; and on the Carlton’s assets
side appears “Shares in other co.’s, at cost, £6064.”
Profits show a serious shrinkage. Further, whereas in
former years the amount provided to cover bad and
doubtful debts was specified, this year there is only
silence on that point. It is possible, therefore, that, if
the same provision had been made as in previous years,
profits would show up even more poorly by comparison.
On the other hand, note that the sundry debtors item is
now less than usual; and that is good, for a bird in the
hand is worth two bills in the bush. Despite the bad
turn, progress is still being made in freeing the co. from
its awful load of boom trouble ; mortgage, debenture, and
other debts have been reduced by no less than £21,909
during the year. A doubtful feature is the continued
grow th of the new “ real estate ” item ; doubtful, because
it was into that pit that the co. fell before. Goodwill still
stands at £154,000 in the books ; and £154,000 for the
goodwill of a concern which couldn’t pay any div. for
years, and now only pays 3 per cent, on a’capital about
one-fifth the size of the goodwill, is a humorous item. The
old real estate has been wu-itten down bv over half, and
that accounts for £355,129 of the dead horse which the
energetic co. has to drag along. It is no use asking when
the co. intends to issue a clean balance-sheet. There are
only two ways in which that could be done, and either
way would involve the,writing down of the debenture
debt ; and the debenture-holders prefer to hang on and
wipe the froth off out of profit. So the balance-sheet
will probably continue as it is in spite of its humorous
features.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.): —
Available
for Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
June, 1900 .. £3lOB 3 p.c. = £2658 £450 £8478
Dec., 1900 .. 2998 3 ~ „ 2658 340 8138
June, 1901 .. 3354 3 ~ ~ 2658 696 7442
Dec., 1901 .. 4035 3 „ ~ 2658 1,377 6065
£60,750 capital written off, of which £7500
was applied to wipe out good-w'ill, leaving 1435
June, 1902 .. 4981 6 „ „ 3402 1,579 3014
Dec., 1902 .. 3788 6 „ „ 3402 386 3400
June, 1903 .. 4786 6 „ „ 3402 1,384 4784
Dec., 1903 .. 3408 6 ~ ~ 3402 6 4790
June. 1904 .. 3917 6 „ „ 3402 515 5305
Dec., 1904 .. 3920 6 „ „ 3402 518 5823
June, 1905 ... 4606 6 „ „ 3402 1,204 7027
Dec., 1905 .. 3472 6 ~ „ 3402 70 7097
To which add these figures for some recent July-
December terms :
1902. 1904. 1905.
Mortgages, overdrafts, &c... £116,669 £125,973 £124,602
Freeholds, premises .. .. 180,482 186,625 186,946
Stock and plant .. .. 35,412 38,366 38,258
Sundry debtors, less trade
debts 15,578 18,208 18,605
Gross profits on goods .. 10,770 11,388 12,050
Rents 3,712 4,061 3,775
Management, discounts, &c. 8,236 8,278 9,182
Six months ago the directors reported that “ the acqui-
sition of the business of the late George Adams will help
to increase the profits for the current period.” Evidently
something has gone wrong with the works, for there is
no trace of the business having been taken over. There
are two weak points in the situation. (1) The debt is
nearly one-and-a-quarter times greater than the capital.
Interest called last year for £6260. This is very much the
same as if the shareholders were ordinary shareholders
for £lOB,OOO, with £125,000 of 5 per cent, cumulative pref.
capital to mop up the profits in case of a slump of any
sort. (2) There is grave,doubt whether sufficient, or in
fact anything, is being written off for wear and tear of
plant, premises, hotels, etc. All that is shown as
charged is a small amount for repairs. On the other
hand, the co. has a fine estate of 4668 acres, “situate
just outside the town boundary,” as the balance-sheet
has been mentioning lately. And the inwardness of that
item will presently be seen when the co. offers the land
for sale in sub-division. What effect that will have on
the balance-sheet remains to be seen, for the co. doesn’t
mention the figure at which the estate stands in its
books.
* * *
It looks as though something must happen
among the ruins of the M’Cracken brewery (Melb.) before
the end of next month. As mentioned last week, the co.
has to pay 41 per cent, on £550,000 of debentures, and
for five years past it has only averaged enough profits to
pay £3 7s. ; so the other £1 3s. has had to come out of
capital. That sort of thing must end sooner or later, and
the directors say it must end next month, when it will
be impossible to send along the interest. An effort is
being made to hurriedly arrange things with the deben-
ture-holders, whose name is mostly J. Bull; but J. Bull is
at present argumentative.
* * * *
Howard Smith and Co., Ltd., an inter-State
ship-owning concern, which began about five years ago.
with a goodwill item of £40,000 :
Dividends Depreciation
(sp.c. pref., written
Profit. lOp.c. ord.) off. Deficit.
Dec., £40,000
1901.. £57,734 £15,782 £20,668 21,716
1902.. 50,435 28,864 19,626 19,771
1903.. 51,443 29,133 19,536 16,997
1904.. 52,418 29,721 20,466 14,766
Reserves.
1905 -f 57,347 30,334 22,4361 16 992
wharf resumption, £27,18! / ID,Ja
The matter isn’t put as plainly as it might be in the
accounts. There was an original goodwill item—a paper
asset—of £40,000. Gradually this was reduced until, in
1904, it stood at £32,000. Then, last year, the
N.S. W. Government paid the co. £27,181 more for a wharf
than the co. had valued it at in its books ; and, in order to
completely wipe out the paper item, £4BlB was lifted out
of profits. But there is no trace of this special charge in
the profit and loss account ; there is an item, “ Earnings
of steamers, wharves, and investments, profit on coal
sales, less provision for contingencies”; and apparently
“ provision for contingencies ” covers the big slice which
has been bitten out. To that extent, therefore, things
are better than they look in the accounts. Whenever a
coastal shipping combine is mentioned, there is the reply
that, anyhow, the co.’s don’t pay outrageous dividends,
so that the monopoly can’t be very galling ; and to that
the retort is that the co.’s are hiding profits in all sorts
of corners. And here is something to suggest that
this last charge isn’t wholly unjustified. Besides the
amount shown above as written off there is, then, this
“ provision for contingencies.” In previous years this
sort of inner reserve was bundled up with sundry
creditors, in much the same way that some banks bundle
up “ bills payable and other liabilities,” “ other liabilities”
being the bit put aside to take off the rough edges of a
run of bad bargains when that experience happens along.
This year Howard Smiths adopt a rather better plan ;
they show ships and plant at cost (£413,457) on one side,
and on the other the total of all the depreciation, insur-
ance, and contingency funds (£219,731); debts due by the
co. are then kept separate. This means that in the co.’s
five years it has wiped off out of profits £40,000 goodwill,
accumulated £16,992 of ordinary reserves, and provided
£219,731 to cover five years’depreciation of steamers,
and their insurance. What “contingencies” may be
is not clear ; but apparently steamers, &c., could be
written down from £413,457't0 £193,726, or by 53 per
cent., and the co. could start off with no goodwill dead-
horse, but with £16,992 of solid reserves to help along
capital. Granted that this and most other inter-State
shipping co.’s have a heavy proportion of awful hulks on
their hands, this co. appears to have done remarkably fine
work in the way of preparing to write them down to nil.
In four years, besides paying the div., the co. has reduced
its debts by £20,834, accumulated £30,000 of fixed de-
posits, £42,119 of debentures, and added £40,494 to its
holdings in other co.’s, besides adding about £171,000
worth of ships to its own fleet. On the other hand, the
co. carries £202,823 of 5 per cent, cumulative pref. capi-
tal, and it is in a business liable to vigorous attack from
within or without almost any' moment. Such things
are calculated to give the ordinary-share holder some rest-
less moments.
• • * •
The Perth Benefit, Building, Investment
and Loan Society (Westralia)
Dividends Added
Profits. (exclusive of to Re- Re-
-5 p.c. interest). serves, serves.
1899 .. £9l
1900 .. £1025 7% per cent. = £lO4l 75
1901 .. 1273 7£ „ „ 1181 £92 167
1902 .. 1378 7 i „ „ 1487 58
1903 .. 1632 7* „ „ 1569 63 121
1904 .. 1887 74 „ „ 1636 251 372
1905 .. 2017 74 „ „ 1799 218 590
But neither interest nor bonus is paid to shareholders till
their shares mature ; and £6937, in addition to the present
bonus, has been accumulated to meet these claims. This
to a slight extent is a set-off against the poverty of the
reserves ; anyway, it means that the society has the
use of this extra money until more capital is sup-
plied. But, of course, it doesn’t alter the fact
that all that the society has put aside to cover possible
losses on £39,932 of advances is £s9o—just 14 per cent, of
the total risk. If the advances went back on the society
to the extent of If per cent, (some Melb. societies were
struck to the extent of about 40 per cent.), it could only
pay the promised bonus by taking it out of capital
(because everything the society has is out on loan) ; and
that would make it a tougher job to earn the same
interest in the future. Under the system adopted by this
society, the 124 per cent, isn’t quite as gaudy a return as
it looks, because it isn’t paid for eight years, and acci-
dents may happen in eight years. Nevertheless the
results during the past year have been surprising ; £lO Bs.
a year paid in by weekly instalments during the past
eight years has resulted in an average draw in 1905 of
£144 13s.—the £B3 4s. paid in by instalments, and £6O 9s.
by way of interest and bonus. There are not many Aus-
tralian investments that have given that average for the
past eight years and then returned capital as good
as new. But Perth has had its rush of population ; and
the society will have to prepare now for a possible re-
action in property values. And it is just at this point
that the size of the reserves may cause anxiety.
* * * •
Oity of Newcastle Gas Co. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901 ..£3137 15 p.c. = £lBB5 £1252 £44,153
Dec., 1901 .. 2494 15 „ „ 1885 609 44,762
June, 1902 .. 2660 15 „ „ 1885 775 45,537
Dec., 1902 .. 3499 15 „ „ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903 .. 2778 15 ~ ~ 2574 204 47,060
Dec., 1903 .. 3280 15 „ „ 2969 311 47,371
June, 1904 .. 3309 15 „ „ 3264 45 47,416
Dec., 1904 .. 3630 15 „ „ 3312 318 47,734
Share premiums and suspense items 3309 51,043
June, 1905 .. 3835 15 p.c. = 3375 460 51,503
Dec., 1905 .. 3119 15 „ „ 3375 51,247
The reduction in net profits is due to a charge of £833
having been made upon the meter reserve fund. Other-
wise the figures are well sustained, the revenue
being £13,905 against £12,938 for the corresponding
half of 1904. The reserves are largely nominal ;
£29,175 is, for instance, set against “ renewal plant,
mains, &c.” Apparently this money has been spent;
and, as when you take out a worn-out main and put in a
new one you still have only one main that is worth any-
thing, this amount seemingly ought to be written off.
There is no depreciation reserve apart from this renewal
reserve ; and it is doubtful whether any renewal fund
(that is, the total spent on renewals) is equal to the actual
depreciation—which is only another way of saying that
old works, no matter how well patched, are never as good
as new works. If this co.’s renewal fund consists of
money actually spent on renewals, then the contributions
to that fund (about £5OO per half-year) ought to come off
the profits shown abovein order to arrive at the true profits;
and if that is done the dividend will not have been
earned. The position, however, is very uncertain—as
the positioned most gas co.’s is, chiefly because so much
of the assets are under the ground, and the extent of the
depreciation can only be guessed at. Gas shares may be
very good holding; but most times you want to know a
great deal more than the balance-sheet tells you before
plunging. In this case, until the other thing is proved,
it may be accepted that part of the div. is being now paid
out of capital accumulations. Note also (as collateral
evidence that the assets are over-valued and that the
reserves are not real) that in 1901 the assets earned over
30 per cent, gross, whereas now they earn only 26 per
cent, gross.
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Dividend and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves
June, 1900 ..£1203 4per cent. = £lO5O £153 £5426
Dec., 1900 .. 1252 4 „ „ 1050 202 5628
June, 1901 .. 984 4 „ „ 1050 6562
Dec., 1901 .. 1159 4 „ „ 1050 109 5671
June, 1902 .. 1147 4 „ „ 1050 97 5768
Dec., 1902 .. 1111 4 ~ „ 1050 61 5829
June, 1903 .. 1328 4 „ „ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903 .. 1584 4 „ ~ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904 .. 1403 4 „ „ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904 .. 1655 4 „ „ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905 .. 815 4 „ „ 1050 7364
Dec., 1905 .. 1147 4 „ „ 1050 97 7461
Launceston is blessed with a water supply which can be
harnessed up to make cheap electric light and power ;
and, as the municipality has taken that business in hand,
the gas co. has a hard row to hoe. For a couple of
it looked as though incandescent lighting might
put the gas co. in a stronger position, but recent figures
show that it is losing ground again. In the half-year
to June it wrote off £5OO ; in the past half-year it has
written nothing right off, and has only added £55 to con-
tingent fund. The latter, now amounting to £lBB3, is
included in reserves, though its true character is doubt-
ful. Besides paid capital of £50,000 the co. has now
£35,205 of debentures, an increase of £lBOO in the 12
months, but the overdraft has been reduced by £1244
{now £1806). Altogether, from the shareholders’ point
of view, the outlook is very drab.
* * * «
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Applied to
Written Reduce De-
Profits. Dividends. off. Deficit, ficit.
Dec., 1901 .. £5BB 5 p.c. = £437 £227 £14,649
June, 1902 .. 573 5 „ „ 437 107 £29 14,620
Dec., 1902.. 518 5 „ „ 437 44 37 14,583
June, 1903 .. 344 5 „ „ 437 14,676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5 „ „ 437 14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profit.
Dec., 1904.. 120 Nil 120 14,682
June, 1905 .. 465 5 p.c. = 437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905 .. 390 5 „ „ 437 14,701
The co. has a goodwill item of £15,000 not reckoned as an
asset in the foregoing ; and apparently all idea of reduc-
ing this load of paper has been abandoned. Though not
a fraction has been written off from this item, £l9 more
has been paid in dividends in the past 12 months than has
been earned ; and even*the additions to furniture (from
which nothing is written off for wear and tear) have been
charged to capital account. Altogether it is a mournful
state of affairs ; and a day of reckoning must come.
* * * *
The Sydney Cyclorama Co. (Sydney):
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividend. off. serves, serves.
1897 £589 Nil £44 £545 £4638
1898 291 Nil 291 4929
1899 175 Nil 175 5104
1900 196 Nil 196 5300
1901 371 Nil 371 5671
1902 630 Nil 253 377 6048
1903 388 Nil 388 6436
Loss.
1904 57 Nil 6379
Profit.
1905 3 Nil 3 6382
The paid capital is £20,800, and £3 on that can’t be called
an extravagant return. In addition to the amount shown
as written off, 10 per cent, is charged against revenue on
certain assets ; total charge for last year, £B3. Theco.,
formed in 1888, has paid only six dividends—the last in
1890. As the Oyclorama building, pictures, &c., are in
the balance-sheet at £20,157 (this is apart from freehold,
which cost £10,205), and as, judging by the return, they
are not worth anything like that, the reserves are purely
nominal.
* • * •
Broken Hill South S.M. Co., whose shares
are supposed to have earned more com. for Australian
brokers during the past 12 months than any other stock
on the lists :
Written Re-
Profit. Dividends. off. serves.
Dec., 1903 £21,296 £lO,OOO £4,002 £51,345
June, 1904 41,283 20,000 20,300 52,328
Dec., 1904 51,119 20,000 6,937 76,510
June, 1905 53,596 35,000 6,205 88,901
Dec., 1905 71,149 35,000 19,081 105,969
There are 200,000 shares in the co., so a Is. div. means
£lO,OOO. Of the shares, 78,503 are still liable for 9s. 6d.
But the figures as to profits given above, and bound-
ing along from £21,296 to £71,149 within a short
two-and-a-half years, are liable to lead people into trouble
unless they pick at them and get under the surface. In
the first place, some unknown amount of the past half-
year’s profit, but supposed to be either £17,500 or a trifle
more, has been got from the sale of accumulated zinc-
bearing tailings. The directors bound themselves not to
disclose what the Zinc Corporation is paying the co. for
its tailings ; but it is pretty well known that the amount
is £35,000 a year for 200,000 tons a year until the present
lot (about 750,000 tons) is used up. Also it is known that
one lot of 100,000 tons has been paid for.' Deduct, then,
£17,500 from £71,149, and you get a fair comparison of
what the South did in the past half-year with what
it did in the half-years before that. This would give
£53,649 as the half-year’s ordinary profit, and that , is
only £53 more than was made in the preceding half. Yet
lead averaged £2 Is. 7d. per ton more and silver lfd. per
oz. more ; and on the strength of those rises the price of
the stock has been boomed till the mine was given a value
of just upon £900,000. The South turns out in its
concentrates over 11,000 tons of lead and 300,000 oz. silver
in six months. On that output those rises would
meant something handsome ; and, if there hadn’t been
anything else to consider, the jump in the share-values
would have been justified. But there evidently is some-
thing else to consider, since, instead of the profit from
silver and lead being £20,000 or £30,000 more than it was
in the previous half-year, it was only a beggarly £53
more.
What has become of all the money which that
rise in metals represents? The explanation is double-
barrelled. (1) The co. didn’t get a good part of it, in con-
sequence of the terms of its contract for the sale of silver-
lead concentrates. (2) What the co. did get extra was
mopped up by extra expenses or was neutralised by poorer
recoveries. Mining costs were 12s. o'Bd. per ton in the
past half against 10s. 10’2d. in the previous half (and that
means about £5600 less profit on an output of 95,269 tons),
milling costs were higher, less/jre was handled, and that
and the somewhat poorer extraction resulted in an output
of 11,197 tons lead against 11,896 tons, and 313,8450 z.
silver against 382,4210 z. To produce a better concentrate
cost £4 2s. 2-9 d. per ton in the first half of 1905 ;to pro-
duce a poorer one cost £4 13s. B'6d. per ton in the second
half. So between one thing and another the co. did no
better with the high prices than it did with the lower
prices of the previous half. But the market boomed
because prices were high, for all that.
• • • •
B.H. South’s ore reserves are estimated at
1,400,000 tons ; this is above the present bottom level.
Last half-year’s gross profit (apart from zinc) was 11s. Bd.
per ton. At that rate there is £816,600 of gross profit in
the mine—that is, profit without allowance for wear and
tear of plant. Add £122,500 for zinc tailings (700,000
tons) already produced ; total, £939,100. As at present
prices the market value is just under £700,000, that looks
all right. But two and a half years ago, when.the market
was a good way from its bottom, the gross profit was
only 7s. 2d. per ton ; and at that rate the gross profit in
the mine so far as developed (apart from zinc) would fall
to £501,650. In the half-year to Dec., 1902, the profit
was only 2s. sd. per ton ; total for 1,400,000 tons,
£172,500. Practically no improvements have been made
in silver-lead concentration meantime ; the lead recovery
is now a trifle better, and the silver recovery is a trifle
poorer. Almost the whole difference lies in the better
markets. Those markets may go back to where they
were ; they are, anyhow, always moving up and down.
But the market is valuing the mine as though the prices
were going to stay, just about up where they are till all


Your
'>
111
it "wijll be
carried
Out
--
■m
TO
WRITE
me
nfi
mZ
'M
M
r te
%
wr,
Wi
William Maitland, in the CONTEMPORARY
Review, concerning- miners “ South Africa ha
largely on California for its mining talent, and if there is
one thing we Californian miners know it is that cheap and
inexperienced labor cannot be profitable. ,
learned that the only cheap labor there is, is the en) P* - y '
ment of the very best and most experienced men we can
find at the highest current rate of wages.”
* * * *
The Tasmania Co., Beaccnsfield, has had
another profitable return for last year producing 36,»79oz-
valued at £153,(We. This Co.’s reduction plant is most
complete. The Luhrig system of concentration
(hydraulic classifiers, Jigs and Vanners) was introduced
nearly 10 years ago, while about 4 years ago the plant
was further increased on the same system, lull par-
ticulars of Luhrig Machinery may be obtained from the
general agents, W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. Luhrig
Vanners are specially adapted for the successful treat-
ment of slimes and are doing great work on the leading
gold, tin, copper, and galena mines of Australia and
Tasmania.* „
* * * *
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomena!
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost on
maintenance. It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the makers
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all parts of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
“Upright” boiler. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Sydney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
* * * *
Important Notice to Mine Managers and
Users of Concentrators. —In the recent action for In-
fringement Wilfley v Card the decision of the Supreme
Court of Victoria did not merely refer to a Card top
which was altered without authority, but it “*d refer to a
Card Concentrator manufactured and worked at the New
Chum Consolidated Mine, Bendigo, under the supervision
and control of N. Guthridge Limited, and to a Card Con-
centrator exhibited at Long’s works, Footscray, which
was officially pointed out as the true Card construction
during the trial, and which defendant used tor exhibiting
to customers and making tests, and on which they gave
exhibitions to witnesses for the purposes of this trial. Ine
Judge specifically decided that the substance of the
Footscray table and of the No. 38 (New Chum Consolidated
Table) was the same as that of the plaintiff Wilfley and
were infringements. N. Guthridge Limited were ordered
to pay damages and costs, the costs were taxed and the
Sheriff seized the goods of N. Guthridge Limited in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, but as they were all claimed by the
receiver for the debenture holders the execution was re-
turned unsatisfied. Bankruptcy proceedings have been
instituted in the Supreme Court of N.S. Wales to wind up
N. Guthridge Limited. As N. Guthridge Limited are still
offering to indemnify purchasers, take notice that all
users of Card tables which infringe the Wilfley patent will
be proceeded against: The user is liable to an action as
well as the manufacturer. *
# * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If vou want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
* ♦ * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been,
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Nav'\*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again, bpiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.
Goldfn Bendigo.—Tli6 safest and bust fluid for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* _ ,
* ’ * *
Sund'us your address and wo will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.* . . ,
* • * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
be«-s to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will be advised in due course.
* * * *
Cobar —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. „ *
* *
Wilfley Ore Concentrating Tables. Important
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators.
The Supreme Court of Victoria has decided in the action
brought against N. Guthridge Limited that the well-
known Wilfley patent is valid, and has been infringed by
N. Guthridge Limited by the manufacture and sale of
tables which they call the Card Concentrating table.
The Court granted a certificate of the validity of the
Wilflev patent and ordered N. Guthridge Limited to pay
damages and costs of this action and granted an
iniunction restraining N. Guthridge Limited from in-
fringing the Wilfley patent. This is to give notice
that the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited will
enfore its rights against all persons buying or selling or
otherwise dealing in or using such infringing Concentrat-
ing machines. Edward J. Rigby, Attorney for the \\ ilfley
Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited, care of Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne.*
* * * *
The N.S.W. Dept, of Mines and Agriculture
draws attention in our advertisingcolumns to the fact that
considerable delay often occurs in connection with the
registration of transfers of mining interests in consequence
of"an imperfect understanding of the procedure necessary
in regard to the placing of proper duty stamp thereon.
The West Australian (Perth), in reviewing
the last annual report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited, in its issue of 2nd June, 1905,
stated The report discloses a very satisfactory state
of" affairs, there being a big all round increase in the
several divisions of revenue without any corresponding
increase of expenditure.”*
* * *
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liabilitv, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* #
Commonwealth and foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six 'years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
the 1,400,000 tons are extracted. The market must be
a very cheerful optimist.
But in connection with all these Broken Hill
mines the cry on the market is : “ See, though, what the
■inc is worth.” The trouble is that it can’t be worth
much more than it is now to the mines (the South and
some others, anyway), seeing that they have sold their
OUtpilt for years ahead; It may possibly be worth
Hundreds of thousands Of poiinds to the Zinc Corpora-
tion ; blit that is another matter; And as to whether the
hii lies’ ziiic tailiiigs are likely tb get any richer, compare
a few figures, 'the average assay value Of the 701,1)43 tons
bf UceUniillated tailings at the South on June 30 was IS‘7
ier certt; zinc ; the average of the tailings produced last
was Only i 1.9 per cent. zinc. That doesn’t lpok
iite more lUoney for the future output of zinc-carryiilg
tags; 4 * *
, The printed Explanation is that the Broken
Bill mirte fires arose from “ shots.” Charges; it is ex-
plained, were fired, probably neglected, and timber thiis
set alight. Perhaps. It is the usual thing, anyhow, to
blame the workmen. Curious, nevertheless, that year
after year should pass without a fire, and that two should
then start within a day or two—one in the best place to
affect the group of mines at the North end ; the other to
affect the South end. Also, it is strange that they should
start just on the eve of a visit from a London-Melbourne
group of speculators, which visit, it was pretty well
known, was going to be followed by another “ boost ”
in the share market, principally in North, Junction
North, British, B.H. Prop., and Block 10. There has been
heavy Overselling in most of these stocks, and a further
advance meant ruin to some of the bears. The fires put
an immediate advance out of the question.
• * » *
Old Lewis Lloyd’s luck wasn’t passed on to
the English co. which took over his Burraga mine
(N.S.W.i in 1899; for it hasn’t got within sight of
a dividend since. For the best part of a year nego-
tiations have been going on between the co. and
the owners of Hockey’s unworked M.C.P., next
door, out of which the co. might at once have got
enough to keep the pot boiling ; but the Hockey trustees,
acting, it is said, on a report made by G. H. Blakemore,
of Cobar, opened their mouths too wide. The idea for a
long time has been that Hockey’s could only be worked
profitably from Lloyd’s ; so Lloyd’s people asked —
“ What’s the use of your property to anybody but us ? ”
That was when Lloyd’s Co. was feeling good and big.
But things have been so bad in the past six months (and
they were bad enough before) that it is Hockey’s turn to
ask now—“ What’s the use of what you’ve got without
what we’ve got?” Lloyd’s haven’t" quite got to that
depth of despair yet; but they are busy looking for
another mine somewhere else.
* * * *
Golden Fleece, Wyalong (N.S.W.), from two
reefs at the 500 ft., is raising soz. stuff in fair quantities,
and a record yield is expected this year. Co. is thinking
about a mill of its own. And it is time. First the stone
is carted to a public battery, 1J co 2 miles avvay ; then tail-
ings and concentrates go to the highest bidder, and have
mostly to be carted another long distance. Junction co.
is also tired of being without a crushing' plant. A pro-
perty, known as Hildebrand’s, that not long since went
begging, now owned by Phillips and party, is getting into
the first flight. Stone, which is being raised from a XOin.
reef at the 300 ft., compares favorably with any oxidised
ore ever raised on the field. Some Outside attention is
being paid to the Homeward Bound ; but there is nothing
to warrant a rush for those shares. The reef, though
good, is small and patchy, and the country is hard.
Lock, stock, and barrel, eight (8) men are now
employed on the whole Ooppabella (N.S. W.) silver field.
* * * *
January yields and profits of chief W. A. mines:
Oroya Brown Hill, 12,7190 z., and £37,700 ; Great Fingall,
11,7810 z., £29.020 ; Boulder, 13,6070 z., £26,200 ; Ivanhoe,
10,4000 z., £21,100; Kalgurli, 68870 z., £17,000; Persever-
ance, 83620 z., £20,400; Northern, 37700 z., £11,300 ; Sons
of Gwalia, 52060 z., £8050; Associated, 46900 z.. £3100;
South Kalgurli, 33270 z., £5500; Lake View Consols,
37760 z., £2000; Hainault, 16430 z., £1600; Golden Pole,
11960 z., £1600; Ida 11., 9420 z., £030; Cosmopolitan,
21590 z., £620: Red Hill, 6870 z., £430; Waihi, 9140 z.,
£420 ; Cumberland, 5610 z., £4OO ; Menzies Consols, 8980 z.,
£880; Tower Hill, 16430 z., £2000; Bellevue, 14120 z.,
£400; Vivien, 5370 z., nil; Burbank’s Birthday, 2460 z.,
£3O ; Greenmount, 5030 z., £6O.
* * * *
Following Westralian mines worked during
January at a loss: North Feather, producing 7810 z., loss
£300; Merton’s Reward, 8440 z., £300; Princess Royal,
6540 z., £6OO ; Craiggiemore, 2250 z., £7OO ; East Murchison
United, 13320 z., £4BO ; Golden Ridge, 4000 z., £4OO. Chief
features of the month are the continued drop in the
grade and profit of Great Fingall, Oroya, and Golden
Pole ; while Merton’s Reward and North Feather worked
at a loss. Kalgurli and Tower Hill have improved their
position, and expect to do still better.
* * * *
Tower Hill, Leonora (W.A.), joined the list of
producers in December, when 3360 tons were treated at a
profit of £730 ; while, during January, 4760 tons were
crushed for a profit of £2OOO. The 're is low grade, worth
only about 28s. a ton ; but the lode is very large, and is
being stoped out for a width of 35ft. Above the first
level reserves are estimated at 70,000 tons of 7dwt. ore,
or enough to last for twelve months. Co. is a reconstruc-
tion of the defunct Standard Exploration, and is in
1,000,000 shares, of which 930,000 are issued. Mine is
equipped with the old Paddington Consols’ 40-head mill,
thoroughly overhauled, and supplied With labor-saving
devices, and costs pan out at under 20s. It is expected
that 6000 tons will be treated monthly once the plant runs
smoothly. The large number of shares is against the con-
cern.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) continues to open up splen-
didly, and profits will shortly amount to £lB,OOO monthly,
or well over £200,000 a year. During the last three
months profits have been £16,200, £16,700, and £17,000.
It is expected they will average £lB,OOO monthly when
plant is properly going.- There is five years’ supply of ore,
and this should be greatly augmented when the 1150ft-
level is opened up. From 1140 ft. to 1160 ft. levels the ore
is worth over 60s. per ton, and at 1180 ft. can be taken as
worth 70s. A level is being opened up at 1150 ft, and
looks like largely increasing the reserves. Everything
points to the mine being one of the soundest in the State,
and it should easily pav 15s. a share.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef recently sold its twice-
treated tailings to a local syndicate for a substantial
£6OOO, and smiled. Two filter presses were imported
from Germany, and a large cyanide plant of corrugated
iron was erected, at a cost of £4OOO. After two trial runs
the syndicate concluded that someone had blundered, as
the result was practically nil. In all some £ll,OOO or
£12,000 was spent by tbe syndicate. A similar case
occurred when the Queen Margaret (Bulong) tailings were
sold for £l5OO to an enthusiastic assayer. Moral: Don’t
buy tailing's on one man’s advice and assays, no matter
how good and honest the man.
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, is still struggling
along in the vain hope of finding something payable.
After running for months at a loss on ore worth 255. to
265., directors closed the mill at the end of October. The
“general managers” in London recommended doubling
the mill —what for they may know ; writer doesn’t. One
member of the firm is on the spot trying to discover how
to make bread out of stone, or gold out of Kalgoorlie
dust, Why not try Broken Hill, like Lake View Consols,
or Cobar, like Chaffers ; or, if co, wishes to foster W.A.
industry, why hot have a go at Phillips River, which is
the fashion at present, and will be much more so in the
near future ?
* * * *
Haiiiiaii’s Main Reef, Niagara (W.A.), seems to
have been as Unfortunate in its new property as in its old.
After keeping holders waiting for three years on various
pleas, crushing was started in November, when 1620 z.
materialised, Great things were predicted for December,
but only 26902. were won from 900 tons, and the profit
was £125 only, although costs panned out as low as 20s,
Id. per ton/ This poor result settled its fate, Really
good mines are just about as difficult to find in W.A. as
elsewhere ; and, as directors, engineers and brokers must
live, any hole in the ground is christened a mine so long
as the public will stand the racket.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), is again look-
ing sick, the rich dab below the 700 ft. level having been
rooted out. This dab yielded 1170 oz. in Nov., 7390 z. in
Dec., and only 198 oz. iii Jan. The mine is pretty well
pig-rooted above 700 ft., and no development can be done
below that unless a new shaft is sunk. Co.’s South Gipps-
land leases are nearly worked out, the last four returns
being 4110 z., 2770 z., 1790 z. and 109 oz. As mine didn’t
pay last year on better averages, it must be working at a
dead loss now. Whenever funds in hand give out, co.
must collapse, unless a fresh rich patch is come upon in
the old workings of the Margaret leases.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) has practically
decided to shift its plant to its new acquisition, the
Goodenough, at Picton. This mine has produced a lot of
gold, and was at one time under option to Boulder
Hamilton on behalf of Boulder No. 1; but the deal fell
through. Since then tributors have been making- much
money out of it. Mine is to be thoroughly sampled and
assayed by E. K. Beaumont, and it looks as if Queensland
Menzies mav have a new' lease of life.
* * *
Many years ago the Alick Forrest exploring
party, when crossing from the Fitzroy River into the
Northern Territory, found traces of gold close to the
border line, but the explorers were more concerned about
their next supply of water than about dry-blowing. The
country was a desert and they had tQ push on for their
lives. Since then very little has been done about the
find, but recently some prospectors pushed out from
Hall’s Creek, where gold was discovered more than 20
years ago, and they found several gold-bearing reefs,
specimens from which are distinctly good. Rain rarely
falls in those regions, but the season when it is least im-
probable is approaching, and numerous parties are get-
ting ready for a start. A Kimberley squatter, who was
one of the first to take up country there, considers the
prospects of the new field are excellent, but grimly pre-
dicts that a good many men will leave their bones behind
before the first battery is erected. The locality is known
as Tanana, and the Westralian Government is being asked
to proclaim it a goldfield. Natives are another obstacle
to the development of the country.
♦ * * *
Half-yearly meeting of No. 2 South Great
Eastern, Gympie (Q-), elected the same, old directors.
For a proposition with big potentialities, the directors
report is a pitiable inanition. When the specimen stone
vanished, and the amalgam fake blew out, the Board,
under pressure from shareholders, looked as if it would
work the show on the large scale it merited. Vigorous
development and economy in costs were all that were
required, for the gold is undoubtedly in the mine.
Present position is-Fixed deposit, £4OOO ; at credit of
current account, £4457 ; total, £8457. “ Working charges,
greatly reduced, now' stand at—mine 15s. 6Jd., battery
2s. 7Jd. ; equal to less than sJdwt. per ton.” Then this,
as the apex of the directors’ economies “ The past year
has been the first during which the trial of combining
secretarial duties with those of storekeeper has been
adopted.” Heavens, what an inspiration ! Now let The
Bulletin suggest combining the duties of braceman and,
say, chairman of directors.
Recent development in Mills United, Charters
Towers (Q.), shot the prop from under the D.D. School
Reserve, and there w'as a rush to get out. The rise going
up towards the School Reserve from No. 6 in Mills’ started
on 4ft. of stone. When up 50ft. the reef pinched to a
few inches on the foot and hanging walls, with diorite
between. Intrusion may be only a floater or “ blob,” but
where you find one you generally find several ; and
School Reserve cannot afford to have many of them, as,
even if it were all fit for the mill, the quantity of stone in
the corner of its lease will hardly spell dividends.
* » • *
Carrington’s P.C., near Charters Towers, is
now going full time. Fortnightly clean-up, 325 tons,
gave £1125, with sands to come. Development in lower
ground has been suspended. Operations are confined to
where the stone is easily got, so as to keep the mill going
and liquidate the overdraft, about £3OOO. Last returns,
£3 9s. 3d. a ton, should pay. But what a drop from the
£26-a-ton stuff that the snow was boomed with 1
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, should
shortly pay a div. In four weeks 3000 tons w'ere treated
for £8236, residues and concentrates included. On last
half-year’s costs (£2 os. 3d.) this leaves a profit of £2200 for
the month, or 14s. Bd. per ton. Wet season has disturbed
the cyanide work ; 950 tons were treated for £470. Not
much profit in these small lots, as costs on even a 14,000-
ton parcel run to ss. The improved methods of handling
residues that we heard so much of a while back are very
slow at putting in an appearance. The drying-ground, a
pretty good water-basin, has from 3ft. to 4ft. of tailings,
representing some thousands of tons, stacked on it. Wet
slimes and sands are carted in drays from the pits, and
tipped out again a quarter of a mile away, at the cyanide
works, on top of the partially dry stuff. It is tedious
work drying residues in the middle of a wet season ; so
the second pit of 2210 tons of tailings has been sold for
£4G6. No 12 east level is out 290 ft. ; in the last cut the
reef suddenly pinched from 4ft. to a few inches. No. 11
east, out 303 ft., is in formation. Is this the end of the
shoot of stone ? Why do these things happen when the
Brilliant North (Columbia) is unwatering its shaft to look
for the reef ?
* * * *
Golden Alexandra, Charters Towers, for the
half-year made a profit of £10,986 from 966 tons, and paid
£8750 in divs. (Is. 9d. per share). The 629 ft of develop-
ment work done proves that the reef is of the in-and-out
sort, but, still, is worth chasing, as the 966 tons averaged
£l6 17s. Bd. Costs run to £5 Bs. ; it needs to be a gold
mine to stand that. No. 4 S.E. level (the deepest) is out
130 ft. ; it has improved considerably of late. For a
stretch of 112 ft., 15in. of stone shows; it was classed as
poor, but goes about an ounce to the ton. Present end
shows Ift. of respectable-looking mineral stone, but it .
I may cut out as suddenly as it came in. Stone throughout
the mine varies from soz. to £oz. per ton ; but no esti-
mate can be made of quantity. The mine depends upon
these rich patches for dividends ; practically there is no
stone in reserve. Co. has 140 tons hauled towards the
next crushing, and more divs. will come, as there is
£5270 in hand.
* * * *
Bennion’s Lady Mary, Croydon (N.Q.),
threatens to overcome the water difficulty this time. By
the time this is in print an Bin. pump should be at work,
and when the shaft is unwatered the vexed question
whether there is gold beyond the intrusive granite will
perhaps be more or less elucidated, though many maintain
it will not be settled even then. Betmion enthusiasts
1 .ok for several ounces to the ton in the bottom of the
shaft; but let them have their own gamble.
* * * *
Kidston’s ideas are not always Morgan’s, so the
new Queensland Government intends to use about £40,000
worth of the railway material lying at Croydon in the
Richmond-Cloncurry railway extension. Tenders have
been called for carting the rails. Treasurer Kidston can
see that those, rusting rails will keep almost as well on
the track as they will at Croydon, and, what to hinv is of
greater account, their use for the time being eases the
strain on the State’s purse. Croydon (N.Q.) people threat-
ened to slay Murphy, their M.L. A., for voting in favor of
the Etheridge railway resolutions. Now they promise to
kill Kidston for daring to use the rails stored at Croydon
for any other than a Croydon line. The “ indignation ”
meeting urged those rails should be used in
giving Croydon connection with a deep-water port.
Alternatively it was urged they should be used
for connecting with Georgetown, and so eventually
with an eastern port per the Etheridge line. Croydon
wants—(l) Deep-water port at Normanton. And Mature
says it can’t get one there. (2) Rail communication wit
Georgetown. Kidston shifts the rails. (3) The Etheridge
line, with Cairns for a port. Good ; but its call to the
east is late. (4) Murphy’s scalp for daring to support the
Etheridge line. Murphy is equally determined to keep
his own scalp. It’s a poor game being member tor
Croydon, and Murphy publicly expresses his willingness
to pass the job on to somebody else. Croydon s cry tor
rail connection with the east, when it already has a line
to the Gulf “port” of Normanton, is interesting, it
bears out a Bulletin contention that Gulf tratnc must
come east if it wants a live port. And yet the Queens-
land Silver Lead Mines proposes to dump its naii-a-
million scheme on the sand flats that shelter Burketown.
Well, it will be sorry.
•***■*
Graphite deposits of Mt. Bopple (Q.) are attract-
ing some notice, also a little venturesome capital, the
expenditure of which should be carefully watched.
Graphite beds are situated between Mt. Bopple and
Beacon Peak, Maryborough district, and certainly yielded
graphite of a class. Samples assay variously in fixed
carbon from 25 per cent, to 90 per cent., and in ash from
5 per cent, to 70 per cent., so the business is purely a
gamble. So far the Mt. Bopple graphite has been pro-
nounced by experts to be suited to use in foundry facings,
which is a similar report to that obtained on the graphite
mines at Underwood Station (N.S.W.). Geologists express
the opinion that better quality seams will be discovered
at Bopple as prospecting advances. Better stun will
certainly need to be picked up if promoters are to do any
good. The foundry-facing market is a poor and limited
one at best. „
* * * *
New Loch Fyne, Matlock (Vic.), lives on the
memory of a splendid past; and it isn’t finding that a
pleasant occupation. Staff has had to be shortened and
co. is putting through trial lots from different shoots of
ore to find out their real-worth. What has tied
the show up has been the putting in of
a long tunnel to really test the shoots in the
diorite dyke at depth. Whether it would not have been
cheaper to sink a shaft is not clear ; but the board seems
certain that the gold is underfoot. To raise cash to get
it the co. is going to take out the quartz left overhead.
There was talk about taking the whole of the dyke and
sending it through the battery, but the formation is just
below the possible grade. Besides, diorite is bad to
crush. As matters stand, New Loch Fyne seems to be in
the position reached long since by the Wood s 1 oint
mines which have worked the dykes. The shoots of gold
cut out at shallow depths, and are richest near the
junction of the dyke with the country rock.
* • * * *
Cassilis (Vic.) shareholders are a sad lot. Mine
has gone back, six months’ work having cut out all
the profits (£1600) brought forward, and landed the
banking account on the wrong side of the ledger to the
tune of £2OO. But that is not all. The co. had a clerk with
a taste for horses, and £374 besides has to be made up.
Still, the Board put the cart before the horse in
explaining affairs. The real trouble is the shortage of
gold ; what the co. needs forthwith is pluck and capital.
Every manager has wanted some new form of treatment,
or has set out to re-arrange tbe works; and the place is
skinned of timber for firewood. Cootes’ electric scheme
seems the only way to get out of the mess. De-
velopment work has been hampered by the inade-
quacy of the steam pressure, so the footage is down
to 1100 ft. against 1580 ft. two years ago. As the ore occurs
in lenses, some of which are very short, any falling o fl * n
development is fatal. “ Belt ahead ! ” must be tbemotto
as much as ever it was at the Lucknow mines ; but Cassilis
shareholders, from the Board down, seem shy about put-
ting the dibs on the table for progressive operations.
They have done well out of the mine, but only in a small
way ; whereas if they had subscribed working capital
liberally, they would have been reaping liberal returns
now instead of wailing.
•x * * *
The second advent of Glenfine South, Pitfield
(Vic.), recalls the sensationalism of the first advent. It
had been a languishing sort of an alluvial co. when
Chisholm cut quartz in his reef drive. As stone
showed gold, a big bulk sample was sent to Ballarat.
Shares had jigged a bit in anticipation, and the
speckers made merry for the feast. As the day
for the clean-up arrived, it began to dawn on the
shorts that there was a very strong contingent in the
market picking up scrip. Some of the speckers held to
their guns ; others funked and overbought, and so
saved their bacon. In connection with the first clean-
up from the deep ground last week, events were
repeated in all respects save one. There was the
same preliminary fluttering, and the same preliminary
hardening of prices. But, instead of a jump in values on
clean-up day, as on the first occasion, there was a rush to
sell. That took place on Thursday afternoon, and the
yield did not get to the public until Friday morning. The
yield was good, so what was the reason of the early
scuttle ? Looking at the mine in comparison with the
Great Southern, Rutherglen, there never was the least
cause why shares should rank equal witn those of that co.
Next, there isn’t enough wash proved to pay share value
in divs. Further, the ground is patchy and the bottom
irregular. Lastly, even if the mine was the best in the
State, experience of last week demonstrated that the boys
of the Ballarat brigade hold the fort, and it is wise to re-
member that they pick bones clean.
* * * *
Mutual Hills is a show near Derby (Tas.)
which it is said the Briseis ought to have nibbled in.
Perhaps so ; but the general opinion is that what Lindesay
Clark leaves the other fellow is welcome to. The crowd
which figured so largely in the Briseis ExtenUed-
Weldbrook floats is doing the pioneering. It was said
in the Argus that there was much noise and little result.
The gibe may have been deserved, but it is rather late in
the day to cast stones. The Briseis Extended was
allowed to pass; ditto the Weldbrook. Why then trouble
about the Mutual Hills? There is a time to sipite,
and that is when the public is on the feed.
But the public isn’t feeding now, and isn’t likely to until
the Weldbrook and the Briseis Extended show up as
mines. As the day when that will happen cannot
be computed, Mutual Hills can be left to flutter to-and-fro
in the little game of battledore and shuttlecock, played so
deftly by the talent of the Stock Exchanges.
* * * *
The other side of the yarn about Transit tin
(Tas.)—the don’t-touch-it side was presented by a cor-
respondent in B. 22/2/’O6 : Some years ago a co-operative
co. was formed with a few hundreds capital, which it
intended spending on a dam and in blowing out a granite
bar that blocked the lower end of the deep flat. But the
people started at the wrong end of things, spending then-
money on the dam first, then returning to make a dismal
failure of blowing out the bar. Present co. intends erect-
ing a pump ; this is apparently the only way to elevate
the wash, which has been proved by prospecting to be
payable. # ,
“ Ray X.” : Re Weldbrook tin (B. 8/2/’O6). On
review, the figures as to probable reserves, &c., should
read say, 160,000yd5., worth £24,000. My conclusions
as to the value of Weldbrook are not, however, affected.
* * * *
Ferret: Nos. 1 and 2 look good enough ; No. 3
was only formed to mop up some of the profits of No. 2,
latter being practically limited to 10 p.c. ; No. 4 specula-
tive. Keep the others... .T.H. : Yes, when last year s
figures are complete J.D.K.Z. : Capital would appear
as £6OOO ; goodwill item would appear as an asset, to lie
written down out of profits Transom: No ; doubtful
even if it will be able to pay its policies... .Cecil : Good,
but hard to get. Threatened competition may be prac-
ticalty disregarded....T.O.M. : Land to be taxable in
Victoria must be in an estate of upwards of 640 acres and
have a capital value of more than £2500... .Endowment:
It’s a wretched business, but under the circumstances, if
you can’t get good surrender value, you had better see it
through....B'.S. : Highly speculative: but looking back
over past 10 years’ history, reckon about 37 per cent, of
their face value is a fair price.
* * * *
“ Yanco” : Carruthers is going to have a surplus
of £500,000. I shouldn’t wonder. Besides selling Crown
lands, he has annexed the accumulated interest on the
deposits in School Savings Banks. These banks were
instituted some years ago, and, as no interest has been
available for depositors, the accumulated interest has
become a sort of a burden. This accrued interest, if it
doesn’t belong to the depositors whose money produced
it, would appear at any rate to belong to the schools
whence the money was banked ; but Joseph has set .ill
doubts as to its ownership on one side by collecting the
money and paying it into the consolidated revenue. Aiiy
man Who would do that sort of thing- in this sort Of
year ought to have a surplus.


There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
m
r'K^sasssS^M
&$u
p'urfgg
M>v*
itgsa**
fc-? 1
m
Hi
SSBB
vSSSS
■ ‘-r
Kill Rabbits
inywhere s, Every vvKere
All fo^earßound.
—C Wr-ife Us.
ojming.smitog
V. MANUFACTURERS;
or MANURES &'
MELBOURNE.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH,
m
WE HAVE THE BEST ME
and LATEST MACHINERY
\Ye would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be pound Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
A STOPPAGE.
SNAGGS (who is going for a record): “ Well, my hoy,
what did you stop me for? ”
THE BOY : “ Oh, our Primus stove ’as gone dry, and
mother sez can yer give us some ile out of yer
tank to set it jiggin’ again.”
“Arab” : Re remarks by “ Wyung ” (B.
28/12/’O5) on eels. The kind he mentions are
common in the Hunter River, at Morpeth (N. S. W.).
Have seen a big old-man eel with a mane down his
back like a horse. Used to catch them, years ago,
with a hand-line (they will take any bait). Used
to alsp catch them in a drum-net. Was rather
fond of a piece of eel nicely salted and boiled, and
used often to give one to a policeman who was
stationed at Morpeth at that time. He was jolly
fond of eel. Was at the old steam punt at the
Hinton crossing, one day, and saw Bob Brooks,
the boatman, land a tremendous one (6ft. long).
When Bob opened him, he found six kittens in his
interior. I suddenly lost all fondness for boiled
eel, and, after that, used to give all I caught to
my friend, the policeman. These eels have been
found travelling overland, through the lucerne
crops, on moonlight nights, when a heavy dew
was falling. Don’t know what they left the river
for, but think it was to look up a Federal capital
site.
* * * .
S. A. Board of Agriculture has a bad
opinion of the travelling sand along the Coorong.
At a meeting in Adelaide last week it was pro-
phesied that the drift, unless checked, will fill up
the Coorong, and then attack the big stations on
the other side. Wholesale planting with marram
grass, regardless of expense (as done effectively on
a small scale —9 miles by 2 —at Fort Fairy) is
suggested. ,
“ G. ” : In a recent horse article, London
Daily Telegraph refers to the “Australian
whaler,” the writer evidently thinking of the
Murrumbidgee whaler, a speedy beast, as all real
Australians know, which is capable of carrying a
heavy burden, in what is technically known as a
bluey, as far as five miles between sunrise and
sundown. The whaler is so called because it is a
whale for work, and can subsist for as long as
three hours without a drink.
“ Homo ” : “Snag” (B. 8/2/’O6) says “The
fact that sore-teated or vicious cows are generally
called ‘ snags ’ may have something to do with the
title ‘ snagger ’.” So it has, combined with the
additional fact that the newly-arrived teat-puller
is generally so adroitly manoeuvred by older hands
that he gets hold of all the ill-tempered beasts—
those suffering from some real or imaginary griev-
ance, and meagrely endowed with the milk of
bovine kindness. Consequently he frequently
runs against a snag—some of them, indeed, are
“fair cows” to deal with —and, as every cowjuice
extractor lias to be initiated some time or other,
hence the designation. This is not merely a hasty
conclusion based on my own extensive knowledge.
In order to get evidence conclusive and complete,
I formed myself into a deputation and waited on
the highest cow authority in the State—Mr. Bent.
He received me courteously when he found my
visit was in no way connected with the vacant
Judgeship, and said “Rybuck. I was a bloomin’
‘ snagger ’ meself once, about 40 years ago, ’n’ can
bloomin’ well tell you all about it.” And he did.
He supplied me with numerous interesting remi-
niscences while so doing, but as they were mostly
irrelevant to the point at issue, it may be as well
to omit them here.
*•/ * *
“Dave H. B.” : The action of various
deform N.S.W. personages in leaving the ter-
minus of the Narrabri-Walgett railway for so long
at Cryon has had disastrous results. There is
scarcely a blade of grass along the stock route to
the terminus. So stockowners have had to sit and
watch splendid bargains vanish, while the State
has lost hundreds of pounds in truck money,
whereas if the line had been carried on to
Walgett, the authorities could scarcely have met
the demand for trucks. The earthworks were
long since constructed to Walgett, apd every
week is seeing them washed or blown away, ■or
trodden down by stock. In the same way the
rails were laid to Cry on fully 12 months before
the line was opened, missing the whole of one
season’s wool clip. So is money wasted, while
the settler who has decided to combat the whirl-
wind, the drought, and the rabbit, looks in vain
for a quick, cheap, reliable way to the markets.
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : Ducks have cen-
tral depots, or headquarters, generally
a lake, lagoon, or large swamp. Hun-
dreds leave these waters at night, and
travel many miles over the surround-
ing country, dropping into little pools
and creeks, into tanks and dams, gilghi
holes and claypans—places where man
is the disturbing element by day.
They return to headquarters at dawn
or sunrise. Thus it comes that the
traveller often finds a duck on his
tent-line in the morning, and the
settler secures a brace in his waterhole
by taking a gun with him when going
for his matutinal bucket of water.
Other nocturnal visitors are the nan-
keen crane and the black swan. The
former appears between sundown and
dark; the latter on starlit nights.
Many a summer’s night I have lain
out on the soft grass, listening to the
shrill cries of the swans and the
whistling ducks, the whirr of wings,
the “flop-flop” of the flying-fox
mingling with the low, quick “ quack-
quack ”of the black duck. And many
a gun waits at flight-time, with
ominous muzzle pointing starwards,
ready to discharge a hail of lead into
the flying squad. Now and again you
hear a thud and a clatter on the
galvanised roof, as the deluded birds,
mistaking the silvery sheen of it for
water, swoop down upon it. A favorite
sport with travellers, when camping at
a waterhole, is catching black duck
with fishing lines. The line is thrown
across a selvage of weeds, watercress
or lily-leaves, so that the hook, baited
with grasshopper, cricket, or shrimp, hangs j ust
over the outer edge. The hook must be small, so
that the bird can swallow it, and the line light
and strong. Very often a strong pin acts as well
as an ordinary hook. The cocky’s tame ducks,
frequenting the adjacent waterhole, sometimes
get hooked by mistake and disappear mysteri-
ously.
* * * •
“Hix” (Buenos Aires): —
Is there never a song of Australia ? In the back parlor
of a pub. in the Gaucholand Pampa, after other songs
were done, a Oriolla girl sang the Argentine anthem and
an all-nations chorus joined to yell “ Libertad, Libertad,
Liber tad.” We had the “ Marseillaise ” and “ Gor’save ”
and the “Star-Spangled Banner.” Then an Australian
harvester expert was called upon for the anthem of his
country. He hailed from Wagga, and he sang the “ Wild
Colonial Boy ” ! Give us something with music to carry
abroad. Verse is no use to us, exiled. We want some-
thing tuneful to croon on the Pampa when the planted
gum-tree ’minds us of home. Squatter Staughton came
here for ten days last year, and this year we had an
equally lengthy visit from George D. Meudell. Both went
home and wrote nasty things about this country. Trouble
is that in this country nobody is particularly interested
m kow-towing to wealthy Australians, and no one weeps
when they tell how Australia is going to the dogs. There .
is no audience for them and no prospective title. So they
quit and curse Argentina.
THE ONLY WAY.
TIM : “But how came an old miner like Gcordie to fall down a shaft?”
NED : " Well, he. had ter, in a manner o’ speakin ’. His old woman was
after him, V there was no rope handy.”
“ Nap ” : The amount of injury caused by
bush-fires, provided the homestead is saved, is
often nothing like what it is cracked up to be.
Know a man in Gippsland who admits that he
owes his success in life to the substantial compen-
sation he received from a public fund because his
densely-scrubbed land was cleared for him by an
accidental bush-fire, which saved him large expen-
diture.
* * * *
“ Dandalup’s ” yarn : Away out in the
Westralian bush lives Paddy, the cooper, in
a bark shanty, nestling on the bank of
a little stream known as Tumble-down Greek.
Here he lives year after year, and he
is so old that lie never seems to get
any older. His only companions are an old tabby
cat with a stumpy tail, a black snake, abob-tailed
gohanna, and a shaggy old grey dog, a cross
between a collie and a dingo. Periodically the
old hermit accompanied by his companions,
the snake in one pocket, the “bobby ” in-
the other, and followed by the cat and
dog, takes a trip up to the little town
of Manjurah, situated on the Murray
River. Then Paddy is in great re-
quest, and many a good “ dollar ”
finds a resting place in his
capacious pocket; for, as
everybody knows, he is the
champion “ egg setter ” of the
district. Late one afternoon
I went down to a cocky
friend’s place to see the old
fellow do some setting. It was
rather late when he started,
and the sun was sinking in a
sea of blood-red gold, which
made Paddy’s performance
look weirder than it really
was. He first tied a fantastic
arrangement of straw on to
the top of his head ; this de-
coration stood upright and
looked like the head-dress of
a South Sea Island cannibal.
Then lie took three eggs in
each hand and went down to
the bottom of the fowl-yard,
and started to prance about
and make faces at “Broody,”
the hen. Gradually he ap-
proached her, until he got right
up to her nest, by which time she
was hypnotised. Then, crooning a
sort of aboriginal chant, he placed
the eggs under “Broody”; then
kneeling down in front of her he
chanted and bobbed his strange head-dress up
and down for fully half-an-hour. Then, with
the remark of, “Damn it, she’ll do,” Paddy took
his departure. I went down to see those chickens
when they were hatched, and, as sure as chickens
are chickens, each one had a beautiful feathery
top-knot on the roof of its head. If ruffles
round the neck or legs are wanted, Paddy
is always sent for, for he was never known to
miss. And for all this his charge was only a
modest “ half a dollar.”
“ Uckle ” : I
notice that “Jim-
mie Pannikin”
(B. 4/l/’O6) thinks
he struck it hot
at Broken Hill.
Now I put my
money On Wya-
loiig. My dad
used to work
there. (We are
going to erect a
monument over
the grease spot
where he melted.)
One day he was
driving along in
a spring cart.
The thermometer
wasanything over
120 deg. in the
shade. The sun
was gradually
turning the old
black horse chest-
nut, and the flies
and mosquitos
were dying of
heat apoplexy.
Dad pulled up to
get a drink out
of the waterbag
hanging behind
the cart, and
scalded himself
so badly that he
didn’t fully re-
cover for three
months. When
he turned round
(scalded) to re-
sume his journey
he found that the
cart was on fire
and the horse had
evaporated. He
struggled on to a
cocky’s place on
foot and asked
for a drink. The
cocky’s wife said
the water was all
too hot to drink,
but she offered
to milk a cow if
he would wait.
Dad went to assist at milking and was badly
burned through the cow breathing on him. When
they tried to milk it they only extracted a scalding
cloud of steam and about half a pound of butter.
Then the cow blew up. These facts can be
verified.
* * * *
Lately at Te Kiri, Opunaki (M.L.), a cow
dropped a heifer calf. Nine weeks afterwards she
dropped a fine, healthy bull calf. Then she
dropped the habit.
* * * *
Weather wire from Thargomindah, which
is half-way between Queensland and the lid of
Sheol:—
There was a cool change to-day, when it was 110 degrees.
A cook change and 110 degrees ! Go west, young
man, go west.
IN OUR BACKYARD.
OUR ANGEL BOY : “ Wile yabbit-oh!”
P.Q.F. : Not generally known that
wallabies, when the grass is green, can live
without water. But in dry times they flock to
water, not so much to drink as to eat the moist
roots near the margin. The koala, too, can
dispense with water, but the ’possum must have a
“ wet ” every night.
A COVE WITH A GUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was summer, and something impelled me
To speed to my mother, the Bush ;
So I gathered my traps and I held me
Away to the vistas of hush.
To my birthplace I journeyed all eager,
And I wandered there under the trees ;
There I laughed at adversity’s leaguer
As I quaffed the rich wine of the breeze.
I was happy, and laid me there thinking
As I watched the great going-down sun,
Till I saw a bent figure go slinking—
’Twas a Cove with a Gun !
I knew him the moment I spied him—
I knew that I might not escape ;
Say, why did the devil provide him,
This fiend in humanity’s shape ?
He saw me and turned his steps hither,
And I saw he was burdened with birds ;
Then I felt all my soul sear and wither—
I was wholly divested of words !
In my dumbness I signed with my fingers.
And I prayed he might go at a ran ;
But he stands there—great heavens 1 he lingers—
The Cove with a Gun !
His face was the face of a mammal
Far down in the vertebrate grade ;
A blend of gohanna and camel
His pestilent features displayed.
His jaw was the jaw of a lizard,
His brow was concealed in his hat;
How I yearned for the power of a wizard
To shift him away out of that!
For his form interfered with my sunse' ,
And I moaned to myself, “ I’m undme 1—
Aye, my holiday’s spoiled by the ons:t
Of a Cove with a Gun ! ”
He stood there some time and surveyed me,
Slouching off when he heard a bird screech ;
Then Providence came and arrayed me
Once more with the blessings of speech.
“Praise the gods, he is gone ! ” I was saying
When a sudden explosion occurred ;
’Twas that lizard-faced miscreant siaying
Some other unfortunate bird.
“ Now he’s twisting its neck,” I reflected,
Its innocent life is all done—
Aye, its fluttering soul’s been dissected
By the Cove with a Gun !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
Buy Whole Bottles. "^1
AUSTRALIAN
GEM RINGS
We make from various Gems—
Sapphires,
Tourmalines,
Whole Pearls,
Zircons, Opals, Rubies.
“Fx. & R."
Diamond Half-Hoop
Ring, £5 ss.
A Marvel of Value.
Exquisite Golden
Sapphire, with Blue
Sapphire, with small
Olivines, 18ct. Gold
setting, £8 Bs.
2 Choice Sapphires, 1
Tourmaline, with small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
We cub the Gems from the Rough. We make the Rings in 18ct. Gold.
We set the Gems in our Workrooms.
s actua i manufacturers, selling direct to the wearer; there are no intermediate profits, and our Prices
are one-third less than in London.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
llouse ia Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“L.E.” : The bush fire lias sometimes a fine,
moral influence, and turneth away wrath. At the
hack o’ Neerim the Gip [island fires struck two
cocky families. These families had adjoining
selectidrls, and their ttext neighbors Were 19 miles
ftway. For nine years the rival cookies never
Spoke; Though fitr from society and the
Mechanics’ hall dnd tlie churCh aiid the pub. ;
thdugh eaten out by loneliness and caterpillars and
ted ldries; they glowered Over a family feud that
itfdse through a saucepan Mrs. Smith had once
littrrdwbd and returned to Mrs. Jones some-
what tlie worse fdr wear. The row _ be-
hartib aS severely dignified ds an international
dispute: The Jones’ brats were never allowed
to filaV Wihli the Smith spawn. Smith never
Had a pipe with Jones, or borrowed a plough from
iiirri ; and Jones never leaned over his fence and
took an intelligent interest in Smith’s crops. Mrs;
Jones had her own opinion regarding Mrs. Smith,
and delivered it freely to her hens and family.
Mrs. Smith bashed Mrs. Jones’ pigs with a paling
every time they broke through her fence. Even
when the saucepan had become a pigs’ bucket the
war was still waged on general principles. Then
the fires burst out. Both huts were burnt to
the ground. Mrs. Jones’ pigs arid fowls were
now fried eggs and bacon; Smith’s delaying
crops came up sudden, like cigarette smoke. Jones
had no fencing left not to lean over. Both cookies
were absolutely burnt out. The belligerent fami-
lies sought refuge at the creek. Both clans
camped round the one spot. They lay with their
noses on the ground, letting the fire pass over
them. Trees crashed and fell over the creek.
Smith would look up and pray, and Jones look up
and curse. The women kept pouring water over
themselves, but still they didn’t speak. They
silently made a kind of mi-mi and went to roost,
all huddled together, helpless and ruined, and yet
they didn’t speak. Next morning they were
hungry and had no food. The men went fossick-
ing, and Jones found one of Smith’s cows that had
escaped' in the scrub. He brought it into camp.
He said nothing, but—at last the ice broke, oh
rather the fire cooled down. Mrs. Smith, who was
Jones’ sister, threw her arms round him and
kissed him. “ Gome an’ ’ave breakfast,” she
Cried joyously to Mrs. J ones’ brats. The elder MisS
Jones milked the cow; and When both families
had rioted in milk, the selectors yarned and formed
plans, and the kids started fighting, and the
women retailed all the gossip they had stored up
for nine years. The saucepan incident was buried,
and all was peace and good will. And though the
cookies were burnt out, and hadn’t a bean - or a
grass-seed or a second pair of pants, and the fires
still burnt sullenly, and they Were nearly blind
with smoke, and they had to start all over again,
they reckoned in their hearts this was the best
day they’d struck since they quarrelled over
nothing in 1897.
RUSHED.
TOWNIE (misinterpreting frantic signals): “Bi
Jove, them country girls fairly rush a
fellow! ”
A remarkable case of equine homing in-
stinct comes from Goulburn (N.S.W.). Nine
horses, out of a mob sent by Messrs. M‘Callum
and M‘ln tosh to Condobolin from Binda, re-
turned recently to the latter place after six months
—a distance of over 360 miles. Country traversed
is well enclosed, and it’s a mystery how the mokes
negotiated the hundreds of gates, fences, and
other obstacles en route, and arrived in good con-
dition, minus only a foal of their original number.
Probably a case of one highly-gifted animal acting
leader to the rest. And none of the nine un-
attached nags got entangled in a halter in the
whole 360-mile browse. They must be honest
folk out there.
IN DOMAIN SOCIETY.
DIRTY DAN (always the perfect gentleman): “Gentlemen, ‘The Ladies.'"
“F.C.”: Verily lam amused by “Orthos,”
“Hexham,” “Chasselas” and co. The idea of a.
gfrape-g'fow&t btßedilig. small beetles to deal with
the caterpillar pbst is distinctly original J pre-
sently he would Want ft dimliiutive gferin to
attack the beetle; Also, WhferC is hb to get Ills
beetle, anyhoW? As fdf “What’s the matter
with a gun ? ” to scare sparrdws aWay. The gull
may intimidate “Hexham’s” sparrOw, but it
wouldn’t work with the bird that ravages the
Orchards round Melbourne. And, anyhow, the
fruit-grower Can’t afford to spend half his days
mooching round. As for the kphis and the “ old
man” grass and the sparrow. Rats! The only thing
is continual spraying. Every spring, just as the
grapes form on my vines, caterpillars swarm over
them, and in a fortnight would reduce them to
mere lattice-like skeletons ; but I spray them with
three-penn’orth of Paris green, and the ’pillars
trouble me no more that year.
* * * *
“ Pallagsah ” : Be “D.H.R.’s” remarks?
about rabbits at Narrabri (B. 18/l/’06); He should
visit Ivanhoe, about midway between Darling and
Lachlan Rivefs. On Ribera station alone over a
million rabbits
have been pois-
oned this season
without causing
any noticeable
decrease in
their humbetS;
Squattets hei'fe-
about com-
menced the
crusade by pay-
ing £1 per
thousand for
scalps, but after
a week’s trial
they shut down
on this; be-
cause, as they
said, at that
rate rabbiters
would have
earned enough
before the end
of the summer
to buy up all
the stations in
the district. On
Kilfera in six
days two camps
had secured 30,000 scalps,
and probably 10,000 more bunnies had died in
burrows and elsewhere out of reach. The town
of Ivanhoe has been completely denuded of vege-
tation, not even the flower gardens escaping. The
school house has not been used since last year, as
the rodents have died beneath the floor in such
numbers as to cause a smell like unto the smell of
Horace Tozer’s yarns. The reason of the present
plague here is that bunny has been driven by the
drought out of the N.W. parts of the State, and is
travelling south in search of feed,
# » * *
“ Alfran ” : Be magpies cutting fencing-
wire. Some years ago, when I was living near
Burwood (Vic.), one of my neighbors complained
that the wires in his fencing were being continu-
ally cut and short pieces abstracted. Some
months afterwards a bough of a tree near the
fencing in question fell to the ground. Attached
to the bough was a magpie’s nest, the frame-work
of which was made of fencing-wire, which the
magpies had stolen from the fence.
“ Sandybug ” : Some months ft'fo 1 1 was
sent to mark out certain mineral leases Oft 1 the
head of Little Snowy Creek, a tributary of the
Mitta River, in the roughest part of Victoria. I
got to the prospectors’ camp by a fluke, for my
directions were all wrong, as usual, and I saw m uch
Scenery by the way, A few days after my arrival
the boss of the party remarked at breakfast:
“ We’re out of dinny. One of yens will have to
go to Mitta for it.” .faefe Something said he
Would gO; 1 said I Would go With him, as I had
sdmb notices to gire to the Warden, We arrived
at the ruin little tillage of Mitta after a tramp
down the range that loosened every joint m my
body. I made for the' nearest pub.—a collection
of sacks and saplings—and dfaAk a bottle or two
of the best beer I have tasted in my life—Beech-
worth brand. After an hour or so, I spied Jack,
coming towards me mounted on a stout horse and
leading another one. “ Come on ; jump up ! We
must make camp afore dark,” he said. Where’s
youf dynamite?” I asked. “ Here !” opening
his shirt; stnd there, packed over a tightened
belt, WaS a, large supply of dynamite in plugs.
Over his saddle ill fi-Ont dangled two empty kero-
sene tins, fOr cooking purposes—Jack was cook.
Everything went well until the steep pinches, and
then the excitement began. I Wanted to give
Jack a wide berth, but I had to keep him in sight
or get lost, as the country to a newcomer was
absolutely hopeless. The jangling of the empty
kerosene tins, after a stumble, frightened Jack’s
horse, which shied, stood on its hind legs, and
finally threw its rider, practically at my feet, as
my neddy would keep up to the other horse. I
died several deaths of sheer fright on that journey
to the camp, and my demonstrations of horror,
loudly punctuated by some bad words, only
seemed to amuse Jack. We arrived at camp,
greatly to my surprise. I was completely shat-
tered with fright, fatigue and relaxed throat from
screaming, cursing, etc., etc. That night, in my
dreams, I was several times blown into a spray,
surrounded by a nimbus of kerosene tins, horse
entrails, etc., and I am still subject to awful
visions. Money would not tempt me again on an
Upper Mitta trip—at least, nothing under a
million would do it.
* * * *
“ W.P.8.” : Saw what appeared to me at
first to be a new brand of insect the other day
My first shock of surprise over, I examined the
object. Couldn’t make it out even then, so put
my specs on to get a clearer view. The object
was slate-colored and yellow. Round that what
looked a cross-bred article was a large hornet and
a tarantula locked in a deadly embrace. The
former was moving backwards, and the spider
seemed to be pushing it that way. Observed
closer still, and found the spider was dead, and
the hornet was dragging it backwards to its
dinner-table. Seized a bamboo rod and aimed at
the hornet. There was a ghastly, crushing sound,
and then a whirr of wings. I had killed the
spider deader than ever, but the hornet had risen
with murder in its eye. Dropped the bamboo,
and fled like a cab-horse for safety. Came back
as soon as things had quieted down a bit, and
spotted the hornet some yards away, still dragging
his dinner. Picked up the rod again, and, taking
aim, smote with all my might. There was a
death-scream, and then all was still. Wonder
was the spider killed in a heated argument, or
was he already dead when the hornet met him ?
What horse, is it advisable to put £1 on when a
hornet and a tarantula begin to scrap ?
THE BUSH NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gdtHeied this bfutt th'eir bell-like note,
Fot 1 night flows rioiselessly alcfoss the skies.
The mist conies bredpirig froiii thb timer’s moat, y
jiiid twilight slowly, linresisting', dies.
From out the misty dark roil muffled sounds
. 0? mdpokes grumbling- from primeval bush ;
& I jd hoarse, death-stricken coughs from camping grbuhds
Of regilesd sheep come sh'udd’ring through the hush 1 .
The broken ridges rise like prison walls 5 ,
The naked trees are sentries on the knolls —
The whisp’ring wind the watch-word softly calls —
They guard but shattered wrack of fallen boles.
From out a gully’s depth a weka wails,
A passing rain-bird spectre-like replies.
Oh, wondrous bush-night, ne’er thy m vst’ry fails
Till dewy morn weeps o’er thy parting sighs !
MAORILAND.
COLIN C. BURNACKL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
JVo notice (except of a hostile character) ivffl he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped, dfswie andl
address must appear on MS. Mo liability isr wilder*
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, wb-sther
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ii’i'ik b»
returned unless stamps (of any Slate) accompany:-
Mi'b^: Verse poor, anti your kindly-meant
description of the late Joseph Biggar, M.P., would make
that bacon merchant’s ghost sue us for libel damages....
Irak : Very mild conventional sentiment A.E.M.B. :
“ Bush Fire ” too uneven, though the verse certainly
jumps and roars in a fashion worthy of the subject.. ..
D.M.A.: “ Homing Bird ” only mildly pretty. “ Baccha-
nal” quite drunk and unaccountable... .Kathleen OH. ;
"Prelude” vaguely soulful, like a barp in a f0g....
L.M.R. : There are 14 “ Heigh-hos ” in three verses, andl
you try to rhyme “dawning” with “morning,” and m
the sixth fine it is impossible to say whether you are
talking about the “ pup of day ” or the “peep of day.
Clayton JK, ; The “Arise” and the remark about
“ Australia’s sons” are fatal... .M.T.K. :We heypby try
one verse on the dog
What is “ self-degratioh ”?... . F.J.L. i “ All Ready” is
all rofr S. Nod row : “After Wage ”no g»od, and, dont
rhyme “ dawn ” with “ morn.” It is like trying to mw-'
ifiply ii yards by 3s. fid D.M.R.: “ The Landlady is>
a very poor character study... .Uckle : “ Vain Regrets
only another version of the old man who gazes - at the;
fire'and there sees the procession of his ill-spenJ-years..
Your old cove is on the hillside and seems to be gazing at.
the grass, but he is the same weariful old bloke—or Mofe
Violet F.: “Too Late” firmly declined. The queenly
girl who tears herself, with a sob, from the arms of he*"
poor but manly lover with the fair moustache, and then
dies of a broken heart, and is buried in a flowery
grave, on which the person with the mous-
tache weeps for the rest of bis days all these
things ought to be given to the dogs Quon-
dono-: Vigorous verse, but too rugged to serve any
good purpose.. ..Colin C.B. : Your “ Keveri*” suggests a»
person dreaming ungrammatically at the top ®f his voice
.... Author of “The Wanderer’s Return ” : Desolatmgly?
trite. A dead level of monotony ILL. : No fee that-
your “Realm of Dreams ” is "replete with a thewsand)
graces.” “ Replete ” is the adjective of the lady who-
offers a refined home for Christian gentlemen. Don't be-
“replete” J.L.S. : All weak. The most interesting;'
point is the remarkable diagonal way you cross yous
“ t’a ” Nilgo : “ Whence ” borders too closely on
hysteria’.".. .C.J.M. : “ Rejected Poet” is still rejected
J.E.: Be “ Leave-Taking,” the idea of a person “drawn
by two fires” is unlucky. In this county, you generally
bolt from two fires... .Mul: Tale of Algernon and Cbolly
is based on an impossible idea of banking practice .
M.S.J. : " Warriors of Work” is a wild weird whirl off
warring words that wobble wearily.... Papyrus :
Elect” unsuitable and! wooden.. ..Cleveland B.: “Quarrel
a rather meagre item.... A-.F.: It isn’t kind to make verses-
like that about any old “ Pioneer.” The man is dead and*
can’t defend himself... Janor : Will you swear to that story
about how the ants suicided till their bodies made a bridge'
across the water? It must have taken sugood many ants...
G,X,G,: CMnaman-bobby yarn been printed under
Several disguises already Gip: Yes, go on wnting—
and i'e-'Wi*itjii')g‘. Un-Damed piece was put tor fur-
ther consideration..,,Courage : Subject calls for bettssr
verse than that .Ik < Out out pars, affix clhrte andi
page and send! to accountant Morris: Style too*
weak Obi: Not enough in it Istria : Hardly
worth print....Z.*\ f Too illegible to bother over
Ba<>s ■ Ending is too fiat.... Race C. : Hasn’t stony'
enough in it... .Shop Toiler A true bill, but the verse w*
too feeble.... Lionel C. : Begins and ends rather well;
remainder a bit wooden Turco : “Quite original.”
Some of the spelling is, certainly....dam Tin : Yes—an
empty 0ne.... W.A.T. :We fear you are but wasting your
lime. You haven’t the prime literary essential of knowing
What to leave out.. ..C. M‘N.: Too spasmodic and jerky...
O’B.; (1) There’s a lot more than that in it. Barristers
study the principles of law. Solicitors seek to make-
themselves expert in the forms of law procedure. Speak-
inf generally, a barrister’s training is far better than a»
solicitor’s for a judicial position. (2) All, or all with one-
exception, Of the N.S. Wales women doctors belong to the
Medical Association, and don’t" blackleg ....1.r.1.,
Those sailors of Southampton (Eng.) were not detained
“ under the new Aliens Act ” in England, but undtr the
old Shipping Act—the same Act practically as was applied
to the Betrianacrew.... J. 8.: But it isn’t afact that all
military belts are imported. We know at least one Sydney
saddler who makes them.... Kalroutine : Yes, the cards
talk louder than words, but if a player wrongfully de-
clared his hand as a means of drawing on bets it wouldn It
be fair to pay Julian J. : All very well to say that Aus-
tralia is “ equal to the task of withstanding Asia ’ and
so on With proper preparation Australia is ; with the
present policy of drift it certainly is n0t....
Fiona B. : They have poetic feeling and piccuresqueness,
but are harsh and unequal of rhythm, and give a con-
fused and unsatisfactory impression. Send address for
return Will-o’-the-Wisp : Pretty fair work, but rather
out of our line... .F.R.W. : Not good enough... .E.G.11. :
Too vague and impressionistic for Bulletin. ... Amen .
“ The Automaton ” is the best, but doesn t quite hit us.
K.F.M‘O. : Conventionally erotic transports....
’’. Mopoke: Verses weak. Story better but rather
clumsy . Wideawake Joe: Three verses herewith,
printed because of their magnificent badness:—
Dartnell: Doesn’t look new, somehow Bluebush:
We "are not taking any more risks with your stuff, despite
your plausible explanation about the last discrepancy.. ..
Sandewell: Ineffectively narrated Durham Ox :Wo
life or brightness of style Cirrus: The idea deserved a
better handling.... Zestelle : Some feeling in it, but no
force or vividness... .D.A.T. : Mere empty verbiage.
Before you begin to write, make sure that you ve some-
thingl to «ay... .Casca :No ; not dead, fortunately , but
has been in weak health for years R.W.N.: Curiously
unequal. Is it all by one hand ? Kooka: You re eitm r
much in advance of the age or a long way behind it with
odds on the latter.
(5) Noble nature*
All forsaken
In the throb*
Of self-degratbm
Slice girls' come from Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, and
even some from Perth ;
All handsome, sweet and dainty, and loyal to the state
that gave them birth ; ........
And all are better, truer, more reliable and full of sterling
Than The kind of visitor we sometimes get from Mel-
bourne.
They come to stay a week, perhaps a month, to see our
lovelv city, .
Explore the caves, do the mountains, admire the harbor ,
and it really is a pity
To have to say of all these girls, these pretty girls, the
subject of this ditty, , . . ,
That the only one to break her word is the charming gill
from Melbourne.
While here she makes you think she likes you well, swears
you’ll never be forgotten ; . ,
But out of sight the curtain falls, friendship fades, and
memory goes rotten ; . t ,
The piecrust promises flake away like Baumann s tarts ;
sad thoughts are then begotten
By the memories of the broken troth of the faithless girl
from Melbourne. ,


RE ANTI-SOCIALISM.
The Protectionists upon whom Mr. Reid is relying have not yet stated publicly on which of these bases they are willing to form
one at all. And it is this information for which the anti-Socialist movement is now practically stuch up.-Sydney D.T.
THE ELEPHANT: “NOW, I WONDER IF THAT IS INTENDED FOR ME!”


Rent comfits s*TlWe
is "fbo "folK , 'too
fr/McVi ajkoetyi'
ide* oj'
dis'fi'ibwfTftn
o(
for -Ilje [-ftUm T»w.t Li Wy (Vic)
ji boorly s«bbli«J, if is frofoyi
-fc \umhb if Wilt % b»vJ
hte«ffnp M’ eI V °f"
WorKs —-
Mo -
dVorce D« r e A
Tl/e
effort
a l 'Hcv>o|)'tn7g > "ft j>KoV<2,
rt/ore vv/e^HIT
Ijq C*n
d> S|>oS€- oj.
fool, Wl
n % A<?e ot-
-2o 2 ob Bev,+*
vrilf
inlhe
v^riout,
o\- Pre^i e,r 1
nii tste*- fe'U#
TreJw*^
Councillor
of
B iUe+s •— ~ 1
A nelb H-J•
'f. ">* <?«,■,«»§ «•«W*
HvoU:-" M*l' S“ r * w 4
Wo«U 'H * w or + r°
l/,« »«4, "bj % w */
-ferlCtn'!
(b;«* *•»*' ** : n nTt^s
A + U+- it- IIM * b £*f' Bs PS
m i-l")
"it/e Saturn Army
to so"^
-fljc jjoor to tye
Colonies v^eltferltfc
Colo»jics i( wainlc4
ok not" ' » ~
C,e» |^v
Tfe of
” jW*T e + ° l3,nd Jj'V
VKil42\ iw feetfj of If,e fo*x-«H
FROM BENT’S STATE.


ar n
m rr,
40*
« .3
§ %
laiise
hHHI
Pnc£ 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6). Of All Chemists.
Sole Representatives Tor Australasia: ROBERT H. BARBER & CO., LTD., GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
George H. Reid, K.C., M.P., has turned the
corner into his 62nd year. In 1879 he was called
to the Bar, and entered Parliament in 1880.
Joseph Capel Smyth, who animates a
bench in the Queensland Chamber of Fossils, has
not been known to speak during his 22 years’
membership.
G. H. Reid has been retained to defend
W. P. Crick, at Sydney Central Criminal Court,
on the charge of meeting Peter Close and Willis
too frequently.
A witness with a neat turn of phraseology
transpired at a Melbourne court lately. Speaking
of a husband, in trouble for assault and battery, he
observed that the gentleman in question was “a
staunch beer-eater.”
Bishop Streteh, the fourth C.E. Bishop of
Newcastle, is Australian born, a native of Geelong.
His predecessors in the gaiters of the coaly city—
Tyrrell, Pearson, and Stanton —were born in
London or thereabouts.
W. L. Edwards, N.S.W. Usher of Black
Bod, retires after a year’s service. His pre-
decessor, S. M. Mowle, held the billet for 30
years. The silly job is now tacked on to a Legis-
lative Council clerkship.
On his return to Ireland genial Dan
O’Connor will find the house in which he was
born about 60 years ago, and where his father
carried on a butcher’s shop, still standing on the
Spittle—something Dan O’Connorish in the name
—a market division of the town of Tipperary.
President Chaffey Baker denies that he
intends to stand down from the next Senate con-
test in S.A. It is said, however, that Josh.
Symon, K.C., finds the drain on his time too
great to justify him in-seeking re-election, espe-
cially as there is no present prospect of a Federal
judgeship falling into his hands.
A Sydney parson, who has lately travelled
the world, relates how he climbed up Mount Sinai
and read the Ten Commandments from the top.
That is the type of man who, after Gabriel has
blown his trump, will, if it isn’t hung up out of
his reach, bray into it.
A drop. N.S.W. ex-Governor Beauchamp,
of “birthstain” memory, was mentioned for the
Lord Lieutenancy of Ireland in the Campbell-
Bannerman Ministry, but the post finally assigned
to the ex-Gov. is that of Captain of the Corps of
Gentlemen-at-Arms ! Salary, £l2OO.
Artist Percy Spence, after a good soaking
in Australian sunshine, returns to London next
month. Spence did excellent black-and-white
work in London during his recent stay ; this time
he intends to tackle color-work, and has already
some commissions for portraits awaiting him in
the Big Smoke,
Dead recently at North Sydney, Miss Edith
Hanson, third daughter of the late William Hanson,
at one time N.S.W. Government Printer, and of
the Empire proprietary. Miss Hanson occupied
a position as clerk in the Customs. She rendered
her father large help in the production of his
“ Geographical Encyclopedia of N. S. Wales.’’
Colonel Waddell, chairman of the Board
inquiring into the Major Hawker affair, has
been squatter, banker, and politician, as well as
soldier. The three brothers—Premier, Parson,
and Warrior —grew up on a patch of dry sheep
country on the skirts of Lake George—the lake
that only needs water to be as wet as any other
lake-
A NATURAL QUESTION.
“ Father , dear, why doesn't the Government let
Mr. Willis come hack? He must be very
homesick."
“ Melb.” : J. M. Davies, brother of
Matthew of the Boom, has been much under the
limelight. J.M. also got knocked out over the
Boom, but emerged in purest samite. His ambi-
tion was to build the finest house in Melbourne
—and there it is, a commentary on the text that
the great ones of the earth build desolate places
for themselves. Bent tried to make Davies a
Judge at the age of 66. The storm that arose
made the old man decline the honor. If he had
taken it he would have been the first solicitor to
climb on the Victorian Bench.
Apparently Mr. Willis, though he has
eliminated all traces of compulsion from the
process by defeating the extradition law, is not
going to return to N.S.W. just yet to deal it out
to his calumniators. There is nothing to be done
in the land agency business in S’Africa—the Boers
are “off ” all agents, having struck the fathers of
the tribe of Willis in the days of the emancipation,
when agents collected the compensation for the
liberated slaves for the pore, guileless farmers.
The Boers have never
forgotten those agents.
So Willis, it is an-
nounced, has gone
into the business of
selling horses and
ponies, which Mrs.
Willis is shipping to
him from Australia.
Last week the Full
Court decided that
fugitives from the law
were not entitled to
have their evidence
taken on commission,
and that Mr. Willis’s
presence is urgently
required in N.S.W.
in the interests of
justice. Surely, now
that he has the oppor-
tunity to remove all
suspicion that he was
fighting to get clear
away, Mr. Willis will
return “in the inter-
ests of justice.”
Box, the new Vic.
County Court Judge,
puts in all his spare
time on the Gippsland
Lakes. He has a cosy
place overlooking
Bancroft Bay, and
owns a fast boat of
funereal hue, with
boatman to match.
Box is a funny-looking
mariner when he goes
down to sea in his
ship. He sports tight
knee breeches, a black
jersey and a faded and
battered ruin of an
old hat jammed on
his legal knowledge like an extinguisher. There
seems to be very little of his Honor in this rig ;
and it is said the crew has been known to reach
for his Honor suddenly, mistaking him for a be-
laying-pin.
B. R. Wise has definitely thrown up the
Cobden Club. That body wanted explanations of
his new views; he tried to let a little light into
its mind, failed and resigned. Interesting to
note, in reference to this, that Canadian Prime
Minister Laurier, who enforces in his country a
tariff twice as high as that of Australia, is a
Cobden Club member.
John Warrington Rogers, newly deceased
in England, aged 84, was appointed by the
Imperial authorities to the Solicitor-Generalship
of Tasmania before Constitutional Government
was granted. After serving a term as M.P. in
the slow island, he acted for 20 years as County
Court Judge in Victoria. He then resigned and
practised at the bar because the Ministry of the
day refused to make the tenure of office for the
County Court bench the same as that for the
Supreme Court. In ’93 Rogers left for the Cold
Country, where he dreamed away the last 13
years of his life.
Em of Battenberg’s mother, Beatrice,
was always sat-on by the rest of the family, and
for the sin o'f being the youngest childshe was made
to attend to the crotchetty Royal mamma.
Nowadays, that task over, Beatrice of
Battenberg (usually attended by Ena) spends
much time opening the Distressed Dogs’
Home, or the Lost Cats’ Shelter, or the
Refuge for Damaged Ducklings. So
King Ned makes even Beatrice a
useful hack at the business of propping
up a throne. Probably she gets some
return in the way of gifts that eke
out the £6OOO a year she receives
from the public purse. Now the
aged Cinderella’s pretty daughter
lays hands on the finest matrimonial
fish in the Royal market, for whom
Connaught (with a marriageable
daughter, Patricia) angled in vain.
Alfonso’s “civil list” gives him an
income of £280,000 —a great deal
more than his distressed country
can afford.
Brief extract from Maoriland
Liberal Herald (Premier Seddon’s
monthly magazine):—“ln the late
Prince Albert, and His Majesty
King Edward, and the Right Hon.
Mr. Seddon, we see three great
natural leaders of men.”
Ex-Victorian Governor “ Chinny ” Clarke,
who was among the batch of people selected by
Balfour at the eleventh political hour for lifts in
social rank, probably deserved recognition more
than any of the others, most of whom seem to
have had baubles thrust upon them because they
gave money to party funds. Clarke has proved
himself such a power at the War Office that when
he was recently laid up for a few days with a sore
throat or something, half the British Cabinet
found it necessary to rush round to his private
house and consult him about the things that
matter. Ex-Excellency Clarke has about the
clearest brain of the whole British War staff, and
if he had plenty of money to back up his brains
he would probably be at the very head of the
whole concern. As it is, he is just a “plainbrown
man ” of the kind George Turner used to be.
AN ILLUSTRATED CHESTNUT.
DRUNK (who stutters ): “P —P —P —P—P— sch—sch — sch —”
MAGISTRATE: “ What's he charged with?”
CONSTABLE: “ Soda warther, Oi tink, yer 'anner!"
Acting-professorship of Classics at Ade-
laide University goes to H. S. Dettmann, a master
at Sydney Grammar School. Born about 30 years-
ago, in N.S.W., where his father was inspector in
the Education Department, Mr. Dettmann is
entirely a product of the State school system.
Mr. G. C. Henderson, another Sydney product,
formerly a State school teacher in N.S.W., is also
a professor in Adelaide, his chair being history.
Two sons of members of Melbourne’s
oldest legal firm, Malleson, England and Stewart,
passed away last Monday week—Frank England
and Gordon Stewart. Of the original firm there
now only remains J. O. Stewart, who is over 70,
and intends soon to retire. Then the big practice
will pass to Willie Stawell (son of Vic.’s ex-C.J.),
Hugh Nankivell M'Eacharn (a nephew of
Malcolm’s), and Osborne, all strangers to the
original three partners.
Attorney-General Davies’ refusal of Vic.
Supreme Court Judgeship leaves Bent a chance to
offer the position to the man whom all the Bar
say should have it—Leo Oussen. He is admitted
universally to be the strongest man at the Vic.
Bar, and from being a railway clerk at a pound a
week has worked himself up to a practice which,
even in these dead times, is worth £5OOO a year.
But Cussen may possibly refuse. He has still
political aspirations.
“ Melb.” : Premier Bent is a member of
the Moorabbin Shire Council, and delights to go
down there and squabble with ehawbacons.
However, Councillor Ferdinando (what a name !)
swabbed the floor with him the other night—
—metaphorically and allegorically. But that is
all in the day’s work. Bent is never happier than
when wrangling over a drain or something, even
though the hayseeds are uncivil to him at times
and Councillor Ferdinando ; becomes almost
violent.
The will of the late Frederick William
Elliott (of Elliott Brothers, Sydney, chemists)
divides £50,000 pretty evenly among his people.
He provides, however, that if any of his daughters
joins any religious body, or becomes any kind of
“sister” or nun, she shall forfeit all interest in
the estate. The three daughters are all married,
and married women seldom rush headlong into
the sister business, or the nun industry, but, as
Frederick used to say about almost everything
when he was alive, “one never knows.”
Old Samuel Davenport, of Adelaide, who
was a member of the State Executive in the pre-
constitutional days of over 60 years ago, will com-
plete his 88th year on March 5. Although his tall
figure is now very much bent, he is often to be
seen about Adelaide streets, and transacts his
business much as he has been doing for the last 20
years. Although he introduced the olive into the
State and had much to do with the inauguration
of the wine industry, he is not at all a wealthy
man.
Died (22/2/’O6), aged 80 years, Ralph
Moore, fourth son of Captain Joseph Moore, of
Moore’s Wharf, Miller’s Point, Sydney. Mr.
Moore was a native of Sydney, born in Cumber-
land-street ; the old structure in which he first
saw the light still stands. The Moores made
money in the ancient whaling days. A brother,
Henry Moore, M.L.C., was the first Sydney agent
for the P. and O. Steamship Company. Another,
David Moore, M.L.C., also a Sydney native, was
a member of the second Haines Ministry (Vic.),
from April, 1857, to March, 1858, and was one of
the four members for Melbourne in the first
Legislative Assembly, in 1856.
Ernest Cliitty, a totally blind Auckland
(M.L.) student, took his B.A. degree at the local
University, recently. His subjects included
mathematics, constitutional history, political
economy, mental science, and jurisprudence. He
absorbed his knowledge viva voce , and success-
fully gave it out, for examination purposes, to a
typewriter. Williams, a Sydney undergrad.,
took his degree under similar circumstances, a
couple of years ago.
One of Sydney’s oldest identities, Michael
Chapman, joined the innumerable caravan of the
dead last week, at the age of 85 years. If not a
native, Mr. Chapman was a very old colonist.
Nearly GO years ago he was described as “ painter,
etc.,” in Crown-street, Woolloomooloo. In the
fifties he entered into partnership with Ebenezer
Beaumont as oil and color men at 470 George-
street, and the business was continued by Mr.
Chapman for many years. From 1866 to 1900 he
was an alderman of Sydney, and was mayor in
1871 and 1872. When George Wigram Allen
died he was elected to the Legislative Assembly
for Glebe, and held the seat from 1883 until 1891.
He was a useful alderman, but as an M.L. A. he
was never more than a voting machine.
Some discursive remarks by “ Wurrym ” :
Kielley and Duggan, the last of the Fenians, were
smoke-socialled at Perth (W.A.) last week though the
latter was absent owing to ill-health. Kielley, like J. B.
O’Reilly, was a soldier. He was one of the chief plotters
in the scheme to seize the armory at Clonmell, and under-
took to make the necessary skeleton keys. He was
granted a license in 1878, and a free pardon about a
month ago. Speaking of J. B. O’Reilly and his novel
“ Moondyne,” the original of this work used to bemoan
to me his hard luck in being so misrepresented. Moon-
dyne Joe was originally sent out for poaching. He was a
gipsy, and had the gipsy’s unconquerable love for free-
dom and the open air. That was all the trouble there was
between the gaol authorities and Joe. On one occasion
Joe was missing from the gaol, where for weeks he had been
employed breaking a large heap of stones. There was no
supervision. The officials knew he could not vet over the
wall without some aid, and then would certainly be seen.
Still, he was absent when wanted. On searching outside,
a small tunnel, going under the wall foundation, was
found ; this was traced to a chamber formed under the
stone Joe was supposed to be breaking. In this chamber
Joe had sunk and tunnelled at odd times. Other times
he stuck to his stone-breaking job. After an absence of
some weeks Joe was recaptured down the coast, and was
being brought back by two constables, to one of whom
he was handcuffed. The party slept one night in a hut
somewhere near Rockingham, about 14 miles from Fre-
mantle. Next morning there was no prisoner. One
bobby went back'to look for him ; the other went on to
Fremantle to report. In that town he found Joe had only
slipped the handcuffs out of cussed nes?, as he had walked
on and reported himself at the gaol. Moondyne’s frequent
escapes got to be too much for the gaol people, so an iron
cage was made for keeping him at home. When it was
completed a Government House party, headed by
Governor Weld, went to inspect Joe in his cage, and
Weld promised the gipsy that if he got out again he
would get his ticket of leave. There were in the party
the son and daughter of a high official —the one a high
official himself now and the other the wife of another
exalted public servant. Later on in the day they went
back to the gaol as visitors to the governor and his
family. Regulations regarding the governor’s visitors
were not very stringent, so the two youngsters found
it easy to go and have a yarn with Moondyne, and
incidentally leave him a file or two. Next morning, while
Weld was breakfasting, a servant announced that a man
wanted to see him. It was Moondyne Joe. “Good
Lord,” said Weld, and he wrote out the ticket, of leave.
Thereafter Moondyne Joe lived in peace. He went to his
rest some five years or so ago. In his last days he was an
inmate of the depot for old men who have blazed the
track.
The man whom Queensland needs to sink
deepest at the next Federal elections is Drake,
the senator. For 10 long years the Laborites kept
him in the Assembly, never once opposing him,
although his seat Was a sure Labor snap. Then
Philp, feeling the power.of his own party-slipping
MUNGO L. MACCALLUM
(son of Prof. MacCallum,
N. S. W.), this year's
Rhodes scholar.
Photo, by Crown Studios, Sydney.
away, looked
round for traitors,
and offered Drake
a portfolio, and
he turned on his
trusting friends.
But lie kne w
enough to crawl
into the Legisla-
tive Council,
where the brick
of cont e m p t
could reach him
not. When Bar-
ton formed the
first Fed er al
Ministry he pick-
ed Drake as
Queensland
representative,
apparently be-
cause he had
something of a
reputation as a
Federalist, Pro-
tectionist and
democrat. And
Drake stuck to
office till Watson
ar rived, yet never
once showed his
head above the surface. But as soon as the Labor
Government was defeated, Drake was found
crawling to Reid for a portfolio, and Reid accepted
him just as Philp had done previously. Banana-
land has been prolific in political apostates, but
Drake can beat them all; for he has turned
apostacy into a habit.
There is talk among Adelaide Democrats
of returning Kingston for his old district this
year, even if he is too ill to take his seat, in order
to mark-public appreciation of his splendid ser-
vices. But a seat which he can’t occupy is a very
poor present, and the throwing away of a Demo-
cratic vote in the Reps, is a poor compliment to
the cause which Kingston has so much at heart.
Better to put in another sound Democrat, and
present Kingston with a £2OOO cash testimonial and
an assurance that his constituency will be waiting
for him whenever he is well enough to want it.
Kingston is never seen in the city now. He is the
Hermit of Marino.


UNDER ONE ROOF * *
THE ROOF OF . . .
The New Palace Emporium
A ROOF THAT COVERS FIFTEEN ACRES o/ BUYING SPACE
In Single—
» 1. V/
and Double Harness.
EVERYTHING
can be boug^bt.
EVERYTHING wanted to CARRY ON the
BUSINESS OF LIFE, whether that busi-
ness is run in SINGLE or DOUBLE
HARNESS.
Such conditions can hardly fail to
BRING CONTENTMENT and HAPPINESS
in their wake, for BUYING EVERYTHING
UNDER ONE ROOF, instead of RACING
and CHASING all over the City for THIS
AND FOR THAT must, necessarily save
TIME and MONEY. TIME is MONEY, and
HONEY is saved by ECONOHISING TIHE,
and when you buy EVERYTHING
Under One Roof,
THE ROOF of THE
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
Money is also saved by
The Simple Magic of
Racing and Chasing.
1M
mm
mmmmm ill lit
m
i fmmuf
33 ill 31:1 • IU
Anthony Hordern*
LOW PRICES.
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS & ■&
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ASK YOUR GROCER
For a 21b. Packag'6 of H.O. vSelf-Raising
BUCK WHEAT
flakes DELICIOUS PANCAKES. H.O. BUCKWHEAT is used in all good American Homes,
Use neither Salt, Yeast, nor Baking Powder. If your Grocer has not got it, send to
437 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fresh Stock received by each Boat.
‘ ‘ Priests are Custom-house officers on
the Frontier of Truth.”— Hugo.
The mayor of a village near Paris lately
arrested himself on the charge of murdering his
wife. The poor woman, suffering tortures from
cancer, had implored her husband to put her out
of her hell-on-earth, and at last he responded to
her prayers with a hatchet. Then he made his
deposition, and left the law to decide how much
he was guilty of murder. Seems to The Bulletin
that the worthy mayor might have raised the
interesting law point with something less unsym-
pathetic than a hatchet. There are more ways
than one of giving a wife a merciful quietus, and
she would probably prefer to have an artery
opened with a sharp penknife, for instance, than
to be hit across the head with ironmongery.
Human nature doesn’t like to be treated like a
mere piece of wood.
“ A.G.” gives a veracious account of the
“horrors,” as he knew them :
X was returning to the station, after knocking down
mv cheque, when a touch of “the horrors” came on.
The bottle of whisky the lamber-down gave me, to put
me right, did not last the 60 miles by coach. Rummaging
about, I found a bottle of rum, and polished it off. A
passenger got off, later on, and missed his flask ; I had
accounted for it. 1 can recollect the scenes that passed
through my mind as well as if I had witnessed them at
the Mutoscope. They were mostly pleasant, horsey, and
impossible. The sight of an object started my mind
wandering. For instance, a concertina suggested music.
A boxing-glove was the means of my witnessing the most
bloodthirsty encounter that any man could wish for. One
horse would be multiplied by six on the least provocation.
Suddenly a circus came with flags flying and band play ing.
They pitched their tent and the performance started. The
man on the white horse jumped clean over the store
(70 x 30). Another followed him riding a saddled emu.
An imp tied red cotton around one of my fingers and
pulled. I hung like a monkey to my seat, and the cotton
snapped. It was the signal for the band to play. After
listening to it for an hour or so I stepped up to shake
hands with the conductor when I got scalded. Aight
time I suffered the most. It took me the whole of the
first night removing firewood from my bunk back to the
wood heap. I was giving the station hands a speech on
the benefits of Freetrade (I w«s mad), when one of the
biggest cats that I have seen came in the side door back-
wards. Its eyes were lumps of silver. When its tail
moved it left a fiery streak in the air. I distinctly re-
member the cook frying chops on its ribs. Past the hut
there is a bore flowing. With the aid of a laddei I tried
to get up to it. I could see the fish moving about through
the bottom. It was an overhead stream. That liignt
the hut collapsed. I held it up as long as I could, borne
of the hands rushed out in their shirts when I raised the
alarm, and said, “ All clear, let her fall.” I jumped back.
The noise of the falling timber and iron seemed to say,
“ You did it, clear out.” Away I ran and picked up with
a carrier. His wife and kids were on top of the loading.
He had a novel contrivance for getting up and down, it
was a large wheel, with steps on it. You simply stood on
a step, and, as the waggon moved on, the wheel revolved.
When at the top you stepped off. I offered hunagood
price for the plan, but he refused. We had a row and
parted, because he would not stop his dog, a green ana
yellow our, from following me. A stockman on the
neighboring run found me, after being away foi five days,
40 miles from home. And he says my watch was wound
up, and correct as to time. It took four weeks
straighten me up. Some who see snakes with le„s „et
right in two weeks. I fancy the worse the visions the
speedier the recovery. One tries harder to get away
from them.
SHAKESPEARIAN TIIERAPEUTICS.-If
anything can “ minister unto a anind diseased il>
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, wliich wiU cle<tnso
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous s tuff winch weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arson si lof therapeutic?,
being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
Some unemployed member of the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly might do a useful bit of
work by calling for a return of the number, names,
and injuries of the people who have been privately-
compensated by the Government for being acci-
dentally shot by the police in the execution of
their duty. Almost every other day the papers
tell of midnight or early morning chases, of re-
volver shots being fired by the pursuing police,
but seldom is there mention of anyone being hurt.
But strange rumors float round, and a story is told
of a cabman who died from wounds received while
sitting on his cab when the police were bombarding
a vanishing figure in Hyde Park.
Missing Friends.
MEALLIN. —Information is required concerning George
Meallin, who left England in May, 1874 and who
was last heard of in 1888 at Silverton, New South Wales.
He left England in company with Charles Douglas Singer
better known as Charles Singer), and is supposed to have
at one time held a Government Schoolmasterslnp at Sloam
River Queensland. Please address any communication
to Messrs. Sandford and Limbert, 32 Waymouth-street,
Adelaide South Australia; or to Messrs. Frank Richard*
son and Sadlers, 28 Golden square, Regent-street, London,
England. ___________
CjlNGEß.—lnformation is required concerning Charles'.
8 Dou-das Singer (better known as Charles Singer), who
left Exeter, England, in 1874 in company with Geor„e
and is susposed to have been at Silver on New
Smith Wales, in 1888. Father is dead. The said Chains
Sino-er will hear of something to his advantage by at onte
communicating with Messrs. Sandford and Limbert,
■ Waymouth-street,. Adelaide South Australia or t
Messrs. Frank Richardson and Sadlers, 28 Golden square,
’Regent-street, London, England.
Public Notice.
Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Sydney, 22nd February, 1906.
IT is hereby notified for public information that
in all eases where an unstamped transfer o
interest in any Mining Claim or Lease 13
for registration the transferee must forward to
this Department an Agreement for Sale where
such has been entered into. If no such A | ree
exists, the tranferee must forward a Statutory
Declaration setting forth that no Agreement for
Sale has been made in reference to the transfer,
and stating the amount of consideration money
for such transfer. It is, however, preferable in
the interests of both transferee and the Depart-
ment, that every such transfer should be stamped
at the Stamp Duties Office before being lodged for
registration, but in tlie first instance an inquiry
should be made at this Department as to the state
of any lease or leases to be transferred, failure
to adopt one or other of these courses will cause
delay in the registration of the transfers for which
the Department canno^be^repionsiWm^^
Under Secretary for Mines and Agriculture.
Ba3o.
Business Announcements.
Visitors to Melbourne
WIL& FIND
THAT . . .
Neale’s Temperance-Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Ra. way
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes walk
from GPO. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. I'EiiU’iio.SE IC4Q.


THt;
*
4
A
x 1
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
IVIIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON^
The beauty of Valaze is that its use is
such a very simple matter. Just before retiring
it should be rubbed well into the skin and allowed
to remain on during the night. “It works its
wonders while you sleep.” It is a pure natural
herbal food, goes straight into the skin, feeding
and nurturing the delicate tissues. It eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, pimples, tan, sunburn, and
leaves the face fair and soft and beautiful. Its
purity is assured. It is the best skin-food known
to medical science to-day, and the onty genuine
imported complexion preparation in Australia.
Try a jar; prove its worth. 3s. 6d. and (is.,
posted 6d. extra. New preparations—Blackheads
and Open Pores Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. box; posted 3s. ; Valaze
Herbal Complexion Soap, one cake lasts six
months, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze Face
Powder, absolutely pure and hygenic, 2s. box,
three tints, postage 2d. Washington H. Soul,
160 Pitt-street, and "Civil Service, Pitt-street,
Sydney. All leading chemists, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne. “ Guide to Beauty ” free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
*>*>
w
Are: the Ideal Fabrics
for
UsK
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 27, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
Madame Browneyes sent a business card inti-
mating that her new millinery models would be
on private view at her showroom on a certain day
last week. The Girl Who Doesn’t Mind the
Weather got the card at Bowral. A private view
of Aphrodite herself wouldn’t have brought her
down from there, she explained, unless Aphrodite
wore a new season’s toque. “My curiosity on the
subject of the New Hat is unappeasable. If ever
Satan gets my soul he’ll have to fish with a hat-
baited hook. If it looks a stylish bait I’ll bite—•
for certain. If hats were worn in Heaven I’d
make greater efforts to get there; but haloes
and nimbuses seem to be the only head gear,
and the fashion of these hasn’t altered in two
thousand years—or whatever age Heaven is. I’d
go niad if I couldn t vary the angle of wearing my
halo, and turn it up at the back with amaranths,
and put a cherub winglet or pair of seraph quills
through its crownless brim. Am not sure that I
wouldn’t put in a crown of some celestial fur
I here are lambs in heaven aren’t there ? I’d have
a baby-lamb-skin crown.”
It was 97 in the shade when I met her at Red-
fern, and when I showed her the figures, she only
looked at the thermometer contemplatively and
f :ud J \fy hasn’t a good shady hat to keep the
neat oft. At the showroom she started to send
up the temperature, and madame’s pulse, with
commentary and question. “Say”—the Girl
Who Doesn t Mind the W r eather once travelled
as far as Honolulu in an American liner, and ever
since has nourished a few American mannerisms
like “ bav Say, I hope you won’t mind alter-
ing it i buy ? And when you are trying on, don’t
put it on one side. Yes, I know ever so many
wear them on one side, and it’s right enough if
a 6 jt eCt 1S Co( l uettls h, but with me it’s rakish.
And I never yet met a woman who 'wanted to look
rakish. Wliat swarms of bee-colored millinery
you ve got, madame ! O, yes, I know brown’s
tn and no mistake, and bees are a beauti-
ful bright shade of brown, but we haven’t
all got brown eyes, or red hair and sardonyx
eyes. Gimme a queen-bee hat then.” They put
on her fair head a toque made of twisted brown
tulle, the upturned brim wrought with layer upon
layer of brown, dead leaves and brown violets.
1 atches of lichen, mould, and fungus were on the
leaves and flowei petals. It had the disastrous
beauty of dead floral things, and after the girl
had worn it for 38 seconds she said. “Take it
away. H disturbs me. Reminds me of Proser-
pine. There’s a name for you, madame. Christen
it the Proserpine toque.” Another brownie was
tried To its rich, decaying, autumnal tints
and foliage were added two pea-hen’s wings
and the marchioness who assisted madame
remarked that these wings were a guinea a pair
Ihe client said that these sere and yellow hats’
with artistic discoloration and elegant blight’
made her feel like an extinct volcano, or a dead
moon. Her nervous organisation was so fine that
she was often what her clothes suggested
Madame feared, in zero tones, that the client was
merely prejudiced against brown in all its shades
and materials, and the client, who had been
reading a current novel, “Soprano,” on her rail
tpp down, admitted the accusation, and quoted
“ Prejudices are moral corns—anything that
touches one fnakes it ache more or less.”
A hat with a crown of Volga fur rather took her
fancy. Ihe fur, of which neither of us had ever
heard, is snow-white, short, close, and the softest
of all soft things. “ Soft as a horse’s nose,” said
the client, bable crowns, mink crowns, with tails
are “in,” and hats with grey kid lining. Also
green hats—a color like a green flame—blue-grev
like skies, and soft, like sighs. A big
with a regular turban of violets, was greatly de-
sired by the client, especially when she learnt
it had been sold and no replica allowed A
navy-blue hat with a “ gourah ” (a ’ fan-
shaped fragile feather ornament) and velvet
lemons was also on trial for 20 seconds, and then
came a cross between the torpedo and the boat-
shape, trimmed with dead violets, faded chrysan
themums and a long grey shaded feather curlino-
from forehead to nape of neck with a grace note of
pink over one ear. ‘‘ It suits my profile ” said the
girl juggling between two long mirrors, with a
.hand glass. “You will observe, Madame, that
I ve got a long pointed nose and the arrangement
of this bushy feather rather takes the eye off mv
Wilson’s Promontory facial outline. But it doesn’l
suit my disposition. I feel like a Blighted Bein°-
I feel as if the dark man that the fortune teller
promised me had come into my life and then left
me for ever. It must be the effect of all
this dead and dying garden spoil. Why is
the new millinery of a mortuary kind?”
They brought her a radiant thing in powder blue
and cinder black, with a bright-eyed bird holding
up one side of the brim. “If las much as tried it
on, she said, “I’d want to goto the Union Club
and blackmail my father’s oldest friend.” She
took up a glove.-stretcher and fanned herself
violently with it. I came away. But next day I
met the girl in a tea-room, and she told me she had
bought three models without trying them on at
all.
Last Thursday, the hottest day of the season
there were some 5000 persons surf bathing at
Manly between 6 and 7 o’clock, and about another
3000 were looking on or stealing the 5000’s
trousseau. At least a score of persons had their
wardrobe stolen. Many a woman who goes to the
beach with a mackintosh over her bathing dress
leaves, with childlike confidence, mackintosh and
sandals on the beach, unguarded. Owners and
property are parted for ever. Scarcely a
really picturesque costume is to be seen at
any but the Rose Bay baths. In the
latter, Mrs. Jim Fairfax takes the apple with
her pale green costume, with a lot of little frills on
the sleeves, and a hat tied under the chin with
green ribbons, and she looks a lorelei. But report
says she only wets her toes. All the other women
agree that it would be inartistic to spoil such a
lovely water frock with water. Two attractions
at another baths are sisters, very long and lean,
clad in tight black combinations and wearing
picture-hats. They don’t swim—but just go in
and bob up and down, never varying their
standing room, but always bobbing with.exactly
the same amount of bob in exactly the same spot.
Manly this year is crowded with visitors from
the sunstruck and droughty West of this State,
and they are almost as loath to come in out of the
wet as are the fish.
Departers of yesterday by big ships include the
Jarmans. He was the metallurgy specialist at
Sydney Uni., and has gone to Maoriland to do the
like work at its Uni. Mrs. J., a dark, auburn
lady, .was a very picturesque figure when she came
here a few years ago. Her name is Corisande,
arid you couldn’t be so named and not
live up to it. She was one of the few who
wore the lonely curl known as the Alexandra.
Allan Shaw, the coin juggler, went; so did Dr.
Rougier, Consul for Russia. Next Saturday the
H. Llewellyn Joneses leave for America for a six
months’ visit. Mr. Jones is American Vice-
Consul in Sydney, and is a C.E. representing the
Steel Trust.
Captain Greville, the Northcotes’ military secre-
tary, has wired that Lady Northcote gives her
patronage to the theatrical benefit in aid of the
Victor Daley fund. Benefit occurs on March 30.
From a Sydney woman writer’s page :
The servant girl (in Maoriland) is not a difflcultv—she
does not exist. Housework has to be faced in all its
details by the members of the family. Miss Seddon and
Miss Ward are no exceptions. They adapt themselves to
the situation, and do the work just like any other girls
in advanced Maoriland.
Someone has been fairy-taleing the writer. There
is no more difficulty in getting domestic servants
in Maoriland than here. There is difficulty
everywhere in getting competent generals , but
fairly-skilled cooks, housemaids, and laundresses
may always be secured in M.L. Wages are about
the same as in Australia. Servants’ registry offices
are in plenty in all the towns, and there is a steady,
if small, exodus of domestic women workers from
Australia to M.L. To my personal knowledge
three left last week. They are going to work in a
hotel if possible, at one of the health resorts, and,
as one of them explained, “ It is much easier over
there to get someone to walk out with you. As
for Miss Ward “doing the work,” the Wards
have a well-staffed household.
Madame Fallieres, vvife of the new President of
the French Republic, is described as “an accom-
plished hostess, whose natural refinement has
oeen polished by a long period of official life in
Pans. Yet hitherto she has accompanied her
cook to market to get the day’s supplies.
From a Sydney sectarian weekly :
TSTANTED Governess teach five children usual
subjects ; music, painting, drawing, singing
plain and fancy needlework ; take full charge of reli-
gious instructions ; must have knowledge of dress-
making' ; sal., £26. Apply, with references, to .
The “ usual subjects,” plus four accomplishments,
some theology, and a working knowledge of a
trade—all for ten shillings a week ! ! Holy
frost! Advertiser is not likely to get the pearl
she wants, for a young woman who can do plain
needlework and dressmaking only can get a billet
in the country any time at more ‘than that wage ;
and if she is artistic she can get enough time off
to paint a water-hole, with a cow and a gum in
the foreground, for her own amusement. As for
the “usual subjects,” she can afford to cast her
shoe over them.
A hint for the Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s
regattas:— /
The Prince and Princess embarked on a golden barge
towed by rowers, who chaunted a wild song, while girls
danced on the prow. In the races with long boats the
rowers kept time with clashing cymbals. The Shans
showed their arms, which they dispensed with in rowing
Winding their legs round the oars, they propelled them
light skiffs at incredible speed.
From the royal tour in India. A Sydney crew
rowing with its legs would be a novelty, Its dis-
engaged hands might wave British ensigns pre-
sented by the British Empire League.
When the one woman lawyer in Melbourne arid
the one woman.lawyer in Sydney, both debarred
from practising, read of the success of women
lawyers in America (there are a thousand of them,
and some 50 of them in New York), what kind of
things do they say ? Mrs. Quaekenboss, an
American Lady One—l suppose that is the
r»cu lllline Oentleman One— makes on an average
£BOOO a year, and does much work free for desti-
tute clients. Several lawveresses in the land of
Aunt Sam are in partnership with their husbands
but the most remarkable of the tribe is a Miss King,
wbo, 15 years ago, was a domestic servant —a
Merely Mary Ann. This genius, three years ago
stood up in argument to the most brilliant lawyers
in New York on a highly technical dispute over a
patent. She won her case, and put out of business
a great corporation with a capital of a whole
dazzling million pounds.
A friend writes me this after a visit to Maori-
land :
I drifted down the Wanganui River—the most wonder-
ful river in my experience. You start early—beastlv
l' a 1 r y ./ r °n' Taumurunui, a little wooden town where the
inhabitants use the name of the place to fence their pad-
docks with, or else they chop off a syllable or two and
use it for a gate. If the river is low, you do the first stage
in a Prohibition canoe. It holds about fifteen, and each
traveller is limited to 561 b. of dunnage. Of course the
usual female brings a Saratoga trunk. The Prohibition
canoe is urged on its wild career by a petrol engine, and
tor nearly half a day it shoots a rapid about every half
nnle or oftener. Towards noon, after shooting dozens of
rapids and dodging 16 mountains, you reach the house-
boat and have lunch. It is a two-storey boat—sleeping
rooms, baths dining-room, music-room and sundries
Here you feed luxuriously with a mountain on each side,
the river flying: past into the great g'org-e ahead, and the
small, brown, dusty Maori kid gaping at you from the
shore, and you feel like an American king bolting his
hash m a palace. Possibly you feel so much that way
that you stay a week and fish.
Then you get into a steamboat which isn’t Prohibition
and shoot rapids most of the afternoon. You are in the
gorge. A wall of rock" rises on each side, in most places
square and straight as the ends of a cathedral. It is
loaded with vivid green moss, so thick that often hardly
an inch of bare rock appears. High up dense masses of
vivid green tree-ferns overhang the moss. The moss and
"^ en J 8 are re^ec t f -'d in the green transparent river
that flies along—where it isn’t having a rapid—like a
silent green looking-glass in a tremendous hurry. It
” e a g'reat green glass animal hastening along
with its mouth full of moss and a tree-fern in each hand.
And as the afternoon wears on, you grow weary of the
loveliness of it all, and full of undigested magnificence
It ought to be served up in six lots, not thrown at you
all at once. You spend the night at Pipiriki listening to
the passing river, and you are chased by green tree-ferns
in your sleep.
MISS NELLIE STEWART as a drummer boy
in one of her finest parts.
Photo, by Falk , Sydney.
Maoriland wants an army and navy of its own. If it
doesn t provide itself with them an enemy will come
along some day and demand £20,000,000 indemnity, and
when the money isn’t forthcoming he will- go up the
Wanganui Elver, and scrape the moss off 50 miles of
consecutive gorge, and then one of the wonders of the
world will be no more. If I had a gorge like that I should
at least have it insured.
Mr. Itrnest Watt, of Sydney, has been makin o '
some fame for himself by a translation of Prosper
Mernmee s “ Lettres a une Inconnue,” which he
Englishes with the title of “Love Letters of a
b-enius. There is no doubt as to the merits of
the translation ; it’s excellent work, with much of
the flavor of the French stylist; but in my experi-
ence Mernmee does not translate well. His
charm is more in the style than the matter, and
style _ cannot be translated. But these love-
letters in English are at least a monument of
learned labor; and so many of our “gilded
youths” pass aimless existences.
Merrimee s love letters do not kindle. They
seem to me prim—an unpardonable fault in a love-
letter. they are the outpourings of a more
than middle-aged man, with a note alwavs
ot querulousness. How much fine literary gold is
lost m the world’s buried or burned love-letters
(probably the best love-letters are burned because
the circumstances which prompt them make their
burning necessary) ! The love-letters that are
preserved arid printed never seem like the real
thing ‘ with fine frenzy rolling if a love-letter
ever does roll. ,
How well he blims ! ” is now a common remark
among society hostesses in London. So, at least
says a society paper. They mean that he is a
person with the ability to talk amiably without
saying anything iri particular, and it seems to be
an art much in cultivation at the present time. It
is said that in “blirnming” the perfect solution of
the conversational difficulty has been discovered.
I*ibt long ago, hostesses wanted people whose talk
bad a reputation for profundity, or, failing that,
le demand to-day is for a good
bummer.” He can always earn his dinner,
rmt, after all, is it not an old accomplishment
under a new name ?
Shop-lifting, it seems, is epidemic this year
amongst some of the well-dressed women of
Maoriland cities. The other day, three comfort-
ably-attired femininities appeared before a shocked
magistrate, at the Wellington police court, for
pilfering from a big drapery establishment, at a
bargain sale (those sales !), and were severely
admonished and let out, weeping bitterly. Their
names were considerately withheld from publica-
tion by the kind-hearted press, so that possibly
their husbands don’t know yet what distressed
their httie wives so much that day. But some
kind fnend wdl teil them later on. The leading
Wellington drapery firms were interviewed, and
each set down its losses from thieving
women at many hundreds of pounds annually.
„, te b too » the big rag-shops are badly
had ' by the pretty demure girlies in their em-
ploy whom they expect to dress “ like ladies ” on
a lowly wage. A dozen or so hands found pick-
ing and thieving were unceremoniously “ sacked ”
in one establishment lately. In another, two very
nice girls were recently subjected to an igno-
minious search before leaving their work, and
were found to be e..oh wearing twelve pairs of
expensive lace frills purloined from the firm’s
stock. They are now taking a holiday. Which
sets one thinking when one sees extra plump-
Jookmg girls walking haughtily from the drapery
shops at knock-off time. Base-minded people
can t help wondering whether the plumpness is
quite natural.
Hardly an English or American paper one
takes up but has something to add to the
enormous mass of literature about man’s rela-
tion to woman, her relation to him, the
psychology of marriage, how woman ought to
treat her mate when he begins to growl after the
purring period of the honeymoon, and if he pre-
fers a perambulating clothes-rack to a housewifely
slave. In one of Marion Crawford’s earlier works,
“ The Three Fates,” a clever mother talks to her
daughter:—
Men have an immense body of tradition to sustain •
and they do it by keeping up appearances as well’
as they can. All men are supposed to be brave, strong
enduring, honorable and generous. They are supposed
never to feel hot when we do, nor catch cold when we
should. It is part of their stage character never to be
afraid of anything, and many of them are far more timid
tham we are ... It is not true that if you run away men
will follow you. They are far too lazy for that.' You
must come to them, but not too often. What they most
want is amusement . . . Never ask- a man where he has
been, what he has seen, or heard. If he has anythin l ' to
tell, he will tell you ; if he has not, you only humiliate
him by discovering the emptiness of his thoughts
Always ask his opinion. If he has none himself he
always knows someone who has. The difference between
men and women is very simple, my dear ; women look
greater fools than they are, and men are greater fools
than they look.
Amateur Orchestral Society is rehearsing that
splendid, but mountainous musical work, Beet-
hoven’s Ninth Symphony.
The Warringah Bowling Club, which is day-
after to-morrow in its enterprise, has in-
stalled the radiance known as the Lux light on
its verdant green, so that it may gambol on the
grass long after set of sun. Seems a sane and
artistic proceeding in this hot country. Mem-
bers of other clubs (jealous perhaps) say that
the new light and new playtime will make
the Warringah unpopular with the wives of its
bowlers. They will be ’ticed away from home by
the charms of bowling under the Lux and the stars.
Anyhow, some 300 guests rolled up to the open-
ing ceremony. President Denyer, “ Hop,”
and others made addresses of the “ lead
kindly light” description, and Miss Geraldine
Rivers, Miss Smith and Mr. Irving lifted up good
voices in good songs.
The Ophir’s gallant captain (Kersha’fv) will be
married immediately after the arrival of the
vessel, now on its way to England.
By the Mongolia leave to-morrow the Harry
Levys,, Mrs. and Miss Bedford (daughter and
granddaughter of the late Alfred Stephen), one of
the Cecil Stephen girls, and Mrs. and Miss
Vincent Dowling.
Amongst last week’s returners are Mrs. (Dr.)
Taylor-Young, Mrs. Godwyn (Mrs. Willie
Mitchell as was) who stops a • week in Melbourne,
Mrs. Noyes and Miss Rose Gore. From
Westralia has come a well-known pressman, Mr.
Louis Ramaciotti, brother of M.r. ,T. C. W.’s
partner. He is a chief of staff on the Morning
Herald. Another well-known pressman, Mr.
Albert Cohen, of Dunedin (M.L.) is in Sydnev.
He has been 24 years in the Parliamentary press
gallery, and his only senior in the House is Mr.
Seddon.
Miss Pearl Faithfull, who is fond of actresses,
once more has Florence Hamer on her carriage
cushions—filling space until Grace Palotta arrives.
At the Palace on Saturday Maud Jeffries
appeared in a dawn-in-December pink gown,
raised in front with a cord and jewelled clasp, to
show a white brocade underskirt. Her hair was
done flat on top and curled on her neck. Never saw
her look mere bewitching. If her face and figure
as she appeared then couldn’t launch a thousand
ships and burn the topmost towers of Ilium they
would at least cause an up-to-date Leander to
launch a motor-boat on a stormy sea for her
safety. In the audience, a bonny debutante,
Miss Heather Keys, a cousin of Vinia De Loitte,
took the eye of the audience at interval time.
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
Adelaide crematorium is becoming quite a fashionable
roastery. Already there have been four cremations this
year, the latest being that of the widow of the late Judge
Andrews, whose remains were obliterated in 17 minutes—
the shortest time on record. Deceased used to drive
about Adelaide in an ancient chariot, painted bright
yellow sjnd black.
S.A. artist Christmas is touring the North Island of
Maoriland with an order from the M.L. Government to
paint several large landscapes depicting the great natural
resources of the country. He says he is going to paint
the land in its varying stages, first virgin bush, and sO on
up to ultra-cultivation point, after the manner of the
advertisements which show how you looked before and
after using Bull Beans. Christmas also intends to paint
on his own account a number of panels, showing the
different kinds of Maoriland wood, each panel to be made
from the tree it depicts. These attempts will be exhibited
at the Christchurch Exhibition, and afterwards sent
round the various country towns of America.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


POST
FREE
mm
iY
SARAMA
the ideal face cream t:„ skin rtinn
Every pot contains Public Analyst's certificate
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St and the
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by’ post from
Gordon & Nicholls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney for 3s 3d
Tell your
Husband !
That Bald spot spoils
his appearance.
Why tolerate such a
disfiguration when it can
be remedied by using
Capilla Hair Tonic. Bead
what Mrs. J. Robinson,
of Tego, Brewarrina,
writes :—“ My husband’s
head was quite bald on
top, hut now, after using
two bottles of ‘ Capilla,’
he has hair all over his
head.”
All Chemists and Stores sell “ CAPILLA,” 2s 6d per
bottle. Full course (six bottles) posted direct from The
Capilla Proprietary, 166 Pitt Street, Sydney, for 17s 6cC
fc'-T
f^apilla
n - -”lTlfilAn'
TONIC
HAIR
gtocKjn
(Dress
shields
Ladies ! Don’t Spoil Your Dainty Gown
BY WEARING IT DRESS SHIELDS
KLEINERT’S FEATHERWEIGHT
Once used will give you such comfort that you will wonder
how you ever got along without them.
■ —~r me "xlcwert." trn ,s »„„„ cumubtee.
into Rollers
Re-rubbered by
Ihe DUNLOP
TYRI
CO.
uiuuwmi
r-goi
&S-M4
We will Re-rubber your old
worn out Wringer Rollers so
that they will give you
better wear than the orig~
Inal ones. Prices: 10 x if,
4/- each; n x if, 4/6 each;
13 x if, 5/- each.
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO. OF AUST. LTD.
408 Flinders St., Melbourne; 150 Clarence St., Sydney;
117 GrenfeH St., Adelaide; 768-770 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
617 Hay St.. Perth; 128 Lichfield St.. Christchurch. N.Z.
*
V
n
'tea
DunlopKdly
Rubber Tyres
improve the running of a trap
fully too per cent.
You simply glide along—without noise
and vibration.
They double the life of your trap, and l
last for years.
Iltaitrated I*rice List oa Application*
TheßuriLOPlYßfCoofAusM
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 27, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Society folk are feeling sour over the suggestion
of a Geelong vice-regal headquarters. Their rigid
Exes, are difficult enough of access even at Ston-
ington—but at Geelong ! People who don’t take
a cannibal interest in Government House feel,
however, that the proposal to move the State
Exes, to Geelong is a most happy one. This putting
of them in an out-of-the-way corner seems a step
towards a complete abolition of the useless office.
About half the Bent capital, in a wild way of
speaking, turned out to wave its hanky at the
multitudinous voyagers on the Moldavia’s decks
last Tuesday. Several official batches were there
to farewell the Austin Chapmans and Joseph
Wards, who, however, didn’t leave till the next
day, when they fled by express to the sainted
capital for embarkation. The Langtrees had a
fair portion of Toorak to murmur good wishes.
The Miss in particular attracted a gathering of
she-chums, and was garbed for the occasion in a
deck dress of the cutest cut. Her cabin had a
blockade from door to port-hole of floral contribu-
tions, and sufficient photographs to stuff a city
show-case. Beads of perspiration mingled with
the briny tear of sympathy, and one couldn’t tell
t’other from which in the blistering heat. What
added to the sorrowful tone of things was the
funereal get-up of the official farewellers. Also
aboard were squatter Thompson, his mate, and a
pair of six-footer twins. The only fun created at
the anchor-weighing was through the confusion
created by this conundrum pair of long girleens.
Farewellers went hugging the same twin twice
over, thinking it was the other. There isn’t an
eyelash of difference between the duplicates.
Two gay bachelors embarked, and had a swarm
of vivacious young she-folk to hum “For they
are jolly good fellows” as they started their
escape to Europe. A dirge would have better
expressed popular feeling.
Two Sydneyites, Mr. Owen Cox and Miss
Bonser, did the Joseph Ward family much frizzy
glory some days before the Maorilanders took up
their band-boxes and departed. On Tuesday
night the detachment took the two grand tier
boxes at the Royal to sample the Hall Caine
drama. It’s a long time since the Royal had such
a galaxy of starched linen area and blank chest in
its special pens.
Lady Northcote is giving her helpful support to
more local industries. This time it’s to the lace-
makers of Abbotsford. Last Monday she paid a
visit to the convent on the Yarra’s edge, and after
reviewing the oceans of point and duchesse, of
Irish crochet and other rare varieties of the skilled
stitch, she left an order for several sumptuous cas-
cades of the crochet. The M ‘Eacharn dame was
the first to flaunt a whole rig of Abbotsford lace
in a ballroom. Others followed.
The Seventh-Day Adventists, now in camp at
Camberwell, seem to be forgetting the teaching
of earlier camp-meetings, when fierce Yankee
preach-marms inveighed against corsets, carpets,
and civilisation generally, and exhorted their
hearers to “ git close to Nature’s heart.” Nowa-
days, floorcloths, sideboards, &c., abound in
Canvas-town. Apart from their “Seventh-Day”
theory, the Adventist's differ little from the
Methodist sects, except that they are vegetarians,
which implies that they worship the Goddess
Hygeia (without knowing it), and think and talk
of hardly anything but health, longevity, and
dry-as-dust patent foods, whose names all end in
“ose.”
In camp, t’other Sunday, a long, thin doctor
lectured on “ Health,” dwelling much on his own
“stomach,” as if haunted by misgivings that
hearers, misled by his contour, might suspect him
of struggling along without that necessary pro-
tuberance. In the intervals of stereotyped hymns
and prayers, it was rather comic to hear the lec-
turer describe his internal experiences, especially
certain “severe abdominal pains,” which periodi-
cally attacked him in his pre-Adventist and,
presumably, pre-matrimonial days, when he
“visited constantly” at a house where the
daughters (anaemic, though seemingly attractive)
were wont to undermine his digestion with strong
tea and bread and butter.
When Hopetoun (now Linlithgow) was Gover-
nor of Victoria, three of his best servants, all of
whom had lived with him in Scotland, went hope-
lessly to the bad through the drink craze. In
those days everybody at Melbourne Government
House had access to liquor ad lib., the annual
expenditure of the Governor amounting to £30,000.
Hopetoun did not care for beer or champagne
himself, and thought the stuff should be thrown
away on his servants and the “society” unem-
ployed who infested his premises.
Local Germans don’t fret much over the heavi-
ness of Melbourne’s “Presbyterian Sabbath,”
furnished, as they are, with a refuge in the shape
of a “ Bier Garten.” There they spend Sunday,
plaving cards, smoking, and sipping lager in a
favilion, or packed into a smoky theatre-room.
t’s enough to make one’s very flesh cry out to
think of those German plays—long, labored, do-
mestic melodramas, that go on and on and on, till
everyone not made in Germany goes home with a
sick headache, leaving the plot not half worked
out. It comes as a shock, that Beer Garden, to
untravelled Australians, who have always listened
meekly while German acquaintances scoffed at
Anglo-Saxons as tyros in the matter of
Sunday amusement, and described the happy
Vaterlanders sitting round little tables, in
sunshiny fresh air, with flowers blooming, birds
singing, and bands playing in every direction.
There is a bit of garden at the seventh-day haunt
of local Teutons, but the habitues never bother to
go into it, and it has grown dusty, hugger-mugger,
altogether hateful. Men, women, and children
prefer to perspire in the theatre hall, with its low
iron roof and miserable ventilation. Herren puff
clouds of tobacco-smoke, and on the stage a stout
frau, in the Heavy Mother’s part, sips coffee, knits
and says “ Bitte ” or “ Gewisz ” every ten minutes
or so, while the Heavy Father, in tow wig, rouged
cheeks, large waist and small clothes, twaddles
through a whole scene regarding his low-born but
innocent daughter, pursued by the perilous at ten-<
tions of a town-councillor’s son.
Miss Nancy O’Loghlen, one of the large batch
of daughters left by the late Bryan the Baronet,
has plighted her troth to a foreigner of birth and
cash in the Big Smoke. Miss Nancy was the
friend and companion of the Rupertswood dame
for a decade, and joined her in her Mayfair estab-
lishment. The beauty of the O’Loghlen family,
after two seasons of social life, passed into a
religious order, and is now a fully-fledged sister in
a Loretto convent. The widow of the Baronet
and the rest of the family keep some state, and
boast of spending less on clothes than most mem-
bers of their set.
Miss Vida Goldstein has a talent for blending
sentiment with business. Last week she embarked
for the sandy State, to add the family’s blessing
to a brother’s marriage and also resolved on a
brief season of platform talk on the general
inferiority of man. Friends who, in the old days,
saw Miss Vida serving a ball on an opponent in
the ’Varsity tennis court, declare they saw all the
successive platform battles she has waged since in
her determined little eye then.
Commander Colquhoun steps jauntily into the
shoes vacated by Naval Director Cresswell, and
in the stress of additional cares and responsibili-
ties is likely to lose the coquettish fringe that has
survived all the early crown-thatch. Up to now,
that small sprouting over the bump of individu-
ality has stood against the zealous assaults of
time.
A procession of naval and military experts is
moving week by week to the Cold Country. Every
cadet by this time has a notion of getting his turn
at the grand tour, on an inquiry as to the proper
military brand of moustache, or bear’s grease for
the hair, or something.
The theatrically-equipped figure in Holman
Hunt’s pious canvas wears a cloak that Mrs.
Bland Holt remarked on sotto voce in the Gallery
last week as being a covetable property. An
ancient buckle of dazzling brilliancy fastens it,
and this too leads to green-eyed longings. The
diffusive lamp suggests, even to my lay mind, a
theatrical prop that any Wilson Barrett would
provide to light a way to a stage Heaven. A
savage criticism of the canvas is that children
munch their chocolates as they look on it. They
are not found chewing before “Anguish,” or
“ The Crisis,” or “ Quatre Bras.”
The Argus Mackinnons arrive shortly with
a Kosciusko height of luggage. They have
been shooting on Scotch moors, and hunting in
swagger Scotch company. They return with the
spoils of the chase —as fat and prosperous-looking
as ever.
The George CJhirnsides have never become
reconciled to life in this land since their last
costly gad abroad. Just lately they tried a jaunt
to Maoriland, but returned to their South Yarra
mansion more bored than ever. Mr. Chirnside
slept through some of the finest scenery in Maori-
land, and was conveyed through the rest reading
a newspaper.
The marm who accompanies her fair chicks to
the seaside in search of pleasant and approved
masculine company, is one comic hot-season
object; but the mother who comes along to guard
her boys from the Harpies, the Gorgons, and the
Sirens of beach-haunts is funnier. One of her
materialised at Lome this scorching season, and
everywhere the sonnies went their ma was sure to
go. The recreating girl was in despair. At last
the Revolt of Boy happened, and thereafter that
Roman matron only met her offspring for a brief
feeding interval, when the table was surrounded
by grinning pals, and all private warning as to
the wiles of Girl was rendered impossible.
All the rest of the day the sonnies pursued Eve’s
daughters with cheery enthusiasm.
Bendigo has broken out into a matrimonial rash.
The corner in bachelors, so long the boast of the
Bendigonians, slowly but surely yields to the
inroads of ■'Cupid. Every time a Melbourne
charmer is responsible. Two wealthy sons of
Father Abraham have launched upon the troubled
sea of matrimony with Christian mates, to the dis-
turbance of two opposing sects. Later, one
obdurate bank-manager, long regarded as a hope-
less sticker, faced the rails with a dasher of Block
fame. Now two solicitors and a medico are on the
parson’s mat and Quartzopolis is rubbing its eyes
in wonder.
Napoleonic stationary is being much distributed
over this city. One lot is gold-lettered, and
another coroneted. One young person has written
to a weekly publication denying that she is the
other person, and signs herself L. L. Napolona
Van de Leur. “ L’Aiglon,” it seems, brought
forth congratulations from sundry local descen-
dants of Buonaparte, and now Miss Brune is
corrugating her industrious brow in an effort to
classify those Napoleonic nexts-of-kin who kindly
admired her impersonation of the consumptive
member of the family. Some portraits of de-
scendants of Napoleon have a place in the Tittell
Brune private' gallery. They represent two young
things in black frizzy hair, scarlet garb, and a
weird Egyptian solemnity of expression. Their
sense of family greatness is very obvious.
The marriage of Miss Oliver and Mr. Stuart
Murray is to provide the one Ash Wednesday
revel. High-Churchers are supposed to feel re-
luctant about the Voice breathing on such a grey
Church day, but the Olivers are Scotchbyterian,
and have no scruple. The illness of the bride-
elect broke in for some days upon a busy pro-
gramme of girly farewell sprees, and at one time
it was feared that even the Chant would have to
be postponed, but better days came and saved the
scheme.
Miss Lesly Madden, with the Vallanges, is
housed at Frankston dreaming away the idle
noons. Presently the lugubrious Captain Vallange
ships home to receive an extra stripe or gold braid
tab as an emblem of a fresh military honor.
The farewell spree accorded to a girl that’s
going to make a good match is a trial to the
seasoned spinster who has had to cheer dozens of
such brides-elect. The effort to look blissfully
gay and happy under such circumstances some-
times ends in a painful grimace. Only the iron-
nerved and the steel-hearted can work up the due
expression of debonair gratulation. _ But the
fledgling is genuine in her gush. She is only out
a brief season and knows no malice. In fact,
youth and health work for optimism, and she can
blithely cheer the bride in the full rosy hope that
her turn comes presently and the millionaire is
close at hand. If the feted one have any nice
feeling she’ll not rejoice too aggressively in her
good luck. But every She is at heart a brag,
and the chance to impart spasms of envy to her
darling chums is not an easily resisted temptation.
A few were forward with autumn riggings, and
a great many with fresh top-sails for Saturday’s
race meeting. The Caulfield rally went with
such uncertain skies that these cold-weather
appointments were in part excusable. Funny
how fashionables take headers into a fresh season !
While the shoe-gear is still of the summer sum-
mery, the hose en suite, and the under-frills not
more warm or substantial than spiders’ meshes,
the millinery proclaims the fall of the leaf. On
Saturday, Mrs. George Fairbairn, Mrs. I). Casey,
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, and Miss Byron Moore
were a quartet (though not exactly birds of a
feather) m cornflower blue. Little Miss Todd
—one of the small heiresses of the State
—tripped, it in crimson lake from toque
to toe. Mrs. Herbert Power led a host in ruby
top-sails. Mrs. Jack Frisken sailed in laces of
rare value. As a head-mount, the high dame
flourished a brilliant cerise, with a dash of white
plumage up the side. A second figure in crimson
lake was Miss Rita Kiddle, and her millinery was
the newest and sauciest on the course. Round a
“coolie” crown ran a garniture of French pink-
red roses. Long floating gossamers marked the
fashion of yester-year. Tails no longer brand the
wearer high-grade. Now they either look redun-
dant or giddy.
A frail, pretty English visitor —Mrs. Mundell
(much accent on the “ Mun ”)—was trotted out to
the Caulfield course by a large Todd-Laidlaw
contingent On Saturday. The touring one wore a
French black muslin with introductions of con-
ciliatory white to reduce the sombreness of things.
A remarkable figure in all black was Mrs. C.
Buckley—the imported wife of the eldest of the
Mars Buckleys.
The Spook and Bump business must be paying.
One of its professors is located at a, leading
hostelry where he “receives” in luxurious state.
In the forenoon he struts in snowy linen swinging
a gold-headed cane. At night his shirt-front is
studded with fine pearls. And the women of the
land acclaim him great.
Mr. Rupert Clarke arrives back presently, all
trouble with the eyes being now a thing of the
past. From recent reports of Dame Clarke’s
movements between Mayfair and the Buck
country, it is gathered that she’s a stayer for the
nonce in England.
Once more the Reid family, of warehouse
wealth, are off on a gad. The beauty of the flock
tries a second trip for her health.
A young religious squatter who spent much
time converting (?) the local white she-heathen
(barmaids preferred), escaped matrimony and the
permanent clutch for a long time, till one experi-
enced Juno came along. She ’verted slowly but
surely and nailed the amateur missionary. They
are now married. It’s a dangerous thing to go
trifling with a girl’s religion. Her millinery or
her high heels are fit subjects for correction, but
not her faith.
Menzies’ tries a fresh novelty next week, when
the Wool Clan are about, and horse interests
uppermost. On Monday, Wednesday, and Fri-
day there’ll be a programme of music in the
Marble Court, where Cuyler Hastings used to
hold the eoffee-sippers entranced. Monsieur
Napoleon Boffard, of the ingratiating smile, is to
run the show. The idea is to help along the
stylish interests of this hub during the Flemington
Autumn Carnival, and it ought to go. The Cream
dearly love a nibble of a wafer and music to help
along gossip.
Yours Affectionately,
TRTPHENA.
Stephen Webley Parry, recently dead at
Yamburra (Q.), aged 71, arrived in Victoria from
England in 1856, and became owner of Murray
Downs station. Afterwards, he was in the horse-
dealing business in Adelaide, and shipped the
first lot of Australian horses to India. Later, he
went to Abyssinia, and took part in Napier’s
Magdala expedition, the time Theodore, the
Emperor, tried to argue things with a flint-lock
gun and failed. Then he returned to Australia,
and was connected with Burke and Wills explor-
ing misery. His later life was comparatively
restful.
The last word has probably been said
about William Shiels, Victoria’s croaking Trea-
surer. The electorate of Normanby, which he
represented for 26 years in the Victorian Assem-
bly, presented a memorial address to Mrs. Shiels,
the late politician’s widow. Very few were
invited to be present—only Jimmy Munro, Allan
M'Lean, Iceberg Irvine, and Thomas Bent.
Three of these were Premiers under whom Shiels
had served. But only Bent, who goes to every-
thing, and the Iceberg turned up. Poor old
Jimmy Munro, paralysed and speechless, spends
his days being wheeled about in an invalid’s
chair, and M'Lean was somewhere else. Still,
the Iceberg and Bent made speeches to one
another, and to Kirby, ex-Mayor of Casterton,
who ran the show, and tried to behave like a large
and enthusiastic public meeting.
Apropos the Wigram Allen widow (B.
22/2/’O6). This lady was so harassed by beggars
when resident at the Glebe—and she was always
open-handed—that she was compelled to take up
her residence at a far-away suburb ; but the
mendicants, well-dressed beggars and plate-
pushers followed her. Now she goes to the Cold
Country for respite. Miss Eadith Walker, who
used to give money indiscriminately, now gives a
certain society £l5O a year, besides maintaining a
few old pensioners who have been on her books
for years.
“Bill Hiplien ” writes a letter to “His
Majesty, the King of Ingland,” per favor of The
Bulletin :
Honored Sir.—l’m only a humble Australian, born of
poor but imported parents, but I ’ave a word o’ warnin’
for y’.
I ’ave noticed with alarm the deplorable and increasin’
increase in the Labor party in your Parleyment.
If you knew what this meant as well as I do, you’d lose
weight. Yessir, you’d stay awake at nights and sweat
copious. If y’u’d ’ad a s’lection on the Mitchell and was
maltin' your good two quid a week milkin’ 44 cows, an’ all
of a sudden the Labor party gits into power and your best
milker goes blind, and two of yo’ poddy calves gits bogged
in a crik, an’ yo’ ’orse gits the spavins, and yo| two dogs
gits theirselves pisened, and a bush-fire licks up yo’
fencin’, an’ yo’ draw a blank in Tatt’s. while a cove like
Jim Higgs catches a £5 prize, and the missis gets sick, I
asks yo’ what’d y’ think about the Labor party ?
I warn you solemn —look out for yo’self. ’Fore yo’
knows where yo’ are they’ll ’ave yo’ off er yo’ throne,
snatch yo’ habeas corpus, and y’u’ll be streakin’ for the
bush for yo’ life in yo’ shirt. Trustin’ you will be warned
in time, and deal with the brutes afore they gits to you,
I remains, yours very cordially, Bill Hiphkn.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
Slate wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
EL GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
cm
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
HageOi Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Pries Lists Gratis.
A. C. Rowlandson of the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co. has now established his head-quarters at
476 George-street, Sydney. The tirm found that
its quickly growing business made a central
office necessary.*
This is the age of cleanliness and common
sense, and the smart woman of the period demands
fabrics which oan be washed frequently, and will
not shrink or lose their color in the process. To
meet this demand the “ Viyella ” fabric has been
invented, a woollen mixture material made in
three varieties: “T—Light; TT—Medium; and
TTT—Heavy.” The first of the list is suitable
for ladies nightwear, dressing-gowns, and those
blushful but useful garments, bloomers; also
blouses, children’s frocks, and so forth. The other
two weights are suitable for either costumes or
men’s suitings. The variety of colors, shades
and patterns is infinite. Garments made of the
lightest material, inlaid (that is not the correct
word, but it’s near enough for a plain man) with
nice torchon lace, or silken borders, or flat inset
lace, are really fascinating, and at the same time
lend themselves to any number of washings, and
a clean underskirt waving over a muddy street
is a thing of beauty and a joy for all time.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
u
s
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
and ar, cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sydney Telegraph foolishly suggests to
the Sydney boot trade, which is over-producing
just now, “ export to England and America.”
Any boots sent to the United States would be
quite worn out climbing the tariff wall.
The British Order of the Garter has been
conferred on the J apanese Mikado and accepted
“as a sign of the breaking down of the racial
prejudice between Europe and Japan.” Well,
the Order of the Garter was begun in shame; it
fittingly ends in degradation.
From London Morning Leader’s descrip-
tion of Manchester when Balfour went down with a
dull sickening, etc., on polling day :
The streets were simply swamped with handbills and
cartoons, the one which made the most; impression being 1
the Leader’s reproduction of the cartoon from the Sydney
Bulletin : “ These be chy gods.”
Now that Crickolas Willis is obviously not
coming back, what is the N.S.W. Government
going to do with those two minor captures, Hos-
kins and McNair ? The Bulletin foigets whether
they have been remanded 13 or 28 times, but
whichever it is, the interminable dragging out of
their cases has become a public scandal.
The three S.A. delegates to the Chambers
of Manufactures Congress, at Launceston (Tas.),
were accused by a visitor of inconsistency, in
wearing an obviously high-class English-made
tweed while supporting the claims of the local
article. Whereupon they rose as one man and
gave thanks for the compliment paid to Lobethal
(S.A.) cloth, which all three of them were wearing.
State Premier Carruthers of N.S.W. lately
went to look at Monaro, the place he has been
denouncing as quite unfit for an Australian capital,
and came back full of enthusiasm about its beauty
and its climate. Perhaps if he had looked at
Monaro a little earlier he might have saved him-
self a lot of needless complaint and grumpiness.
Some of the men who selected Dalgety knew the
country. Joey apparently didn’t.
A Melbourne printing-ink manufacturer
exposed to the Tariff Commission lately one of
the details of the great “dumping” industry,
“ It puzzles us,” he said, “ to know how imported
ink, after paying 25 per cent, duty, besides freight
and landing charges, can be sold at a lower price
than the manufacturers’ price in the country in
which it was made.” But, of course, all that loss
will be recouped when the Australian manu-
facturer has been wiped out. It always is.
The postmaster at Coraki (N.S.W.), who
held the one position since 1879, with a
total service of 30 years, on a salary of
less than £3 a week, has been “sent up”
for two years for embezzling £776 16s. sd.
He would have been entitled to retire pre-
sently with £350 compensation, and he is
guaranteed for £4OO, so that the post-office loses
little. What can be said of such a salary for a
man 53 years of age, and with such responsibili-
ties? And what sort of an audit was there?
What the Federal tariff has done for Yic.
machinery manufacturers at the Austral-Otis
engineering works:—
1898 to 1901 1902 to 1905
(three years). (three years).
Value of machinery made.. £429,000 £285,000
Paid in wages .. .. £149,000 £97,000
Hands employed .. .. 400 220
And when the Ereetrade members of the Tariff
Commission heard that evidence, they suddenly
remembered that they had to ask a lot of questions
about the price of pigs in Dublin and other irrele-
vant matters.
Postmaster-General Ward, of Maoriland,
goes to the Postal Conference at Rome to advo-
cate penny postage all over the world. Maoriland
is, perhaps, just a little too agitated about the
convenience of the world, and a little too large in
its beneficence. While its eye is fixed so much on
big things abroad, its own debt grows in a terri-
fying fashion. Just now, things are good, and
the Maorilander sits in peace under his own pine
and big tree, but the debt, if it continues to
increase at the present rate, will eat up him and
his prosperity in the end, and then it will avail
him little even though he has farthing postage to
Greenland.
The Greater Melbourne scheme is steadily
growing. Last year the city corporation annexed
the municipalities of North Melbourne, Fleming*
ton and Kensington as Hopetoun Ward. Now
Brunswick, Fitzroy and Port Melbourne have ap-
plied to be included, and a committee has been
formed to arrange the business. It only wants
Collingwood, Kew and Hawthorn to come in to
unify the northern suburbs. South of the Yarra
there are Prahran, South Melbourne, St. Kilda
and Brighton. South Melbourne, so long as the
present mayor has any power, will refuse to unify,
though the other three might come in. The ad-
vantages to be gained by centralisation in Mel-
bourne are enormous, and the outside municipali-
ties are just beginning to see it.
G. H. Reid’s political stock must be very
low, since he has accepted a challenge to a public
debate on Socialism. The first challenger was
Wilson Wilson, an American visitor to Sydney,
whose Socialism is of the “ extreme ” kind ; but
the N.S.W. Labor League executive wouldn’t
endorse him as its representative, and W. A.
Holman takes his place. Holman is to be compli-
mented for stepping into the breach to ensure that
the Labor party view of Socialism is not misre-
presented ; but the debate is essentially a ridi-
culous notion. It can have no useful effect, except
to give an advertisement to the contestants. But
it shows how hard up G. H. Reid is for a little
notoriety that he drops to this junior debating
society game.
It was during the 1901-2 session of the
Commonwealth Parliament that M'Millan made
the ridiculous statement in the House of Reps,
that one of the great factors in the “natural
Protection ” of Australian-made agricultural
machinery was the heavy freight the imported
article had to pay. In spite of the evidence before
the Tariff Commission, Sydney Telegraph has
gone on, parrot-like, repeating that silly in-
accuracy as an argument on the Harvester ques-
tion. But last week it made a startling discovery
and announced that “it often costs pretty well as*
much to send goods to Westralia as it would to
send them _to London.” The Telegraph, if it
wants to print the whole truth, can easily ascer-
tain that it costs £5 more to send a harvester
from Melbourne to Geraldton or Fremantle than
to ship it to the same ports from New York.
Main reason for the difference seems to be that
the companies composing the Standard Oil Trust
(among which is the Harvester Combine) are
shareholders in what is known as the General
Transportation Company, which is able to cut
freights by using cheap tramp steamers.
A SOULFUL ITEM.
Here I sat and thought and thought deeply; and as I thought, my s[?]ml grew.— (Slab of letter to
daily paper re Holman Hunt’s picture.)
An engineer and brass-founder—with liis
eye on Freetrade-Labor Fowler—told the Tariff
Commission that “ the reduction in the tariff and
the raising of workmen’s wages had brought down
the manufacturer; he suggested 10 years of a
settled policy with a 40 per cent, duty.” The
Freetrade-Laborite is like the drunken or gam-
bling house-father who insists that his wife and
children shall be well fed and clothed, but regu-
larly fails to provide the needful funds. And the
world puts him down as a fraud and a hypocrite.
During the year which ended on 30th
June, 1905, the aggregate public debt of the
federated States increased by £2,945,109, and
N.S. Wales was responsible for £2,288,417 of the
increase. Under its Economical and Deform
Government the Ma State is indeed doing well.
Westralia, which added £552,485 to its debt, is
also going strong ; and S.A. increased its moun-
tain of liabilities by £179,900. On the other hand
Victoria, Queensland, and Tasmania all reduced
their debts a little. As for Maoriland, it became
a raging maniac, and added £2,389,785 to its
accumulated troubles.
The glass manufacturers who appeared
before the Tariff Commission had a short and
simple tale to tell. They have to pay 425. for a
week of 48 hours. They, have from 10 to 20 per
cent. Protection, but the difference in hours and
wages gives some of their foreign competitors
fully 20 per cent, advantage all the same. China
is beginning to make glass, and the Chow gets
30s. a month, and works over 12 hours a day,'
including Sundays—3os. for about 400 hours.
Therefore, Australia spends about £280,000 a year
on imported glass, and thereby deprives about
2800 people of a job—a proceeding which is calcu-
lated to make any patriotic Australian go into the
back yard and bray at himself in disgust.
Digby Denham, Q. Railways Minister,
has marked the Cloncurt-y railway on his office-
pad. It is to be pushed on with all speed. The
50 miles of rails which have been rusting by the
Gulf for 16 years are to be steamered round to
Townsville, and then trucked to Richmond, when
work will be commenced in earnest. Digby
declares that the sanctioned link of 90 miles will
be built within two years, and that next Parlia-
ment will see the section authorised right to Clon-
curry. There is a movement on foot already to
extend the line further, and penetrate the
Georgina country, said to be equal in grazing
potentialities to the best Gulf belts. If it could
only be extended into the heart of the Northern
Territory, and Australia had the right population
to send out to pioneer the country, then !!!
Australia seems likely to suffer almost as
much from the misguided enthusiasm of its
friends as from the virulent attacks of its foes.
Nothing can be gained by over-painting a picture.
Rev. E. H. Sugden, head master of Queen’s Col-
lege, Melbourne, told Birmingham (Birm. Mail,
14/12/’O5) that
The Government of Victoria now had 13,000,000 acres
of land still ripe for distribution. Any man who went
out to Victoria could apply for 200 acres of land. If he
had a wife he could apply for 200 acres for her ; and if he
had children over 18 he could have 200 acres each for
them.
That does more harm than good. When the
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth admits
that “ farmers’ sons have left Victoria in hun-
dreds because land is not available ” it is folly to
talk to possible emigrants in England of 13,000,000
acres “ ripe for distribution.”
Joe Cook is about to get snubbed severely
by his leader, the Globular One. In his fierce
hatred of the cause from which he ratted, Joseph
has been denouncing the graduated land-tax pro-
posals of the recent Labor Conference in Sydney
as “ Confiscation,” “ Highway robbery,” and other
atrocities. Joe’s zeal has outrun his discretion,
and has created a pained impression among many
ardent Freetraders. They dislike to see the
deputy leader giving away the fact that the Great
Freetrade and Liberal Party is the party of the
Great Land Grabbers. Just now the demand for
population is urgent, and the Freetrade papers
have been saying quite a lot about “ land settle-
ment ” and the “great natural industries,” and
when Joseph comes along and announces that
his party has no idea of trying to fill up the
country with population, and prefers to let the
mighty landlord keep his millions of idle acres, it
makes those papers look foolish.
The Federal Commission on the Tobacco
Industry has, by 3 to 1, reported in favor of nation-
alising the trade. It is calculated that some
£300,000 a year) additional to the present Customs
and excise revenue, would be gathered in by a
State Tobacco Monopoly. But a change in the
Constitution is necessary before such a step is pos-
sible, and that change is suggested. There is no
doubt that Australia wants that £300,000 a year.
So soon as the Commonwealth begins to do its
duty as a nation—to provide for proper defence
by land and sea, and to establish old age pensions,
&c. —revenue needs will increase, especially as by
then a tariff which has become really Protective
will begin to fail as a revenue-raiser.
One day lately the Tariff Commission was
invited to look down the barrel of the deadly
seven-and-sixpenny revolver and the murderous
thirty-shilling gun that comes into Australia from
Belgium, America and England. Expert Lam-
pard described some of the death-traps which had
been brought to him for repair. One had the
barrel bent double ; it had blown off the gun, but
had been considerate enough to fly up into the air
instead of killing a citizen or so. Another had
burst the breech at a spot where the iron
was one-seventh of an inch think. Belgian
guns, these people judged, were subjected to a
very low test, and American single breech-loaders
to none at all. Rosier, who has been handling
these things all his life, suggested that importers
should be forced to test every gun they brought in
—cost roughly estimated at 2s. Gd. a gun—and
Lampard made the better suggestion of fixed
duties to keep the most hopeless of the cheap rub-
bish out. Australia, as a country where every
person is more or less in the habit of firing a gun,
wants something of the sort if the life-insurance
business is to prosper.
Freetrader Fuller acquired unexpected
information from a witness before the Tariff
Commission. The witness asked for a 20 per
cent, duty on bevelled glass. Fuller: “You
are a Prohibitionist, I gather?” “No. I am
a Freetrader,” “ But you have just been asking
for Protective duties.” “ Well, lam a Freetrader,
but I suppose it is the want of education. I
was brought up a Freetrader, but when Protection
enables me to employ 20 men as against 10 at pre-
sent, it makes me think.” Australia is full of men
like that, violent Freetraders, whose demand for
Protection in their own industries is like the cry
of a starved wolf which wants beef handed down
to it.
Japan, which is said to have a great famine
on hand and to be in need of assistance from out-
side, has just commenced paying off its public
debt of about £182,000,000 (roughly about £4 per
Jap). And Australia, which owes between £5O
and £OO per head, and reckons itself so poor that
it has to keep on borrowing, and which hasn’t
managed yet to scratch together a copper for its
essential transcontinental railways, and can’t (or
thinks it can’t) even keep up a semblance of an
army and navy for its own defence—Australia has
been appealed to for assisw.nee on account of the
alleged Jap famine. It is a curious world.
Wm. Sandford, of Wm. Sandford Ltd.,
during a recent visit of a State Ministerial ptrty
to the Eskbank (N.S.W.) ironworks, stated:—
Before entering into this contrast (with the Carruthers
Government for iron and steel supplies) Mr. Thornley and
myself had an interview with Mr. Reid and Mr. Cook,
when Mr. Reid said, “ When it comes to a question of 10
or 12j( per cent, duty you won’t find me against you.”
Thus the great Freetrade leader tries to nobble
Protectionists’ votes by promising to support
Protective duties. And seemingly Cook agreed
with his alleged leader—at all events Cook didn’t
repudiate the idea with the indignation one might
expect.
The old crowd which used to say that the
Queensland Laborites were not to be trusted be-
cause they knew nothing of business methods is
wishing to Heaven now that they didn’t know so
much. Brisbane City Council, pushed on by the
land-owners, went to Premier Kidston, the other
day, and asked him to give it the old Lands Office
in George-street, so that it might continue the
now-blind Adelaide-street through to North
Quay. “See,” said the representatives of the
property-owners—“ see what an advantage it
would be to have the street open right through.”
“ Yes,” said Kidston, “ and I see who would reap
most of it.” And never a bit would he budge
from his attitude that, if the State gave up the
land, it must be paid, just as any other business
concern would demand payment —as the Gas Co.,
for instance, did a while ago.
“The colonies” serve all sorts of pur-
Eoses, and furnish all kinds of cranks with a
andy excuse. The latest instance is the wail of
a Dublin Orange Lodge, which says that if
Princess Ena of Battenberg becomes a Roman
Catholic in order to marry Alfonso of Spain, the
event will “imperil the ties binding the Pro-
testant colonies to the reigning family in Great
Britain.” If the Dublin Vegetable Lodge is
serious in saying this, it greatly over-estimates
the importance which “the Protestant colonies”
attach to the little Battenberg girl’s religion.
It is questionable if one of them would turn a
hair if Henry Battenberg’s daughter became a
Buddhist. If she is willing to change her belief
in order to get a husband she is a mighty poor
Protestant, and she will make a very unimportant
Roman Catholic, and Alfonso is welcome to his
bargain.
Prime Minister Bannerman, of Britain,
states proudly that the recent general elections
have “ given Protection its quietus,” and doubt-
less the poor, ordinary old man really believes
this. A Roman emperor who was much younger
and less ordinary than Bannerman, gave Christi-
anity its quietus once m like manner; also there
was once a person who climbed up a ladder to blot
out the sun with his hat. One of the first acts
perpetrated under the wretched Bannerman
Government, according to the cablegrams, has
been the handing over to the Chinese autho-
rities, on demand, of a policeman in British
employ, who is said to have accidentally
touched a mandarin’s flunkey with his stick while
directing the traffic, and thus brought discredit on
the mandarin. The miserable wretch received
1000 lashes, and was then sent to a Chinese gaol
for a long term. Presumably this was done lest
the Chinese should get angry and shut out two-
penn’orth of British calico. Under Freetrade the
British market is flooded with about £150,000,000
worth of foreign manufactured goods annually;
the Britisher has to find foreign markets some-
where to make good the loss of his home business ;
and he has to eat dirt at the feet of all manner of
niggers and heathens in the struggle after “trade
outlets,”
SENATORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argus recommends William Zeal, Simon Fraser
and George Turner for a trio of Senators to be elected
this year ; because “ they are men for whom the pro-
ducers, the Protectionists, and the low-tariff party could
all vote, for they are sound in their opposition to Social-
ism, and in other matters they are not extremists.”
Oh ! when ’tis time to scratch the names upon the Senate
lists,
Let’s vote for dummies—neither high nor lowly tariffists—
Who’re sound in their adhesion to their fog-bound policy
Of letting things be as they are, however bad they be.
Unbiassed by conviction and unprejudiced by sense,
Vote for three bulky negatives a-sitting on the fence.
Let’s vote for Turner, Fraser, Zeal—blank zeros sound
they are,
Who moderately vote for nothing in particular ;
Their gravity is weighty, and their feet are ever placed
On the road which leads to nowhere and with no un-
seemly ha:.te.
Vote for three drear hypotheses to guide our Common-
weal ;
Three solid hunks of meat and gloom—Sim Fraser, Turner,
Zeal 1
VIO.
LOUIS ESSON.


YOUR FEET EASY?
—amßHHHi
To enjoy life —to give the best possible attention to your calling in life —you MUST
have your feet in comfortable Boots. It’s no use trifling with this question and permitting
a pair of badly-fitting Boots to pointedly and unpleasantly draw your attention to the
wrong you are doing your feet.
The Boot which this picture represents is SPECIALLY
CONSTRUCTED of the finest Vici-Kid leather, with the
DISTINCT OBJECT of AFFORDING the MOST COM-
FORT POSSIBLE to very tender feet. The aim has been
to combine SOFTNESS and THOROUGH PLIABILITY
of both Uppers and Soles with the strength necessary
for good wear.
In fine Black Vici-Kid, whole
goloshed, made in pointed, med.
and broad toes ------
•OR-
25-
Post and Duty Free all
over the Commonwealth,
including West Aust. - -
26 -
send for a pair of these Boots we both
lose money, and you lose foot
comfort.
All our Boots are as
good as gold. Send
for our Illustrated
Pries List —
Post Free.
YOU CAN RELY
ON A GOOD FIT.
WE RETURN
MONEY IF
YOU ARE NOT
PERFECTLY
SATISFIED.
mW-
.
395 Csorge St.
CALLAGHAN & SON
HOME
NEW
MEDICAL APPARATUS
yyiflf nRV BATTERT
m
s§
i mssm
m
mu
tm-
I
WE SEND AWAY HUNDREDS.
The New Home
Medical Battery
We send away hundreds of these
Batteries, and have never received
one word of complaint. Use this
Battery instead of your electric belt,
and note the difference ! Wherever
electricity is required, this Battery
will give abundant satisfaction. It
is good for all nervous disorders.
Price 355.
POST
FREE
We will Refund Money in
Any Case of Dissatisfaction.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
‘MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
u
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
m
i
II
m
i
1!
m
m
m
m
Si
Horn
Queen’s GdeTerra.ce
London. S.W.
UNDER
Royal
PATRONAGE
ONE NV/ OF
THE
\ FASHIONABLE;
k\ HOTELS IN /
1 LONDON I
/ NOTED FOR\
ITS COM FORT &
CONVENIENCE
HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED THE SCORE
And Other Verses
and Sketches . .
By THOS. E. SPENCER,
With Portrait and 12 Full-Pag-e Illustrations
by LIONEL LINDSAY and H. W. COTTON.
Full Cloth, Price 3/6 ; Post Free 6d extra.
PART I. contains —“How McDougall Topped the Score,” “Schneider Strauss,” “Did You
Ever,” “Not Too Bad,” “ O’Mulligan’s Wallaby Drive,” “A Niclit wi’ Bums,” and
many other elocutionary favorites.
I 5 ART 11. contains—“ The Reminiscences and Reflections of Mrs. McSvveeny,” a series of
readings brimful of Irish wit and humor, specially suitable for the social gathering.
To those In search of first-class Recitations, warranted ta “bring down
the house,” this book wiil be a godsend.
K.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. «« Ceorge-st., Sydney
AND BRANCHES.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
PERFECT
satisfaction, as far as the Roof
cerned, can he obtained by the
use of Malthoid Roofing. It
extensively used for
is con-
proper
is also
INSULATION
purposes, as it is a non-conductor of
heat and cold. Being thorough I y water-
proof, it prevents the evil effects of
condensation. Send for booklet.
If it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
A list. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic,
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
m
o*
*Sk
S 3
m
o
m
Mi
m
v* ’
V,
m
m
o
m
mz
m
vk
as
;-
z
v. ::<> •
*
!Z
p?
- :-j-. ’ - .... -
FROM
111.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcock&G;, 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM
MILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
WHEN BUYING •
CORSE.TS
INSIST ON HAVING A
m
The
■k. -


“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Act Like
Magic.
Coming troubles often cast their shadows before
them, and invariably liver and kidney complaints
are preceded by marked symptoms. The aching
back, the insipid, tired feeling, are the first indica-
I
MW
tions which may
lead to Bright’s
disease, diabetes,
gravel, gall
stones, inflamma-
tion and stones
in the bladder,
and other uri-
nary troubles.
‘'Having used
Dr. Morse’s
Indian Boot
Pills for the relief
of liver and
kidney com-
plaints, I can
speak with some
degree of experi-
ence as to their
magic effect upon
these ailments,”
writes Mr. George
Harper, of 132 Liverpool-street, Sydney. “ For
over twelve months 1 suffered daily with intense
pain from aching kidneys, and I was frequently
almost doubled up and unable to walk. I was also
troubled with chronic constipation, which occa-
sioned me much distress. Nothing I tried seemed
to give me any permanent relief until seeing Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills in a chemist’s shop. I
gave them a trial, with the result that they drove
away the pains and restored my system to perfect
working order. I still take a pill or two
occasionally, and recommend your wonderful
remedy to anyone who is suffering.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and
a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
Cable Address —
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersa/f’s Club,
SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST HARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
4
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersa/I’s,
SYDNEY.
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Officks:
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Y.R.C. Autumn fixture seems to have
gained a lot of local public interest from the sifting of
“ form ”at the recent Caulfield meeting. A fortnight ago
the Victorian horses gave little promise of making a
strong opposition to the vaunted visiting cracks, but if
Caulfield tests were at all trustworthy, the invaders from
over the border are not going to have the sprints to them-
selves anyhow. In the long distance events they may
repeat their superiority of four months ago. Lady Wal-
lace looks a very good thing for the Leger, and in the
Australian Cup list there is only Circuit among
the Victorians with a visible chance of beating such
proved performers as Tartan, Blue Spec, Scot Free and
Ossian. At time of writing the placed horses for the
Melbourne Cup—Blue Spec, Scot Free and Tartan—are
almost worth backing against the field for the Australian
Cup, and if they all go to the post in their best fettle it
will not be 20 to 1 against them finishing at the head of
the procession in the same order as before. But the pre-
sent scribe, in preference to predicting a miraculous coin-
cidence, will plump for Tartan to win this time, with
Spec and Scot following him home.
As for the Newmarket Handicap, a scramble
that ought to produce a lot of reasonable betting in a
fairly open market, the balance of chances now appears
to be in favor of the local stuff. It was a revival of old
times on Saturday to see Gladsome come with a rush and
win the Futurity Stakes from the imported 3-year-old
Duke of Melton, with old Pendant only a head behind
the youngster. And again when Palindrome and Medal-
list “ pipped ” Istria at the finish of the Hawksburn Han-
dicap, six furlongs (1.14 J). If Gladsome were to fly off
the mark next Saturday, the mare should win the
Newmarket, for she meets her five best followers
in the Futurity upon terms that will be easier,
or not more unfavorable to her. But Gladsome is
not a quick beginner among sprinters as a rule, and
perhaps Lachlan (7st.), who ran well enough last Satur-
day (and will have an advantage in the weights
over Duke of Melton, Pendant and Pompous) may con-
trive to do the trick. The Newmarket looks open to all
the eight nags aforementioned, without including
Machine Gun (11.3) and Wandin among the very probable
ones. Last year’s “form” is represented by Medallist
who ran third to Playaway and Lord Ullin’s Daughter, and
when the somewhat infirm Medallist gets thoroughly fit,
as now, he is one of the best. Guessing at the Newmarket
result from what was seen at Caulfield and what was
heard about the luck of the running, this prophet places :
Lachlan 1
Medallist 2
Pompous 3
• * » *
The bookies got a bad showing up by the tote
the other day at some amateur races at Walcha.
Hooke, of Jeweller fame, reckoned he had the Cup as good
as won with„a horse named Keeper. But Keeper died a
day or two before the race and he started another (Blue
Belle) as a forlorn hope. There were only four starters,
but the books opened out and laid 10 to 1 Blue Belle.
But the amateurs were running a blind “parimutuel ” on
the race, and on this Blue Belle, who won, paid 95 to 1.
Imagine anyone asking Moses for 95 to 1 about a horse in
a field of four—or in a field of 14 for that matter.
* * * *
At a Broken Hill race meeting last week the
stewards heard something novel in the way of an excuse.
They had the owner and jockey of a certain horse up to
explain the animal’s running. The owner maintained that
he had backed his steed and was an innocent and
disgusted man who might be vainly searched for informa-
tion. Not so the jockey. The horse ran well, he said,
till they got to the far side of the course. Here a number
of camels were camped and the odor so broke up the noble
animal that it refused to gallop anj r more. The explana-
tion was so far accepted that the parties got off with a
caution.
* * * *
The audacity of John Wren Esq. seems to have
over-reached itself in his letter to Premier Bent offering
to rent the V.R.C. racecourse from the public for £25,000
a year, paying one year’s rent in advance. By persistently
advertising himself in this vainglorious way Wren is
merely hastening the day when the suppression of his
Tote scandal will be forced upon the Vic. Police and
Crown Law departments. Wren’s offer was used last week
as a means for poking borak at Premier Bent, the man
who makes a hot perspiring display of autocratic activity
in some directions, but is so strangely passive as regards
“ the Curse of Collingwood.” Somebody wrote to him
offering to pay “ an annual licence fee of £35,000 for the
right to run and conduct the totalisator in Victoria for a
term of ten years, with a view to removing the totalisator
from its present undesirable environments, and placing
its working in a healthj r and clean atmosphere, and
ensuring that the people as a whole shall get a fair share
of the profits of the machine.” Bent, being blind to the
fact that this satire on Wren’s proposal was a satire on
Bent’s Government, handed the letter to the Press as a
harmless joke.
* » * *
Time was when John Wren endeavored to keep
his identity a secret from the Melbourne public. That
was the time when the Collingwood Tote stood in some
danger of suppression by the Law. Now that it is a privi-
leged scandal, one sees a litbo. portrait of Mr. John Wren,
the face framed in a horseshoe, pasted upon all the hoard-
ings. The identity of the inflated Wren has come to be a
pictorial advt. of his ponv-race meetings, and he is pro-
bably the first racecourse proprietor who has billed him-
self as a special attraction. This must be very gratifying
to Samuel Gillott, the political head of the local Police
Department.
* * * T
M.L. Trotting Association has refused a license
to a lady to train horses.
* * * *
The buck-jumping contest that seemed likely to
eventuate between Skuthorp’s “ Dargan’s Gray ” and one
of Martini’s riders (Willie Waite for preference) is now off,
and both parties have withdrawn their stake from this
office. Skuthorp has issued a writ claiming £5OOO damages
from Martini for alleged breach of contract. This
contest, providing no settlement is effected, will be
fought out in the Supreme Court ring, where Gentleman
One John Mulligan will stage-manage for Skuthorp, and
Messrs. McCarthy and Maxwell act as Martini’s ring-
masters.
In the meantime the angry Skuthorp has gone
back to Queensland to bring his own show over to Sydney,
where it will open on the 24th of March. It is a fearsome
show, according to all accounts, and among the other
novelties a number of wild and woolly backbloxmen will
ride bullocks even wilder than themselves. A horse is one
of Nature’s gentlemanly creations, and even the wildest
buckjumper is content when he has thrown his rider, and
only once in a century tries to bite him when he is down.
But a bullock !! Skuthorp is running his show on lines
which will fetch out thebest horsemanship in the State. He
has announced a buekjumping contest open to all comers—
even Martini’s rough-riders can compete—for £lO0 —first
prize £75, second £2O, third £lO. A further prize of £2O
is offered for the best bucking| horse produced. Skuthorp
himself, the man who did the famous insanity act
known as “ The Adam Lindsay Gordon Leap,” will ride
anything in the shape of a horse that is brought along,
but he draws the line at bullocks—bullocks are infra dig.
Martini’s show was unusually bright on Satur-
day night. First of all a man in the audience accepted
the proprietor’s challenge to ride a vicious rearer for one
pound, and, walking into the arena, divested himself of
his coat and vest. It is usual in contests of this sort to
allow the rider to be seated, but Martini’s men handed the
nag over to the man to mount himself. The horse
reared and plunged, and the stranger, cool
as a cucumber, stood from under the striking
forefeet, and, seizing his opportunity, made ineffec-
tual attempts to mount the brute. People, afraid
that he would be killed, yelled to him to desist, whilst
others cheered him on, and all the time the young man
never turned a hair. There was a rear, a sudden leap, and
he was in the saddle, and had gained the stirrups. The
gee-gee plunged, reared and pranced round the ring, but
the cool youngman sat still. When the horse was ridden
out a man rushed out and smote him on the nose with
a knotted rope, and threw sawdust at him to
make him buck. The crowd yelled execrations
and threats of murder. And then the rider dismounted
and collected his pound. Wild liberality of prizes will
not break up the Martini show. The same night
“ Jigger ” Laval had a return contest with Bobs. Martini
announced that it was not a contest for money—he was
paying the “Jigger” to ride Bobs, but he was not
paying him to fall off. Bobs arched his back like a cat in
love and kicked out furiously. The “Jigger” held
round the ring, and then one more effort found him
standing up in the stirrups; another, and he and
the horse had parted company, and done it artis-
tically. Writer would like to see the “ Jigger ” ride,
or try to ride, Bobs for £lOO stake. The “Jigger”
looks like a horseman.
Buckjumper riding is almost a fine art, and
really ought to rank among the sciences. If it is a life
and death struggle between the man and the horse,
the horse has no show—the man could kill him every time
if the man knows his business. Martini has been show-
ing a number of horses, but none of them get their heads
down between their knees —not even Bobs. The horse
that doesn’t get his head between his knees is not a true
bucker; and the horse that puts his head between his
knees is lost—if the man can survive the first buck or
two—for a skilful horseman will let his head go down sud-
denly, and then a stunned horse rolls over. But the
trouble is to stay on board long enough to do the trick.
Hurdle racing and steeplechasing are sadly over-
done in England. The first half of the season—till the
end of December —saw 459 races decided for a stakes
total of £31,000. Average, £67 a race.
***•*•
Notwithstanding the fact that two previous
wins by the Petrel had decided the destination of the
Prince Alfred Yacht Club championship, no matter what
won Saturday’s event, the steamer was crowded. The
wind from the E.S.-E. was fairly strong in a spasmodic
manner, but was often light. The»yachts made a
flying start, rating allowances to be adjusted at the
finish, and they flashed across the line like a covey of
great white-winged birds. It was one of the best starts
seen on Port Jackson for many a long day. Sunbeam,
the scratch boat, struggled to the front and led round
the buoy at Manly, and thence to Shark Island, the Fort,
away to Watson’s Bay pile-light and home. But Scotia,
with a time allowance of lOmin. 35sec., finished only
smin. 42sec. behind the scratch boat, and thereby were
the Scriptures fulfilled, and the (second) last became the
first. Petrel finished behind Culwulla, third, but wins
the Championship with seven points ; Scotia is runner
up with five points, Culwulla third with four points,
while Magic and Fleetwing score one each.
* * * *
The much-talked-of match between the Maori-
land-built yachts Rawhiti and Bona duly came off on
Saturday last in Port Jackson, with the assistance of an
E.S.E. wind. Mr. Pittar’s Rawhiti is quite a new boat,
having been off the stocks only a few months, while the
Bona was constructed some years ago for Mr. J. H. Chin-
nery, who sold her to Mr. Binnie. On account of the dif-
ference in the rating-, the Rawhiti was called upon to give
Bona an allowance of 35sec. The race ended in a victory
for the older boat, which was more skilfully handled than
the new-comer, by 52sec., or 17sec. over and above the
rating allowance. Rawhiti is not a boat for inside sailing,
but the way it flew along and overhauled Bona when the
wind freshened indicated that under a stiff breeze and
outside conditions it is the boat to put the money on.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron on Saturday sailed
two heats and an exciting final over the usual course.
George Ellis, having abandoned Vision, found himself at
the tiller of Blanche ; while “ Billy ” Dunn had replaced
brother Charles in the Crescent, and Federal and Merlin
both had new skippers in the persons of T. Leach and J.
Smith respectively. The first heat was won by Desde-
mona, which caught a southerly puff and ran in first,
with Australian, Alert, and Crescent behind in that
order. On the way to the starting point in the second
heat Merlin turned clean over, and Stella, after a bad
start, bent over and, sailing through the fleet, won easily,
with Zena, Donnelly, and Blanche behind. This brought
out nine for the final. Blanche, Donnelly, and Stella
were all late getting away. Ellis was reduced to a state'
of silent despair by his crew getting the jib overboard,
which event wrecked all hope of being in the first flight. -
At Clark Island, Crescent caught a puff and went to the
front, Federal went over, and Stella and Australian had
trouble with their ballooners. Crescent increased its
lead, and in the end won easily from Zena and Desde-
mona. Meanwhile Ellis has started out to instruct his
forward hands how to handle the jib.
* * * *
Yet another Australian oarsman has his eye on
the Diamond Sculls race at Henley (Eng.). F. S. Kelly is
on the spot already; T. Bourke left recently; and now
Victorian sculler Roy Adam is bent on a similar quest.
Although very young, Adam is all grit; but Bourke (all
going well) seems better than his opponent.
• * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association doesn’t exactly
know whether to stick to its guns and send an eight-oar
team to Westralia or not. At any rate, the association
has started scraping up a shilling subscription for funds
to cover expenses, and has intimated that if the “ bobs ”
don’t roll in by a general subscription, it isn’t financially
able to stay the bottom from falling out of the proposal.
There has recently been quite an overdose of collecting
for amateur sporting proposals—a, circumstance which
isn’t likely to boost amateurism in the State. Rowing is
certainly the most charitable sport—the owners of the
river banks taking the bulk of the proceeds; still the
courtesy of the other State associations in sending along
teams which create the interest in Sydney should be
returned in similar manner.
* * * *
The Kieran memorial fund has none of the
celerity of the man whose fame it seeks to perpetuate.
So far, only £146 has been subscribed, and of this the
dead swimmer’s companions on the training ship are
responsible for £65. The same lads are giving an enter-
tainment at Hunter’s Hill Town Hall to-morrow (Friday)
night, to swell the fund a little.
. - • * *
The Board of Control for Australian cricket has
practically won its fight. Melbourne Club, which was
the backbone of the opposition, was brought to sudden
collapse. It was hard at work intriguing with the Mary-
lebone Club in England to prevent that body recognising
the Board’s existence. In this effort it was nobly
seconded by the bulk of the Australian XI. According to
Laver’s book they represented to the Marylebone Club
committee that the Board was a hole-and-corner mush-
room that would soon perish. Wonder what the Maryle-
bone Club thinks of these gentry now? For it was
apparently through their intriguing- that the Marylebone
Club made an ass of itself by declining the Board’s invita-
tion to send out a team in 1906-7 ; and if a team doesn’t
come under the Board’s auspices, it might as well
stay at home. Then the Melbourne Cricket Club saw the
wraith of electoral cricket rise in its path, and
once that materialised the Melbourne Cricket Club
would fall to the level of a mere district affair. The only
way to prevent that was to get representation on the new
Board, and, dropping its tomahawk, M.C.C. g'ot down on
its marrowbones and prayed. Its prayer was heard, and
the Board’s constitution altered to allow of one Victorian
delegate being nominated by the M.C.C. When the
Marylebone Club got a straight letter or two from the
Board’s secretary which told it plainly enough that if it
wanted its team to play with first-class represen-
tative players in the three eastern mainland States,
that team must come out under the auspices
of the Board of Control, it probably cursed the XI.
for having landed it in the dirt. It then affected
to be standing in a position of • strict impartiality,
and announced that it was “ perfectly willing to
negotiate with any body authorised to speak for
all the important cricket interests of Australia” —
whatever that may mean. Probably it was a mere jumble
of words to conceal the fact that the Marylebone Club
felt bad. Meanwhile Darling, on behalf of the S. Aus-
tralian Association, wants the financing of Australian
teams in England left optional. The Board will not hear
of it, and Darling says he holds in his pocket a written
invitation from the Marylebone Club to take an Australian
team to England in 1908. He may have the invitation,
but the Marylebone Club won’t recognise the team he
could raise in opposition to the Board of Control. The
time has come for the Board to hit Darling and his
precious Ass. hard by fixing a date up till which they
still may come in out of the wet, otherwise—stay out and
be swamped. If S. Australia finds itself being dropped in
the inter-State and English matches it will soon place
the Association where the man put the puppies, overboard
in a bag.
Seems to have been some deadly bowling in the
Melbourne v. Richmond match. The Melbourne club
only made 55 in the first innings. Three of the batsmen
failed to break their shells ; even Trumble only got 17,
and the side withered away under the deadly bowling of
Goss, who took seven of Melbourne’s wickets for 23.
When they got to the sticks, the Richmond men did
somewhat better, but nothing to crow about, and at
close of play had lost five wickets for 45. Is Goss The
Bowler YVho Is To Come ?
Contrary to expectation, the latest round of
Sydney first-grade cricket did not produce any wild
changes in the premiership lists. Waverley still leads,
with 10 points now, and Glebe and Burwood still run
neck and neck for second place with nine each. Behind
them North Sydney, with only a shadow of its former
greatness, toils miserably with six, and further behind
the other eight clubs are all something below zero.
Altogether it was a day of steady, consistent batting, the
only century being Pite’s 136 (not out) for Sydney District
against Paddington.
The bright particular feature of the day’s play
was Burwood’s marvellous recovery against Redfern.
Redfern, the previous Saturday, ran up 179 for the first
innings, and then took eight of Burwood’s wickets for 75.
Wallace and Garnsey were the not out men; the
former had made 13, while the latter had not started to
score. This left Burwood with 104 to make and only two
wickets to fall. Wallace added 16, when he was bowled,
and 87 were still wanted when the last man, O’Connor,
went to the wicket. It was a time for mighty slogging,
and Garnsey made 25 in fivers alone, and O’Connor also
hit a fiver. O’Connor had made 38 when he was caught
by Hopkins off Wadsworth, and Garnsey carried his bat
out for 48, and these, with 13 for sundries, gave Burwood
a first innings victory by nine. In fact, it was the byes
that won the game for Burwood, for, like the winning
margin, they numbered nine.
But it was a day of sensations. Waverley had
notched 305 the previous Saturday against the University,
and the collegians’ case looked hopeless. But Harvey
and Lane batted away, and the first wicket fell for 140,
and the Uni’s hopes began to rise. At 162 another wicket
fell, and then the sky of their prospects became overcast
once more. Fuller’s bowling began to tell, and a rot set
in till Fisher arrived, and, with the help of Penman and
McElhorte, carried the score from 212 to 299. Already
the Uni. barrackers were cheering for a win, but silence
fell like an avalanche as Hill held the ball at mid-on.
Stack scored one and then Newell clean bowled him,
leaving Waverley winner by five.
* * » *
Sydney Church of England Grammar School
and Sydney Grammar School both put up marvellous
performances in the Great Public Schools Premiership
contest on Saturday. The C.E.G.S. inflicted a crushing
defeat on the King’s School at Parramatta, winning by
an innings and 98 runs. One C.E.G.S. boy, H. Massie,
made 115 himself, which was only three short of the
total score of the King’s School first innings. At Hunter’s
Hill, the Grammar School beat St. Joseph’s College by
304 runs on the first innings. C. V. Gale made 144 to hi's
own bat, and E. Barbour backed him up with 80. Some
of these Grammar School boys are evidently going to be
heard of in big cricket shortly.
» * * *
A group of 12 representative N.S.W. cricketers,
published early in 1875, represents the team that played in
December, 1874, against Victoria at Melbourne, the Vic-
torians winning by six wickets and one run. The 12 in-
clude Joe Coates, George Gilbert, Nat Thompson, Ned
Sheridan, Charles Bannerman, Ted Powell, Ned Gregory,
Fred Spofforth, George Morgan, Edward Tindall, W.
Wood, and Edmund Barton, 12th man and umpire.
Coates, Gregory, Thompson and Morgan are dead.
Gilbert is, or was until lately, camping out some-
where. Sheridan had a tobacconist’s shop in Bris-
bane awhile ago. Bannerman, a professional umpire,
Powell, a solicitor, and Tindall, a police court official, are
in Sydney. Spofforth lives in England. W. Wood is, or
was until recently, postmaster at Campbelltown, and
Edmund Barton is a Justice of the High Court of the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
N.S.W. Championship Lawn Tennis Tourna-
ment will commence at Sydney Cricket Ground on March
2nd, and be continued every day to and including the
10th. Fourteen events are set down for decision, and as
all teams are practising hard, and the very best players
in Australasia will be present, play is expected to surpass
that at any previous tournament. The Sydney Lawn
Tennis Club will control and manage the tournament.
* * * *
Victoria has managed, by begging from Deme-
trius Phriedfish of Sparta, to get both its champion
athletes away to Athens for the Olympic games. The
usual money difficulty faced the Amateur Athletic Asso-
ciation at first. The sum of £135 was raised, but though
that would take Wheatley for the middle distance events,
quite another £lOO was wanted to send George Blake for
the Marathon race. The committee scraped together
another £5O, and then the bright idea struck it of cabling
to Greece. The Greek Consul was approached, and he
wired to his Government, asking it to help this great,
rich country with £5O. The cable was sent on a Satur-
day, and the £5O arrived from the beggared little king-
dom on Monday. It would have been a lasting diso-raoe
to Victorian athletics if Blake had been left behind. 8 H
is far and away the best distance runner Victoria has
produced so far, and an infinitely better man than Flack
over a distance, yet Flack just missed winning the Mara
thon race. Blake, if he goes out in anything like form"
should easily annex the 22-mile event. ° ’
* * * *
The Australasian Amateur Athletic Union has
decided to be represented at the Olympian games at Rome
in 1908. There is plenty of time for the Onion to pick
out a strong team of Australasian athletes to make the
trip. There have never been any plums in Australasian
amafeurism ; and the probability of a trip to Rome mav
put life into the languishing business. Between the
Roman show in 1908 and the Athenian show this year
ancient history is looking up. J
**' * •
N.S.W. Athletic League is pushing professional
pedestnamsm with much vigor. Thusfar this season
2100 athletes and 129 clubs are under the League’s wing
—in fact, it carries sufficient weight to scare away
almost all opposition. The League is also keeping Mo
from dabbling too deeply in the sport, and professional
pedestrianism at present has a much needed cleanliness
about it.
* * * *
Said that Cecil Healy may be dispatched at the
end of this week to represent Australian swimmers at the
Olympian Games in Athens. The Healy brothers are
steadily improving, and just at present are the most pro-
mising swimmers on the continent.
* * * *•
Outback, in Mangaweka (M.L.), a couple of
top-form girls had a row about a bat, and a challenge to
fight after school was accepted—conditionally. The
more particular girl of the two wanted her mother’s per-
mission to engage in war. The mother refused to have
her daughter’s clothes torn off her, and kept her at home;
so a valiant she-mate took her place, and the scratch-as-
scratch-can culminated in the whole school taking sides,
and going for each other with unbelievable ferocity. The
spectacle of 40 or 50 lumps of girl clawing and mawling
and screeching, and scratching and losing hair-
ribbon, and getting utterly wrecked, was remem-
bersome, and drew a large crowd ; but it was only when
the excited girls got to fighting when lying on the ground
and tearing each others’ stockings and things off that in-
terference was suggested. There was many a sad little
heart in Mangaweka that night when parents added their
contribution to the bat dispute.
* * * *
The ineffable cheek of some people. An Inver-
cargill (M.L.) woman, Mrs. Nora Cavanagh, drew £4OOO
in Tatt.’s sweep, and one Lumsden waited on her,
and offered to identify her at the bank as “the light
party.” For this onerous service he asked £lOO. The
woman agreed, but thought better of it, and at the bank
got him to sign a paper accepting £5O as payment in
full. There was, of course, no trouble about her getting
the cash ; she didn’t require the interference of any
outsider, but in her ignorance of sweeps and things she
parted up. Then the man thought he should have had
the other £5O, and as it was refused with much en-
thusiasm, he actually sued for it. In court he denied
that he was agent for Tattersall, and the court, in giving
judgment against him, said he had no claim for com-
mission at all.
* » • *
Turns out that the Germans have been using
three military automobiles against the Hereros in South-
West Africa. So far, no reports have been made as to
their effectiveness—but it is a fine, fascinating method of
warfare. The Raid of the Armored Motor-cars !


Hatting Your Head.
EVERYONE wants their head hatted. If they’ve
. the right kind of head they’ll want the right
kind of hat. A hat that will wear well, fit
well, and look well as long as worn, ought to
be good enough.
The Austral Hat Mills
at ABBORTSFORD, VICTORIA,
are turning out just such hats. They’re made of the
best winter rabbit fur—no shoddy about them. This
fur is first sterilized, and then goes through every
process that modern Hat-making knows of. You can
get AUSTRAL HATS from most leading Hatters,
Outfitters, Mercers and Storekeepers throughout the
Commonwealth. Every high-grade hat of their
making has their name branded inside it—look for it.
If you can’t get them in your district write to the
Austral Hat Mills direct, and they’ll arrange with
your local Storekeeper to stock them. You might as
well mention his name when writing. Remember,
Austral Hats are Australian all through. You’ll find
them better than the foreign shoddy dumped to the
tune of £200,000 a year on to this tired Continent.
They are obtainable in either stiff; or soft Felts—any
style, anv shape you like—and very light and com-
fortable to the head. Mind you ask your dealer for
an “ AUSTRAL” Hat—and get what you ask for.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On ail hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extraUarge 3/6.
Manufacturer—I 1 . KLEESAT'X'EL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
E. T. WALSH,
Practical Tailor,
Expert Ctitter,
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
co #” "ssas'ff “S' l6 Oota,og " e '
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUR MONEY BACK.
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street,
London, employed.
NO FACTORY WORK.
359 6EOR6E STREET, SYPNEY.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
11th to 19th APRIL, 1906.
ENTRIES CLOSE— Wine, March 7 ; Horses, March 14; Cattle, Sheep and Pigs, March 15 ;
Poultry Mar C h 16; Pigeons and Canaries, March 17; Dogs, March 19 ; Farm and Dairy
Produce, March 20 ; Miscellaneous, March 21.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
w M Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Professor Skuthorp’s
“Boys from the Bush.”
UNDER ROYAL AND VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
OPENING SYDNEY,
Haymarket HIPPODROME,
Under arrangement with the Lessee, E. L. Cole,
SATURDAY, MARCH 24.
PRIZES POR RIDERS AND HORSES.
Professor SKUTHORP offers the following prizes
£loo—£7o first, £2O second, £lO third, for the best
Roughrider. Open to all-comers.
£2o—£ls first, £5 second, for the best Buckjumper pro-
duced. Open to all-comers.
CONDITIONS. —For Roughriding Contest are : —The first
round to he ridden in ordinary roughriding or stock-
man’s saddle ; second round in a 4in. kneepad rough-
riding saddle ; third round, Sin. kneepads ; fourth
round, 2in. kneepads. All horses to be balloted for
by each rider each night. All horses to be ridden
with a bucking rope. This applies to both contests.
In the event of horse falling or tackle breaking, the
rider to be allowed another trial.
NOMINATIONS, £1 (riders producing own horses free),
to be made with the Secretary Skuthorp’s Show, Hay-
market Hippodrome, on or before TUESDAY, 20th
March at i p.m. Approved nominations genuine buck-
jumper’s fare will be paid to distance 150 miles; also
stabling accommodation and feed.
Two Judges and one Referee to be mutually agreed
upon.
Nominators are respectfully requested to nominate
early.
Country Nominations must be in by the 15th MARCH.
For further particulars, apply to the Secretary.
Professor Skuthorp is prepared to buy all champion
buckjumpers produced. Price no object.
g ydney cricket ground.
N.S. WALES F. VICTORIA.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, MARCH 2nd and 3rd.
LAWN TENNIS.
N.S. Wales Championships, Handicaps, etc., MARCH
sth, 6th, 7th, Bth, 9th and 10th.
ADMISSION— Saturdays, 2s. ; Other Days, Is.
Music, * *
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
vO>
Weekly
EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS. Cash.
GEMS £2 10 0
STANDARDS.. £5 0 0
HOMES £7 10 0
VIOLINS £2 10 0
ACCORDEONS £2OO
ANGLOS £2 10 0
ORGANETTES £3 0 0
AUTOHARPS.. 12 6
Packing Free to any address.
Edison Gold- Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT & SON,
137 King Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
boomerang mouth organs.
Terms. Deposit, ments.
£3 0 0 10s 2s 6d
£5 15 0 20s 5s Od
£8 10 0 30s 5s Od
£2 15 0 10s 2s 6d
£2 5 0 10s 2s 6d
£2 15 0 15s 2s 6d
£3 10 0 20s 5s Od
15 0 3s Is Od
ents
THE
of the
a
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe ts
guaranteed.
'V
A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well-seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only trom FELDHEiMj
GOTTHBLL & CO^Sydney^
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Specially Organised Australian Comic Opera Company
in Offenbach’s Grand Celebrated Spectacular
Military Opera,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
C R
TERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Brough-Flcmming Comedy Company
in the Immensely Funny', Farcical Comedy,
THE PASSPORT.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Dainty, Tuneful Comic Opera,
VERONIQUE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 3, THE SHOP GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. t3T~ PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of J. C. Williamson.
FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA and LAST VISIT TO
SYDNEY of THOSE EMINENT ARTISTS,
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES
and
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
GREAT SUCCESS of BARNARD’S MARIONETTES.
FRED. BLUETT, Australia’s Greatest Comedian.
MDLE. ADA OERITO. THE SISTERS WARNER.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Highland Comedy Quartette
and Comedy Glee Singers.
LOTTO, LILO, and OTTO, Comedy and Trick Cyclists.
LEONARD NELSON. BABY WATSON, HILDA LANE
ROCHFORT and HART, ETHEL PRESTON,
ALF LAWTON, OLIVE LENTON, LEEDS and LEMAR.
P ERA HO USE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
TAMBO and TAMBO, Tambourine Spinners and Comedy
Artists. GEO. JONES, Comedian and End Man.
ETTIE WILLIAMS, Serio Comic.
SISTERS GILBERT, Serio Comics and Dancers.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
CRIMMONS and GORE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
ALICE RAYMOND, Oornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s. Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
LAST THREE WEEKS OF SEASON.
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
Hall Caine’s Dramatisation of his own Great Work,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
For the First Time in Australasia.
m* PRICES AS USUAL.
Business Manager,
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager . . Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF LA TOSCA.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 3,
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
•—in —
LEAH KLESCHNA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
ORINC ESS’S THEATRE; MELBOURNE.
• Under the Direction of Mr. WM. ANDERSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 3,
FOR TWELVE NIGHTS and THREE MATINEES,
Mr. ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime,
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
SINBAD MISS MARIE CAMPBELL,
Principal Boy from London Theatres.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
“ Oh ! Woodman, Spare th-at Tree.”
Great Axemen’s Carnivai*and Sporting
Demonstration, Daylesford (Vic.)
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 16, 1906.
Some of the Plums:—Handicap Underhand Chop, 50
sovs. ; Handicap Standing Chop, lOsovs. ; Maiden Chop,
5 sovs’. ; Sawing Match, 5 sovs. ; and “ The Invitation
Championship Underhand Chop,” 20 sovs. ; and Cham-
pionship Medal, 5 sovs., net value. Tug-of-War, 20
sovs. ; Sheffield, 20 sovs.; 220yds., 10 sovs., etc., etc.
Write or send at once for all information. Entries close,
March 28, to P. F. MEERE, Secretary.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
■ portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
I free from Bulletin office, ss.
How tlie bird does fly ! Already they are draw-
ins up the Rugby programmes, and on April 7th the
“ flannelled fool ” and his wicket will pass and make way
for the “ muddied oaf’’and his gpal. April will be de-
voted to trial matches, and the competitions start in May.
There will he no bye this year, as the Union has decided
to admit one new club —either Manly or St. George. Now
that the heat of summer is here, the Sydneysider looks
forward with pleasure to drifting home after the football
match through the purple haze that bathes the dusty city
in picturesque glory in the month of May. vv hen Ma)
comes he will find the purple haze is cold as well as hazy.
A pretty (and petty) little Rugby squabble is
causing a lot of gas in Maoriland blown-leather circles.
When Bedell-Siveright’s English team toured the State
long ago, its members told the Canterbury Rugby Union
officials that they really didn’t want a banquet, so the
officials merely liquored them up to the extent of £4 65.,
and sent along the account to the Maoriland lvugb} 7-
Union. But the latter, which would cheerfully have
borne the cost of an expensive feed, disallowed the £4 Os.
for swankey. This riled the Canterbury Union, which
refused to 'stand the amount and said so. Then the
Maoriland Rugby Union disqualified Canterbury Rugby
Union until the amount was paid. As this disqualification
includes all players, the inference was that the Canter-
bury men playing in England would be included. The
Maoriland R.U. then saw its mistake, but stood firm and
announced that the players in question were under the
Maoriland R.U. and weren’t included in the disqualified
mob. Canterbury Union is fighting the thing out; the
travelling ’bailers are to be informed that they are dis-
qualified ; the Englishers are to be told that they have
been playing against disqualified men and also that the
laws of professionalism had been infringed, and the English
Union is to he asked what it thinks of the whole blessed
business. It would have paid the Maoriland R.U. to have
allowed that £4 6s.
* * • •
The way of a shark in the water has been the
subject of much debate recently, and a mass of evidence
has been brought to light which completely smashes up
a number of venerable popular beliefs as to the habits
and abilities of this objectionable frequenter of bathing
places. Many swimmers and more paddlers were under
the impression that sharks never enter breakers, and as
long as one remained in the actual surf there was no
danger. Now it is announced that one species of shark
practically lives in broken water, and can be seen rolling
in the breakers at any time. Another blissful belief was
that no ■ shark can swim in less than 6ft. of water,
but the man who was so cruelly mutilated in
George's River was in a comparative shallow, and
tales are told of 12ft. sharks floating in 18in. of water off
the Corso at Manly. Even the ancient belief that the
shark had to turn" on his back to bite has gone by the
hoard, and.a cloud of witnesses have testified to seeing
him make his breakfast with the right side of him upper-
most. There are many species of sharks, and they vary
in their habits and attributes—in everything, in fact,
except that they are dangerous to human beings
in the water. Bathing on open beaches in any part
of Australia is gambling with death, hut if people
will risk their lives, the danger, it seems, would be
materially reduced by wearing- black bathing dresses,
covering the whole figure. There is a sort of phosphor-
escent quality about the human body in the sea-water
that makes it visible a long way off, and attracts the
attention of the sea-scavenger. In the inner harbor at
Napier (Maoriland), which is infested with sharks and
stingrays, bathers used to clear the neighborhood by ex-
ploding dynamite cartridges in the water previous to
taking a dip. The shark has a stringent dislike for
dynamite, and after he has lost a scrap of fin or bit of a
tail in an explosion a blow on the water with the flat of
an oar will send him scurrying for his life.
* * * *
Santos Dumont, the Brazilian who went
around with steerable balloons in Paris, has been bitten
by a new bug. His latest craze is to try to reach the
North Pole in a 15,0001 b. dirigible gas-bag. His machine
is to be 195 ft. long and driven by a 70 h.p. petrol engine.
He has found another man as reckless as himself, and
the two will make their dash from Spitzbergen at the
end of the present year. In the meantime Dumont, who
is a man of fortune, should have a real good time, lest
his stay on earth he short.
“A.P.R.”: Is it a fact that the art of
“shooting” the breakers was originated by Island boys,
and was only introduced to Sydney about eight years
ago? It is very difficult to “beach” in a wave ; the
number of expert shooters in Sydney is probably less
than 100. In Manly an expert at the game commands
respect. In the breakers you hear muscular brown men
explaining to small, thin, white men : “ Get in the wave
just as it is curling, take one quick stroke, kick your leg,
and in you go. Here’s a wave—now, off ! ” And the
little man jumps forward too late, and the wave breaks
on him, turns him over three times, and dumps his nose
in the sand. Having swallowed a pint and a half of salt
water he arises, and has just scooped the sand from-his
ears and the seaweed out of his eyes when another
breaker knocks him over and a “ shooter” kicks him on
the jaw. Then the big brown man claps him on the back
and says, “ Good sport, old chap ! ” But the small, thin,
white man has had enough, and flees to the beach, with
the latest thing in seaweed still adhering to his eye.
•* * * *
Mr. R. Curnow writes: Cyclists’ Avenue, at
Moore Park, was not constructed, as stated in a recent
Bulletin paragraph, out of loan money. Part of the
land on which it lies belongs to the City Council, and
that body paid half the cost of making the path, the
remainder being raised by public subscription. The path
was maintained by the cyclists as long as funds permitted,
and then had to be allowed to get out of repair. As
honorary secretary of the movement I can absolutely
vouch for these facts.
* * ■* *
N.S.W. bike authorities have made an innova-
tion in connection with forthcoming Sydney Thousand.
Heats have been drawn, and the 120 entrants grouped
into 10 heats of 12 men each ; but competitors will lie
kept in darkness as to which heat they will run in till the
night on which it comes off. This should stop pre-
arranged teaming. *
Rutt’s time for the Adelaide Wheel Race, a
two miles event, was 4min. 2sec., not 2min. 4sec. as
erroneously printed last week.
* * * *
Australian Amateur Cyclist T. R. Hopkins,
who won the half, one, and five-mile Amateur Champion-
ships of the continent this season, has announced that he
is tired of racing for the silver trophy which will not
cyanide for the genuine thing, and will appear as an ama-
teur no more. He does not admit that he will be found
among the professionals, but that is a way the fast ama-
teur has. He has grown up in the idea that there is some-
thing not quite respectable about racing for filthy lucre,
hut his soul is sick of the brummy trophy. Then, in a
little while the idea of winning the Sydney Thousand
ceases to be horrible ; next, it seems almost respectable,
and finally—well, he finds that he 'is a full-blown profes-
sional.
* + * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelman intends restricting
its championship events to genuine Australian riders. It
is a commendable reform.
* » * *
The Motor-Cycle Club of Victoria will probably
hold a 100-mile road race shortly, over secluded and little
used country roads. .So far motor-bike road racing has
not caught on in Victoria, and on both occasions that the
big Dunlop Rubber Co. has tried to run one in connection
with the Warrnambool road race, the attempt has had to
be abandoned owing to heavy rains. Now, however, that
a more powerful class of motor-bike is on the roads the
contest will be almost sure to eventuate.
• * * *
The police raid on a Sydney betting shop last
week only captured a clerk and three old men. The Law
is evidently becoming convinced that it will have to get
up very early to successfully raid betting shops from the
front door. It was a story of manoeuvres in which the
police were badly left.
* » » *
Sydney National Sporting Club, last week, saw
the fall of ancient fighter Bill Smith. Paddington Pet
Peter Kling burst on him like a whirling tornado, and
the fists flew round in an indescribable manner. Smith
whirled his mauleys considerably, but the young man’s
carried the most sting. Smith tried all kinds of defence ;
he backed away, he fled, but the other pursued him, and
was faster on his feet. He fought back desperately, but
Kling was the stronger and more skilful fighter.
He clinched, but Kling would have none of it,
and, keeping both hands free, belted away ferociously.
Then he stood up and faced the gale. Kling’s wild charges
gave him a few openings, of which he took every advan-
tage, and it was obvious that a chance blow might sav e
William after all. But there was no chance blow, me
third round saw Smith beaten to the floor when he stood
up to his adversary, and belted on the back of the head
and shoulders when he ran, and when at last, he was laid
out the referee ended it by declaring Kling the winner.
It was a shockingly unequal struggle.
* * * *
L. Truscott mot R. Quigley at the Gaiety Club
(Sydney) on Saturday night, but the crowd had not
forgotten his walloping at the hands of Whitelaw at the
National Sporting Club, and declined to take him seri-
ously. Nevertheless, he put up a game struggle under
depressing conditions, and took his punishment, which
was heavy, like a Trojan. In the 18th round the referee
stopped the match, with a declaration that Quigley had
won. Truscott’s showing was an improvement on his
National Sporting Club display. #
The 21st half-yearly issue of J. J. Miller’s
Racing Chronicle covers the space from August 1,1905,
to January 31, 1906, and its prompt publication comes as
a boon to punters who are looking for recent facts and
figures to guide their erring notions of what’s what, lhe
Racing Chronicle, that started in fear and trembling
10 years ago, has been steadily gaining subscribers, but
there is still an army of haphazard punters who lose
several pounds on the gees, without thinking to spend
£1 per annum in a subscription to Miller’s handy history
of “form.” These neglectful speculators are advised to
diminish their yearly losses by applying for the biennial
book to the publishers at Post Office Place, Melbourne.
* * *
In their haste to ensnare the subscriber’s
“ brown,” some of the Sydney newspapers publish fishing
columns, and a whole column is sometimes devoted to
fishing notes. They mainly consist of pars, stating how
Messrs. Stiggins and Wiggins, of Alexandria, fishing all
day at Muddy Creek, caught six flathead, or how Mr.
Johnson, of Pitt-street, had a good afternoon in Taylor
Bay, where he would have caught a black bream only it
fled. As the heroes of these pars, are unknown to fame,
their doings must mostly be supplied by themselves, and
they are very dreary deeds.
“ T.D.” : The onrush of the alien in Eng-
land. In the West of London electorate, where I
have diggings, the two official candidates were
respectively German Jew and Italian by parent-
age ; but it is pleasant to be able to record that
the Hebraic Teuton was wiped out in this in-
stance. The only straight-out Englishman figured
at the foot of the poll with a few hundred votes.
A glance down the election lists reveals many
other German-Jewish names, likewise several
Indians, but up to the present there are no Chow
or Jap candidates. I foresee a time, however,
when the Jap, who is now bidding for places 1 n
Piccadilly clubdom, and moving in swell circles
with considerable diamond on his shirt front, will
also begin to offer himself for the allegedly British
House of Commons.
It was the brutal murder by the German
commanding officer of a chief who came to talk
over the trouble that caused the desperate Horeros
outbreak in German south-west Africa, and that
outbreak has run the Mailed Fist to several mil-
lions, and seems as far off finality as ever. Lately
the German Parliament seemed indisposed to
spend any more money on the little African war,
and the result is something like a general up-
heaval. Trouble has now broken out m German
East Africa, and is expected to extend to the
British territories in Nyassaland. Down in
Natal the Zulus have flung down the White Man’s
burden with an oath, and something like actual
war has commenced there. And the Briton, who
talks about holding the land as long as the sun
shines, imports Chinese slaves to fill the country,
instead of a sturdy white population which would
be a certain guarantee that it would become a
white man’s country in the fulness of time.
The struggle the N.S.W. law is making to
decide between two Wagga coclcies, who both
want the same piece of State land, has advanced
another stage. One Matthews was originally
successful in obtaining the land in February, 1904,
whereupon his rival (Graham) deposited £5 with
the Land Appeal Court and appealed. The court
granted bis appeal, but Matthews said that the
president of the court was dead, and he had not
heard of the gazettal of his successor, and that
part of a court was no court at all, and declined
to budge. Further, Matthews took his contention
to the Full Court, which upheld it. Meanwhile
the local land agent, as soon as the part of the
Land Court had given its decision, sent back to
Graham his £5 deposit. Graham, being bowled out
by the Full,Court, waited for several months before
another Land Appeal Court president was ap-
pointed, then sent along another £5 note and
again appealed. Matthews took no notice, and
the court again ousted him and gave the land to
Graham. Matthews again declined to budge, and
appealed to the Full Court once more on the
ground that Graham was allowed by law only 28
days from the date of the original decision (Feb.,
1904) in which to lodge his £5 and appeal, and,
having taken back his £5, his chance of appealing
was hopelessly lost. On this ground the Full
Court again blew Graham clean out, and so
Matthews succeeds to the land, and will remain in
possession unless the High Court is applied to,
and it decides differently. As things stand,
Graham has lost his land—(l) Because the State
Government supplied him with only part of a
Land Court to appeal to when he needed a whole
one, and (2) because a State Government official
sent back his £5 deposit when he shouldn’t have
done so. Which seems rough on Graham.


GIFT SUGGESTIONS.
A FEW
OUR
SELECTIONS FROM
IMMENSE STOCK.
Order early, and avoid delays and dis-’
appointment. All goods sent POST FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver
MATCH BOXES, 8s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
DRESS RING,
Ruby . and Pearls,
U2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold RING,
Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set
Bird BROOCH. 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal (
PADLOCK BRACELET, £3
15ct. Gold, £5.
r Turquoise,
ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold RING,
Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 12s 6d.
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds and
Rubies or
Sapphires,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone BAR BROOCH,
Gold Mounted, 12s 6d. A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
HEART, Gold Mounted, 15s.
Smaller, Ss 6d. 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
RIBBON BROOCH,
et Pearls and Turquoise
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold. .Half-Hoop
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphire's, ” 40s.~
Very Effective.
mm
Q
A. SAUNDERS.
OROCCO LEATHER PURSE, Extra Heavy Silve
Lock and, Mounts, 15s.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 17s 6d.
Gold Mounted, 30s, 355, 40s, £2.
YOU’LL
BE
SATISFIED
WHEN YOU GOME
TO US TO BUY.
Out Enormous Stock
affords such an
Excellent Assortment
to choose from,
and the quality
of our goods
is such that you
have confidence
in them.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Diamond
Half-Hoop RING, £5.
Larger, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £lO.-
NICKEL,
15s.
NICKEL,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s,'12s 6d, 15s.
Our “Unrivalled,” 20s. London Lever, 255.
All • Guaranteed.
XMAS
SHOPPERS
OUR XMAS
CATALOGUE
will be sent FREE
for the asking.
To the Country
Resident
we assure
. satisfactory
Mail service.
It brings our
Large Stock
to your own home,
at City Prices.
All goods sent to
any address.
TRANSIT FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones, £3 10s,
£4 10s, £5. £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird and
Heart CHARM, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Scroll BROOCH, Set Fine Pure
White Pearls, £3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Bird and Spray
Scroll BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Qther Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
BREAST PIN.
ure White Pearls,
20s.
mmmurn
\
awl
<3^>
mSL*i£££m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET BOOK, Crocodile Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 20s.
Other Stj'les, 5s Gd, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mounted
Bloodstone Seal
PENDANT. 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING SET,
on Wooden Base, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 14s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2s 6d. Chased, Ss 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
\sct. Gold Two Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
Friendship
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d. 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star
BREAST PIN,
Pure White
Pearls, Diamond
Centre, SOs.
ADY’S,
15s.
LADY’S,
20s.
N
naffi*
1=
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face Keyless
WATCHES, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurse’s” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Amethyst
or Garnet, 255.
loot. Gold, £2 ss.
ISct. Gold, £2 10s
'oU
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Heart
and Dumbbell LINKS
12s 6d.
x>
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s TRAVELLING ROLL, fitted with every
convenience, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s 6d.
Other Styles. 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255,
80s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Opal Set
LINKS, 355.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
Keyless WATCHES, 255, SOs, £2, £2 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 4s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN
and Greenstone
Heart, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver IIAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Photo. Heart
LOCKET, 15s.
'
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising" Five Pieces. 255.
Other Styles, 7s o<l, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s. 20s.
■oi Iz?
‘OAIIS
anos
GOLD
CASED,
£4/4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gcnt.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
£2. £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £4 4s, £5 6s, £6 ids.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, to
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphire, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE, .
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, 6s 6d, 8s Cd, 10s 6d,
12s Od, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Set
PENDANT, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN CHAIN and
CIIARM. 5s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS,
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER. I
( SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN, >
809. 811, 813, 815. 817 GEORGE-ST.,
Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.


•.* v
s
Ift
MR* 8
' ”
mmmrnmmm
m
W
wbbw
m
wm
wm
m?
■w.
I
<&&\
M
'■m
m
m
.
«W? 3
w*m
UH
«** •F ,ww ™ v
1
bt \'"% f «-.
&H&T i
'*r *
m* ■'■■■'
mm* s&j
m&®
g c ?v<s£ss B?o '
«J
.
IH
■
k
-
:.- ; -;v,y:--;'- ;
§|jg|||§^gn
m
-:•:•'•• S
I
ii
BEALE- PIANOS.
TONE QUALITY in a Piano depends upon many things, of which the
first and most important are the SCALE and the SOUNDING-BOARD.
By Royal Letters Patent.
512
Mo
Made in Australia.
jpP«®j|HE SCALE of a piano is the scientific plan of its sound-producing parts, the length, thickness, and radiation of the strings, and the striking-line of
W the hammers. The calculation of the scale is by far the most difficult part of piano manufacture, and can only be accomplished after many years’
9 m experience. Most of the makers of foreign pianos simply buy their frames (or “plates”) from foundry people who are in most cases quite ignorant
BawtcH of the mathematical requirements, and devoid of all scientific knowledge. One piano “ manufacturer,” in writing a “ Handbook of Piano-Manu-
facture,” recommends that a frame should be taken out of some well-known piano, and a casting be made from that, thus saving the trouble of
calculating a scale ! But this cannot be done successfully, for there is an exact allowance to be made for shrinkage in casting. The only correct and
scientific way is to first calculate the scale, making allowance for two shrinkages, then cast a pattern, and from that cast the frame to be used. This is the
method followed in the production of the BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS.
The SOUNDING-BOARD is the second important feature. No ordinary care is required in its manufacture; the highest skill and the most
perfect knowledge only will assure satisfactory results. The timber must be carefully selected, of the very best quality, and the grain must be graded from
fine in the treble to coarse in the bass. The strips of timber, never more than five inches in width, must also be tapered in thickness from treble to bass.
The amount of camber, or convexity (like a violin-belly), of the complete sounding-board must be arrived at to a hair’s-breadth, so as to assure the best
quality of sound when the strings are vibrated.
In the Beale Australian Pianos all these details are most carefully watched by specialists of many years’ training, in their turn guided by a man whose knowledge -
of the whole result to be obtained—and the method of obtaining it—is unsurpassed in any part of the world. The materials are the very best that money can buy. Our
great aim is always “ How much better can we make it ? ” And to this end we spare no pains, giving our every thought to the perfecting of an Australian product that is
already far ahead of its old-world competitors. That this is so you can verify for yourself by comparison. Call and inspect our pianos, and then examine the goods of our
competitors. Our faith in our product is shown by the fact that we guarantee every Beale Australian Piano for Twenty-five years, whereas no importer will guarantee his
goods for more than Ten. Try, and see.
BLALE, <& COMPANY, Limited
474 George St., Sydney
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
101 Brisbane St., Launceston
207 King St., Newtown
127 Rundie St., Adelaide
615 Hay St., Perth
Branches and Travellers Everywhere.
Catalogues and Circulars FREE for the Asking.


BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
E beg to notify the Australian Public that we were the
successful tenderers for the whole of the Stock of the
Footscray Woollen Hills, of Flannels and Blankets, bought
at a heavy discount off Mill Prices, which will enable us to
offer them at EXCEPTIONALLY LOW PRICES.
UNION FLANNELS, 28in*, in
Heather, Grey, White, Scar-
let, and Welsh Blues*
ALL-WOOL Ditto, White and
Heather*
$ ft,
At the same time we will
offer a Special Line of HEATHER
FLANNEL, guaranteed all Pure
Wool, and made from undyed
yarn, at Is* 3d* per yard,
29in* wide*
The above plate represents a Chintz
Medallion Eiderdown Quilt, eyeleted
in Double Bed Size, 6x5, which
will be offered at - = 15s 6d each.
BLANKETS, in Grey and White,
Single and Double, in the
following sizes—9/4, 10/4,
11/4
% m
i
Also a line of WHITE
BLANKETS, guaranteed All
Wool, Single and Double Bed,
of the following sizes, viz* —
9/4, 10/4, 11/4, and 12/4*
In addition to the above, we have opened all our NEW
SEASON’S GOODS —Flannels in all makes; also our New Season’s
Blousing Flannels and Blankets in all sizes, of European and
Australian. Manufacture.
SAMPLES and PRICES will
be forwarded on application.


as
v * ■ -j
■
mi m
•.
■. . *
.
Si.- :' l aP#. i *
:
.
a
*
PS
-:,i
• , " • i . spav.
•\V
.
:
.
SfiSSIS
,
V X^‘
■
i . :
m
i ■ F
** sB§*
Hu
»* s * * .*
j
ssSiraf^
'V* '- :
V fl >
■
f
il'"'
sk v: HF - ' -: ■.
*
:• .'....
*•<• ***£ $$ v *
S\
-
Mp.
3 iv;
/
mEß&'Jr'
r y Jk
-<r r I
.
v:
if
mem,
m
is
IS
i :: ;;i; : |::Ciia:vV\:i''
*
i
1
.• •
*
m r •.
'li .. • .»>.?•>
*» -r lJu
fUr?
In Good Company —with CAPSTAN Cigarettes.


.
ffVg
6SKJB
' ■
■'
'a&m
•’ V
Bfc
k
s»«*'
ms*
IN THE HOT SUMMER-TIME * *
WHEN FLIES ARE SWARMING IN THE ROOMS,
INSECTIBANE
should be dusted on the window and
picture frames or diffused in the air, with
CLOSED DOORS, when
•• • •
No other Insert Powder possesses the dualities which
render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
EVERY FLY WILL FALL DEAD
vSold Everywhere.
Proprietors—ROCHE. TOMPSITT CBb CO.
BLOWERS for diffusing the Powder can be
purchased from all Vendors of INSECTIBANE.
Wholesale—ELLlOTT BROS., LTD.


This Watch was manufactured specially for
us by the Waltham Factory, and we can re-
commend. .it. .to. -anyone '.requiring a, reliable
and serviceable watch. The hunting 1 cases
are stroiig and of sterling silver. The move-,
ment is a jewelled J-plate one,, with exposed
winding!whed-s, l Brequet spring 1 and compen-
sating balance. Guaranteed for three years.
Price £3 lOs. better Grades, £4 10s.,
£6 10s. With Gold-filled Oases, £6 IOS.
We supply this'Watlch in four styles at
these prices : Crystal Front, Polished Steel
Case, 25s ; Hunting- Polished Steel Oases,
30s ' Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case,
35s j Huhting 1 Solid "Silver Oases, 40s.
The lever movement of this watch is
highly finished, has fourteen jewels, patent
screw balance, exposed winding* wheels,
reliable keyless work, and we can reqom-
mend it for the use "of men or boys.
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as the “Prin-
cess.” Although we sell many of these
every year, we seldom have a com-
plaint reach us, and this should be a
good guarantee that it is a reliable
article. We make with silver or gold
engraved bases’in open face and full
hunting. The movement is keyless
and properly jewelled., Guaranteed
for two years. Price : Crystal Front,
Silver, £2 ; Hunting, SOs ; Crystal
Front, 18ct. Gold, £4 lOs ; Hunt-
ing, £5 lOs* i
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing- Cased Watch, suitable for
young . ladies. It has a reliable
jewelled movement exquisitely
engraved solid 14ct. gold eases —-
strong, keylesswork, and altogether
is a sound bid serviceable -watch.
It is possible to sell a gold watch at
a lower price, but as the timekeep-
ing and construction is not such as
would give lasting satisfaction to
our customers, we do. not stock
them. Price £4- 10s.
DO YOU WANT A WATCH
_ ... . . + „i. H _ nfl satisfactory. They are offered at prices lower than Watches of equal
These Watches wo fess houses In Australasia explain why. Send your
Somali? wiffillrfvoltprompt attentfon! For other Grades see our Special Watch Book. We pet it FREE.
This shows our Lad.v’s Keyless
Defiance Watch, hundreds of which
have been sold, and have given
unbounded satisfaction. It is a really
reliable watch and priced very reason-
ably. The case is a solid silver One,
beautifully engraved. The movement
is j-plate, jewelled and carefully
finished in detail. Open Pace,
£1 10s ; Hunting, £1 17s 6cf.
rv
JJ,
n
This shows a dependable
small size Lady’s Crystal Front
■Watch. The movement is a
keyless and jewelled, the dial
is of pretty decorated Opal,
the case is polished steel, and
we find them to be excellent
little timekeepers. An kleal
girl’s watch. 2s 6d,
This is our Lady’s Waltham Lever.
The movement is of solid nickel, is
jewelled, has compensating balance and
BrCquet spring. The hunting cases are
of solid silver, nicely engine turned and
engraved, With shield in centre, after the
style of the picture shown here. Price
J 54. Guaranteed for 3 years.
“THE NONPAREIL.”
YVe have advertised and sold this
Watch wherever the English lan-'
guage is spoken, and surely no other
has given such universal satisfac-
tion. Best Keyless Movement, 18ct.
Gold Cases. Hunters,. £7 10s.
Crystal Front, £6 IQs.
Our
Watches
are
Honest
Watches.
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths,
is a Triumph in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the .market. It has a
very fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short-
winding movement, and .the case is made of a
very hard nickel,, beautifully polished, and fitted
with unbreakable crystal glass. Price 18s 6tf.
With Silver Case, 30s. • Steel Case, 18s 6cf.
This is the famous
ull-eapped English
f-plate .“Excelsior”
Watch. Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, fine
fully j e welled
movement. Price
only £5 /Os.
APPETITE
STRENGTH
KUTNOW’S POWDER is one of the most beneficial remedies for the improvement of health and the prevention of disease ; in fact, it is the one remedy
which enjoys the support and approval of the general body of medical practitioners. The reason for the recognition of its value b / u .™
physicians as PROP. LAWSON TAIT, M.D., SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D., SIR SPENCEtt WELLS, M.D., and SIR ANDREW CLARK,
M D is not difficult of comprehension. Kutnow’s Powder is appreciated by doctors because they know that it contains nothing which is injurious, no
mercurial poison, nothing painful or drastic, and nothing but what is beneficial. The most delicate person can take it, even very young children and
invalids find it agreeable ; moreover, its action is so gentle and soothing that insensibly to the patient it efficiently does its work. It clears and Hushes le
entire system of all noxious debris and poisonous liquids, which action is invaluable to both sick and well. It gradually changes certain morbid conditions
of the system, and establishes healthy tissue, which alone is able to bring about a sound constitution. It stimulates the vital processes to renewe
activity, and enables the kidneys and bowels to remove waste matter which ought to be eliminated, one of the most important of which is URIO A .
In this way Kutnow’s Powder alters, corrects and purifies the fluids, gives tone to, and re-establishes the healthy function of, all the digestive and other
organs of the body. It cleanses and lubricates the human machinery. Kutnow’s Powder is an alterative which possesses tonic laxative, stimulan
and diuretic properties. It is a mild aperient which flushes the whole alimentary canal. It is a stimulant which has the power of increasing the vital
activity of the body. It is a cholagogue which never fails to make the liver act properly. Its alkaline action neutralises excessive acidity in the stomach
and bowels. It is an antiseptic which prevents putrefaction. These are the qualifications of Kutnow’s Powder, and, needless to say, they nevei fail
to assist in the maintenance and re-establishmenfc of Health.
H. A. G. BOEDER, Esq.,
writes s—
‘*ll3 Gower-street, London, W.C.
44 1 consider it only fair to apprise you of the
remarkable beneficial results obtained by the use
of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a bottle, and
continued with a dose for several mornings before
breakfast. For a long time past I suffered from
severe mental depression, due to an inactive liver
and kidney trouble, with excessive uric acid.
Thanks to your efficient remedy I no longer fear
■these distressing attacks, as I find a single dose
corrects any mistakes in diet and removes the
injurious poisons. In the hope that my letter
may lead others to try what has proved an in-
valuable boon to me, you may make whatever
use you please of my testimony.”
Iroportaot CaCitioo
c
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder,' but there
are others, who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will
attempt to foist upon you some cheap imitation of their
own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive
persons capable of inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s
Powder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschen.sprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in
which the bottle is packed, and also on the label on the
bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure
your obtaining the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder
THE DOCTOR’S ADVICE.
“ 2 Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs, —Some five years ago I had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After
trying them for some time with very little result
the doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with such excellent result that in a short time I
felt very much better. I continued taking it
regularly every other day for two years, and con-
sider it worked an entire cure. I never go to a
patient without a bottle in my possession. Many
of my patients have tried it with excellent results.
I think,the wonderful good done in such cases
should be widely known for the benefit of other
sufferers.
“ Yours sincerely,
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).**
PERFECTS DIGESTION, REGULATES EXCRETIO
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & GO., Ltd., 4-1 Farringdon Road, London, E.G.
Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[l-
-


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw. (Calling at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ’ & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offioes - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 95,461 - assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eciuitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New’ Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Bank uf north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
.. 250,000
20,000
Reserved Fund .. I
(Invested in Government Stock) f '
£370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
— THE _
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,100,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. llumphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . ■
Rates Very Low
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp &■ Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, )). Ci.ynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'FariiANH ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth. A. \V.'
Fauquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY 1 .
OCEAN
Shipping.
KT. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHEE . LLOYD
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUSTACHE PRODUOER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (Under cover) to any part <
of Australasia or New Zealand.
Sole Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIO and AITKEN,
N. 8. W. Barber's Supply Hoom,
BM Q6orgo Birfiet, SYDNEY
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
23rd MARCH,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 6 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 C
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd,,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw. Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-GLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
(3 0E A 3NT I O S.S. Co. A.. and. A. L I 3\T E.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, MARCH 19.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
2Ptf CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, fee.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<5
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
fflont de pete B.#|. Co., CM-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEBEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,512 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 60,000 0 0
£099,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, Creorg’e Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference. Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank-of New Zealand Act
■ (N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amouu t of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
March 19, April 16, May 14.
The New Triple Screw Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
Absolutely
the
Finest Vessel
yet
Seen
on the Pacific .
S3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney. .
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character —very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheej of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HUS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T s° South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Gran tala, ''arch 7.
.S.S. Marloo, March 9.
S.S. Yongala, March 21.
BRISBANE, 'l
MAOKAY, [
TOWNSVILLE, |
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Wollowra, March 3.
S.S. Yongala, March 14.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S, YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices.
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
c. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 'i to 5 Beacon afield Parada
SI. HILDA.
r PHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Mill!!
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IAfIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
■ " Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarend<m-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies | and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUCES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
STAR EYE OINTMENT, the Golden Remedy for In-
flammation, Sandy Blight and Weak Eyes. Price
only 2/- Post Free to any address in Australia, Tas. or
N.Z. Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne


W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S __
ANIMATO6RAPN.
The
Best
Living
Picture
Machine
Extant.
Large
Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
W m WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
. MELBOURNE.
Clean White
Teeth mean sound teeth, fit for their
•* work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring,
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
m
" Vr mMzLruQoFm&.
The
IVEL
"
AGRICULTURAL
MOTOiil^-
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on. Farm, Station, or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all tlie uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge S*.? SYDNEY
THE MADAME DEAN CORSET
Health-preserving, Spinal
supporting, Closed back,
open on each side, Shoulder
Braces. So many inquiries
for this Old Popular Cor-
set are met with that we
will supply same to order.
It can be made lighter and
with Suspenders attached.
Send for descriptive circu-
lars and self-measurement
forms to
Madame Deasi,
Box 143, MELBOURNE,
... AND ...
BOX 335, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY LTD.
Head Office-35 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
T'k tt t> ttowARD SMITH, Esq., Chairman; W. S. HOWARD SMITH, Esq.;
Directors-H. B. HOWARD SMim, w Q SPRIG G, Esq.
C. MORETON NEWMAN, Esq., Managing Director.
Solicitor —W. H. CROKER, Esq.
Auditors-WM. DENSHAM, Esq. ; EDWIN H. FLACK, Esq.
Secretary —J. K. LOTHERINGTON.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Y°Y»d KSs t-thfK jrtf’SJ’K&S!
business has been well maintained.
The balance, including £17,234 Os Id. brought forwardl from h* year is
from which an interim dividend was paid la st<itthe rate
of 5 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares and 10 per cent, per
annum on Ordinary Shares, amounting to
Leaving available ... ... ••• ••• , "j
from which the Directors recommend the payment of a further dividend
at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares and 10 per
cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares, absorbing
£47,327 13 0
15,033 8 10
£32,294 4 2
15,300 13 8
, r ... £10,993 10 6
leaving to carry forward a balance or ... ... ••• •••
(to in the prospectus of this Company as Den g vourl)rectoT . 9 have taken this and an amount
St ESS £32,000 standing at debit of Goodwill,
KSSSSSSS&TS of. the Articles
and H. B. Howard Smith, Esq., retire, but, being eligible, offer themselves tor re election.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
To the Shareholders of Ho#are • SmitS £™fSited the books and accounts of your
Ladies and Gentlemen, We beg P * qn d do hereby certify that, so far as we are in a
Company for the year ending 31st December,l9os, d d * h been drawn up in accordance with
- *>- s “ te »< ti “ s Companj3
affairs at that date. , _ , , nn ,.
Dated at Melbourne this 21st day of February, 190 b.
WM. DENSHAM,
EDWIN H. FLACK,
Auditors.
do
STATEMENT and BALANCE SHEET of
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY LIMITED,
AT THE 31st DAY OF DECEMBER, 1905.
I, Charles Moreton Newmam, Managing Director of Howard Smith Company, Limited,
solemnly and sincerely declare—
g* by the Balance-sheet, 0,000,000, divided into
1,000,000 Shares of One Pound • « which 325 000 were issued as fully paid-up to
S as Contributing, issued to
Sh,U S”e“ hi b£. paid-up Five Shill,ngs per Share, makrng m all the sum of £83,231
- «-*■»* « “
That the^AsStsidldabmtiesof the Company on the 31st December, 1905, were ___
BALANCE SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1905 ,
LIABILITIES.
To Authorised Capital—
COO,OOO Preference
Shares of £1 each .. £500,000 0 0
500,000 Ordinary
Shares of £1 each ..
500,000 0 0
£1.000.000 0 0
'O; which there have been issued
102.500 Pref. Shares of
£1 each, issued
as fully paid-up
to Vendors
162.500 Ord. Shares of
£1 each, issued
as fully paid-up
to Vendors
325,000
21,598 Pref. Shares of
£1 each, paid-
up in cash
28,044 Ord. Shares of
£1 each, paid-
up in cash
62,902 Pref. Shares of
£1 each, paid-
up to ss. in cash
59,456 Ord. Shares of
£1 each, paid-
up to ss. in cash.
500,000
To Fund for Depreciation of Steamers
and Plant, Replacements, Renewals,
Insurance and Cor itingencies..
To Debts due by the Company ..
To Profit and Loss Ac count—
Profit 47,327 13 0
Interim Dividend;Paid 15,033 810
£162,500 0 0
162,500 0 0
325,000 0 0
24,598 0 0
28,044 0 0
15,725 10 0
14,864 0 0
£408,231 10 0
219,731 6
52,074 11
32,294 4 2
£712.931 12 4
ASSETS.
£15,619 19 9
By
Real Estate at Cost
Leasehold Property at
Cost
Less Written off
£18,877 17 1
3,461 13 3
Steamers and Plant at Cost ..
Shares in other Com-
panies at Cost .. 65,039 9 6
Caledonian Coal Co. Ltd.
Aberdare Collieries of N.S.W. Ltd.
Newcastle Coal Mining Co. Ltd.
Dawson River Coal Co. Ltd.
Melbourne S. Co. Ltd.
Belfast & Koroit S.N. Co. Ltd.
Newcastle Stevedg. & Tug Co. Ltd.
Federal Wharf Co. Ltd., Port Pine
Queen’s Wharf Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Brisbane Wharves Co. Ltd.
Cowley Jetty Co. Ltd.
Forbes Patent Course and
Distance Recorder Co. Ltd.
Less Written off 1,000 0 0
„ Fixed Deposits .. ..
Debentures at Cost, Victorian Govern-
ment and Metropolitan Board of Land
and Works .. •• •• ••
Stocks of Coal and General Stores at
Cost
„ Balance due by Branches .. .
Insurance Premiums prepaid, Claims
” against Underwriters, Debtors for
Coal, Freights, Passages and Wharf-
ages, and Deposits on Trade Con-
tracts, after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts ..
„ Cash at Bankers, and on hand
15,416 3 10
413,456 19 4
64,039 9 6
30,000 0 0
42,118 10 0
19,566 5 2
4,712 2 10
68,601 17 6
39,400 4 5
Dr.
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDINC 31st DECEMBER, 1905.
Cr.
To Overhauls, General Charges, Law Costs
and other Expenses
~ Depreciation—
Steamers,' Plant, Leasehold, and Shares..
~ Interim Dividend Pa id
~ Balance
£07,717 13 5
22,435 17 3
15,033 810
32,294 4 2
£137,481 3 8
By Brought Forward from last year .. £17,234 0 1
learnings of Steamers, Wharves, and In-
vestments, Profit on Coal Sales, less
Provisions for Contingencies .. .. 120,247 3 7
£137,481 3 8
That~the "are .he Name., Add,*., and Occupation, o. th. person, who a,, the Director, ot the
Company at the date «S th. Statement _ Meltamne, Oentleman.
W. S. Howard Smith, Esq., Melbourne, Gentleman.
O." C. Smith, Esq., Melbourne, Gentleman.
1 W G. Si’rigo, Esq., Melbourne, Accountant.
Smith Company, Limited, and that the-above: atem e _ ; • j 1 be ii ev ing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
perso/s making a false declaration punishable for wilful and
C ° rr^clL e Skelbourn e, in the State of Victoria, this 21st day of February, 1906.
1!ef °W. 'hTcROKER, Not Gary Public, Melbourne. M ' NEWM
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
. We, William Hbnshai i, of 58 Queen-street and Company hereby certify
Jhe State of Victoria, hart n» been d«ily « aPP°>' lte * t ° vouchers/and securities of the Company, together with
KS retail-ns as r®< IfflSSft Branchs, for
feSSKi provisions of the - Companies Acts, and
present a correct view of Ufli e Company s affairs at that date. . h d j the au dit an y breach of the
l CbSSS” t S i a Manner, Employee. Auditor, or Shareholder
thereof, and that all om> net® lirements have been complied w t .
Haled a,t .Melbourne tblia 21st day of February, 1906.
WM. DENSHAM,
EDWIN H. FLACK,
Auditors.
We, Harry Beijtiingiiumi
Howard Smith Company Dim
drawn up so as to exhibit toot
Melbourne, 21st Fblibiinn;
Witness —W.. HL.GHH
Howard Smith and William Gardiner Si-rigg, of Melbourne, two o
do hereby certify, on behalf of the Board, that in our opinion th
,rrect view of the state of the Company s affairs.
V, 1900.
)KBR, Notary Public, Melbourne.
the Directors of
Balance Sheet is
H. B. HOWARD SMITH,
W. G. SPRIGG,
Directors,
The Brickbat.
(Slung by Various Contributors.)
Adelaide University students have offended
the dignity of the Chancellor so often by singing
“Ta-ra-ra-ra Sammy Way” and other ribald
ditties at successive Commemorations that it has
been decided to shut them out from future
functions. Their crowning wickedness was to
pour confetti on Governor Le Hunte and the
Chancellor at the last Commemoration.
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : I have just been reading a
serious account of a Poodles’ Garden Party
in London, the said garden party being a
parade of the pet dogs of duchesses and minor
dames of fashion at a tea and cake function in the
magnificent grounds of a countess’ town mansion.
The costly tykes were highly appreciated for their
diminutiveness, their breeding, and their “ man-
ners,” for it would seem there is actually an
etiquette for dogs, and Lady-Something’s toy
terrier, Bounce, was disqualified for undignified
conduct in rushing the small marquee in
which luncheon was provided for the pampered
“ purps.” The dogs were expensively gowned
and jewelled, and their behavior on the whole
gave a gush of gratification to the lost souls who
seriously reported the exhibition. 1 he portrait
of the dog whose table manners and general de-
corum earned him first prize for behaviour is
printed in the paper, and the splendid creature,
almost as large as a Queensland spider, wears the
haughty expression of a well-fed British footman,
which is exactly the same expression, as, that worn
by the familiar little lordliug with the face of. an
anguished rabbit who represents England’s old
nooility in many walks of life nowadays. An
Australian girl, just back from London, swears
that these dogs, as displayed by fussy female
aristocrats on Rotten Row, look down on mere
people with unmistakable insolence and hauteur.
8he also declares that they do not bark, but utter
a sound like “ haw, haw ! ” And she saw one with
a monocle suspended round its neck by a gold
chain.
* * * *
“ H. Drummond ” : Some little time ago I
struck Bankstown, five miles out of Rook-
wood, but it might as well be five miles from Rip
Van Winkle, so slow is it. We were after some
declarations from the oldest and stupidest inhabi-
tants in connection with an application to bring
some land under the Real Property Act. We
walked out from Rookwood—the landowner, the
J.P., and myself—to the landowner’s house at j
Upper Bankstown. Some indefinite coach was
due to run at some indefinite hour, but we did not
wait for that. I asked the owner what about a
trap to drive round in, but as only a bullock dray
was available we decided to walk. Ihe J.P, had
done a bit of bailiff’s work in his time, and told
a few of his experiences while waiting for lunch.
Lunch, when it appeared, consisted of four boiled
eggs. The owner took one, the J.P. one, and my-
self one. Each seemed to think of the walk ahead,
and the owner, the J.P., and I looked at one
another and at the extra egg. I saw by the
look in the J.P.’s eye that he had made up his
mind on that egg, but I got there first, just as
be was putting his hand out for it. After
lunch the owner thought he would go a couple
of miles down the road, where he had a
friend who would swear anything. This was
done, and our guide informed us that if we struck
across country three or four miles he was sure
that we could get another declaration. The J.P.
was rather fat, and he lost all sense of the dignity
of his position during this trip. He seemed to
look with scorn on his untitled companions, and
sat on each fence as we came to it and drank
whisky out of his own huge flask. When we got
there the friend was out, so we started a mile or
so along the road for the next oldest inhabitant.
Down the road we ran into a casual who looked
like an old-age pensioner twice over, and who
informed us he had known the property for 50
years. So we drew up a declaration for him, on a
stump by the roadside, and drew a plan on a
sheet of foolscap on the ground. But the de-
clarant could not sign his name, and the J.P.,
who was now pretty drunk, insisted on the
declaration being re-drawn to comply with the
(hie) statutes. A few miles down the road we got
one or two more venerables, and then we started
back for Bankstown. About half a mile along the
road the owner thought of a friend about a mile
back whom he had forgotten. The J.P. stoutly
refused to come, and we left him sitting
in the middle of the road. Saw the
friend, told him what we wanted, drew
a declaration for him, and asked him to
bring it to Sydney next time he came and swear it
before a J.P. “All right,” he said, “ but 1 don’t
know when I’ll be coming. I was down there one
night just on 19 years ago, but the Town Hall
clock kept me awake so long that I don’t think
I’ll go down again.” We left him and got back
to the J.P., who was sound asleep with an
empty flask for a pillow. We managed to get
him to Bankstown, and left him in a pub, un-
conscious. of the fact that he was a J.P. The
owner went home, and I walked wearily into
Rookwood ; and in my pocket were five declara-
tions with the breath of the J.P. heavy upon
them. Of the five people who swore three could
not sign their names.
This “ pome ” of welcome appeared in last
issue of Young Australia : —
And there is no law under which Nicholas the
Honorable can be trundled out of Parliament —
Nicholas who says, “the language . . . have
evolved.” Have it, indeed ?
The sterling value of personal identifica-
tion received a huge shock in Maoriland the other
week. A little girl, about to give evidence against
a man charged with having assaulted her, was
asked to point out the culprit. The girl did not
know the geography of courts, and after carefully
scanning the jury box indicated the foreman as
the criminal. Which was awkward, and moved
the man in the dock to great hilarity. Writer
has had grave doubts about the value of personal
identification for a long while. Walking into
Sydney Public Library one evening he was seized
with an uncontrollable desire to whack the gong
which is used to give the signal for closing up.
An awful clang reverberated through the build-
ing, readers sprang to their feet, attendants
poured from all quarters, and the offender stood
spell-bound, having dropped the drum-stick.
Before he could think of a coherent lie a fussy
little man in a frock coat demanded why he had
not seized the larrikin, and then went on to ex-
plain to the attendants that the man who hit the
gong bolted out as soon as he committed the
atrocity. He described him accurately —short,
small features, dressed in grey serge suit, with a
wide soft felt hat. The attendants went out to
secure this monster of iniquity, if he was still
visible, but returned empty-handed. Then the
writer, after breathing heavily, went off to stay
himself with lemon squash, and wonder what
would have happened had he stabbed the attendant
instead of striking the gong, and a man had
passed dressed in a grey serge suit and wearing on
his head a wide grey felt hat.
A MODERN SPANISH MATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the days of Blanky Mary
And her sportive sister, Bess,
Divers schemes and sundry plots were wont to hatch ;
These were oft inclined to vary
As to method, more or less,
But they all were formed against “ The Spanish Match.”
For the sweet and gentle Mary
Married Philip, King of Spain,
Who was most devout (as are most royal rakes).
And though Protestants were wary
Their discretion was in vain,
And they got cold chops for breakfast, or hot stakes >
It was chiefly through Queen Mary
And h r bygone Spanish Match
That the Reformation got its strongest hold.
(This is somewhat legendary,
We perhaps should not attach
Much importance to the story as it’s told.)
But the thing that once had been, a-
Las, perchance may come again,
And my meaning all true Protestants will catch ;
For it seems the Princess Ena
Means to wed the King of Spain,
And to furnish forth another Spanish Match !
To the Protestant persuasion
This engagement must seem wrong
(Though the amorous young couple no one blames)
And appears to give occasion
For a protest stout and strong,
And for pouring oil upon the troubled flames !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
WELCOME TOEARL JERSEY AND THE COUNTESS OF JE RSEY,
(By Hon. Nicholas Hawkeo, M.L.O.)
The language of the ages have evolved
No better word than friend.
Friend is the title decorating Jersey,
Australia’s order of affection ;
That Time may ever point with pride
To noble welcome to the gracious peer,
Australia’s welcome.
Then New South Wales in gratitude,
Give hands and hearts
For the Continent;
That evermore may be remembered
The Jerseys, man and wife,
Selected from the great
As Australia’s friends.


SORE
SORE
HANDS
One Night
Treatment
with
Soak the feet or hands on retiring
in a strong, hot, creamy lather of
Guticura Soap. Dry, and anoint
freely with Cuticura Ointment,
the great Skin Cure and purest of
emollients. Bandage lightly in old,
soft cotton or linen. For itching,
burning, and scaling eczema, rash-
es, inflammation> and chafing, for
redness, roughness, cracks, and
fissures, with brittle, shapeless
nails, this treatment is simply
wonderful, always relieving and
frequently curing in one night.
Complete Humour Cure, consisting of Cuticura
Soap Ointment, and Pills may be had of all chemist!.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27 Charter-
house Sg.; Paris, 5 Hue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns
& Co., Svdney; Boston, U. S. A.. Potter Drug & Cham,
Corp., Sole Props.
OS* Mailed freev u How to Cure Every Humour. w
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOJ good good
GOOD GOOD GOOD
6000
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
HOOD
GOOD
“GOOD”
IS YOUR
WATCHWORD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
Rfinn
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD Gnnn
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
S YSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
! QUEENSLAND BRANGH—
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
NORMAN BROS.
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Solis Australian Agent
Elßfl
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
venience.
Bach Capsule bears the name |W
mi
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
THE ZOBO.
... ANYONE CAN PLAY IT.
The Zobo is a new invention, made on the same
principle as the Kazoo. It has a rawhide disc on the
inside, and by singing in and against this disc won-
derful music is produced. Anyone can play any tune
upon it; imitates fowls, bagpipes, animals, etc. Very
popular with singing clubs and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
A Baby with the Voice of a Giant.
Is. Of. Each (is. Bd. post free); 2 for 3s.
A , n \ orc unique merry-making and fascinating little novelty
- * exceedingly hard to find. It possesses real merit. It
is an intensely amusing article for adults as well as for children
Iti» no . a msre toy, us many might suppose, being subs'anti
ally constructed and easily operated The varied
tones possible to be produced with this little device are iacred,
ibie. No nine ever composed that cannot he accurately pro-
dui.ed. It is just th.i thing for duets, quartettes, chorus
carnivals, masquerades, serenades, parades, etc. Jt may be
accompanied with various other instruments with very pleasing
■effects, and never fails to make a hit. Remember that if voS
do not obtain satisfactory results the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument. Read over the directions, and persist a
>to be SUte';,^ d ‘ Sl,ted W “ h the results -
DIRECTIONS.
...’’ifee 'l 1 ® st< r m against the lips, or hold between the teeth as in
Mem 9 DO NOT t ’ r 'l!l S )\v y tV’ M ,hfe ;,:r ofAl "T„ne into the
aiT'.i, - U1 , 1!1 - 0W '. lhu uotesare produced by vibra-
diaphragni to act.
, ...vim, me v
reproducing and modifying any sound k. ‘ The
c“ 'l.P r . 0 >. l , IC o 1 those of various Instruments, sucli
very little practice is required by even a child to in isier ti,~
instrument; there is a little “ knack ” to it, that's all.
STAR NOVELTY
CO,,
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has caret
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsv when ever’
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11-
Thojsands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents:
SAYEItS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Ohemisl
25 lligh-street, Belfast, Ireland.
THE
FOOD
ROUTE
Is the safest way to steady
heal th.
Many people are kept ill
because they do not know how
to select food that their own par-
ticular bodies will take up and
build upon.
What will answer for one will
not do for another.
If one is ailing it is safe to
change food entirely and go on a
plain simple diet, say,
Cooked Fruit,
Dish of Grape=Nuts
and Cream,
2 Soft Eggs,
1 Cup Postum Coffee,
Slice of Toast,
no more.
Man ! but a diet like that
makes one feel good after a few
days’ use. r
The most perfectly made food
for human use is
Grape-Nuts.
“There’s a reason.”
[7
Beautiful Home Decorations
nt
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EM.MKI (Washable) - Rich and
durable as real gold. .Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Limp andGasFUturek
etC i«a *»»mr'» C ifS«, 1 I <1 i ngenarael ‘ inexpensive; easily applied. ’
i AMEEiS.” for decorating the brilliant white and
anyo®he^artftle! fUIC lmagloBSSUrfaCetor Fu ™iture, Metal Beds and
“SAPOUIM” RATH TUB EVAMEU. In White Rose Tvnrv
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations .
Successfully used in Shis climate for over 20 years
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of Japanese gold paint, “sapolin” Prom?
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALTJMINFM ENAMEL, Etc.
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
s
and
stimated
ike
plans and specifications tor dwellings, business and public buildings of all kinds. Our ‘
w , i°“ ? enables us to make plans accurately for building in any part of the world. The house shown
below' has been built over 80Q|tiines for £240. We will niail you, post paid, Full Blue Print Workina
Plans and Specifications, complete for £2. working
kTtck e
©wr/fG $
IS. 14
i
. . . I
■"‘Ar IS- 13*
Wi)L°P I .
f 3 ' I>s I G>rA72fl
I IO- II
i T±°o&
All rooms open into hall
with grille arches between
dining room, parlor and
hall.
2
m
mm
This Plan can he Reversed to Suit Any Location.
n
Jl)ED®2<?n
u
JltoT^r
- 1©
<@CCp/1D fteoß
Three comfort,able cham-
bers, . Siul floor.
, All you have to do is to send 2s. for the book, “Modern Homes,” which contains all'information about
building a home. Write for our new book, “Public Buildings,” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
Chinches, Stores, Gaols, Office and Public Buildings of all kinds and descriptions. It also contains a series of
designs in high-priced dwellings, costing above £2OOO. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
and most practical designs in business buildings and fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s
E ’““ ed J. H. D AVER MAN & SON, Architects,
Subscribe for ART IN ARCHITECTURE, a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artistic homes and
home furnishings. J. H. HA VERM AN <fc SON,' Publishers.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Our Great SUMMER CLEARAHCE SALE is Now On.
INURING the Sale ALL SUMMER GOODS, without exception, are being CLOSED OUT at Plainlv-Figurpd
Prices, showing VERY SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTIONS on Ordinary Rates, and there is from end to end
of our warehouse, an even more irresistible array of Bargains than we have ever before offered.
The HQUSE that has the Best Goods, the most of them, and the greatest variety AT REGULAR BRICES
must, ft stands to reason, be the HOUSE that can offer the Best Bargains, the largest nui. ,er of them and the
8 1 eatest variety WHEN BRICES ARE REDUCED. By comparing l Goods and Brices, purchasers will have
proof that the above description
FITS NONE BXJT FINNEY’S.
THE SALE OF THE SEASON in Quantity, Variety, Excellence, Up-to-dateness, Freshness, and Low Price
of all goods offered is Our Summer Sale, which will not, we venture to predict, be a Sale of the dragging-
sort that “lags superfluous on the stage,” but of the lively-footed kind that dances quickly across in a kaleido-
scopic whirl of Bargains. Send for Samples of our Household Drapery Goods, clearing at Sale Prices (mentioi mg
those you wish to see particularly), and for our Sale Price Lists of Ribbons, Laces, Embroideries, Gloves
Hosiery, &c., &c. Kindly mention, when ordering Goods during Sale, whether, in the event of anything o iered
being sold out, we are empowered to substitute another article, stating price limit. Goods cut out so .apidlv
during Sale that this provision is strongly recommended. Where it is necessary to substitute, the best judgment
will bo exercised in sending the nearest goods of similar or better quality to those selected. Remittances should
be sent to cover cost of orders, and made payable to •
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, Brisbane.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Despite the supposed evil effects of early closing-
and half-holiday legislation the number of small shops in
Sydney and suburbs continues to increase out of all pro-
portion to the increase in population. Streets which had
only one shop five years ago have now three or four,
while in some parts fully a quarter of the residents have
something in their windows for sale. This appears to be
a common tendency of the time, and the effect on prices
and qualities must be considerable. Few of those small
shops can afford to buy in large quantities ; most of them
dea! with retailers, who themselves buy from retailers a
little better oft, and the last purchaser pays tribute to a
long line of middlemen or middlewomen. That last pur-
chaser, therefore, suffers either in price or quality, but as
he is mostly in debt he can’t go elsewhere. He generally
levels up transactions, however, by leaving a good part of
the lent unpaid. Then the small shopkeeper fails to pay
the landlord and the bigger shopkeeper, and the landlord
puts in a bailiff and gets very little, and the bigger shop-
puts more dead things in the tea to make good his
* * * •
The Recorder of Cardiff (Eng.) told a jury that
he had heard that the pawnbroker’s sign of three balls
represented the odds of two to one against an article
pawned ever being redeemed.
* * • *
“Drifter ” : Travelled through a N. S-W.
mountain mining district recently, and was struck bv
the drab, poverty-stricken appearance of the miners’
habitations. The expression of squalor within- and
around them ached l.ke a thankless tooth. Seldom a
flower or green patch of garden was planted to brighten
the unloveliness. The m.ners’ mansions were principally
3-roomed structures, slung together on slack heaps, with,
slabs, mud and weather-stained kerosene tins : grinning
mockeries of home, sweet home. They had broken window-
panes stuffed with rags, crazy front doors, unutterably
ugly sapling and clay chimneys, and a mass of jam tins:
and rubbish littering the adjacent scenery. Swarms of
ragged children playing around almost every diminutive'
hovel gave an impression that they must roost on the
rafters at night for want of space within. In summer
beneath the low roofs of corrugated iron, the tempera-
ture must be as Sheol with the bellows blowing.
In winter, if the little children ; do not die w-holesale of
lung complaints, it can be only because of the hardv
stock from which they spring. There can be no quiet
nook for the toiler from the black pit to doss in peace in
the daytime; no pleasant home life—no nothing, save a
long avenue of gloom and grime leading to a rheumatic
old age. These men of the pick and safety lamp with
their toiling wives and sturdy ragged children, deserve a
better fate.
* * * *
“T.D.”: After viewing the shipbuilding yards.
,of flarland and Woolf and others at Belfast recently and
lv&tching the launching of an 8000-tonner, and the fitting
up of the huge Cunarder America, I dreamed a dream of
the wonderful unseized possibilities of Sydney for ship
construction purposes. At Belfast the ships as they take
to the water seem in imminent danger of hitting one
of the river wharves, and all navigation is impeded
until the splash is over and the vessel has been safelv
moored out of the way ; whereas in Sydney there are many
miles of foreshore that would lend themselves admirably
to the construction of the hugest kind of imaginable ark.
And just to think of the fleet of steamers built in
the United Kingdom every year solely to engage in the
Australasian trade. A demand by such companies as the'
Union, and Howard Smith’s, and Huddart Parker’s and
the A.U.S.N. for steamers to be built on the spot would
soon create the necessary firms and the essential first-
class marine architects, but so long as those concerns are
largely iuu with Biitish capital, the British shareholders-
will have a prejudice, and sometimes a pecuniary advan-
tage, in keeping the ship-building work for Belfast or the
Clyde. It’s a pity to think of such a lot of natural advan-
tages running to waste.
* * * *
Parsons, the so-called inventor of the steatn-
turblne, splendid marine specimens of which drive the,,
steamers Loongana and Maheno in Australian waters
should have his name coupled with that of George
Stephenson. Stephenson, broadly speaking, took one of
Watt s vertical engines and made its wheels touch ground
so that when they revolved the machine moved forward'
In like manner Parsons took a Pelton water-wheel—a
thing in use as a high-speed water-motor for many
years—and substituted a jet of high-pressure steam for
the jet of water which, impinging on the buckets on the
rim of the wheel, made it revolve. Stephenson and
Parsons deserve the title of /“great,” but neither oU
them was an inventor of the particular machine with
which his name is identified. They saw how another
man s invention could be improved, and they carried out-
his ideas.
•*, * . *
Owen Daly, better known on Westralian gold-
fields as “Micky t.he Priest,” first discovered gold at the
Black Range, 10 years ago. He was one of the first on
the Murchison, where he worked one or two good shows
Later on, lie wandered out along the Lawler’s road, and
prospected in the Black Range, leading a hermit’s life for
months. With some of his savings he purchased a
battery, but results were disappointing, and “Micky”
lost everything. Still he believed in the place, and hired
himself out in order to get money to continue prospect-
mg ; but meantime others came along and secured the
prize. Micky is still there, but has not done any good
Originally intended for a priest, he has a quaint way oi'
speaking—bog Latin jostling the jargon of the goldfields.
He lives now in a cave. Mining at the Range is on the
up grade, the principal show paying regular dividends.
Hans Irvine, who was mainly instrumental in opening up
the mines there, is expected to reach Fremantle, on his
way out from England, early in March, and will t>o direct
to the field.
HOLES IN THE GROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A pub, a store, an old bark hut,
Some fossickers—just so
Drowses the town (the mines were shut
Full forty years ago) ;
And through the streets of Diggers’ Flat,
Where gold like dirt was found,
A weary cow now gazes at
The blank holes in the ground.
Across the bar the beery band
With mildewed grief o’erflows ;
For metal comes like water, and
Like wind the metal goes.
Once diggers lit their pipes with notes,
Played skittles with champagne ;
But such great times and such dry throats
They’ll never see again.
With reefs blown out the district’s dead,
The diggers spread like chaff ;
High on some rotting poppet-head
Grim kookaburras laugh.
The shafts are filled with water now,
Broken each battery;
Along the creek a carrion Chow
Sluices eternally.
Like one vast sheet the Golden Town
Spread tents, a thousand head ;
No Southern sun looked laughing down
On life more rich and red.
Twas gold quick spent, gold easy won
’Twas golden work and play ;
They sifted dirt till set o’ sun,
They drank till break o’ day.
These roaring days, these royal sprees
They spun too swift to last;
Now grass and humble raspberries
Trail o’er this golden past.
A boozer lifts his head to grin
(Still Fate twirls trouble round),
A cocky’s cow has tumbled in
Some blank hole in the ground.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS, i
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.
Melbourne;.
TPHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to clear the whole
of their stock :
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading- Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £1 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels ; reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap .. .. .. £0 6 9
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
„ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb.; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fail Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or’ Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
0 0
10TOtf
mu
SPIRO
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OP PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING.
EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY. Ltd., 177
Liverpool Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
(208)
V
Wh.
m
m.
/
As an EGG
is full of Meat
So is an “AMERICAS” GRAIN DRILL
full of good, practical points points
that make seeding a pleasure to those
who use them
With them you can sow AN UNUSUALLY SMALL QUANTITY
of grain or fertilizer, and sow it evenly.
The adjustment of the quantities sown is closer than on most
other drills; that is, if, for instance, you want to sow more than
sixteen quarts of fertilizer you don’t have to sow twenty-four
quarts. A simple shift of a lever enables you to sow twenty quarts.
The “American” is liberally equipped with roller bearings, and
hence the draught is of the very lightest.
If space permitted we could go on indefinitely enumerating its
virtues, but if you will send for our illustrated pamphlet, it will
give you many particulars that we haven t room for here.
Don’t forget to specify the size you want. Ask for prices and
terms; you will find them SURPRISINGLY FAVOURABLE.
International Harvester Company of America
Agents throughout Australasia,
Brisbane i Sydney
Melbourne :: Adelaide
Launceston, Christchurch
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
WILL
BOOKS
AND
FOR
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated withoverso
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
postedBd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc,, Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
TO Play Billiards, Is. georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Maofadden’s Physical Train-
!»g. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSN
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
V.w
A
ur/-
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciter?,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels In
English.
No. 4 Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure'them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/S.
508 GEORGE ST.,
201 BOURKE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
MELBOURNE.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
Produce the
most . .
delightful
musio. ’
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I
To be Obtained from —
SAML. McCARDLE, 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
J. R. BROWN. Box 494, Wehin 6 ton. N.Z.
GILLETTE RAZOR
r» i ,
SHAve
cx.o v^h>
HORS£BAC
GAL*,
SH4V.
wta
o*4
©
O
BW
o
*>**
Send (or Deec rip tire Circular. 30 Days' Trial given.
Honey refunded if not xatUfaotory.
B 2 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.a Box 143*1 Melbourne, Box 404. Wellington, N.Z.
W, MOONEY* Queen Street, Brisbane.
ED. S-7. MNDSAv, Towers.
HEAD OFFICE;
FRANK COFFEE, 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. ioo-paP , e Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
AN INEXPENSIVE ARTISTIC NOYELTV
PHOTO
VERY DECORATIVE
Each Fan will hold Five Cabinet Photo-
graphs, fitted with Excellent Pictured of
Nellie Stewart, Tittell Bruhe,
Margaret Thomas, Maud Jeffries
and Frances Boss.
2/- each ; Two
for 3/6 .
Six for 9/-
Carriage Paid.
. iK handsome Photo Pans have just arrived i> om
America. where they are immensely popular aud a»e
selling in great numbers. They are made or a material of
the nature of papier-mache, somewhat resembling felt in ap-
pearance. They come in various artistic colorings: Olive
Stone Grey, Madder Brown. Slate Blue, Crimson and
Moss Green, and the sections are fastened with ribboh of a
contrasting shade. When fully extended, as shown in the
illustration, the Fan exceeds 21 inches in width, and it
will accommodate Five Cabinet Photographs. Several of
these Fans effectively decorate a room and disp.ay the
Photographs of friends and relatives very attractively. In
>espouse to suggestions from customers, we now fit each Fan
with Excellent Pictures of Five Beautiful and Popular
Actresses, that may of course be replaced by family portraits
when desired. VVe have the exclusive control of these g, ods
but. instead of firing a high price upon them we iut« ml
to utilise them to advertise our other lines. We have:there-
fore. decided to sell them at only 2s. each, or Two Fans for
3s. 6d., or Six Fans for 9s. . including carriage to any address,
and with each order we will send our Illustrated Catalogue
of nearly 200 pages, comprising many novel and curious
articles that cannot be procured elsewhere. There is some-
thing interesting on every page. To save disappointment,
you should send your order at once with postal notes of any
State. If you mention this paper when ordering, we will
send with the goods a Curious Puzzle.
The Union Mfg & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP BELF-CUBE, will
forward the same, free o£ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.—"
“ I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.


Queensland Government has sunk £500,000
in sugar mills. Under the old regime of black labor
coupled with the awful Philp, the mills were
nearly broke, and Queensland’s chance of getting
its money back looked very blue. But now under
the care of a Labor Government (practically) and
a white Australian policy things are looking
healthy. When Treasurer Kidston states that the
financial condition of the mills is satisfactory,
Queensland can rest assured it will get its money.
Amusing to remember that the old Tory gang,
which made such an awful hash of all things,
used to taunt the Labor party with its lack of
“ business experience.”
“Drifter”: I have a deadly, uncon-
querable hatred of people who pester the inoffen-
sive with puzzle problems. Once I was robbed of
a night’s sleep and got a black eye through a fool
conundrum. We were crossing from Africa on a
troopship at the time. Seven hundred of us were
slung up in hammocks, like so many flying foxes
suspended from the lower deck. “Lights out” had
sounded, and several of the troopers were already
asleep, when a husky voice cautiously croaked, “Are
You awake, Ryan?” From one of the second
r ow of hammocks came the drowsy reply, “ Yes ;
what’s up? ” “I have it,” croaked the first voice,
‘‘he would be my own father!” “Shut up!”
cried several men in chorus. A laugh sounded
from Ryan’s hammock. “Wrong!” he ejacu-
lated. “ Tell me it again,” demanded the dis-
turber of the peace. “ Right. Listen . . . Sisters
and brothers I have none, but that man’s
father was my father’s son; what rela-
tion is he to me ? ” In three minutes, the
space between decks became a jabbering pande-
monium. Dim figures rose up from hammocks
in the gloom and commenced to argue fiercely.
Soon all hands were dragged into the whirlpool of
contention, and the place became a roaring In-
ferno. The night officer rushed down with his
guard, thinking some one had scuttled the ship.
A dozen excited men, slung up near the com-
panion way, fell upon him to decide what relation
somebody’s grandfather’s father’s son’s brother
was to themselves. He finally fled with
his brow clasped tightly in both hands, cursing
vigorously. Towards the centre of the ship the
battle was raging furiously. Numbers of the men
got abusive, and cast hot aspersions on other
men’s lack of brains, on their ancestors, and on
their probable descendants. Soon, from the
murk, arose “ language ” -like blasts of brimstone
from the bottomless pit. Two men in hammocks
running parallel with mine began to call each
other hard and unnecessarily bitter names.
Through the babel I.heard one threaten that his
vilifier would £ ' stop something ” if he called him
that particular name again. The challenged.
individual reiterated the slur with considerable
embellishment. Ten seconds later an ammunition
boot hurtled onto my left eye, and the roar of
voices momentarily faded from my ears. When
the constellations of whirling stars and dazzling
comets subsided I drew a sharp knife, and
cautiously dismounted from the hammock. One
savage slash across the head-rope of the boot-'
thrower’s nest and 1 was avenged. I heard a
despairing yell, then his head crashed into the
hard floor six feet beneath. Then I got my
blanket and crept away through the darkness to
the end of the ship to finish the night, nursing my
damaged eye on an uncomfortable bed of life-
belts. And all through a fool conundrum.
SOME BOOKS s bT SIR ROBERT!
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Oliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train tiie Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is (id. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. SaNdow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
Hew Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. !D®~ Established, SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N Ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s Gd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Gd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted; Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is Gd post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large .Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1.016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is Gd posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. -French
'Art Stuhiks. 500 ld-ds, 1” 3<l dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
Is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords ma st welcome relief
in a very short time.
r\
<b>
V
S'
$
❖
&
&
&
S>
«v
Business Announcements.
FEATHERS
GIVEN AWAY
2000 Ostrich Tips,
nine inches long,
will be gi veil away
this month to
advertise our
Feathers from
South Africa.
Write For
Coupons.
Miller’s Feather Shop.
Corner STRAND ARCADE, PITT STREET,
SYDNEY. (Mention The Bulletin).
m
m
m
PETER’S
HAS MANY
IMITATORS
BUT NONE
CAN EQUAL
HIS
ORIGINAL
MILK
CHOCOLATE
Lockwood Bros., Ltd .
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
X POCKET
X. KNIVES
\ are the
\ BEST.
Sold'
by
. all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176£ 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
This
Trade
Mark
jp&SkQjffip
&
AERTEX
tONDOK
on
every.
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., dc.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and ChTIdREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S. W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
REMOVING TO
94 King Street, Sydney,
BETWEEN GEORGE & PITT STREETS.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
I* non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups ot
any ordinary cocoa.
Lager
Superior
to
All Others .
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ - '
0
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGES’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, *c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


Look for
the name
WQOD'MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHITSTBS KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgcorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville,' Queensland; Broken-hill, Lew
South Wales.
3
WOOD-
MIUNE/
HEELS
DUNKLING’S I
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
*
m
lIQJBOUBIIB
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. g
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cy> le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
Sls £2.HO to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bun
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered! Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, jgj to £2 AO
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
' taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wanted inarch district. Large profits.easily'made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c... hal f prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
EARN A CYCLE
best present for
THE BOYS!
mHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
-L Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
WE THIRD
SIZE
1
ca
cn
m
&
VE6ESALIS
| TABLE SALT
1 WHICH JS SALT
3 With Vegetable Virtues.
| DOES DOT BLACKEN SILVER.
=; Does not Cake.
3 USB IT WHEN COOKING
= VEGETABLES instead of
= OBJECTIONABLE SODA,
Wholesale Atfenta-
— WEST AUSTRALIA— _
- WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
—" VICTORIA
ROBERT NELSON &. CO., Melbourne.
= NEW W SO H UT SR^£t E rcO., Sydney.
&• Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS &. MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—JAMES ROBIN & CO.. Adelaide,
ARE
YOU
A
BARRACKER
For
Australia
9
■
HERE ARE A FEW
WHY YOU SHOULD
FROM 1001 REASONS
PURCHASE A PRIZE
A.N.A. Sewing Machine.
“THE A.N.A., although much the
l best Machine, is halt the cost
of Any Other—because we save
selling expenses by not keeping a
staff of expensive travellers.
Your money is kept in Australia
instead of being sent out of the
country.
A.N.fl. MACHINES are the most
simply constructed of all machines,
are most durable, reliable, and the
perfection of strength and accu-
racy, with ease of operation and
superior finish.
THE A.N. A. is The Marvel of the
20th Century. Whilst pos-
sessing the best merits of the best
Machines it has the following
special features and valuable im-
provements possessed by no other
machine :
Sews Backwards or Forwards
with great speed, the backward
sewing being invaluable for finish-
ing and strengthening the end of
a seam.
Patent Knee Lever to turn or
withdraw the work, so that both
hands are always free.
Securely Packed
and Sent . . . .
Price from £3 /Os* to £9 15s »
GUARANTEED FOR 25 YEARS. TERMS TO SUIT ALL.
For Full Description of this Great Aust. Prize A.N.A. Machine send for Catalogue to foiling address
Established 1888. Sole Proprietors.
224 Chapel St., PRAHRAN, Melb., Vic.
To any part of the
Commonwealth.
WARD BROS.
THAT
BACK
PAIN !
The Place Where
Your Trouble
Begins!
HOW many thousands of
men and women have
gone through life miserable
and broken in body and
spirt because they did not
attend to that first symptom
of impending evil ? . The
nerve eentre at the small of
the back becomes weak, the
kidneys become congested,
irritation and pain set in,
and “ Bright’s Disease of
the Kidneys” is the verdict
at the finish.
Electricity, properly
applied, would have pre-
vented such an untimely
end. It would have infused
new life into the nerve cen-
tre; it would have broken
up and removed the conges-
tion and cleansed the kid-
neys ; it would have stopped
all waste and made a real
healthy and vigorous con-
stitution.
DrJJcLaughliiis
ELECTRIC BELT
does all this and more. It
gives new life and vitality
to every part of the body.
You know well enough that
other methods have failed
of cures reported uphold all the claims made for our Belt. . . Oar Belt is
certain-there is no other genuine Electric Belt. Try it and be coi.vinced 1
A ■ navv PI cm innes N S W., writes: “ Dear Sirs,—l may state that 1
have worn one of your Electric Belts every night for three months, and am pleased
to be able to say that 1 feel as good as ever I did in my life. Before 1 got the Bert
I used to suffer terribly from Baofcaohe, but that trouble Is now a thing of the pas ,
and I am much better In every way. Wishing you every sucoess.
Jj
1
f '•
JM
m
m
s>
%
6/
m.
m
:
NOTICE!
No Man or Woman has made the right steptowardsreiau]-
itie their health unless they have read our FREE TREATISE oi
Electricity. Our Books are beautifully illustrated, and show
practical methods of applying Electricity for ai! chrome ailments. They are FREE,
and will be sent Post Paid to any who wnte Vou a WriUen Diagnosis by Post,
Examination and Consultation We will make to 8.30 p.m.
FREK. Don’t pay anyone for such services. . . office hoors y *.m.
the McLaughlin go.,
WOW. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Melb. Office—l67E. Swanston Street.
N.Z Office— s 4 Willis Street, Wellington.
Westralia Office-SO William Street, Perth
wsiUrtm. dhn.rlfi.x Crawford.
SK. FOR
✓ AKD I
✓ refuse!
*
Himself Cured.
-HEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and
Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy , aTrt
will be pleased to send the means of cure to aU -'
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no chaig
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
by post, a perfect
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HO. -
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they hiay CUR v
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOW
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYZDIETIEY-
FREE
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price, complete with 4months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, dr send order direct to
Star Navelty Co., 220-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
medicator.
■ thousands of
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being HI
Alinrn by Dr Langston’s Perfect
I GUitcU Combined Tbeatmknt.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Ref
ences from nearly every town m Australia
sent with my Valuable Book „ i
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY A CURE
FREE.
. Ktosted 2 Stamps.
the lanoston institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. I
RHEUMATISM.
fcW'lK’.S
GOUT
PIIiIiS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors —PROUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Free.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
r A
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., March 31
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 16 ...
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
B
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Inva'ids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Fridge & Loftus ftreets, SYDNEY.
AT RANDWICK, ON ANNIVER-
SARY DAY, the SEVENTH HORSE
IN THE BOOK WON THREE DIF-
FERENT EVENTS. 777 IS THE
NUMBER OF TATTERSALLS’
GOLDEN PEN. TRY YOUR LUCK
WITH ONE WHEN YOU ORDER
YOUR SWEEP TICKET. BOX OF
EIGHTEEN FOR SIXPENCE ANY-
WHERE, or SEND EIGHTPENCE
IN STAfIPS TO 777, BOX 98,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I “Is superior even to meal and 01
' Inestimable value as a food.''
Virchow.
fPLASMON
|d\ Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
"A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
‘ MENTAL ENEItGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
earne
ronchitis Cure.
THCE FAMIOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANT CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs'’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic. ”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDIIOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine, It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. .2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine. I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From tifne to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“I have purchased a small hottle of your Bronchi t's
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months With Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-stre’et, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
. F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H, Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, hut none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Droroana,
Victoria.
“ I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” DrUmmond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISH ART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.” —Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of anv other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken,” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virg'.nia-street, Geelong.
“I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steadv and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. P. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.” —D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybodv.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it’to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, QEELONQ, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
BRANCH depot t Qgi ce: |j 0t 5 f Fi rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Peels Like A New Woman.
Dyspepsia, Nervousness, General Debility,
Resulting prom Shock, Cured by Mother
Seigel’s Syrup.
The trials and tribulations of motherhood are,
even in the ordinary course of events, numerous
and severe. When to them is added a tragic
event, such as befell the family of Mrs. Johns, of
Elizabeth-street, off Weymouth-street, West
Adelaide, S.A., who had the misfortune to lose
her little son, he being accidentally burnt to
death, then even the most heroic mother may be
expected to collapse.
It was immediately after this terrible event
that Mrs. Johns’ health broke down. Writing
on the 22nd of March, 1905, she says:—“For
quite a number of years my health was very in-
different, and I suffered from dyspepsia, nervous-
ness, and general debility. I was never so ill
that I had to lay up entirely ; but, on the other
hand, I was never really well. During the heat
of summer, especially, I was always run down and
out of sorts, without appetite, sleepless, afflicted
with frequent headaches and pains in my side and
back.
“Doctors’ medicines failed to bring me any
lasting benefit. I persevered in taking them until
I was sick and weary, and at last gave them up in
despair as useless to me. But I owed it to my
children to leave no stone unturned to recover my
health, if possible, and so determined to make a
trial of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup—a
medicine which had proved wonderfully beneficial
to some friends of mine at Hawthorn, near
Melbourne.
“The very first bottle relieved me from pain.
That was early last summer, and I was so de-
lighted at the prospect of recovery that I gladly
continued its use. Before long the medicine had
toned up my nerves, restored my digestion, and
built me up generally to such an extent that I felt
like a new woman. Though my health: is at
present good, I always keep a bottle of; Mother
Seigel’s Syrup in the house, and it never fails to
set me right when, from any cause, I happen to
be ‘ out of sorts.’ ”*
EXTREME
AGONY
WITH
A Drover Praises ZAM-BUK.
\
V
\\
w
w
V
/
T
HE agony of Piles is as excruci-
ating as the disease itself is
weakening. Whatever form
this ailment takes, and
whether it arises from a debilitated
condition of the system or a dis-
turbance of the digestive functions,
Zam-Buk can be recommended as a
valuable remedy. It helps to soothe
the pain, reduces swelling and in-
flammation, and enables rest and
comfort to come to the worn-out
sufferer. Plow effectually Zam-Buk
acts is shown by the following
case : —Mr. John Roberts, residing
at the Grand Hotel, Russell-street,
Toowoomba, Q., says:—‘"l have
found Zam-Buk the very best remedy
for Piles. lam a drover, and while '
following my occupation am at times
exposed to the elements. I have
often been forced to ride in a wet
saddle, which brought on that most
dreaded of complaints. The irri-
tating and nagging pain I experi-
enced was at times awful. I could
gain no relief whatever. Walking
about was as bad as sitting down.
As you may be assured, I tried all
sorts of professed cures for Piles,
but gained next to no relief from
any of them. Hearing of the cures
Zam-Buk had effected, I secured a
pot and applied the balm. From
the first application I gained con
siderable ease, and, continuing with
the treatment, the Piles were
promptly banished. Since that time I have always kept a supply of Zam-Buk
with me, as I find it an invaluable balm for all kinds of skin injuries.”
ZAM-BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES. ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING-
SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOO, etc. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM
for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, PRICXLY HEAT,
FRECKLES, SUN-
BURN, RASH, and
BITES of INSECTS,
ZAM-BUK is IN-
VALUABLE. From
all Medicine Vendors
at 1/6, or 3/6 Family
Size (containing
nearly four times
the quantity).
The Pride of Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOD cast a deep sleep on the Man,
Then set a help-meet by his side. .
As he awakened I began,
And all the earth was glorifi id.
As gods we walked in Eden vale,
Lord of green herb, and fowl, and brute ;
Then came the Serpent writhing pale,
And showed the sweet forbidden fruit.
I plucked it, I ! That hour was mine !
All naked, unashamed, we stood.
Wisdom new-born, and half-divine.
Rode kingly over leaping blood.
But God came down at cool o’ the day
And feared our deed, and named it Sin.
He drove her forth and bade me stay.
Not I ! God could not keep me in.
’Mid thorns and thistles, then Man fought
And wrestled with the grudging soil.
I went before him as he wrought—
Lo, he rejoiced in sweat and toil!
And when the mother of all men lay,
His mate, in travail for his child,
I knelt beside her and straightway
Thro’ sharpest pangs she knew, and smiled.
Men lived and multiplied, a race
Of giants. Led by me they reared
A tower that reached to Heaven’s high place.
God saw it, and again He feared.
With tongues’ confusion cursed He them,
Let loose among them Hate and Strife,
Then shook in scorn His garment’s hem,
And let them battle for their life,
I drew from halting tongues the word
Of might, the challenge sounding far.
I laughed aloud when all men heard,
And dressed the panoply of war.
I lived in play of bow and spear,
Swift onset, shock of line on line;
My race of heroes knew not fear
Great deeds, great deeds, great deeds were
mine !
I spake, they builded cities seven
That shone like jewels on the plain.
Laughter and song rose up to Heaven—
And God looked down in wrath again.
He spake : “ This is the end. No more
Shall vex mine ears Man’s insolent mirth.”
He bade the great deeps yawn and pour
Their waters over all the earth.
I saw my strong men weep and rave,
My queenly women shrink and flee,
God strove with Man, and none to save—
The pains of death got hold on me.
Up from the nethermost despair
I rose ; I woke with throes of pain.—
I saw a white dove cleave the air ;
I followed back to Man again.
God strove with Man ; but such as I
God could not slay. Up clomb the sun,
Seven-hued the great bow spanned the sky—
Our truce-flag. I and Man had won.
Seed-time and harvest, gift for gift
The seasons grant and take again,
Still the lark’s song climbs up the rift,
And still the sunshine gems the rain.
I call; still leap the ancient fires
To life, and still the strong man wrests
Gladness from living, still desires
The whiteness of a maiden’s breasts.
Mid clash and strain and war of powers
I move alert to do, to dare.
To live ; I know not empty hours,
I breathe no enervating air.
The ecstasy of countless springs
Leaps in my veins, makes quick my will.
I stand above the wreck of things
And laugh, for I am conqueror still.
Q.
W.
My Land Again.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT Fremantle I found Australia again
—most lovable yet foreign. By-and-by
I saw the reason for this strangeness—
there was nobody in rags as in Europe, and no
beggars whining for pennies. But it was not
quite Australia yet, because Australia is empha-
tically not the Australian city. Sydney is like
Naples, and the people of Sydney are Italian in
their love of pleasure—and British in their
stolidity. Melbourne is Americanly rectangular
and American in its business habits. Brisbane is
as New Orleans with the Spanish element left out.
Adelaide is also rectangular in its streets, and
therefore precise in its ways ; its conduct a pecu-
liar mixture of democratic progress and Cornish
religiousness; its austerity modified by the
climate. Fremantle is indeterminate. Broken
Hill had the distinctive Australian quality during
its first rush, so had Kalgoorlie. Now that fixed
conditions have come, we must look for Australia
further out.
80' I hafLbeen six weeks in Australia before I
felt the old Australia again, and when I did I was
camped about h'affAvay to the centre of the conti-
nent —between Leigh’s Creek and Lake Frome.
Two days before that, and at Quorn, something
of the real Australia had come to me. After a
night of swapping sixpences for whisky, with some
men who had grass and no cattle and others who
had cattle but no grass, men with beards to
the lower ribs, clear in the eye and big of voice
and strong as lions, I awoke to a marvellous
dawn, soft and blue and gold and tasting like
wine.
The night before there had been a Salvation
Army making the world hideous with a dolorous
song of direction—
Cling- to the right,
Co in the fight.
Lookin’ up ter catch the lovin’ smile er Jesus.
Lookin’'up ter catch the smile er Jesus na-ow—
The smile er Jesus now-.
And. the dawn was all the more beautiful because
those raucous voices had gone with the flying fox
and the obscene birds of the night.
A man who had beaten the drought and was
taking his family to Adelaide for Christmas, was
being shaved for the first time in six years, and
his beard, tough as fencing-wire, called all the
energies of the perspiring barber into play. We
wished him a good time down South and went
North ourselves. There was a youth who had
left his girl at Terowie, and at first was subdued
because he had to go to Birdsville, anil then glad
because he would see her again in a year or two ;
and a handsome trooper starting out on a 700-
mile patrol ride, and advisory of a gossamer bag
for the head to barlie the plague of flies born of
the break-up of the drought.
Two nights later we camped at Patsy’s Springs
by half a mile of bones, where sheep and lambs had
filled themselves with water, and, finding not a
twig of saltbush or blade of grass on the bare
earth, had lain them down to die.
We boiled the Jack Sheas by a heap of bones.
The night was very cold, and the camp before the
dawn was a freezing one. In the starlit night the
bones that marked the tragedy of the sheep were
not visible—the great plain barred by the hills
looked to the sky unrultled and mysterious as a
virtuous woman, and seemed filled with maternal
promise.
An hour before the dawn I awoke and lay there
in my blankets, my feet towards the east. The
marvellous stars moved as if they were in a stage
sky. The morning star leaped*on its way to the
zenith six feet at a bound, and the crescent moon
lifted in the same manner. Alpha and Beta Cen-
tauri flamed together, seemingly as close as lovers,
but in reality separated by the span of half the
universe. The Cross was jerked below the
southern horizon, and the stars were taken out of
the sky as if they had been suddenly unhooked by
a man in a hurry behind the scenes. The sky
seemed to shiver ; then the dawn spread fanwise
as quickly as that lighthouse flash at Leghorn;
there sounded the griding call of the plover, as
if it were the cue for the sun to enter ; and, as
quickly as it has been told, the sun strode up, and
the day was come again.
I began to feel the charm.of the wilds again,
and in the weeks that followed I enjoyed the
twelve-hours day of work and the ten-hours
long of sleep; travelling in the early dusk over
wide plains and egg-bald hills, through drifts
that looked pumiceous ; camping by creeks alive
with mosquitoes and having tlie joy of baffling the
energetic little devils by retreating to higher
ground. And there was one day of fierce ram-
rain that fell in streams, and ran in at our collars
and out at our boots ; of lightning so close that
the flashes put themselves almost tangibly in our
hands like walking-sticks ; of thunder that burst
just a foot over our heads like a million drapers
tearing calico.
Our objective was a despairing mining settle-
ment, and after two days of wandering in those
break-neck hills we struck a sudden gorge and
turned down it, and by the track found a black-
bearded, grey-haired young man, hatless, his
eyes bloodshot from liquor and the attacks of
flies, and his lips black, sitting by the ruins of a
burned-o.ut hut.
“ Bad luck, mate ? ”
“Yes, Mister, I’ve been burned out... I got
burned out three months ago, too.”
“Boozed?”
“Somethin’ like that. . . What’s the dab ,
Mister ?”
“ Twenty-first of December.”
“Is that so? Well, well! You see it was
this way. Five of us have been mining up here
about three years, so we thought we’d have a
jollification this Christmas. We sendk down for
thirty-six gallons o’ beer, and ten gallons o’ wine
and two cans o’ whisky. It come here four days
ago—or a week—l don’t know, an’ Banks, he said
it was Christmas Day, and we drank nearly the
lot. We must ’a’ been a week out o’ the
reckonin’.”
“ That’s bad luck.”
“Yes, Mister, I’m the unluckiest cow in
Australia. While I was up there boozin’ and
drinkin’. I’m a great man. Up comes a nigger,
an’ he Says, ‘ ’Day, Mister; plenty big fella fire
alonga your camp.’ Well, yer know, Mister,
when the drink’s in, yer don’t care if-your uncle’s
your aunt, do yer ? Yer think you’re the king o’
the world, don’t yer?”
“Yes, I know.”
“ Well, I gays to the nigger, ‘ Get out, yer black
cow—let the camp burn.’ An’ this mornin’ I
ain’t got a hat to me name. Burned up me coats,
too—an’ all me pick-handles ; I had ten ton o’ ore
bagged for Port Augusta, an’ all the bags is
burned off. . . Look at this. What is it ? ”
“Bit of hoop-iron? ”
“Yes, now; but it toas me portmanter. Never
mind. I won’t want a portmanter for years. , .
See that ? ”
He pointed to a long tortuous burned rope.
“Yes.”
“That was the best vegetable-marrer vine in
the’ole Commonwealth. . . . Oh! I’m a poor cow
I am. . . . See that thing like a burned noos-
paper ? Well, that was the best lot o’ lettuce
between here an’ Quorn. . . . An’ I had a rose-
tree there with two buds on it. . . . I’ll ’ave to
crawl to Leigh’s Crik, an’ get tucker. I haven’t
got any boots ’cept these slippers. . . . Yes, I’ll
have to walk. I c’d have gone down by a dray on
Wednesday if I’d known the blasted place was to
be burned down a Thursday. Me poor little cat
burned, too. Oh, I’m an unlucky cow.
“An’, o’ course, minin’ don’t pay here. I’ve
sent away 130 ton o’ 20 per cent, stuff, an’ I’m
eighty quid in debt. No drink neither. Just
tucker an’ explosives.... Poor, misfortunate wretch,
me !....Y’ don’t know Ashford, in Kent, Mister?
I come from there. Well brought-up, t00....1’m
a tradesman—sharpen all me own drills. I’ve got
to—l work single-handed, an’ I drag all the stuff
down that mountain on a sledge. Poor cow, me.”
The flies gathered in his eyes, and he scarcely
cared enough to drive them away. My horses,
standing head to tail, swished the flies from one
another continually. So bad was the pest that
when the thicker-skinned horse forgot his duty for
a moment he was recalled to his labor by a remind-
ing bite of his rump.
“ Yes, I’m a poor cow; but I’ll get another start
in life. Thank Gord, I’ve got a bit o’ soap, an’
I’ll have a wash first.”
Further away there was a bough camp, and in
it a sun-dried woman, nursing a baby.
The morality of that remote settlement is as
primitive as that of the Bosjesmen. The people
seemed to be gradually reverting to the char-
acteristics of the blacks, as they already imitate
their habits.
It was good to be away from them all, and back
into the cleanliness of the track and the majesty
of the night on those long and scrubby plains. I
had thought, having once felt the beauty of the
art of Italy, that never again should I be satisfied
with a country that is sordid in many ways. But
art merely imitates the beauty of primitiveness,
and my land is beautiful in every rock and tree —
even if only because of its illimitable spaces. And
all are of equal value in their kind—Ghiberti’s
doors and Freeling Heights; Giotti’s tower and
Pichi Richi pass; the brown walls of Florence
and the hills at Patsy’s Springs ; Fowler’s Gap
and the Arch of Peace that dominates Milan.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Dethronement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f | baby couldn’t make it out!
u His seven-year-old sister his hitherto
nurse, attendant, serf—had smacked him ;
and his world had turned suddenly Upside-down.
He had screamed for the maternal power to inflict
swift punishment on the audacious slave, and the
bolt had failed to fall. Instead had come the
paternal mandate, stern and unfeeling—“ Keep
that confounded baby quiet ! ” and the baby had
received another shock.
It was the indignity of the whole thing that
hurt the baby, as, yelling in anger, lie was carried
away to console himself in the barrenness of the
wash-shed. He had been a prince whose voice
was omnipotent, and at whose appalling screams
someone had inevitably suffered. There were
“ steps ” of children who had all been his slaves
and worshippers ; but recently they had refused
to give him their toys to break, and declined- to
have their hair pulled any longer. When the baby
had endeavored to poke out his brother’s eye his
intelligence was extolled, and the brother was
punished for non-appreciation of the delicate
attention. And now when the prince lifted up
his voice against the defection of his subjects, his
chief slave, his body guard, had raised against him
her impious hand. He writhed in humiliation
and impotent wrath, meditating revenge.
Then he heard a woman speak—surely it was
his mother ! Vengeance was at hand ; and he
lifted up his voice mightily to call it down on the
heads of the recalcitrants. But the vengeance
fell otherwise. His father—that father who had
hitherto enforced loyalty on his (the prince’s) sub-
jects—approached his highness truculently with a
strap.
“Stop it! you young devil ! Stop it! —you’ll
wake the baby.’’
The baby ! Why, he was the baby. How
could he wake himself when he wasn’t asleep?
The wonder of the idea held him silent, with
mouth open, until his father had turned to go.
He had never felt so sore before. Now he realised
that his empire was no more; and, rendered
wiser by suffering, he dropped into a disgusted
sulkiness. His thoughts were revengeful thoughts,
but he had a vague expectation that when mother
came back, there would be a restoration of the
status quo.
At last the father came and lifted the deposed
prince to his arms, and, thinking that perhaps his
prestige was restored, his highness was meditat-
ing a roar, when he was carried into a bedroom.
The other children were there, but not one came
to clap hands at him or to prattle baby English to
him. Their enthusiasm was now for someone else.
Another prince ! —a smaller morsel of humanity
than even himself ! And they told him he would
have to love it ! But he would not —no, never !
They put him on the floor, and he crept patheti-
cally towards his mother, but somehow he dared
not cry. He fingered the counterpane near her.
and she looked at him and smiled, but imniedh
ately her gaze returned to the new prince.
And the" deposed prince buried his face in the
bed-clothes.
HAMER.
According to Mr. Harold Rylefct, English
journalist, now touring Australia for Londoii
Tribune :
The principal cause of the great reverse suffered by th@
Tories is the resentment felt by many people who honestly
supported the S’African policy of the late Government.
These people feel that they have been wickedly deluded.
They see now, that the war had no noble purpose or
genuine justification, but that it was, indeed, the result
of what was little, if anything, short of a criminal coil*
spiracy.
Imagine the fate of the “ Pro-Boer ” who even
ventured to hint at such sentiments a short year
or two ago !


KIDNEY COMPLAINT
COMES on UNNOTICED
You Don't Know You
Have It Until It Has You.
/
N.
3
<
%
&
m
- was
So quiet is
kidney disease
in its approach
that it is often
mistaken for
some other
complaint. The
woman who is~
tired all the day,
sleepless the
night through;
who is anaemic,
irritable, ner-
vous, who suf-
fers from dizzy
spells, rheuma-
tism, headache;
whose eyelids
are puffy and
swollen puts
down h ei
trouble to some
female com-
plaint instead
of. to the real
cause— TH E
K IDNE YS.
The man whose
back is weak,
whose limbs
drag, who has
distressing urinary troubles, dropsy, gravel—he never sus-
pects his kidneys, which are the real cause of his illness.
This is why kidney disease is so serious and so generally
fatal. If YOU don’t feel as well as you ought, DO NOT
NEGLECT YOUR KIDNEYS ANOTHER DAY . Be-
cause our neighbors—Sydney men and women —tell so
earnestly and sincerely how Doan’s Pills have cured them.
A SYDNEY MAN’S TESTIMONY.
“Doan's Pills completely cured me of Backache,"
Mr. C. Wickes, Waiwera, Wardell-road, Petersham, this city, says:—
“ Some months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for pains in the
small of my back, and this medicine cured me. The first two boxes did me
no good ; but a friend who had used them persuaded me to go on with the
treatment. lam glad I did so, for a few more boxes completely cured me.
The backache was worse when I moved about; it would very often leave
me when I rested. Previous to using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I had
used many remedies without obtaining the slightest relief.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all Chem-
ists and Storekeepers at 2s
9d per box (six boxes 15s
3d), or will be posted on
receipt of price by FOSTER-
McCLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
kfICKACHE
•*.vy-
♦W-O *V>V* !• « ran *, «h "«*v' b •' -
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Any person takes serious chances in
neglecting an attack of piles. This ailment
has a tendency to become chronic, and there
is also a further tendency to ulceration and
forming of fistula, which we know are most
difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of piles,
whether itching or protruding, is Doan’s
Ointment. In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many cures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. Any chemist will tell
you that it enjoys a greater demand and
more enthusiastic popularity than any other
'pile remedy ever placed on the market.
Mr. Joseph Holland, 222 Cleveland-street,
city, states:—“The advertisement that is
published from time to time in Sydney
papers to the effect that Doan’s Ointment
cured me of itching piles is quite true.
Before I used Doan’s Ointment I thought
I would never get a remedy to do me any
good. I had them for seven years, and they
caused me intense pain, and a most teasing
irritation. It is two years ago since I made
the statement, and, if Doan’s Ointment
wasn’t a real good thing I would have had
some return of the trouble—instead I am as
free of Itching Piles as when I made the
statement. Doan’s Ointment took all the
venom out of the trouble these couple of
years. It is a marvellous Ointment. Any-
body may rely on it giving absolute ease.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure Itching Piles. It will
cure them absolutely. But do not take the
manufacturer's word for this, ask Mr. Hol-
land. He knows, for it cured him, and he
lives here in Sydney. Is not that the best
possible kind of proof? Could there be better?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by ail Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street , Sydney , N.S.W,
REMEMBER THE NAME-DOAN’S.
Agincourt Alley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IS this Agincourt Alley ? ” inquired Mr.
James Pyson, from Chancery Lane, of the
dilapidated individual who was using a
lamp-post as a temporary spinal cord.
The person addressed gazed in undisguised
astonishment, tempered with disdain, at the frock-
coated old gentleman before him, and withdrew a
rank clay “ cutty ” from his mouth for sufficient
space of time to enable him to mutter “ Aye.”
Agincourt Alley certainly was not all that the
first half of its title would lead one to expect. It
was more Alley than Agincourt. Mr. Pyson
seemed to feel this. He removed his glossy hat
and mopped his forehead testily. It was summer,
and a hot one at that, as the neighboring drains
clearly notified. Still, business was business, so,
with a sigh for the immaculateness of his white
spats, he carefully stepped over the gutter, along
which numerous grimy urchins were festooned,
engaged in nautical pastimes with paper-boats,
and entered the narrow alley, to the aston-
ishment and alarm of the youthful inhabi-
tants so engaged. As he passed each dis-
hevelled yard, carefully noting the numbers
on the battered cottages, rows of apparel
of a private nature attested to the fact that it was
washing-day. Mr. Pyson eyed the “wash ”
askance, and observed afterwards at the club :
“ There is nothing quite so—uin —indelicate as a
suburban clothes-line on washing-day.”
As he came abreast of No. 33, the back door
was violently opened, and a ragged urchin, accom-
panied part of the way by a loud frying-pan,
rocketted forth, and, with chamois-like bounds,
reached the roof of a friendly wood-shed.
“Yer little scut! wait till I gits me ’ands on
yer ! ” shouted a stout lady in distressfully short
petticoats from the doorway. The youth on the
top of the shed, making a mental note that it
would be a long time before such a contingency
came to pass, placed a “ bull’s-eye” in his mouth
and philosophically settled himself to an enforced
and lengthy esle. With an eye alert for further
flying ironmongery, Mr. Pyson, despite the
savage and noisy attack of a small, unclean and
ill-fed mongrel, approached the door and knocked
on it with his cane.
It was not tili the third assault that a face
appeared with flattened nose at the window. At
his imperious gestures it disappeared, and the
door, opening quarter way, disclosed a young lady
of some eight years in a state of much undress.
She eyed him suspiciously.
“Does Mrs. Delaney live here?” inquired Mr.
Pyson, politely. The young lady, with mouth
agape, regarded him with an admixture of curiosity
and awe, while much scrambling anjl muttering
inside, and the appearance of numerous youthful
persons fighting fiercely for places at the grimy
window, evidenced the excitement which his
arrival caused. He repeated his query, “Does
Mrs. Delaney live here ? ”
“Dunno,” said the young lady, with infinite
caution. “ I’ll go an’ arst ’er.”
She carefully closed the door, and bolted it.
After waiting some five minutes and listening im-
patiently to the mutterings from inside, Mr.
Pyson knocked again. The door was opened some
three inches, and the lady of the house, putting as
much of her face as was possible through the aper-
ture, hissed at him, “Blast yer ! go away ! We
can’t pay yer nuthink this week. Th’ old man’s
outer work an’ ”
“ Tut, tut, my good woman,” interrupted the
scandalised Mr. Pyson, “I am not here to de-
mand payment for anything. I do not want to
collect the taxes, nor yet to insure your life, nor sell
you an encyclopaedia."
The door opened a trifle wider.
“ Wodjer want ? ”
“ Are you Mrs. Delaney ?”
“ Yqs, I ham,” said that lady desperately, com-
ing into the open, and placing her soap-suddy
arms akimbo, “ I ham, an’ see ’ere, I’ve ’ad four-
teen child’en, an’ ’eaps o’ trubble, an’ me ole man’s
outer work—you’re frum the sewin’-machine
people, Is’pose?”
“ No, my good woman, I am not.”
“Ho!” sniffed Mrs. Delaney, but with evi-
dent relief, “ Ho ! an’ oo may I harst are y’u
callin’ yer good wunnnan ? Grashus me, if De-
laney ’eard y’u a-callin’ me like so ’e’d—why, I
dunno wat ’e wouldn’t do fer y’u,’’ she added
vaguely.
Mr. Pyson waved that aside with his hand,
while the neighbors, grouped along the fence on
either side, threw words of encouragement and
advice to Mrs. Delaney.
“lam the bearer of good news,” said the old
gentleman.
The lady snorted incredulously. Good news is
rare in neighborhoods where bailiffs anu babies
are not. Disregarding, however, the remarks as
to his personal appearance, passed by the neigh-
bors, and the reiterated invitations of a moulty,
once-white caged bird to “kiss cocky,” Mr. Pyson
proceeded.
“You did the washing for the late Mr. Wilson,
I believe ? ”
The lady admitted she had done so “ fer a good
ten year,” and started on a panegyric of that
gentleman’s virtues, tempered with remarks
about his extreme fastidiousness as to the gloss
of his shirts, and the hard and untruthful check
which his housekeeper kept on their quantity.
When she had exhausted her stock of reminis-
cences and supply of breath, the lawyer con-
tinned :
“ I am happy to inform you, Madam, that he
has left you a legacy of £l5, and, for some reason
or other, stipulated that I should communicate
with you personally.”
“ What! ” shrieked Mrs. Delaney, grabbing his
arm with a moist hand.
“What!” echoed her innumerable offspring,
who formed a picturesque though ragged back-
ground.
“What!” gasped the neighbors enviously,
craning their necks over the fence.
. “Are y’u pullin’ me leg?” inquired the lady.
Mr. Pyson blushed to the roots of his few remain-
ing hairs. “ I should be very sorry so to do,” he
answered with dignity.
Assured of the genuineness of the information,
Agincourt Alley gave itself over to a scene of
wildest excitement, during which Mr. Pyson,
making a wide detour to avoid the rubbish-box
and the family wash, and beating off with his
cane several determined flank attacks on the part
of the low-born hound afore-mentioned, reached
the gate and made good his escape.
When Mrs. Delaney’s “old man” emerged
from “The Frog and the Stick,” where he had
passed the afternoon “looking for work,” and
wended his way homeward for the evening meal,
it was with genuine astonishment that he-received
hearty congratulations and back-slappings from
numerous acquaintances. At first he was inclined
to regard these overtures as same sort of practical
joke. But when the numerous invitations to
drink (which he hastily accepted) were made
good, he realised that something unexpected had
happened, and ventured to inquire the cause of
his sudden and undeserved popularity. After
great difficulty it was made clear to his fuddled
intellect, and with a whoop of joy he made for the
bosom of his family. He arrived there at full
speed, treading the mongrel underfoot.
“ Heaven rest his sowl this very night,” he said
piously that evening to the immense concourse
sardined into his kitchen. “A grate an’ noble
malm—lib’ral-’anded an’ lion-’earted.”
Miss Murphy from next door sniffed sarcasti-
cally : “Am I wrong in thinkin’ that on’y las’
wake y’ called the same Mister Wilson a mane
sumthink skinflint?”
Mr. Delaney glared at her.
“Y’ are, ma’am,” he said with more dignity
than truth. “An’ phwat’s more, had ye bin a
malm, I’d give ye sich a poonch on ther jore
as ”
Miss Murphy laughed shrilly, and, pushing
forward her unwilling brother, danced excitedly
up and down in the confined space, and invited
her host to “dale wid Tim,’ere. Mr. Delaney
was about to accept the invitation, when the
simultaneous entrance of his daughter and two
large jugs of beer restored peace and placed beer
before the thirsty.
Then once more did Mrs. Delaney recount the
adventures of the afternoon, corrected, to her
intense disgust, by her numerous progeny when-
ever she allowed a warm and active imagination
to stray from the narrow path of facts.
“ I alus did fancy ’e wuz ther least bit swate on
me,” she murmured, coquettishly smoothing her
faded locks with large red hands. The company
tried its best to look credulous —except Miss
Murphy, who sniffed disdainfully. A sniff in
Miss Murphy’s hands —or rather nose—was a
terrible weapon, more expressive than words, loud
and disconcerting.
Then began the delirious pastime of spending
the money in imagination. Everybody had an
opinion to offer. Thousands and thousands of
pounds were squandered in the minds of Agin-
court Alley that night, and numerous and varied
were the suggestions for disbursement offered?-
usually in a form whereby everyone could partici-
pate—such as a picnic, or a social. Then j ust as
Mrs. Delaney, with a fine flight of fancy, was
depicting herself, in a new green dress with red
braid, wheeling the twins, in purple plush, in a
brand-new perambulator, Miss Murphy remarked
thoughtfully : “P’raps it’d be jist as well ter
settle fer ther sewin’-machine ! The man must
git tired o’ callin’ round so often.”
There was a dead hush (the Delaneys’ diffi-
culties with the time-payment machine were no
secret). Mr. D. glared, opened his mouth several
times as if to speak : then, finding he had nothing
to say, said just that much. This unpleasantness
being tided over by the timely arrival of more
beer, procured from the corner hostelry on the
strength of the legacy, the company started
afresh to squander money, and, when the grey
dawn looked from behind St. Mary’s steeple, it
discovered Messrs. Delaney and Murphy seeing
each other home up and down the alley, and
founding breweries, and talking in millions.
Next morning Mr. Delaney, under the depress-
ing influence of a severe bilious attack, held pessi-
mistic views about the genuineness of the alleged
legacy. “For,” said he, mournfully, “it do seem
too good fer to be thrue.” But the arrival of the
postman with a letter for his wife requesting her
to call, at the end of the week, on Messrs. Pyson
and Gilchrist, of Chancery Lane, helped to dispel
his misgivings. Two pints at “The Frog and the
Stick ” completed the cure. After abstruse and
brain-racking calculations, Mrs. D. rushed out
that afternoon and purchased the green dress with
the red braid, which had so attracted her aesthetic
eye ; also a perambulator for the twins—the latter
on time payment.
Great were the doings when Saturday came
round, and, when at last the household set forth
to collect the legacy, it was the entire population
of Aginccurt Alley that turned out to see them
off. Bursting with pride and with the tightness
of her new bodice, Mrs. D. headed the procession,
pushing the pram, and followed by her family in
various stages of cleanliness and discomfort. Mr.
D. brought up the rear with a sack (which was to
act as purse) neatly folded under his left arm, and
a stout piece of timber, for defensive purposes,
grasped in his strong right hand. The Delaney
dog skirmished round the flank of the cavalcade
with innumerable disreputable friends and rela-
tions, while small boys passed sarcastic remarks
from a safe distance.
* * * #
A seductive smell of frying sausages was being
borne softly down on the breeze, and Dusk was
rapidly giving place to Dark when the cavalcade
returned to Agincourt Alley. But it did not
return as it had set out. It looked dejected and
travel-stained, and the Alley knew that catas-
trophe had overtaken it by the deep and heartfelt
oaths, which could be.heard issuing from Delaney’s
lips, whenever there was a lull in' the screaming
of the twins. While his wife was chasing her pro-
testing brood to bed, Mr. D. explained their mis-
fortunes to a sympathetic group of neighbors.
“Have yez iver met wid a gar—a gar—a gar-
nish-ee order? Wal, den avoid one loike yez
would ther bailiff’s mahn. It’s ther very divil an’
all dis same g g-gar-nish-ee order ! D’yez see, we
all ovus went up to dis thievin’ divil ov a serli-
citer an’ we sez, ‘We’s called fer the legicy an’-
thank yer,’ sez we. ‘ Oh,’ sez ’e, doin’ a song an’
dance wid ’is ’ands, ‘ I regrit to hinform yez that
ther sewin’-machine compiny, as put a gar-a-
gar-nish-ee order on ut.’ ‘ An’ phwat ther divil
may thot be?’ said I, strivin’ ’ard to restrain
mesel’ frum dyin’ wid apprehenshun. Then ther
thievin’ devil give us a heap o’ langwidge an’ back
talk, an’ told us a g-gar-msh-Se order wuz a ting
Wat wuz put onto yez money when y’u ’ad none
by sewin’-machine companies fer wat y’u owed
’em ! Oh, it’s a hell ov a ting dis same gar-nish-ee
—avoid ut loike ther D.Ti’s; Be gob though ! I
dealt it out to the old thief. It tuk sivin ov ’em to
put me out—so it did.”
Inside, Mrs. Delaney turned to her ironing and
sighed deeply twice —once with relief at the
thought of the cessation of hostilities on the part
of the sewing machine-canvasser, and once with
apprehension when, with prophetic foresight, she
pictured the future attentions of the perambulator-
vendor’s collector.
Then she bowed her head on her arms and wept.'
ALF. BRASOH.
The Gippsland farmers had no sooner
cooled down after their bushfire exertions than
they started to rush the Treasury for grants for
bush roads. Bent bellowed at them in a tired
tone of voice, and remarked that South Gippsland
alone had had special road grants of £BO,OOO dur-'
ing the last seven years, and showed plans and :
photos, proving that the worst fires' and greatest
loss of life occurred where there were good roads.
But the Age is barracking in the farmers’ aid, and
they’ll probably get a fat slice of Bent's next-
surplus.


Impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and fi-
nches the blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store-
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story:
<•
v>\
\7-n
“In the year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
worse than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
fered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“ Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood,, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER’S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name - AYER’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEE & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. 3.. A?
//
/
V.
n:
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade EI. EG 1 kIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
Is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It'will cure ali cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glee
to us one copy . f our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co. f
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
DRUG HABIT
LIQUOR HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DONT DESPAIR,
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 83-9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink ,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
ef it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
TUB Dr. Langston Institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
HA BIT
Health, strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
&
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over ft Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Br. Rloord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and hound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
v Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
IV! ad ame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy mannur,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons Who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
HUj
DEAF
The N«w Patent
.SOUND DISCS
| Completely overcome Dbafness
ganci Head Noises, no matter ol
Sh&w long standing. Are the same
* to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A, M. NAST, 145 Oollins St,. Melbourne
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
u •* —•“ n. a
PILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Hash-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath, Cos'iveness, Blotclies on tlie Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHE I'lKSl DUSK
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and cl ey will be acknowledged to be " WOIwH A
GUINEA A BOX." , . . ...
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, vr cuickly restore females to complete health, lhey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, an
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, inese
are “facts" admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to t
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine
h e world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND-
goId Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, and 12s ®d each.
SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
II Price.
They TOUGH
the
LIV
Be Sure they are Carter’s
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Rifficnlty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonsConghs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
BETTES. SO'd hii aU Chemists.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydney-
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gel; Posted, Bd.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
3ano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you' ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON, "k"^
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually* Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
vou not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. MARTIN
M.D.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting’ Surgeon to Four of Australasia’s
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops, South
African War.
M. 8., 0.M., L.R.0.P., E., L.R.0.5., E.,
L.F.P.S.G.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief ? After so many failures,
whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia?
The above qualifications, gained from the World s
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainly, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “Diseases of Men and
Women," 700 pages, 600 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. FREE :
A 50-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like .
SENT FREE TO ALL
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
vour friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications—
Dr. Martin,
ELMLEY HOUSE,
4
151 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
(Pleat* mention this paper when writing.)


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
That iS) if it hasn’t grot one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You’ll get it at . .
Perdriau Slubber Go. L J£
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE
application to
BROS..
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonweal
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
WOOL
SHEEPSKINS
A.M
TALLOW
L. & F. CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY. HIDES
“There is no Better Pump
the
ver
t ;r v::
1
. I
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Meting
Plunger Pumps, Tank or Light Service Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc -
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
©0 CLARENCE ST., SIDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, »r
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poikqdkstkb dc Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
m the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. i
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. it Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon haying TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinqdkstrr & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
iiiiiiittniiitiiiiiiiiiiiimtimiifi!
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES :
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Bundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
J
AN receipt of P. 0.0,
forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 3j- we will
addressin Australia one
Set, 06 L D-F I LLRB
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to B, SIMS, Gold
Wire King', Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDUBY.
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
/
'T , O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
* possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer'is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toy's, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME & CO
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
Uf)@ PLUM*
Gentlemen,— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding!
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind otedge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use tor a
number of years, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Til 9 “ Mum ” Razor Strop*, specially maae tor this Razor, 7/e,
“Razoleo” Lightning Razor Shcrponor, fid. Cafe*.
PSICK-
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10 6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/».
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 36/»
Registered axd Sent Post Frer to Axy Part o? thr World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and la. am Intercolonial Cheques.
So)9 Agante—CßAiG & AITKEN, 654 CEORSE STREET, 3YBNEY.
o
J
* “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher/' *
The Lancet writes :—“ Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, a far more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
LIMEJUiGE CORDIAL
" Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ M NT FJ?HAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEM STS.
INVIGORATING & SUSTAINING*.
m
0*
J9>
Jr
Pure-
The remarkable Strength-giving, Stimulating
properties and perfect Digestibility of
CADBURY’S COCOA
make it an invaluable Food-Drink.
“ Absolutely Pure.” —The Analyst.
“The Standard of Highest Purity ."—The Lancet.
CADBURY’S COCOA is therefore the BEST Food-Beverage obtainable.
