

THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
Milling
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ .
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, AVATTABTI ,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW o«»»xm.niTm PT,AXTa ALW
Mining
Requisites
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS
AND PARTICULARS.
3E3COBART.
Radley s Orient Hotel.
E!fe PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., *7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
FIXED ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... £lOO
e B.H.P. ... £125
8 B.H.P. ... £155
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... JEI4O
6 B.H.F. ... £165
3 B.H.F. ... £2OO
IN STOCK.
\
Take it back,
1 must have
HUTTON’S
FineAppk Eraiui
CHU
LOc
KS
THE
ISWAN LAMP.
MO
WAH
m
W-Jj
&
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
EDISON S SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
QMa, a//.
HAVE
THE
BEST
Depot:
Are Unequalled for MOTOR CAR or CYCLE.
225 Clarence-street, SYDNEY,
AND ALL FIRST-CLASS
DISTRIBUTORS.
NO OTNERS.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
wo
TEA
LIKE
TEA!
ASK
FOR
0^
XJSSTMVALI-X.EI3 12ST QUALITY.
I3KT BOTTLE.
SBSB»S3iZ(®ffiaEHCTSES
m
• • V,!'
m.
Nfo Other in
the World .
EQUALS
Pi s
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
f Mo Worry or Trouble
MO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
AH Sixes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
USE - ■
astjo ; D3o@.
.VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA : '
——
79-81
COPPfN ST
RIGB&I0NP,
'W w -sr v v vr ~v *V %•'—*’ -v
DON SPA. Absolutely the
GOLLIKT
TABLE WATER.
Sz CO; Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.27.—N0. 1364.]
[Thursday, April 5,1906.
Registered at tie General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
THE DELUGE,
“ By far Mr. Phillips’ best work.”
A “ ThJ e pi„ by T DAV ' D , CRAHfIM PHILLIPS, author of “The Cost
The Plum Tree, etc., etc. ; illustrated, Cloth 3s (id, postage Cd!
Darwin, Movements of Climbing Plants, 3s, post 7d.
Shepparton, From Field to Dairy, 2s 6d, post 4d.
M‘Kay and Larson, Princ. of Buttermaking, Bs, post 6d.
Hose, Metallurgy of Gold, new ed., 1906, 21s, postage Is.
Beldam and Taylor, Golf Faults, new ed., 6s, post (id.
Stubbs, Wm., Early English History, 12s 6d, post Bd.
Ebbard and Vogt Bedrock of Health, 12s 6d, post Bd.
Canthie Physical Efficiency, 3s 6d, post 6d. P
Emanuel, How to Choose a House, 4s, post 6d.
Deerr Su^-ar^n^ 1 llng n aehines > 12s 6d, postage lOd
Heerr, Sugar and Sugar Cane, 9s, post Cd.
Warner, Rejuvenation of Aunt Mary, 3s 6d, post Cd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Victor Daleys
A Biographical and Critical Account, with two
portraits and MS. fac-simile. By A. G. Stephens.
PRICE, Is. 3d.; postedt Is. 6d.
Wholesale agents N.S.W. and Q., Edwards, Dunlop &
Co. ; Vic. andTas., The George Robertson Proprietary ;
S.A., E. S. Wigg & Son ; Maoriland, Gordon and Gotch
Proprietar. .
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For tot Curb of
Bronchitis I
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
MT HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES"^
m B aiSTBRBD). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the Manufacturer, Q. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot : Sii 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 300 Regent Street W., London.
THE BED PAGE.
LES AMOGRS.
She, that I pursue, still flies me :
Her, that follows me, t fly, ‘ '
She, that I still court, denies me ;
Her, that courts me, I deny.
Thus in one toeb we ’re subtly wove,
And yet we mutiny in love.
She, that can save me, must not do it,
She, that cannot, fain would do ;
Her love is bound, yet 1 still woo it ;
Hers by love is bound in woe.
Yet, how can I of love complain,
Since I have love for love again.
This is thy work, imperious child,
Thine’s this labyrinth of love,
That thus hast our desires beguil'd,
Nor see’st how thine arroivs rove,
Then prithee, to compose this stir,
Make her love me, or me love her.
But, if irrevocable are
Those keen shafts, that wound us so;
Let me prevail with thee thus far,
That thou once more take thy bow ;
Wound her hard heart, and by my troth
I’ll be content to take them both.
CHARLES COTTON (1639-87).
COPYRIGHT
Apparently by agreement between the Minis-
terial and Labour sections—in order that something done
might he added to the tale of tattle which was last
session’s—the House of Representatives passed the Copy-
right Act uncomprehendingly and in a hurry. That, in
this view, was a Labour blunder : as here at length en-
joined, Labour reps, should have voted a copyright policy
tending to bring alien hooks to Australia for printing—as
The Encyelopoeaia Britannica is brought to America. The
cases are not parallel ; we could not have got the whole
hog; but we could have got four hoofs and a snout, as
Canada—and every little helps industry.
Labour not caring, not comprehending, Copy-
right was passed to make a Government placard—Act
assented to 21st Dec.—to “ commence on a day to be fixed
by Proclamation.” Why is it not proclaimed? When
will working regulations be gazetted ? The daily press
has filtered scraps of information—“ a cheap clerk to
take charge N.S. Wales [as usual] objects to hand
over records”—“possibly deputies will be appointed.”
Here is room for Ministerial blundering. One
central copyright office is wanted (as in Canada and
U.S.A.) and no deputies. Separate entries, separate
records, separate administration, in this matter breed
confusion. The post can carry all books and docu-
ments, and we shall expect the registrar (no cheap
clerk, but an intelligent expert at 4001. a year) to keep a
cross-indexed record which will enable him in five minutes
to say what is Australian copyright, and when, and
why. The N.S.W. claim to retain authority, if made, is
bad. The Constitution settles that. And, by the way,
N.S. Wales has a kind of illegitimate copyright library
—collected outside the law from publishers seeking
registration—that should form the nucleus of an Aus-
tralian copyright library.
" LIGHT OF THE WOULD "—AND AFTER?
j Light of the World has come and
gone, and one fears the suburbs have
already forgotten it. Neverthe-
less Holman Hunt, the painter, and
Charles Booth, the philanthropist, and Mack
Jost, the showman (we take them in order of
time, not being certain of the order of im-
portance) are to be thanked for their trouble.
Our quarter-trained students have had a
lesson in careful painting, and thousands of
people in Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney
have had a day’s outing. The lesson is not
likely to make any difference in the local
formula for making an “ Artist”—first year,
lessons ; second year, pupils ; third year,
“a picture in the Gallery”; but a day’s
outing always does people good.
The suburban mind held some natural
dubiety as to whether Hunt’s figure was a
burglar with a peculiar lantern or an even-
ning caller (“ ’E’s come to visit ’is friends,
an’ they’ve gone an’ left the house, an’ you
see he don’t know their noo address—
ain’t it a pity !”) But most people, appa-
rently, knew that the figure was “religious,”
and perhaps on this account the attendances
were somewhat disappointing. On a specially
advertised Sunday only 25,000 of Sydney’s
half-million population took the trouble to
attend a free show. A picture of Deeming
burying one of his murdered wives under the
domestic hearthstone, painted with similar
realism and similarly puffed, would have
attracted 100,000 spectators at fewest. But
this comparative deficiency of interest has
been always inherent in moral lessons.
The picture, as everyone should know
by this time, represents the deplorable
condition which supernatural religion has
reached in an age of triumphant reason.
Hunt paints allegorically ; and every detail
has significance. He shows an ideal figure of
Jesus, the source of the Christian religion
clad in an unfashionable costume and car-
rying an antiquated lantern through
which a sickly light filters dismally.
Jesus comes to the door of Faith, and seeks
admittance in vain : nobody travels that
way now; the path is forgotten; the
door is shut and overgrown with weeds
and brambles that may typify Covetous-
ness, Hypocrisy, and Cant. So the figured
Jesus stands mournfully with the expression
of Hunt’s “Scapegoat,” which also stands
mournfully with a singular likeness to the
features and expression of Hunt himself.
These three : the great world has dallied
behind them or gone past them : once more
the gods are dead.
They are dead ; but their shrines live—as
the rude idols of the Pelasgi lived through
the theogonies of Hesiod and Homer, as the
earliest men’s animistic interpretation of the
universe lingers in the modern creeds. The
ideas that permeated the human brain during
100,000 years of prehistoric evolution have
found a fixed lodgment : they can no more
be destroyed than the human physical type.
In Sydney and Melbourne to-day women
educated in State schools consult ‘ ‘ astrolo-
gers ”in a crisis, and are guided to destiny
by the stars as women were guided in Asia
fifty centuries ago. The Protestant churches
survive as social clubs, institutions of re-
spectability, vehicles of the prehistoric
religious sense ; but few indeed are the wor-
shippers who live by the rule of the New
Testament. Even the Catholic church,
Faith’s last stronghold, is compelled to
conform slowly with Science, and to teach
its school-children the lessons “infallibly”
condemned.
Holman Hunt’s door of Faith is shut, and
there is none to open ; but beyond the limits
of his picture the door of Reason is flung
wide, world-lit by electricity, and here
uneasy consciences may watch the hurrying
throng they cannot join. The predestinated
of Faith will be born for many a millennium
to come ; and those who are born to Faith
should be faithful, closing their minds to truth
they can never comprehend—upon the
analogy of the English fishermen who will
not learn swimming lest the knowledge add to
their torture when they drown. Through
Faith, through Reason, the resultant of
human good and evil cannot be shown to
vary. The Christian saint to-day (there is
one contributes to The Bulletin) leads a life
that puts to shame most apostles of Reason.
(The Bulletin’s saint starves, being an ana-
chronism in a community of nominal Chris-
tians ; but that is merely incidental). Suum
cuique: to every man his own universe of
truth or error—and error truly believed is
truth for the believer. The thing essential
is to find your universe and live in it;
instead of wavering miserably between two
worlds.
ORTHOGRAPHY
HENRY FROWDE, Oxford University's
publisher, issued last year Author and
Printer, “a guide for authors, editors,
printers, correctors of the press, com-
positors, and typists ; an attempt to codify the
best practices of the present day,”
by F. Howard Collins and one realises one’s
ignorance as (despite the assurance [in both senses]
of many zealous and [possibly] well-meaning
people) one never realised it before.
But this ignorance : it is relative. Collins
called to his aid learned authorities ;• and they
differed, they disputed, their “feelings were very
strongly expressed.” Why not?—seeing they
were invited to express themselves upon a subject
which gives no basis for agreement.
In English, up to the era of Johnson’s Diction-
ary or thereabouts, everybody spelt more or less
m his own way, and was right in his own eyes.
And, do you know, in some typographical ways
English books of the 17th century are preferable
to the books of to-day. Their pages are more
varied, less monotonous : the type was irregular,
and the linotype had not begun its mission of
reducing everything to the worst common
multiple. Robert Bridges deliberately returns to
an old-fashioned type, with letters that do
not line as if they had been cast under a micro-
scope ; and one likes it. The unattainable ideal
represents every author with a type of his own, a
page of his own, a binding of his own : some
authors try feebly to reach it; but Custom and
imitative publishers are too strong for them.
And now one cannot even have a spelling of his
own, though that too might be desirable within
limits.
Within the limits of lucidity. To press your own
standard of spelling so far that you interfere with
a reader’s impression of your thought is not per-
missible. An orthodox spelling justifies itself
like everything else : because it pays. Sensible
dictionaries are therefore based on good usage
because that gives the best rule of what will pay
the greatest number. Yet even good usage varies,
lo spell such sutch is wrong, and no bones
about it. But there are hundreds of doubtful
words where two spellings are still permissible
though one may be preferred {e.g„ the u class’
honour, honor ; the 2 class, civilize, civilise; the
suffix class, biased, biassed; plurals, dingos
dingoes ; and so on). And beyond these there are
many proper names, foreign words, and abbrevia-
tmns which are m a mystery of a mess. Author
and Printer tries to bring these disorderly classes
within the domain of order.
It is a book so learned, so careful, and withal so
reasonable, that every person of precision should
have it handy. But Maori, for example :
singular and plural. The s may blunder, but it
is convenient, and nearly everybody uses it
Maoris. Maories is now seen rarely. Collins
must amend, however essentially right he is :
ins . dogma* cannot break down our con-
venient custom. Webster’s editors explain
that harbour should be harbor even granting the u
in honour ; because the analogy is mistaken, the
word is not French, the old Eng. form is har-
borough. Collins spells harbour, defying Webster
and is justified by custom, by the mellow look of
the word, and by a deep principle which tells us
to cleave to our vowels in a language apt to
become curt and harsh. Etymology matters for
new words and for few others, unless working to
the end of convenience or of euphony. All spell
ing is arbitrary, and where the arbitrary has
proved acceptable no man need alter.
Where spelling is fluid, we may rely
on Collins and his coadjutors. Tolstoi,
then ; not Tolstoy. Piccaninny, after some
variation is settled here. No full-point
a .r photo; one 0 in Machiavellian. (Collins
might have included machiavellian [adj.] [no cap ] -
but it is an undesirable word, though with uses).’
Sanatorium, Collins votes for, not -arium; and he
demands pi. sanatoria (which we fear he won’t
get from Aus. newspapers. Indeed, irregular
plurals are to be deprecated : one votes to widen
the power of s well understood. Epidermis
owns pi. epidermes, yet having to write
C'hamfort’s “ Love is the exchange of two fancies
and the contact of two epidermes,” one wrote de-
liberately [in that case only] the awkward epider-
mises; because epidermis is familiar in the sing,
and so rarely seen in the pi. that the correct plural
seemed to delay the transition of the idea to the
average reader).
There is much to be said about italic : Collins
gives it to foreign words apparently unincorpor-
ated in English. But he feels that its use could
be (? in great part) abolished : “ the benefit is
largely imaginary.” We find it convenient for
titles of books and plays, and names of
ships—and thereafter as little as possible.
For emphasis it is usually too strong: the
German spaced word is generally better.
By the way, the spaced word is commended to
hurried linotypers.—Collins votes for connexion,
not -ection ; and one may grow used to it. He
tells us to use welcher (turf) for welsher ; but one
won’t, grow used to that. Is it Taffy’s senti-
mental objection? “Perhaps in allusion to the
alleged bad faith of Welshmen ” guess the dic-
tionaries by way of derivation.
Collins’s book fills the mind: we have but
glanced at it with the tail of an eye. Handy and
cheap, it seems indispensable.
GOSSIP OF CELEBRITIES
IN The Captains and The Kings (Lond., T. W.
Laurie) Henry Haynie—for many years an
American journalist in Paris—re-issues for
England his reminiscences of the notabilities
he has met. His style is a journalist’s, and his
matter is little more than gossip ; but a good deal
of the gossip has interest, and a trifle has value.
The thoughtful index has some 500 names, from
the King of Abyssinia to Wordsworth —passing
writers, painters, musicians, cooks, scientists,
crowned heads, and other social species of
humanity. Many distinguished people Mr.
Haynie has known personally, and if one could
trust his judgment his mere adjectives would
give a useful light upon character. But it is safer
for the greater part to consider his pages a series
of casual impressions, and to temper acceptance
with reserve. We quote some of the anecdotes.
J*
Daudet, who greeted visiting journalists with a
box of cigars, while he smoked a pipe himself—as
a warning, doubtless—made a treaty with an
American publisher desirous of printing his next
novel. It happened to be Sapho.
As soon as Sapho was completed I sent a copy to the
American publishers, and waited for my cheque ; instead
I received a despatch asking- if my title was “ Sapho ” or
“ Sappho.” I did not a nswer ; what difference did one or
two p’s make to me ? A day or two later I got a second
despatch worded as follows: “Sapho objectionable.” I
replied: “Put in two p’s”; but it seems that this
despatch did not refer to the two consonants. The word
“ objectionable ” meant that the publishers were afraid
of the novel itself. So the contract was cancelled.
Of George Eliot our author says :
I was hardly prepared to see a gaunt woman whose
large head was out of proportion to the rest of her body.
On that head she wore a bonnet-cap, antiquated and of
singular make, and her black dress of thin material clung
closely to her bony frame. Her skin was yellow-tinted ;
her transparent hands were almost fleshless ; her feet
were hidden in cloth shoes which w'ere a mile too large.
She gave me a hearty welcome, and at the sound of her
sweetly modulated, velvety voice, I passed under the
charm and dominion of a materially ill-looking, not to
say unsightly, woman. In conversation she did not show
any particular brilliancy, or get off any clever bon mots,
but she knew how to ‘‘draw a fellow out,” by suggesting
elevated ideas and reflections, and her visitors —her mas-
culine visitors—always left her enchanted with them-
selves, as well as astonished to find so much cleverness
in so small a person.
This was after the marriage with Mr. Cross,
who was considerably his wife’s junior. “He
gave me the impression of a gentlemanly person
of remarkable sincerity, and possessed of deep
admiration for all that was elevated and good.
One was forced to believe one’s self in the pre-
sence of two faithful friends united by the con-
formity of their tastes and habits, and absorbed
in the same work. But that which struck me
most of all was the enthusiasm which the younger
of these two persons showed for the other.”
J*
Of Renan :
He was in every sense a most remarkable n\anl and
whether he was speaking at one of the Celtic dinners, or
to the felibres reunited at Sceaux for the purpose of
crowning Florian, or to amateur pilgrims whom he hap-
pened to meet on the coast of Brittany, or to the dele-
gates at some meeting of scientists, he always had the
same attitude, the same voice, the same particular
physiognomy,—a form of phrase, a sacerdotal unction,
the softness of an apostolic benediction, as it were.
Renan showed Haynie one of the numerous
anonymous letters that he received. It ran
simply: “Monsieur Renan. II ya un Enfer!”
“ Mr. Renan. There is a Hell! ”
“ I found in Renan both the sceptic and the
believer,” says Haynie.
He could not have been a deist, for he wrote: “ 0
abime, tu es le dieu unique, tout n’est ici-bas que symbole
et que songe.” And he could not have been an atheist,
for he invoked the Father. One day, when I showed my
astonishment over these contradictions, Renan laughingly
declared that he was possessed of two natures, one of
which was eternally engaged in demolishing the other ;
and he compared himself to the fabled animal that ate off
its own feet without knowing it. At another time, he
asserted that immortality of the soul is indispensable to
mankind, but that it was scientifically impossible.
It is curious to find it asserted that Renan is
still a wandering ghost in Brittany ; that the
superstitious Bretons “ have made up their minds
to believe him still wandering in the woods near
his country home at Rosmapamon. The thickets
are haunted already with strange opinions con-
cerning a solitary Renan.’g
In the month of August, 1889, a delegation of writers
went down to Brittany . . . And when we were leaving
him Renan saluted with a sweep of his arm the sea by
which his ancestors of Hibernia had come to Brittany .. .
In the summer of 1892, on the little promenade which
overlooks the road of Perros, at the end facing the north-
west, where promontories and bays mark an undulating
shore, on a wild bank from which lie had often watched
the ocean, I once saw Renan seated in silence, his head
bowed, his hands resting on moss-covered rocks. The
sun was fast descending, the breezes and first chili of
evening were passing. Raising his eyes towards the
wav4s leaping ’over the pass of Petros he perceivM a
vessel sailing toward tlieihorizun: -“ijis e£es lightened up,
and, with his finger the ship moving north-
ward, he murmured :
“ If ever you go to the coast of Ireland, say to those
who dwell there that you saw me stranded on this shore,
and carry my adieuxto them.”
J*
Haynie prints two stories of the Germans
before Paris. When shells began to fall near the
Museum of the .Tardin des Plantes, where
Chevreul had his scientific laboratory :
He sat down and wrote a personal letter to King
Wilhelm, in which he protested, in the name of science,
against the shelling of that particular neighbourhood, and
said that if it were continued it would be an act of van-
dalism. His Majesty, if not a. savant himself, could
appreciate this appeal, and no more shells were dropped
in the Jardin des Plantes.
The other is for Ambroise Thomas, the com-
poser :
Ambroise Thomas owned a house at Argenteuil, where,
because of its proximity to Versailles, everything had
been pillaged. He arrived before the gate, the garden
appeared to be in order, and nothing was disturbed in
his house. Each piece of furniture was in its place, the
woodwork had not fed the camp-fire, as elsewhere. Still,
the enemy had entered there and left a convincing proof
of his passage. There was a visiting-card placed on the
parlour table,—that of the Prussian officer commanding
the general staff of Argenteuil. He presented his re-
spectful homage to the illustrious Composer of Mignon.
Some capital pages are given to Gounod and
other musicians :
No one ever loved Mozart as Gounod did. “Ah,” said
he to me once, “ if you only knew what Mozart really is.
When I was at the school in Rome I used to say ‘ I ’;
when I returned to Paris I used to say ‘ I and Mozart ’;
when I was forty years old I said ‘ Mozart and I’; now I
say ‘ Mozart.’ ”... He had a great heart, and his was a
subtle spirit which was both mystic and passionate. He
once gave me the reason of the instinctive jealousy which
is so often shown toward those who rise, who work, who
shine, claiming that mediocre souls hate more easily than
others do. “ The great are never injured,” said he, “ the
little only are injured” ; and he added : “It is because,
with the great, amour-propre is killed by love.”
The book contains something for everybody.
MEMORANDA
The complaint of “Falk ” :
Struck Sydney, heading south, weary of the barbarous
unreason of tropical luxuriance, athirst for the cool har-
monies of the eucalyptus ; and find (an old story but a
bad one) the Moretou Bay fig still monopolising the cen-
tral parts and following the suburban roads for miles into
the country. This growth,—not to be called a tree ; the
diseased imagining of a gin-sodden undertaker,—with its
smug shape, its unintelligent branches, its impertinent
twigs, the cheap varnish of its leaves, the squalid gross-
ness of its bastard greens and yellows, the superfluous
roots, flaunting their naked obscenity in air,—is it in
truth dear to Sydney’s heart? There are no young
plantations,—no attempt to nurse worthier successors
under their shade. Even Hobart can find energy in its
spare time to plant its comparatively distant mountain-
sides with thousands of young trees. But Sydney !
And there might be gums,—eucalypts of the lustier
kind,—seasoned, erect, dominant, their blessed green
hewn into strong masses of light and shade, bland and
lordly under the still sun, but responsive to every breeze,
with unguessed subtleties of hue and line while day
gives place to night.
And they are not there—not even to any adequate
extent in the Botanical Gardens.
Nor is the Art Gallery any help. The Australian
painters shown there have hardly touched the fringe of
the subject. So we continue to see the eucalyptus
obscurely, awry, through a mist of alien conventions and
second-hand preferences picked up in books : For want
of a painter; for it’s the painter’s business, if the old
verse holds good, that “ we ’re made so that we love first,
when we see them painted, things we have seen perhaps
a hundred times, nor cared to see.”
Andrew Lang is out of luck. While we were
complaining of him he was explaining of himself
—that a piece of verse praised by an Athenceum
reviewer in his New Collected Rhymes was not
written by him, but by somebody else. “I
supposed it to be my own, till a lady told me it
was AeVs...theri I remembered the circumstances.”
Lang adds ingenuously, though somewhat tardily,
that “ another piece in the volume is by another
lady’’—and urges in defence that Scott did that
kind of thing too. And more Scots than one, the
shade of Burns reminds us.
Churton Collins, who has made a reputation as
literary critic, investigated the Crick tunnel
mystery (Lofid.) as a detective for the press. A
dead body was found on the railwayline ; and the
question was whether a responsible ruffian
existed, and (if so) how he got off. Collins
weighed chances as nicely as he adjusts the merits
of Keats and Byron, or Whitman and Long-
fellow ; and his long practice in tracing errors of
style enabled him gallantly to discomfit opposing
theories. Critic’s analytic mind and detective's
are indeed not disparate : witness Poe. But we
must look at the matter from both points of view :
suppose the D’s turn literary critics ?
The forgotten Turner pictures now exhibited
in London show the artist’s colour in all its freshness and
brilliancy. “One can hardly realise that the paint has
had time to dry.” Now, if a British philanthropist sent
one of those pictures travelling to Australia we could bless
him. The Light of the World reaches us a generation too
late. But the history of the British connection is a
history of things given too late. Everything, from Capt.
Cook to the Commonwealth, should have come a century
earlier. To be level with Japan, for example, we want
the population and armament that we shall only attain in
2000 ; to be level with America we want the industrial
development of 2000. In the international competition
ours is child-labour taxed beyond its strength.
Issue 15/3/6, stockwhip article, for “Simon Fraser of
Bodalla” read Benalla.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce
4/so KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
Salesmen, SYDNEY.
FUR
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. ~9f
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. <^SYD!MEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
Pistols arid Revolvers,
Derringer Pistol.
Mick
Simmons
Pocket
Pistol.
4s 6d
5s Od
12s Od
Pocket Pistols, No. 1, nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight 3joz. (Postage 3d.)
’ 2s 9d, 3s,
Derringer Pistol, 22 calibre, nickel-plated, self-ejecting, length s)in., weight 4foz. (Postage 3d.)
Stevens’Target Pistol, 3£in., blued steel barrel, 22 cal., self-ejecting, Ooz. (Postage 6d.) .. ..
Stevens’ Diamond klodel Pistol, 6in. blued steel barrel, 22 calibre, self-ejecting, weight 90z., fitted with
globe and peep sights, length 9Jin. (Postage 6d.) .. .. •• •• .r]
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammer, 22 R.F., blued or nickel, weight 4joz. (Postage 4d.) .. 10s od, 12s od
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) .. •• ••
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight 60z., pearl handle (Postage 4 “-) •• lbs bQ
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 C.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel, weight 9|oz. (Post 9d. N.S.W.
Is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. •• •• •• ••
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, lOJoz., horn handle (Post.
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. -• ~• •, , • • „ '■ •
Bulldog Revolvers, 380 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, weight about lib. (Postage
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. -■ ••
Bulldog Revolvers, 450 0.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, 18oz.. (Postage 9d. N.S.W.
Is, 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. »•
5s 6d
7s 6d
9s 6d
10s 6d
Young- America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered, double
action, nickel, 2!h. barrel, 8J0z..., .10s 6d ; blued, 13s 6d.
(Postage 6d.)
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above, with
4Jin. barrel, 9£oz nickel, 12s 6d ; blued, 15s 6d.
(Postage 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 0.F., safety hammer, 6
chambered, 2in. barrel, BJoz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Postage 6d)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 0.F., nickel or blued, auto-
matic ejector. 3Jiq barrel, vulcanite stock, 13Joz. (Post.
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d Inter-State.) ..
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 0.F., same as above, 3£in.
barrel, 18oz. (Pq/it; 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State)
Hopkins’ “ Forehand ” S. & W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers,
32 cal. 0.F., 3in barrel, weight lib., a limited quantity
only. (Postage ild., or Is. 2d. Inter-State.) ..
raim
I
was
133 6d
■ '!
15s 6d
17s 6d
Young
America.
The “Bullseye” Rifle f 22 Calibre grooved,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, open sights, Remington action,
walnut stock, weight about 3Jlb. (Postage Is 9d N.S.W. ;
3s 2d Interstate),
7s
The Celebrated
“ MAINE’’
RIFLE
THE MAINE
Pifle
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“ Winchester ”| Single Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. R.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
(Postage, Is 3d/NT.S.W. : 2s 2d Inter-State).
Mick
Simmons.
18s
Winchester
1904
Model*
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22' short or long-rim fire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37£in., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
jST.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State). .
25s
MICK SIMMONS.
THUMB TRIGGER.
Winchester Thumb Trigger, Single Shot Rifle, 22 calibre, same
description and finish as the 1902 Model,_ but, as the name indicates, the
trigger (which is located on the upper side of grip at
rear of bolt) is operated by pressing down with thumb
(Postage, N.S.W. Is 3d ; Inter-State 2s 2d).
13s 6d
Stevens’
Little
Kra.gr.
Stevens’ S.S. “Little Krag," 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36m., O“I e
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W.; 2s 8d Inter-State).
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
, ee •< Favorite.” 22. 22 W.E.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
is 9d N - s - w - ; £1 ios
° P - n
- Illustrated Filing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on F.shmg Post Free. _
The Leading Sports Depot.
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.B.F.L,
Gun
■
MECK SUMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock ;
weight about 71b.
As above, but with Greener Cross Eolt, 455. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
35s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
mm.
m
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel and twist barrels, rebounding bar locks, left choke
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 50s. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
40s
£3
a no
II
II
iR
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 8d
N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
' B
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2sin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & 80NS* “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLEBS
GUN, 12- gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d IT.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State. .. ..
£l2 12s
jSk. IML IMCXTaXTITIOISr.
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges oan now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifto Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d : No, 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
■I 22 Short
n 22 Long
it 22 Long Rifle ..
•i 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d -13 s Od
2s Od ISs Od
remittance and freight must ACCOMPANY ORDER .'T/m.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


Australian Mutual Provident Society,
EsTATiLisHKi,jB4O. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of* Freehold or Leasehold
_ . . . . __ - City or Suburban Properties, or on
oir e GoJ > p , n«K« o !l nbmed . ) Pa ? to *' al and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
ot Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand USS*’ - AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Oar n<jy Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any line.
DIRECTORS-Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. , James Burns Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winehcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
. ... _ General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A. FS S
HEAD Ok k ICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COMPBTITIOHT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Ri
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
me PLUM.
Gentlemen,— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding’.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of. edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of years, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ Plum ” Razor Btropi, specially made for this Razor, 7/6,
“Razoleo” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
PriceJ
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10 6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21 /••
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15 Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 80/«
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole_agtntB-eRAIC & AITKEN, 654 CEOBGE STREET, SYCHEV.
J
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
UIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’B 1 FRUIT SALT;* Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fr*pu:«d only by J. O. BNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
In a Uf P m« V n t e ’^1fr VOUS ’ S^ n and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Wxll Cure tins Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course 43s 6d
BLOOD CUBE PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
Gravel Sopes. Upinapy Troubles, and all Bloocf
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course 43 6i
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female!
Weak Woinsn
Complaints, Weakness.
Special Powerful Double
Boxes, 6s. Courses,
Course. 43s. 6d.
23/6.
RHEUMATIC. and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s Course 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing- Powders 6s
Head Office ; 547 GEOHOE ST. f SYDNEY,
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE-
, 481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; HI HANNAN ST.. KALG00RL1E ?
t 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
n
SetcdlorL
from all __
GranpWeras
InchdmP'*''"-
Reeord^L
S^norOMjODANI
Fra
MS
MIHG
NICOLE
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
HKOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL g The Colonial,
instruments * The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W, G. KING, AGENT. 316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
I
Va
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There's SECURITY in
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUCH
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
LIVER
Carter’s
Be Sure they are
General Debility.
COMPLETE PROSTRATION.
SOMETHING LIKE A CURE.
The Case of Mrs. E. Lawes.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
As the following case achieved unusual notoriety, it is proper that the main facts should be
put before the public in complete form. We are indebted to Mrs. Emily Lawes, of No. 21 Red-
fern-street, Redfern, for the narrative, which was begun in answer to this statement by a reporter :
“I have been informed that about thirteen years ago you caused general surprise by shaking
off a serious illness. Will you kindly give me the particulars?”
“With pleasure,” acquiesced Mrs. Lawes. “It was after my first child was born that I sank
into such a pitiful state of weakness that for six weeks I could not put n.y foot to the ground.
The nurse who attended me thought I was going into a decline. Talk about feebleness—it was
awful.”
“At the end of six weeks were you any better?”
“If I was, it was very slightly, for I was just barely able to stand; I was bent double like
an old woman. But it wasn’t every day that I could get up, and I remember on one occasion
a relative coming into my bedroom, and, after looking at me, rushing out, saying, ‘ Come in ;
Em’s dead ’; so that will give you an idea of the deathly appearance 1 bore. The truth was, I
afterwards learned, that she could not notice me breathing, my respiration was so feeble, and
that, combined with the fact that I was not expected to recover, gave her the idea at once that
I was dead.”
“Have you any idea what weight you were then?”
“ I was greatly reduced, and as ghastly a mortal as you could find in a day’s march. I was going
to tell you about the blessings that were afterwards showered upon me. By some means or other,
when death was undoubtedly staring me in the face, I got into touch with Clements’ Tonic, a remedy
that I had heard a good deal about, and do you know that the difference which that medicine made in
me was something extraordinary. Up till then I had the greatest difficulty in the world in making
myself eat. I took all sorts of physics, and not one of them appealed to my case at all. But Clements’
Tonic acted like a charm. I could feel it instilling fresh vigor into me as distinctly as one feels the
warm glow of a welcome fire on a winter’s night, and shortly after commencing with it I began to feel
hungry. This was surely something surprising. But what will you think when I tell you that
Clements’ Tonic so acted on my internal organs that my food started to digest again ? Why, there
are people who saw me at the time, who heard me say how much Clements’ Tonic had done, and yet
could scarcely believe their eyes or ears. But it was an indisputable fact that I was on the mend, and
to nly dying day I shall thank Clements’ Tonic for it, I used to sleep very indifferently, and awoke
feeling none the fresher for the rest I had got—in fact I was always so weary and melancholy, and had
such an intense aching feeling right through my body, that I often felt that I would like to lie down
and die.”
“You certainly look the picture of health, Mrs. Lawes.”
“That’s what everybody tells me, which shows what can happen in even the most hopeless cases
so long as a few bottles of Clements’ Tonic can be got. Goodness me, lam now over twelve stone
weight, and have had six children since Clements’ Tonic snatched me from the grave thirteen vears
ago, and I can honestly tell you that from then till now I have not had one day’s illness. is
another thing I would like to mention in order to point out what a splendid all-round remedy
Clements’ Tonic is. It is that during my illness my heart was greatly affected with palpitation, and
under the influence of Clements’ Tonic that trouble left me. You’ve no idea the excessive misery
my nervousness brought me, and as I’ve been free from it all these years, it’s time similar sufferers
had the benefit of my experience. ”
“ So I’ll print it ?”
“ Certainly; in any way you please you may publish it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EMILY LAWES, of No. 21 Redfern-street, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements—which I give voluntarily without receiving anv payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act
1900. (Sgd.) EMILY LAWES.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this third day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four
before me, FRED. FLOWERS, J.P, *


A cough is a danger signal. Tou
should heed its warning pi'omptly.
at once, and take regular
doses of
Mger’s
'Gherni Sectoral
24
All serious lung troubles
begin with a common
cold. A cold in tbe
throat easily passes to
the bronchial tubes,
and you have bron-
chitis, leading pos-
sibly to pneu-
imonia or con-
sumption. Stop
your cold before it goes down into
the chest. When you bring a bottle
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral into the
house you bring with it relief, good
cheer, hope, and sunshine. It is a
standard and unrivaled remedy for
colds and coughs. •
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them and of so-
called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
f you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use . . .
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
JELLY CRYSTALS.
Superior flavors, and
very transparent.
TRY
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE
it is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIR. AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [3
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyeiia’
(Regd.)
/?T7?Tf/*h y
□
A
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
T
CAUTION.- 1^ 0 ?!;
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
■J v J&gzXZjb-.
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julich’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH’S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
PURVEYOR TO H.M. the KING EDWARD YIL
MPOJf
DOT
f
IVW
n
&
1
6 *%
a
=ssr
mm
Ip
A HOME TOPIC.
» t t
The Marvellous..
Curative Properties
0f...
Bonningtoifs
IRISITIOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COLDS. 3
THE
BEST SOAP for BABY
is
WRIGHT’S
COALTARSOAP
IT IS DEEIGHTFUL IN USE
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100 doz. AERATED WATERS for 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHIHE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
J Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling all American productions.
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
NOTE. —We are Sole Agents for the “ELWORTHY” Aerating Machines, r itish
Manufacture, for domestic use and small consumers, from £l2 and upwards.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle
CIGAR SMOKERS! Try
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and Full Strength, 17 6 per box (100); postage ,
9d. extra. Send for is, worth as sample—posted free.
Agents—CßAlG & AITKEM, 654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY^
1
A
s*
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue. "■*l
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt St., SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’*, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medal*;
Works s Biftwinghaiwj Engiawti.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Ballade of Bohemia (Old Style).
A room in an attic, high, sublime,
Opening out to the stars serene ;
And the flights of stairs one had to climb
To enter that art-and-beer-stained scene,
Where all things were as they should have been—-
Heads flushed with wine and with wit ablaze ;
A realm of joy—Youth’s proud demesne !
But where are those old Bohemian days ?
As waves that laugh, and as bells that chime,
The hours went laughing and chiming, keen
As the rebel ring of a rippling rhyme ;
There gloomy Graft never gaped between
Sweet dreams of Fame and of fair Faustine,
A cheap cigar or a golden phrase.
This was the Land of the Dead Marine —
But what was the good of those lurid days ?
Lo ! Jones the poet, and Smith the mime
(Who reckoned a bath absurd, obscene)
Now heave sad bricks at our sordid time,
And wail of the men they might have been ;
Wail, yea, with a sentimental sheen
That Genius scorns to wear the bays
With hair close-cropped and a collar clean
(Would-be’s were cheap in the good old days).
ENVOI.
Oh ! splash and splutter behind the screen,
Less poems and pictures, clays and plays
Than bottles and glasses and corks we glean . . .
We’re tired of those old Bohemian days.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
At the Gate.
O our holiday was sweet;
Just a pause when life’s complete;
But the briar rose is nodding in the yellow
evening light;
And soft the shadows creep
On laggard wings to sleep,
While in the sky a southern star is twinkling
“ Good night ! ”
And eve with crimson flush
Amid the soft, sweet hush,
Impassioned woo’d the mystic hours with feverish
kisses bright,
Till ’neath her fiery sway
Burns swift our holiday
To twilight’s dusky ashes, so we’ll have to say
“ Good night! ”
But, ah ! ’twas all divine,
This day of yours and mine ;
O Memory will hand it back when Youth is out
of sight;
And with the summer flow’rs
Will bloom those luscious hours,
Though we pass ’neath Eden’s portals when we’ve
softly breathed “Good night ! ”
Good night ! Our day is o’er,
Eve’s fingers close the door ;
Well, swept no shades across our way, the road
may glare too bright.
Were life to be complete,
Its holiday too sweet—
We’d find the curfew harsher when we have to
say “ Good night! ”
TAS.
M. LEGRAND.
A Gippsland Morning.
Godlike, I lie upon the grass
And with the moments toy,
See o’er the hills the white clouds pass,
And down the vale deploy.
While f mcy after fancy blows
In Thought’s rich-flowering clime ;
The hour is as a budding rose
In that strange garden, Time.
And loud thro’ all the valley rings—
While transient opals gleam
Above the sheoaks’ whisperings—
The voice of Tambo stream ;
Deep-voiced, and clear and musical,
Roaming with current strong,
It dances down its shallow fall,
And sings its pagan song.
The blood-red lories sing a stave,
Then, arrow-like, flit past,
And, rubied in the amber wave,
Swift-gliding jewels cast.
The bellbird sounds a silver bell,
Black wattles hint at bloom,
From some unfooted mountain dell
Floats vestaline perfume.
Dulled by the sky’s drooped violet,
Whose seed no mortal sows,
Whose leaf the peak’s dim-purpled fret,
The moon’s lost lily shows ;
Sweet, sad and lone, the grey friar-thrush
His litany intones,
Iu his green shrine of dogwood brush
Hung o’er wave-silvered stones.
Proudly and slow, huge wings outspread,
Seeking the distant vales,
With regal pomp and restless head,
The wedge-tailed eagle sails;
As though, while moving o’er the earth,
He eyes the fragrant mead,
Exger to bring for some god’s mirth
Another Ganymede.
Unseen, massed flowers are waiting birth,
The seed dreams of the tree ;
They hear the step in caves of earth
Of shy Persephone.
The trembling air strange music holds
Lyrics unborn that die,
Each spent, before its soul unfolds,
To charm the waiting sky.
Vic.
F. S. WILLIAMSON.


£lOOO rnjt £lOOO
i ■ r ~j
A Fortune for 11- A Fortune for II-
£lOOO for 1s
FIRST
Great Prize
£lOOO for 1s
Or 12 Months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO In Cash for one person, or eight months for two,
129 Other Important prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours Great Jubilee Art Union.
60 YEARS THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR 50 YEARS-
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
t>erson «pnHinl be del . i y ered J° w 'n'iers free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted to any
person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
to g n enfc ’ « **!!?» 0r s ®P d ®^ n ]P s ( with exchange added), Postal Note, or P. 0.0., direct
chance in thu * ’ FI dersßui d,ng ' s ’ 312Pllnders ' street ’ Mfelbourne ' at once for tickets, and secure a
Great Art Union, 22 for ;£l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications mint reach Melbourne before the date of drawing 14th May, 1906.
BE SURE to TRY YOUR LUCK.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
MUSIC is a SOLACE
mm
mniC
hflwuwkWSdUtrtu
Music is a solace to the tired brain—it
soothes—it cheers—it enlightens. We
are selling the finest EDISON PHONO-
GRAPHS at American Prices.
The Gem Phonograph - - £2 lOs
The Standard Phonograph - - £5
The Home Phonograph - - £7 lOs
FREE
Cut this out and post to us, and we will send you
our Catalogue and full particulars.
Name
Address'.
20,000 RECORDS TO SELECT FROM.
Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, and Is 9d each.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd,,
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
m
nis
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIPF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
-r.„. BIG BLOCK SUITS
Machine-made to Measure. In Pure Wool Fancy Tweeds and in Fox’s Indigo-Dye
All-Wool Serges. HONESTLY THE BEST VALUE OBTAINABLE.
ov
9014(1
THE
“ SUIT.
Trousers 12/6
THE
PAIR
POST OR CARRIAGE FREE to Any Address within the Commonwealth.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms, which we shall
be pleased to forward POST FREE ON REQUEST.
BIG 'BLOCK, Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
Nindooimha.
Dairy
Farms
Adjoining
TABRAGALBA, Albert River,
Queensland.
Estate
The First Section,
The Kerry Paddocks,
6092 acres
in areas from 118
to 1223 acres.
Situated 51 miles from Brisbane, 4 miles from Beaudesert Bailway Station by good
level road. Kainfall, 43fin., well distributed. Splendid water from Albert Kiver and
Kerry Creek. Considci ed the best Dairying and Agricultural land in the famous Albert
District, having alluvial lucerne flats nearly a mile wide.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION
At Beaudesert, on MONDAY ,
7th MAY, 7906,
At Three o’clock.
Magnetic Terms: One-Tenth Cash, Balance to 20 years
Write for
Illustrated Pamphlet to
At 5 per cent,
Isles 9 Love & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE,
nr~
Kolibri Arc Lamp.
THE BEST ELECTRIC LAMP
for Dwellings, Shops, Show-
windows, etc., etc., is the
Kolibri Arc Lamp
MADE FOR DIRECT AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT.
It gives 160 candle power, and consumes less than
half of the current required by the best incan-
descent lamps.
Sole Australian Agents—
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr. HANNA and KAVANAGH STS., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
fm!' s
Sold bv
All Jewellers
’SSg m
o^ Do 'V N^E^^vo^o
\&s* VV 1892 // '86 2
s
m
Estab-
-1750.
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
medals when-ever exhibited.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
r Q lartfana^BL
Hercules \1
Building Papers
There’s a place for Giant
Paper in every building
occupied by man=
kind.
Ifs /our Move!
As an under
lining for
Metal Roofs,
Insulating be-
tween floors,
lining silos,
insulating
cold storage
buildings, etc.,
SIBOT PAPERS
render a
building
absolutely
proof against
damp, dust,
draughts, or
insects .
Wholesale Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Kewspape^
V©u 27.— N0. 1364.
THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1906.
Pbiok 6d.
“My angel, will you be .nine, and then , .n the fuberadce
of my Jove, 1 shall hit you with this?
THIS COULD ONLY HAPPEN !N VICTORIA.
■LOVE-MAK.N<I UP-TO-DATE.-ISW »»1
After a lesson In Nature-study recently, a St. Kilda
school boy caught a young frog, and was explaining It
to-a mate who llatened with open-mouthed receptivity.
The frog took advantage of so good an opening for
escape, andf Jumping Into the boy’s mouth, stuck fast in
,hM throat. (At least so says the Argus.)
•ost ***
\)Qj A(\C \>c
v,\s #*f3wU tvi
><9® '
• --
■/ ' However; the teacher was con*
B f tided in, and as he acted promptly.
■ the poor little boy who owned the frog recoveredhispro-
perty. iloral-A little learning is a dangerous thing. Also,
do not continue your studies after school hours.
Joey Carruthers Is out with a coat of arms for N.S.W. It looks like an
advertisement for some new non-slipping rubber boot-heel. The Bulletin is far
from satisfied with the design, and here submits one of its own. The Latin
motto may I>e freely translated “ Leave me a Loan.”
NANOTHER “SPLENDID OFFER.
Dr. Arthur. H.L.A., ha* been consulting President Roosevelt (by- (lost) abort
various Australian matters. “Oh, if the Empty Cradle is your •***£**’
7cm soon fix that,” writes “Teddy.- “ 1 'can f«3 » with surplhs American
nigger in no time.”
THE CHEAPEST SHOW ON EARTH.
The great Holman-Reid combination. In .the above picture the reader will
have no difficulty in picking out the Heavy Tragedian and the Comic Relief.
A NEW COAT OF ARMS AND OTHER HAPPENINGS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia /or the A astraUans.”
Printed and Published bv William Maolkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the 00-> 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... V 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tins Bulletin Ofllce Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thu Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
llow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
S/ieeial Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps, are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded 'without, stamps
for return, it 'will be understood that the copy is tq be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications fop
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending. MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible, for the. preservation or
transpifission of MS.. ' ' ' ' ' '
To Aniuteurs in Jtlqcle and White.
Anyope supplying to, The Bulletin original humorous
or other, topical drawings in line of wash,, of snfjicieni,
VfPVt: Wfh ifderfst and adapted, for direct reproduction, op
m interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will ye paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining q good idea,, but unfitted fof d/irect reprodfuct'iioii
—i.e., any,picture which has to be re.-Araipn—iwill b,e paid
Wf d ? uggestion onhg. The conditions under y/ldch
Qopies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the qnfyal of each mail from hfesfrs,. Gordon ai\d
Ootch, Lndnate. Circus, and at British Australasian
Gflfo, No. 1 Broad-street Place. " ’ '
South Africa. — The. Central Neivs Agency., Capetown ;
hlessfs. 11. A. Thompson <&■ Co,, 28 Riebeck StreetCape-
tpy/n; fhe Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.—lT. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co.; 22 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Breiver and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x thin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
. THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1906.
THE TRIANGULAR SITUATION.
The second Federal Parliament ends this year;
the election is due in December, and, in order to
give the candidates time to struggle with their
constituents, it is announced that the session will
close in October. It is also announced that the
session will not open till June—it was supposed
to open in May, but it now appears that that
idea has been dropped. So there will be a short
session, during which most members will have
only half an eye on business, and an eye and a-half
on the approaching election, and there is every
chance that again there will be very few things
done, and the prospect of any very large things
being done is almost nil. The three-party system
has drifted to a point at which it is almost impos-
sible to get any two parties even t*> mention the
same subject, and alliances of a kind that will
lead to any useful work seem at present
out of the question. There is no possibility
of a combination between the old Tory gang of
anti-Socialists which follows Reid and the Labor
men or the Democratic Protectionists, and if there
were such a possibility it would be ah unspeak-
able calamity. And the Labor men have made
any permanent combination between them and
the Democratic Protectionists difficult by their
sinking of the fiscal issue, their insane declaration
against alliances, and their ill-judged.,threats to
contest the seats of even the most advanced Demo-
crats, provided those advanced Democrats refuse
to come into the Labor fold and to sink the fiscal
question—this regardless of the fact that they may
thereby split the Democratic vote and give many
seats to old retrograde Toryism. With parties in
this state, and with, close at hand, an election
which promises to be a most incoherent three-cor-
nered scrap, it looks as if all the big things that
want doing will be left undone for another year.
* * * *
As the Reid party has no programme for next
Parliament it in ay be fairly assumed that it won’t
assist at doing anything during the fag-end of
this one. It has become the anti-Socialist
party, and talks of nothing but anti-Socialism
except when, here and there, an angry fragment
breaks away and talks Freetrade—that Freetrade
that N.S.W. never had and never wanted. If the
Reid party wins at next election—which is
imagining a wild impossibility—it undertakes to
arrest the “dangerous drift” towards Socialism.
That is a passive action and a mere stoppage of
motion a sitting down and a doing of nothing. A
dead man could do it if he were in a majority ;
a shut Parliament could do it. If Reid scoops
the political pool in December there will
not be any more Socialistic legislation during next
Parliament, but what there will be is a blank.
Ihe Reid party’s whole policy now consists of
what it won t do, and that kind of crowd is a very
hopeless one to which to look for help in active
legislation. Ihe Reid following, barring the few
malcontents already alluded to, professes, for the
time, to have sunk the fiscal issue just as
much as the Labor men have. The Labor
men could burst up the Reid-M ‘Lean alliance
and the anti-Socialist campaign in one act
by going bald-headed for Protection; when
once that issue was put in the front Reid’s
poor little anti-Socialist banner would be
trodden underfoot amid the rush of alarmed im-
porters all anxious to defend their shoddy, and
1 urner, M'Lean, and similar old renegades would
have to get back into their old camp—the only
alternative would be the impossible one of turning
I reetraders. Rut the Labor party lacks the sense
and the energy to take its enemy on the flank in
this fashion.
* * • »
The Deakin party talks mostly about tariff
revision, which is a subject that the Labor party
won t mention at all, and the Labor leader has
been talking mostly of late about a Federal land-
tax, a thing about which Deakin professes to
have no fixed opinions as yet. : Prime Minister
Deakin wants higher Protection, though he is
hardly the real High Protectionist that the
country requires, but, as usual, he is elo-
quent and affable, and he is goin o, to
open Parliament so late that Australia o isn’t
likely to get any High Protection this year. The
Labor party won’t undertake to assist Deakin in
getting High Protection because it sinks the fiscal
issue and refuses all alliances. The reason why
the Deakin party isn t likely to feel any special
desire to help the Labor party to get its graduated
land-tax or anything else is the fact that the
Labor party won’t assist cordially over the tariff
together with its threat that the Democratic Pro-
tectionists will be opposed wholesale next Decem-
ber in the fiscal-sinking interest. The Labor
party is willing for the present to help Deakin to
keep office, hut it doesn’t help him to do much
while he is in office, and Alfred the Affable and
Lloquent has a natural tendency to do compara-
tively little. And on the other side of the House
is the Reid crowd which wants Deakin and Wat-
son to do nothing and to go, fio, the poqnfry
with the poorest possible record- Amid all these
circumstances, probabilities are fbat
session will produce just about nothing, and the
man Will feel happiest gbo.ut that will be G.
H. Reid.
Yet it is most essential that something
and imposing should he donethis session, just
shQw Australia that its Gqverqmen( is aliye, aqd,
leaving dope someth iqg large, the Ministry should'
go, to the qquqtry wijft tW p,rqnpsp P.f dt Vhpld
spiles of big measuy.es, agd point to it
lias dqne iq the past as evidence p,f it pan bp
Sed to, do iq Thers is suoh a, mul-
eqf great things waiting'to, b,e done, includ-
ing. by w.qy qf so,me casual examples, these ten
qnhertakiflgs
(L T¥ estsybljshineqt of a High Protectionist tariff.
(2), The imposition of a heavy graduated Federal land-
The passing of a Bill to so amend the Constitution
as to give the Commonwealth power to take over all the
State debts bodily.
(4) The establishment of a sinking fund for the re-
payment of the State debts. This should be done now in
order to help the carrying of the amendment to the Con-
stitution mentioned in Clause 3. If the amendment is
lost, and the debts are not taken over at present the
Commonwealth can still devote its sinking fund to the
purchase of State securities, and, by making itself the
States’ largest creditor, can acquire a power over them
which will enable it to carry a complete consolidation
later on.
(5) The establishment of a Federal immigration system
(6) The establishment of a real Australian defence
system, including the organisation of a well-armed citizen
soldiery, the laying of the first keels of an efficient Aus-
tralian fleet, and the creation of an Australian arms and
ammunition factory.
(7) The passing of a new banking law, which, by the
inclusion of the Canadian system of Federal note issue
will provide a few millions towards the sinking fund
mentioned in clause 4.
(8) The taking over of the Northern Territory as a
Federal property and a field for immigration, and the re-
starting of the Transcontinental railway.
(9) The building of the other Transcontinental railway
—the one to Westralia.
(10) The settlement of the Federal capital question.
1 here are all these and many .more imposing items
of policy to choose from, and among them there is
enough advertisement for the live, head of any
live Government. If Alfred Deakin would put
these on his programme—not in a scholarly, per-
functory way,but in a hard, practical spirit ;if he
would devote the time he spends in composing
and delivering huge polished orations, to drafting
Bills for presentation next session, covering two or
three of these measures—the ones that could be
put into the smallest space and the fewest words ;
and if he would open Parliament early with the’
intimation that his measures must be passed or
the Government would hand in its resignation
and let George Reid and his Tories take a turn
at office—there would be an awakening. The
Labor party would almost certainly be driven
into giving an active support, and even if it
didn t there would still be an awakening. Alfred
Deakin would either go to the country as the man
who had done something great and done it in a
hurry, and as the man who promised to do some-
thing still greater ; or as the man who had tried
his best to do something great, and who, having
failed, asked the country for better support so
that he might try again.
* * * *
It is true that Prime Minister Deakin is
hampered by want of support. But if Deakin
were the fierce, strenuous man who climbs
savagely over obstacles as Seddon used to do in his
younger days, the Labor party would have to give
him support; if it didn’t the country would want
to know the reason why. If the Labor party
knew that Deakin had staked the existence of his
Cabinet on the prompt passing of some big re-
forms, and that the result of their rejection would
be the return of the anti-Socialist and pro-nigger
party to office, it would take a different view of
things. But the Prime Minister doesn’t look like a
man who would rush even an enemy into a corner
like that. Of course it may he said that in all the
list of big measures above quoted there are hardly
ajiy about which the country is really enthusiastic.
That is true ; the country has been so accustomed
to languid State and Federal administration that
there are quite a number of things about which it
has ceased to be enthusiastic. But a strong De-
mocratic leader who was in deadly earnest could
make almost any big progressive measure a burn-
mg question, and could light an election on it
with good results. The country loves a fight
and it loves a fighter, but it doesn’t love long,
mild, polite speeches and silver platitudes. If the
three parties go to the country, two of them as
the parties that have done very little of late and
the third as the party that proposes to do nothing
except be hostile to Socialistic legislation, the
anti-Socialist party will be made a present of an
absurdly large advantage. As the Dead and Buried
party it should be opposed by the Conspicuously
Alive party—not by the Partially Defunct party.
* » * *
Australia has had five Ministries under its
three-party system. It should have had ten, or
else have got over the difficulty of the three-party
problem. If only one of the leaders wa's an
uncompromising man with a really great pro-
gramme ; if every time he got into office he
started on his programme and resigned every
time he was defeated; if every time he got
out of office he demanded the adoption of his
programme as the price at which he would
support the new Government, and failing
that combined with party No. 2 to throw
out party No. 3 and bring about a new shuffle of
the cards-—well, there might have been many
sudden Ministries, there might have been sundry
elections, there would have been much political
chaos, but at least things would have happened.
Dither there would have been a definite alliance
between two parties, or at one stormy election or
another the people would have given the strong
man a definite majority of his own, or in some
fashion a way out would have been discovered.
Die present difficulty is to find the strong man,
and for want of him it looks as if the second Aus-
tralian Parliament will end in a very humble sort
of way, and be followed by a tired people voting
perfunctorily at a partially deceased election.
here are many great questions to agitate the
peopleat this election. Onmostof themtheattitude
of Deakin and Watson is the correct attitude.
But the people are a little tired of mere attitudes
and a trifle weary of abstract principles. They
have given up expecting anything to occur except
very gradually indeed. They like to be repre-
sented by men of good democratic instincts, but
they would like very much to be represented
by men who turned these instincts into a little more
vigorous action. Almost the saddest thing that
can be said of a man is that he means well, and
the bulk of the Australian Parliament means so
very well it might almost be said so beastly well.
LAND-TAX AND BANKING CRISIS,
Labo^-Leadbr Watson’s land-tax proposals are
objected to, ip certain places op the ground that
his tax would reduce the value of land below the
sppounf of the advances made upon it; and this,
if Is said, might easily precipitate another hank-
ipg crisis, B.uf what scrap of evidence is there
th a t a htt s is nrighf he expected ?- The only crisis
that a, graduated land-tax has provided in Maori-
lapd is ope that Australia—even Australian banks
—htight bp glad to, grah with both hands; for
absolutely po Australian bank has made as much
progress as the Bank of New Zealand has done
upder the graduated tax in the past 10 years. The
crisis for this bank began to arrive in 1887, when
the old 121 per cent, dividend was dropped ;
tinci from that date onward there was a
long succession of smashes and of wreck-
age-clearing, until all the reserves went, the
capital was written down, and in 1890 the most
hopelessdookmg of the assets were passed on to
the N.Z. Estates Co. The graduated land-tax
arrived in 1893. Instead of another crisis happen-
ing the old skeleton at once began to'put on
flesh. The people who undertook the job of
clearing up the mess were faced by assets having
a book value of £2,731,706, on which sum fullv
half was expected to be loss. And, in view of the
arrival of the, graduated land-tax in 1893, the loss
of about £1,400,000 which was at first anticipated
ought to have been increased—if there is anything
in the present “banking crisis” argument.
Instead, however, of that, this is the actual
position m connection with the Bank of New
Zealand :
Ascertained loss (provided for) .. £322 483
Book values written down .. 139 988
Further losses estimated .. .. 158’,882
Total loss £621,353
Thus, through the general revival in values, the
loss has been less than half the amount expected,
and through the sudden and) a,(Hazing prosperity
of the bank almost the whole loss has been paid
°®\ And this was under the graduated land-tax
which Australia is now told will smash values and
may precipitate a banking crisis.
*** ’ *
The proposed graduated land-tax would not
commence to tax until the ground value of
an estate had passed £5OOO. Unfortunately
there are no statistics regarding the number
of Australian holdings in excess of £5OOO
ground value; but it seems safe to say that
they do not form more than l-15th of the
securities of Australian banks. In N.S. Wales
there are 195,740 persons owning land ; yet, though
the exemption is only £240, or not l-20th of WaT-
SON s proposed exemption, the actual number of
persons paying land-tax is only 41,574. Maoriland
which has an ordinary land-tax, has also a gradu-
ated tax, beginning at £d. for estates of £5OOO.
Apart from the absentee surcharge, the graduated
tax, m the last year for which figures are avail-
able, £77,832. On the total unimproved
value of Maoriland lands that represented 2s 2d.
P er 00 of value - In other words, the amount of
the Maoriland graduated land-tax, capitalised at
4 per cent., represents only £2 17s. per cent of
the total ground value of the- land. Certainly
Watson proposes to begin his tax at J-d. instead
ot sa. Hut the difference is not appalling Sup-
posing the proposed Australian rate were adopted
in M.L., this would be the result:—
Rate Total Total
in the £. Payable. Rate. Payable
jd. .. £9,094 2Jd. .. £9,494
f d - 9.806 2£d. .. 10,466
ll •• 2 3 d - •• 10,762
Id. .. 8,250 3d. 3 sqo
l|d. .. 9,092 SJd. .. <lso4
1.? d. .. 11,954 3£d.
l|d. 11,656 3;|d. . 4^*084
2d. .. 21,850 4d. .. 17,030
The total tax collected would be £lss,664,’which
would mean, capitalised at 4 per cent., less than
oj per cent, of the total value. Assuming that
the Australian experience with regard to the
value of estates is the same as that of Maoriland
then Watson’s proposals would mean a reduction
of less than 6 per cent, of the capital value—even
assuming that no good thing to counterbalance
this would come out of the taxation. And
if a banking crisis is going to be precipitated
through an average slump of less than 6 p.c. in
gi ouiid values (in other words, if banks have been
making advances so wildly that a 6 p.c. fall in
around value will bring the total value below the
amount advanced on ground values and improve-
lnents), then the banks have been monstrously
mismanaged, and some. severe writing down of
capital is already called for. But, of course, this
is nonsense. Land values are subject to 5, 10, or
15 p.c. variations every year or two, and there is
no crash.
* * * *
In the small table printed above it was shown
that in Maoriland, if Watson’s tax were in force,
the first £lO,OOO in value of all estates would bring
m only £9094. The values from £lO,OOO to £15,000,
would bring in £9806. So, as the second lot pavjs ,
n lC Vr e ra *' e *he ® rst > 'I follows
all M.L. estates worth less than £lO (jflO
on Watson’s scale £9094, less the hplf
of £JBO6, or £4191. In Australia, whose land of,
approximately, six times greater value in the,bulk
than Maoriland’s, the total tax payable by all
estates under £lO,OOO in value—unimproved value
-wonid thus amount to less than £25,00ft a year,
(•rrrif’ t bP re fore, the value of holdings of less than
£oooo value would not be affected at all, and that
of holdings of from £5OOO to £lO,OOO practically not
at all, certainly a large slice would have to come off
the capital value of holdings worth £200,000 or so.
But this could not provoke any banking crisis,
unless the Manifolds, and Chiknsides. and Aus-
tins, and Clarkes, and the A. A. Co., and S..
Australian and V.D.L. Cos. have their estates
mortgaged up to the hilt; and, judging by the
look of them, they are not that sort of people. As
for those financial concerns which were left with
vast squatting territories on their hands, the
graduated land-tax will concern them very little.
.Practically all their dominions are leasehold.
* * * *
The S. Australian graduated tax for 1903-4 was- ■
4 d - in the £ on estates worth £5OOO to £10,000; ;
every additional £5OOO carrying an additional |d.'.
I his is double the rate proposed by Watson. lit i
1904 the tax amounted to £77,369. The total, uiw-
xmFwooii Va^U 6 i tile land in the State was!
£41,348,241; so that a tax double the-size' of ftltaffc
proposed by Watson works out in S. Australia at
an average of only 3s. Bd. per annum on each £lOO
or the capital value of the land ; and, instead
of declining, the capital value of land in South
Australia has steadily advanced during the past
tew years. And with it there has been steady
banking progress. Nor was there any crisis to
start with. Ihe Bank of Adelaide—struggling
against a graduated land-tax—was one of the few
that didn t have to suspend payment in 1894 ; in
fact, it went on paying its 7 per cent, dividend;
and later on the 7 per cent, became 8 per cent. ;
and the amount put annually to reserve has been
more than quadrupled. This doesn’t look muol A
like a banking crisis. On the contrary, with tb»a-
history of the Bank of Adelaide before it. and tW
recent histories of the B.N.Z. and the Nations! .
of Maoriland, the Australian bank shareho’clhr,
(provided, of course, he doesn’t happen also t£* be
a large land-grabber) ought to be Watson’s most
UBlastlc su PP° rter on this point!
£4OOO men, though they pay no land-tax, ought fp
be worth 10 times as much as customers tcT.the
as one '£2oo,ooo man, even though be.pa vs
£4OOO a year.in land-tax.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sydney Shows Well.
Ihe verdict in the M ‘Arthur v. Lyne case (now-
hnaUy settled, the plaintiff having taken the de-
cision of the jury as final, and abandoned the idea i
of appeal) reflects a good deal of credit on Sydney
Ihe case was purely a political one, and a. great i
number of people anticipated that the decision i
would be arrived at on the basis of political .pree-
judice rather than on that of equity and justice.'.
When the plaintiff—practically lfor.eign-tra.ddrr
William M'MiLLAN-applied for. and; X
a special jury, and those who. had,
means of knowing announced, that the, jury
empanelled included at. least eight stalwart
koreign-traders, most people reckoned that it was
all over with Protectionist WILWAM, Lyne, except
paying up the damages, and coats. When at one,
stage of the trialit-*Kas. announced that the jury
was divided nine, to, three, the conclusion was
jumped at that nine Stalwart Poreign-traders had
decided to, give a decision against Lyne regardless
of the evidence, and Lyne’s counsel refused to
accept a majority verdict until the prescribed time
had elated which made such a verdict legally
valid, Ihe idea seemed to be that in the six
hours interval one of the nine might get a spasm
of conscience and forget his Poreign-trade
prejudices. But when the verdict was
handed in it was nine for Lyne and
three for M‘Millan. The jurors forgot their
prejudices and decided conscientiously. Such a
result, in a city where the daily press makes it a
business td cultivate a venomous hostility to the
, Australian Government and to the Protectionist
party, is a notable advertisement of the under-
lying good sense and honesty of the mass of the
citizens, and comes as a pleasing re-assurance as
to the value of the jury system. It certainly
would have been a calamitous reflection on the ,
JIB y verdict had been in the other direction.
Ihe cause of action was pitiably trivial. lii
the ‘ Parliamentary refreshment-room certain
Ministers were chatting over the business .
before the House, and Lyne made some •
allegation that the firm of M ‘Arthur and Co.—of ■
which M'Millan is a partner—had hats manufac--
tured for them in Australia which they allowed/
to be sold to the public without any indica-
tion that the articles were of Australian make.
Ihe evidence fully corroborated what Lyne adl
mitted having said, for an Australian-made hat
labelled, say, “The Balfour,” doesn’t carry in its
name any suggestion of its Australian origin. But
benator Pulsford, a rabid Poreign-trader, sent a
report to M'Millan— in his haste to inform he
seems to have despatched the report almost on the
instant. And, according to the decision of the
jury it was an inaccurate report, containing
the allegation that Lyne had charged M'Millan’s
firm with having Australian hats actually branded
Made m England.” Lyne flatly denied this
charge, and his denial was partly corroborated by
Heakin; and the majority of the jury, as already
stated, believed Lyne and didn’t believe Puls-
fnrd. William McMillan was very ill-advised
m bringing his law action; and he pays the
penalty in costs. Costs is a greedy and exacting-
animal which sometimes bites the right person in
the right place.
The S.M. Herald on Australian Literature.
a <VS ig !?. ty delivt f ance of last Saturday’s date
the S.M. Herald decided that there is really -is
yet,, no Australian literature that can be called
literature. This is a depressing view to take, sti 11
the subject is one of 'which the Herald ought to
know something. Its persistent neglect of Aus-
tralian literature, and its craving after ill-selected
imported fiction, should qualify it to speak • it
should know Australian literature when it sees
the thing through not seeing it in its own pages.
And in the course of the same article the S M*
Herald decided that what poor little scraps of
Australian literature exist are really not
Australian, nor are they original. This is also a
subject on which the Herald should be qualified
to speak. It should know originality when it sees


jit through never having met it on its own
■premises. And then the Herald told the old
Stereotyped tale about how our alleged lack of
.originality comes about—the old tale in the hoary
(o ld words: —
Our writers have done their best work in a sketchy way,
■and at the back of it all there is clearly traceable the in-
rfluence that Bret Harte brought into literature. . . .
(One popular author succeeds another in setting the
Ifashion. To-day it is Bret Harte, to-morrow Kipling.
Next year it will be somebody else. Our young bards
and story-writers import their fashions from abroad,
as their sisters do their styles in hats and gowns. There
is no original thinking and shaping done here yet. . . .
It is time to get away from the Noah’s Ark landscape of
Australian literature, where objects are mainly distin-
guishable by crude colors and rough shapes and a con-
ventional habit which enables the child amusing itself
with such a toy to differentiate a cow from a tree. It is
easy to pick out a type from a sketch by Bret Haiite, a
thought or a rhyme from Arnold or Keats, ora grotesque
fancy from a humorist like Mark Twain, and adapt it for
local use. But these tricks of the craft will never make
for a breathing, thinking', and living Australian literature
of our own.
And much more to the same effect. The Herald-
js an old paper. It was^ born old, and it has
old, and has an air of being run by old
■jnen who were never really young. It is the
| importing paper par excellence. It has always
.discouraged Australian industry except in the
(tearing of the rawest of raw materials out of the
leartlb and the selling of them in the rawest state,
; and it always assumes that anything really good
unust be imported, because if it wasn’t imported it-
*ouldn’t be good. So when it comes across any-
thing that looks good and is of local produc-
tion, it assumes that it must be a copy of some-
thing imported. It is 1000 chances to one that
the platitudinous old publication couldn’t lay its
finger on one definite instance of the alleged
influence of Bret Harte on Australian literature,
but some Australians began to leave a footmark
on the inky path, with short stories and verse,
about the time when Bret Harte was famous
being mere Australians they couldn’t, of course,
have ideas of their own and must be slavish
imitators of some outside person ; and Bret 1
Harte seemed the most probable person—
so even if the imitation was none too clear it must
be there. It is 1000 to less than one that the
Herald, even to save its existence as a dull
old ratepayer and an estimable fellow-townsman,
could not show where the alleged imitators of Bret
Harte gave way to the alleged imitators of Kip-
ling ; but as really original Australian, work is-
impossible in the brown lexicon of the Herald’si
old age, the Australians who wrote in Kipling’s;
time must have got their inspiration from Kipling;
because there was a Kipling. They must have'
done it, even though they kept on writing just as
they had done before Kipling appeared. It was
; a habit for a while among the learned and heavy
-, i»d discouraging class to which the Keh.-vibi
I tjfjjtongs to point to Henry Lawson as an, Au&-
i trujiian who owed all his inspiration to
.and whose style was a glaring imitation, of
jKiijmng’s, until it was mentioned to the-nrn
(that Lawson arrived first, and that a mam
fcan’t imitate posterity. And when the Herajuo
iiasserts that it is easy to see where Australian!
writers steal their types from Bret Harte, timin'
•.thoughts and rhymes from Arnold and Keassi,
;»nditheir jests from Mark Twain, it thereby Hue-
{trays its idea of how literature is produced--thee
idea which has made the paper the ton of d.eadJ
weight it is. The Herald plainly fancies that-
fanciful sketches in prose and verse are, as a rule,
built up slowly and laboriously, as a Herald
leading article might be, by a man with several
dozen books of reference around him, from which,
he borrows as he goes along. In a sense, of course,
Australian writers do steal largely from Bret
Harte, Kipling and Co. Those foreign authors
made extensive use of such words as “and,”
“ the,” “him,” and so on, and the Australian does-
likewise. Apart from that, there is not much,
ground for the Herald’s complaint, and in any
case, the paper is no authority. The Herald
wouldn’t know originality or brightness if it saw the
thing. Its own article on the want of originality
m Australian literature contained not one fresh,
expression, nor one bright thought, nor one iiew
idea, nor one old idea put in new shape. It repre-
sented the learned heap of pig-iron telling the-
butterfly how to fly, or the educated horned owl.
lecturing on the sunrise.
The Tasmanian Labor Party and Unification..
The Tasmanian State elections have left the futile
Ministry of that ancient mariner, Captain
'"‘Jack” Evans, with five supporters and one
• Attorney-General less than it had before. The
Labor party, which numbered four in the last.
j Parliament, now counts seven pledged supporters-
; two independent Laborists, or nine in all.
The old Propsting Opposition party, abandoned
by its leader who has fled to the Upper House,
1 lost rather than gained. The latest estimate is
t that Premier Evans can muster 16 sure supporters
nn an Assembly of 35. Against him there are
mine Labor men (two of them unpledged but
apparently quite as solid for Labor principles as
tthe rest), one Independent of doubtful character,
; »wid nine members of the direct Opposition. This
»st is the disappearing crowd, just as Waddell’s
was in N.S.W. It opposes the Government
partly out of habit and tradition, partly out
of the desire for office, and partly out of
some small divergence of opinion, but it
hasn’t enough real divergence to keep it
warm. All the genuine fighting will be done by
the Labor men, and Herbert Nicholls’ Opposi-
tion will be sometimes friendly to the Evans
Ministry on the ground that the Labor men are
too anxious to do something, and sometimes
faintly hostile—so faintly hostile in comparison to
the Laborists that the State will forget that ic is
hostile. So the chances are that some of the
INicholls following will drift over to the Govern-
ment in time, and the most of it will vanish at
next election, and there will only be direct Demo-
cracy and bald Toryism left. Even in Tasmania
the chance of the Democratic party seems to tie
coming so far as the Assembly is concerned, yet
when the chance comes it is difficult to see what
the party can do with it in State politics. The
immovable Upper House, resting like a huge
head weight of mud on its property basis, will
still ,be in the way. It is five times more
arrogant and more brutally Tory than even
the Victorian House of Landlords. There is
n? ytsifile hope, on its present franchise, that
the Democratic party will capture it in the next
years. Its franchise can’t be amepded without
i s own consent. In its present unreformed con-
• djon not one item of the Democratic programme
is hkely to receive its assent, even if it gets the
assent of the Assembly. Therefore, in every
otate where there is an Upper House elected on a
pioperty vote the Democratic party should regard
itself, not so much as a party which exists to
arry state legislation (for it can carry but little
of that), but rather as a party which seeks to cap-
khe Lower House and the popular support in
Mer to be a great organising force in Australian
Politics. And its great idea in Australian
Politics should be the Unification of Australia. In
' «U 3 movement the Democrats of those States
which have not property-elected Upper Houses
should join with all their strength for the sake
of their brethren and for the sake of Australia in
general. Not one of the States which are cursed
with Upper Houses of Rich Landlords elected
on a property suffrage can shift its House of Land-
lords by its own efforts unless it has a revolution ;
in every case the Landlords can only be removed
or abolished, so far as State legislation goes, by
their own consent. But it is possible to pass
through the Australian Parliament a huge Amend-
ment of the Constitution, handing over to the
C-ommonweath all the powers, duties, responsi-
bilities, assets and debts of the State Legislatures.
This Amendment Bill would then be submitted to
a popular vote of the people qualified to vote for the
Australian House of Representatives; and if it
received the assent of a majority in four States
out of six, and a majority of the whole body of
persons who voted, it would become law. This
woaldja’tt directly abolish the existing State
Parliaments, but it would leave them with
no power at all,, and they would have
to abolish .themselves. The whole array of
Tory Upper Houses could thus be obliterated and
dispersed -without their consent being asked.
Then .the Australian Parliament could cut up the
•country into new States with new names—States
that were smaller and more manageable—and
bestow on itheno .each an absolutely democratic
Legislature of one House, wi th such powers as are
■considered necessary. This is the only way at
present visible wfceKehy<the people can get rid of
ithe incubus of Tory and property-elected Upper
Houses, and leave *the .'way open for progress.
And because it is lithe .only visible way every
Democrat in Australia should be for Unification
heart and soul. The Unification need not neces-
sarily be permanent; it may be used merely as the
road to a better Federation; but Unification
ithere must be.
The Law and the Trades JJnion.
'The British Royal Commission on what is known
as the “Taff Vale decision” —really ,on the
position of trades-unions as regards (the laws of
conspiracy—in its report came to two .GOjwqlufjiqns
which have been frequently urged in (these
columns :
(1) That the Taff Vale decision, holding-a trades-union’s
funds liable for the damage done to an employer when tl\e
members of the union g o on strike, was a correct .state-
ment of the strict letter of the law.
(2) That it is nevertheless against public policy that
trades-unions should be put under the disabilities involved
iin the Taff Vale decision ; and that the previously .estab-
lished tolerance of strikes, of “peaceful picketing"and
it he .rest .was wise.
The Commission therefore suggests a statute so
far o.vea - -riding the common law as—
To provide for the separation of trades-union benefit
ffuudls from the ordinary funds, and protecting same.
To .declare trade-unions legal associations.
'To declare strikes, from whatever motive or for what-
ever purposes (including sympathetic or. secondary
strikes), apart from crime or breach of contract, legal.
To declare that to persuade to strike— i.e., to desist
from working, apart from procuring breach of contract —
is not illegal
To declare that an individual shall not be liable for
doing any act, not in itself an actionable tort, only on the
ground that it is an interference with another person’s
trade, business, or employment.
To enact to the effect that an agreement or combina-
tion by two or more persons to do or procure to be done
any act in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dis-
pute shall not be the ground of a civil action, unless the
agreement or combination is indictable as a conspiracy
notwithstanding the terms of the Conspiracy and Protec-
tion of Property Act, 1875.
This, by the way, is almost exactly the suggestion
which Mr. B. R. Wise brought before N.S.W.
Parliament when the Taff Vale decision was dis-
cussed here, a suggestion which at the time was
sneered at by the ignorant daily papers, but to
which the British Royal Commission expresses its
obligations. A Bill has now been introduced to
the British Commons following closely on the
Royal Commission’s recommendations, and, there-
fore, practically identical with B. R. Wise’s
N.S.W. Bill, and it will doubtless pass, possibly
with provision for an even more complete protec-
tion of trades-union funds if the Labor party can
secure that. Of course the measure has been
greeted with an outcry of “ class legislation,” and
its purpose has been misrepresented as an
attempt to lift trades-unions outside the law of
•conspiracy by special privilege. The truth of the
matter is that the law of conspiracy, truly enough
set out in the Taff Vale and following decisions,
has been allowed to fall into disuetude among
British communities in very many regards. If
100 workmen put their heads together to declare
that they will raise the price of the commodity
they have to sell (labor), and will not sell it except
at the increased price, then the buyer of the com-
modity (the employer) has either to buy at the
increased price or to face a strike, and this action
on the part of the men is undoubtedly, in technical
language, an “injurious conspiracy.” Also, if 100
bakers in a town agree to unanimously raise the
price of their commodity (bread) against the buyer
(the public), and thus force them to pay the in-
creased rate ; or if a number of stockowners con-
coct a plan by which they will raise the price of
meat, by coming into the stock market as buyers
when it is weak, that is an “ injurious conspiracy ”
on exactly the same plane, and is just as
much a strike as the workmen’s proceeding. The
only reason why people do not notice the
similarity of the cases is that the employer of
labor usually makes a fight and a loud protest and
thereby draws attention to the workmen’s con-
spiracy ; the public just pays the extra price and
doesn’t draw attention to the bakers, or meat men’s,
conspiracy. The law has never yet opened its eyes-
to the bakers’ or the butchers’, or the doctors’, or
any other black-coated conspiracies to raise the
prices of commodities ; and it was an unfair dis-
tinction to come down heavily on the shirt-sleeved
man’s plot to raise the price of his labor. The
sooner the law, in England as in Australia, gets
out of that illogical position the better. It is not
wise to give the mass of the people the notion
that the Law isn’t a fair dealer as between class
and class. Such a notion is apt to tempt them to
use their strength to get control of the Law and use
it unfairly in their turn against opposing classes.
A Challenge to the Labor Party.
The gist of Prime Minister Deakin’s speech at
Adelaide was a request, almost a challenge, to the
Labor party, to help him to put the tariff into-
satisfactory shape—he suggested “back to the
Kingston tariff,” which The Bulletin put for-
ward as a practical proposal some months ago
and thus clear the way for the settlement of other
questions to which the Labor members attach
great importance. Truly enough, Deakin pointed
out that it was solely the fault of the Labor party
that the Kingston tariff was hacked down to-
the present mongrel lines. Without the aid
of the Labor party—which, on its own policy,
of support in return for concessions, if for no other
reason, should have voted the tariff in return for-
White Australia afid cheap labor restriction legis-
lation —the Foreign-trade fragment in the Parlia-
ment would have been powerless to touch one line.
of the tariff. But, influenced by its Foreign-trade
members, the Labor-party joined in the bad work
of mutilating a measure which represented the
brains of the most capable statesman in Australia,
and which was an effort to give to the Common-
wealth financial and industrial stability. Now
the party is asked to undo what it probably pretty
unanimously recognises to have been a mischievous
work, and to get back to the Kingston tariff. If
the new tariff were pushed through this coming
session, the elections could then be held on the
issue of unlocking the land to the people, and the
issue fought without any intrusion of the fiscal
question. The request is reasonable, and it will
be good tactics of the Labor party to agree. Then,
if circumstances still favor an alliance with Deakin,
the making of a treaty on some other big issue is
facilitated ; if circumstances suggest separation,
the Labor party will be in a favorable position to
go on its own.
Private Enterprise Railways.
At Ashfield (N.S.W.), the other day. Labor rene-
gade Cook said that the State should not enter into
Socialistic enterprises, because of the annual rail-
way deficit and the inharmonious relations,of the
Commissioners. And the anti-Soeialists generally
are beginning to talk of State railway adminis-
tration in N. S. W. as a failure. Let it he compared
with some typical Private Enterprise systems.
The Yankee railroads are run by Private Enter-
prise. They were built on the State Land-grant
and private blackmail system. Up to 1890 there
had been donated to the different railway com-
panies 250,000,000 acres of the finest land in the
country. The records of the corruption and
venality employed in obtaining and choosing this
land would fill a dozen issues of The Bulletin.
Whole Legislatures were bought, congressmen
and senators were bribed, and the courts were
corrupted. On most of this land no taxes were
paid, the patents remaining in abeyance until the
railroads found it convenient to take possession.
In 1880, it was shown that one company alone
had realised over £6,000,000, from the sale of
land-grant lands. As if this were not enough,
huge sums, free of interest, were lent to the rail-
roads by the Governments. To one system, the
Government lent £12,000,000 free of interest.
On that sum the Government had, by 1897, paid
in interest, the enormous aggregate of £17,000,000,
thus making a total outlay in cash, or its equiva-
lent, on behalf of one company, of £29,000,000.
The reimbursements to the Government amounted
at the time to £5,000,000, about £1,000,000 in
cash, and the remainder in transportation services
at exorbitant rates. And Joseph Cook talks
about the N.S.W. railways’ annual deficit! And,
in spite of all these advantages, the Yankee rail-
roads are throttling the industry of the people.
Their influence on the commerce and politics of
the nation has been disastrous. Owing to a sys-
tem of rebates, no man knows what his rival is
paying for freight. If he has a pull on the
railroad, he can get secret rebates amounting
sometimes to 50 per cent, of the regular rate.
The oil, beef, canned fruit, and various other
trusts were able to crush their rivals, because of
the secret rebates they were able to get from
the railroads. The Inter-State Commission has,
time and again, declared these rebates to be
illegal, but it has never been able to prevent them.
The trusts and railroads have hesitated at nothing
to prevent exposure. Judges, Senators, and Con-
gressmen have been bought. One of the leading
professions in America is lobbying—the buying of
Legislatures—which is done in wholesale fashion
by the trusts and railways. So far, their efforts
have been successful, and the Courts have been
unable to prevent rebates. The average
fare on a Yankee railroad is about three
cents per mile, except on some through runs
between large cities. (In N.S.W. it is much
under a penny per mile.) The freight rate is never
regular, the rule for rate-making being, “the last
cent the people will stand without rioting.” The
average rate is from - 61 to 2 - 08 cents a mile per
ton ; but there are over 5900 items in the classi-
fication list, and the result is chaos. No conces-
sions ai-e made to drought-stricken settlers.
Except to favored firms, or as a disguise for
rebates, damage claims are seldom recognised by
the railroads. The result of this is that goods are
mostly sent at owner’s risk, the rate being some-
what lower than on those sent at the railroad’s
risk. The States and Federal Governments are
charged at two or three times the rate paid by
private persons. A few years ago it was shown
in an inquiry that the Chicago, Milwaukee and
■St. Paul railroad was charging the Government
£16,000, and the American Express Co. £6009 for
exactly the same accommodation. The post-office
pays for the transportation of mails, and it is said
that every mail contract is a fraud and a steal.
Once every four years the mails carried on each
railroad are weighed. The weighing goes on for a
month, and, on the resulting average, the price is
paid for the next four years. At weighing time
(which is known t 0 everybody) all those interested
in the railroad send through the post old direc-
tories, pieces of coupling irons, bolts, etc., to the
head office. The result of this is that the Govern-
ment pays for the carriage of several times as
much mail as is carried. Now the people are
becoming tired of the domination of the railway
companies, and a cry has gone up for State owner-
ship. It is one of the planks of the Populist
party, and of a section of the Democratic party.
That is a small part of the record of a typical Pri-
vate Enterprise railway system. Let the anti-
Socialist compare it honestly with the Australian
Socialistic railway system !
♦
Full Barns and Empty Shops.
New South Wales is supposed to be for the
moment flowing over with prosperity; every
week the S.M. Herald is sorry for those un-
fortunate people who don’t know what to do with
their capital. And this prosperity-of-a-sort is
quite real. The banks bulge out with coin.
Finding no adequate use for it in Australia, they
are pouring it into London, where they lend it out
at 2or 2-}j per cent. The Stock Exchange lists
tell the same tale—three or four buyers of invest-
ment stocks for every one seller. Three good
seasons in succession have put heart into country
districts which before were down in the depths
of despair. Again and again it has been re-
ported that “ the past week’s railway revenue
constituted a record ; ” and there is no surer sign
of the country district’s affluence than that.
Lead, copper, and tin are all at very high prices,
and the mining districts are also therefore sharing
in the prosperity. Yet, in spite of all this, there
are very few of the thousands of Sydney and
suburban retailers who are doing well. Hundreds
of them are doing shockingly ill—every bit as
badly as before this remarkable prosperity hap-
pened along. A few of the bigger people, who
advertise largely and do a country business, are
helping the banks to bulge out as previously men-
tioned ; and the wholesale people, who pursue the
order for the foreign calico and the imported cur-
rants into the remotest rabbit burrows, are getting
ready to pay an extra 14 per cent, to their largely
foreign bosses. These people say that, fora dozen
requests for time that every “fourth” brought from
the country two, three or four years ago, not
more than one is arriving now. But as for
requests for city and suburban accommodation,
they are almost as plentiful as ever. In fact, it is
pointed out that, in Sydney at any rate (and
N.S.W. is supposed to be having the extra-good
time), more retailers in at least the second flight
have had to arrange matters during the past few
months than even during the drought time. At
least three large soft-goods shops, catering almost
exclusively for city and suburban trade, have been
turned over to the warehouses to wrestle with since
Christmas. The factories supplying these houses
are in much the same state; clothing factories, for
instance, are in a pretty constant state of recon-
struction. Yet the country is so prosperous that
it is shipping money to England, to be lent out
there at 2 or 2J per cent. ; and there is such a
demand for investments that the Daily Tele-
graph of last Wednesday quoted 98 stocks as
wanted, and ordy 48 stocks as having sellers!
There is obviously something the matter. The
city is plainly not sharing to any great extent in
the fatness of the country. And the reason for
that is lying on the surface for anybody less blind
than a foreign-trader to see. The country is
producing abundantly, and getting prices far
better than the average ; it is buying things that
it only dreamed of buying a while back, but it is
buying them from the foreigner and not from
Sydney or any other Australian manufacturing
town. The city ought to be humming with in-
dustry ; factories ought to he working full .time to
supply the new-found needs ,of the suddenly
affluent farmer, miner, and wool-grower; and .the
city retailer, even though he be three times too
numerous, ought to be getting fatter on the wages
of the artisans. But, instead of being a factory,
Sydney is merely a tunnel through whieh the
foreigner passes his goods; and if the city gains
at all from a prosperity in which it ought to fully
share, it is mainly because around the city crowd
the richer or more indolent squatters and the men
who live on the rent and the sweat of the
farmers. The city and suburban shopkeeper has
mostly been a Foreign-trader. The Calico Jimmy
of the warehouse upon whose goodwill he, poor
struggling wretch, has had many a time to
depend, is a Foreign-trader from the bottom of
his pocket; and the retailer has taken his politics
from his Calico Jimmy. He thought Freetrade
meant cheap goods to stock his shelves with. He
may see now that it also means few workmen to
buy his goods no matter how cheap they are.
Because of following his Freetrade Joss in the
past, the remarkable prosperity in which he ought
to be sharing is passing his door, and the work-
man who ought to be buying things from him is
buying them over some less foolish person’s
counter ten or fifteen thousand miles away.
Courting the Coy Manufacturer.
Dear Bulletin.—A friend of mine, a strong
Freetrader —he sells foreign-made pianos, and
represents several French, German and Eng-
lish piano makers—was arguing about the
possibility of the Australian piano manufacturer
(who has been spending a lot of money on first-
class plant lately, and turning out a greatly
improved instrument) ever succeeding in a com-
petition with old-established European firms.
His idea was that we might as well try to compete
with the Cherubim and the Seraphim in harp-
playing as with such firms in piano-making.
I took a more optimistic view (not being an
importer) and quoted the growth of piano firms in
the U.S.A., whose instrumental eminence was
acknowledged everywhere by pianoforto virtuosi;
and further argued that it was better for Aus-
tralians to put up with a little inconvenience for
a few years if we could shut out the foreign
article by a good heavy tariff and develop our own
manufactures as the Americans have done.
Carried away by zeal, my friend said : “ You will
never keep us out of your market. If you did
put a heavy tariff on, why, we’d come here and
manufacture for the local trade.” I have been
chuckling ever since. There is the whole Protec-
tionist case in a nutshell. If we only make the
tariff high enough, the tweed men, the iron and
steel men, the electrical men, the piano men, the
cloth and piece goods men, the leather men,
the chemical men, the machinery men, the
pottery and china men will all establish manu-
factures here, will employ local labor under
conditions prescribed by our own Industrial Regu-
lation Acts, will pay wages fixed by trades union
combination or by the Arbitration Courts, and cause
an increase of population. The way to wed Aus-
Him.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All undismayed he rears his head,
He will not blench nor quail,
Though on him similes be shed
Like falling sheets of hail.
He is the Hidden Cause of Strife
That cripples Freedom’s arm;
He proves to us the Time is Rife
To View him with Alarm.
He is the Rat that statesmen smell,
The Poisoned Chalice he,
Likewise the Cat that we must Bell,
The Knell of Liberty.
He is the Constant Drop of Rain
That Wears Away the Stone ;
The Blight upon the Golden Grain,
And, furthermore, a Drone.
He is the Rift Within the Lute,
The Worm that Dieth Not,
The Canker at the Heart of Fruit,
The Crackling ’neath the Pot.
p’he Little Fox that Spoils the Vines ;
Tl)e 111 Bird, too, is he —
that he combines
.Deplete zoology.
iHe,is Jhe (Fuel on the Flames,
The Wind that Blows no Good,
And Ichfihpd’s among his names,
The .chief qf which is Mud.
He is the Writing on the Wall,
Besides the Fatal Clue,
And also Pride Before a Fall,
The Curse of Reuben, too.
In every form doth he exist
That G* 11. Reid can limn—
For he’s the rampant Socialist,
And I am .one of him..
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.


. n wJMFfflg7r«g
%
TRADE
MARK
*o^
NEW CONFECTION
K SAVE THE WRAPPERS.
.tralian Industry to Foreign Capital is to hit the
reluctant foreign bride over the head with a heavy
tariff waddy, as the aboriginal buck does his
love, and drag her to our wigwam. I have
no objection to having ffcautiful articles
manufactured “right here.” My grievance
is that they are made elsewhere by men
who don’t share with me the responsibility of
keeping in steady employment the local butcher,
baker, farmer, doctor, lawyer, scavenger, under-
taker, and last but not least, the harmless but un-
necessary journalist,—Yours &c-., Locust.
—— •
A tal/e of dirt:—
The Victorian people have been set thinkingliard by the
revelations made by Dr. Norris, chairman of the Board of
Health, in connection with the present outbreak of
typhoid in South Melbourne. In January only, three
cases occurred there, but in February and March there
were over 60. The trouble began towards the end of Feb-
ruary, when about 20 cases suddenly appeared. It w'as
found that all the houses in w'hich these cases
had occurred were obtaining their milk supply
from the same dairy. The health inspector discovered
that this dairy bought its milk from a farm at
Preston. A sanitary inspector went to the farm,
and reported that everything was all right. But
typhoid cases continued to crop up in South Melbourne,
and always in families whose milk was bought from the
suspected dairy. Then it leaked out that tw'o of the chil-
dren on the Preston farm had typhoid, and had been ill for
weeks. Further investigation showed that an employee on
the farm had been admitted to the Melbourne Hospital suf-
feringfrom typhoid some days before the South Melbourne
epidemic. He had given his address as Northcote, ami
this diverted suspicion from the Preston establishment.
Then, just as the facts had been discovered, a fourth case
broke out on the dairy farm, and settled all doubts. The
selling of milk from the farm was stopped, and inquiries
instituted to trace the source of the infection, it was
found that on the farm next to the infected one 200 loads
of garbage had been deposited and perfunctorily
ploughed into the ground during the present year.
The hot weather and the dry northerly winds had
converted much of this into dust, and it had blown into
the dairy. There was evidence of direct contamination of
the milk ; but the question opened up is a much wider
one than the infection of milk supply. The high
northerly winds of a Melbourne summer drive through
the city clouds of suffocating dust, which is admittedly
carried from outside. The result of a barbaric method of
garbage disposal is that the city is inundated with germs.
The law prohibits municipalities dumping their refuse in
a primitive fashion on the surface of the land, but shires
are allowed to do so. They were originally exempted
because shires are so thinly populated that their waste
would amount to very little. It was never imagined that
thickly populated districts like Brunswick and Colli ng-
wood would send their garbage into the nearest shire, but
that is what actually happens. And the farmers in the
shires open their arms and cry out for garbage of all sorts,
diseased and otherwise, because it is not only a gratis
fertiliser, but the municipalities pay to get rid of it. The
average farmer would plough the devil in, horns, tail and
all, if he got him for nothing.
General Booth, who has raised pawnbrokery to
the dignity of a religion, trumpeting wrathfully
in London because Australia will not take in his
regiments of skinny, undersized paupers :
Who were the men who made Ballarat and Ben-
digo? They were simply Cornish working men, many of
whom were only earning 10s. or 15s. a week when they
emigrated, but who had become, not only builders of
cities, but largely owners as well.
The men who made Bendigo and Ballarat were
the bravest, brawniest, and best men Britain
could send for the work. They came on their own,
and in a deuce of a hurry, because there was
plenty of gold waiting to be dug up. When Aus-
tralia can offer similar inducements, the same
kind of men, if Freetrade hasn’t killed, them off,
will come again, and in just as much of a hurry,
and they won’t ask General-dealer Booth to push
behind.
■——
Sydney Evening News (17/3/’O6) takes the right •
side :
As a means of forcing land into the market the N.S.W.
Closer Settlement Act was inoperative, as we pointed out
it would be, at the time it was passed. Realising this
Mr. Ashton began to talk of more forcible methods, and
not long ago he, in round terms, warned the big land-
holders in general, and the Peel River Company In par-
ticular, that if they did not subdivide willingly* certain
steps would be taken which they might not altogether
like. This warning had a considerable effect, and a cer-
tain amount of private subdivision at once took place.
But when Mr. J. C. Watson, the Labor leader, took the
field with his “bursting up” proposals, the weather-
wise among the landowners at once commenced to
make for shelter. And it is mainly due to Mr. Watson’s
campaign that the Peel River Company has seen fit—not
to dispose of its lands, for that, we understand, was
previously arranged—but to accept prices which are fair
and reasonable considering the productiveness of the soil,
the nearness to market, and the average rainfall. We do
not say that Mr. Watson’s proposals were practicable, for,
as a matter of fact, he has made no definite proposals.
But the mere knowledge that Mr. Watson had taken the
field and was, as the Americans say, “loaded for hear,”
was unquestionably a very large factor in the success of
the Peel River subdivision.
But, when all is said and done, the Peel River estate is
only one subdivision alongside one country town. Nine
out of ten country towns in the settled districts are
hampered in their growth by some such incubus as the
huge estate which for so many years hemmed in the town
of Tamworth. As we had occasion to point out some
time ago, the district of Goulburn, which Mr. Ashton
represents in Parliament, only gained in population one-
tenth of a person per square mile in a long period of
years. Narrabri, the centre of some excellent land, is
held as in a vice by big estates, employing a few boundary
riders ; and these are merely isolated instances, that
could be added to almost indefinitely. The owners of
these lands are all willing to sell—at a price ; hut that
price is, as a rule, out of all proportion to the income to
he made from the land . . Those who hold estates of a
similar nature will do well to take the hint, and make
terms with private buyers or with the Government.
Mr. Watson, with the bursting-up proposals, is waiting
round the corner.
♦
This marvel is from the S.M. Herald (30/3/’06):
It is idle for Mr. Sandford to continue to bewail the
fact that not a pound or an ounce of pig-iron is made in
Australia for defence purposes to-day, if it can be shown
that we can buy cheaper than we can make.
It sets one wondering whether it is a madman or
a hired traitor
who writes such
slush. When
Australia has
to fight for its
life (as every
country has to
do some day) a
local iron and
steel supply will
be of far more
importance
than an army.
Iron represents
rifles, cannon,
rails to keep
the railways
working, loco-
mo t i v e s all
the possibilities
of defence, in
fact. A mob
with an abun-
dant supply of
iron is worth
more than the
finest army on
earth without
it. The fool
who would
say that we
shouldn’t have
our own army
because a
Russian or Chi-
nesearmy could
be got more
cheaply isn’t a
tenth or a twen-
tieth such a fool as the fool who says we shouldn’t
have our own iron supply because (in time of peace)
a Belgian or a Yankee supply can be got more
cheaply. And the second fool —the fool who is
twenty times more a fool than the previous fool—
is the sort of fool that the S.M. Herald is.
Prehistoric Tom-foolery to gladden the hearts of
those who attend the Sydney Theatrical
Charity Carnival next Saturday.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
Gallaher's
"Two
Flakes"
Tobacco
A BIG DIFFERENCE.
HOST : “ There is to
smoke like cigar smoke
GUE T: “Isn't there! You try Gallaker's Tobacco!”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOli COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal.. ..... < Lady Audley’s Secret.”
Criterion “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Her Majesty’s... “Paul Jones.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirth’s Circus.
Palace Theatre West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS ROR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Opera (Saturday 7th).
1 G. R. Ireland sßenefit(Wed., ilth)
Her Majesty’s “Camille.”
Theatre Royal “The Fatal Wedding.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
The Holman-Reid company opened its
two nights’ season on Monday, and did so well
that it is a pity to think the show will be dead
and gone before this issue gets to press. The co.
is a good ofie, barring a stout man with a monoto-
nous delivery, Who somewhat mars the effect, and
a younger and thinner man, who seems to make
the mistake of taking the stout, monotonous per-
sbn too seriously. If the heavy villain of the piece
were rather less depressing the other man might
do better. No objection can be made to the
scenery, and the management is excellent.
** * *
“Paul Jones ” is nowadays only returned
to the tombs where they keep opera scores in the
sure and certain hope of resurrection—whether
glorious or not depends upon circumstances. Still
it is three years since the rover had an outing in
Sydney ; and he was therefore welcomed warmly
enough at Her Majesty’son Saturday night. The
principal changes in the cast are the appearance of
Miss Florence Young as Paul, of Percy as the
Ifisect, and of Miss Margaret Thomas’s understudy,
Miss Barber, as Yvonne. Miss Young doesn’t
make much secret of the fact that she lives
under a constant sense of wrong and injus-
tice. She had no wish to be a woman, and
would much rather be a man; and so
she takes the man’s part with a peculiar relish.
Bu| Nature is bestowing gifts bountifully upon
Miss Young ; even already some small complaint
might be made against Paul on that score.
Yet the copiousness of the hero is some-
how in perfect keeping with this performance,
-■which is carried through in a joyful, rollicking
' inood. The type of humor in “P. Jones”
suits this spirit, which bubbles at its highest in
Lauri and Percy’s “ Mariner Bold ” duet. Miss
Barber does very well indeed as Yvonne—much
better than she did on the night or two when she
played Veronique vice Margaret Thomas, a very-
fagged little songstress these days, and still resting.
But, for artistic strength, Haigh Jackson’s (Ru-
fino’s) serenade stands alone. As usual, the chorus
(especially in this serenade) is worth four good
adjectives. As a frill upon an opera that doesn’t
need any, the Radium Dance is introduced. On
a darkened stage eight ghostly phosphorescent
shapes dance a skipping-rope ballet. It has the
recommendation of novelty, and will for a month
or two be the proper thing to see and talk about;
after that, it will be forgotten.
** * *
/ ! Lady Audley’s Secret,” quite the best of
Miss Braddon’s sensational novels, lends itself
well to melodramatic conversion. The plot is
sensational whilst reasonable, and a murder or
two, with an arson incident, give chances for
scenic effect. Edmund Duggan has dramatised
the yarn for Sydney Royal and done the work very
well indeed. The characterisation of the
authoress is preserved, from that of Lady Audley,
who “ can’t be thoroughly respectable because she
is so nice to everybody,” down to the minor
parts: and the unfortunate woman’s dramatic
progress in crime is well shown. Except that it
is a shade too long, Mr. Duggan’s work is com-
mendable as a sample of home-baked melodrama.
Compared with “The Face at the Window,” or
“ When London Sleeps,” it is a masterpiece.
* * * *
Miss Eugenie Duggan, who shows the im-
proving results of her recent brief incursion into
higher drama, plays Lady Audley with real force.
Miss Mabel Lane, Miss Ada Guildford, and Miss
Ethel Buckley are effective in feminine parts of
less importance. The men of the play are of little
note. They simply drift in to befooled, or thrown
down wells, or roasted in their private bars by the
women ; but George Cross makes something of a
figure of Robert Audley, and the others do as well
as they are allowed to.
* # # ’ «
The interesting illness of “Dr. Wake’s
Patient” continues to attract good audiences to
Sydney Criterion, and there is no talk of a change
of bill. The public nightly gives a warm welcome
to Mrs. Brough when she appears as the Countess
of St. Olbyn.
** * *
West’s Pictures at Sydney Palace have
been re-inforced by some local color—the Audience
Leaving the Theatre Royal after the Victor
Daley Matinee Benefit, and views of the big blaze
in Clarence-street. The second series is im-
mensely successful, and no doubt some persons
will recognise themselves coming out of the
theatre, and looking much uglier than their mir-
rors had led them to believe. Ten Wives in Pursuit
Of One Husband is a rarely funny set that is
flickering this week. The Brescians pursue the
melodious tenor of their ways; also the tuneful
soprano and baritone of their ways.
** # *
Outside Ebenezer Vickery’s holy theatre,
the Sydney Lyceum, is displayed in brilliant
illumination the motto “Jesus Saves.” Within
there is no lack of moral lessons. Mixed up with
the “ Living London ” pictures last week were
cinematograph films which the unthinking might
take for humorous items of a French farcical
older. But not so. They are really Incen-
tives to Righteousness, Mustard Leaves to
Stirnuate the Soul to Holiness, and Pepper
of Gracious Savor to Irritate the Ungodly.
For instance. A woman is shown packing up. A
man, obviously her husband, enters and leaves.
Enter another man, obviously the tcrtium quid.
He kisses her violently. They are disturbed by
the husband, and the woman pops the Other Man
into one of her trunks. (It is not shown whether
it is labelled “ Not wanted on the voyage.”) Enter
husband; who locks the box, which is then confided
to the carriers. They let it fall down stairs,
trundle it along the pavement, drop it from the
express waggon, cast it over a bridge into a
stream, bump it down two score railway steps, and
finally burst it open in time for a bruised and bat-
tered tcrtium. quid to be further assaulted by an
infuriated husband. It is a Great Moral Lesson.
How it must gladden the hearts of the godly,
who don'.t do that sort of thing, to see a boxed
tcrtium quid bumped down 20 railway steps. The
ungodly, dearly beloved brethren, we regret to
say, it maketh to laugh lewdly.
* # *- *
Miss Alice Raymond has begun to blow
music out of her silver cornet at Sydney Tivoli;
and from the orchestra uprises John Kurkamp, to
take up the refrain and warble soft velvet
notes. The world alwavs shivers a little at the
sight of a single wind instrument held in front
of it. Miss Raymond will do something to cure
the world, though whether the world doesn’t do
well to be naturally timid of the trombone and
the trumpet is another matter. The other
new large thing in the bill is the Radium
Dance, which arrives at the Tivoli at the
same moment as it arrives at the theatre
around the corner. The house has to be
thrown into utter darkness ; that done, five more
or less distinct phosphorescent figures caper on the
stage. In this version of it some of the dancers
suddenly fling themselves in halves, and the
separated halves continue to dance. It is weird ;
but the thing would be a lot more effective if the
figures were more distinct.
* -* * *
About Wirths : •
“Don’t despise the two-headed calf,” says the Big
Brother. “ Perhaps it isn’t a thing of beauty, but it’s the
best spec, the Wirths ever made. It didn’t cost us any-
thing, and we’ve taken £6OO with it. In Sydney and
other places now —for it isn’t as young as it was—we have
to run it in with the Zoo, but we still have*stands where
we put it in a tent for a side-show —sixpence a time ; a
shilling at Kalgoorlie (ah, that’s the show-place for
you!) and no expense except for a ‘spreueher’ at
the door. Don’t like freaks? No, lots dpn’t. But lots
do. You’ll like our three-legged pony, though. She’s a
lovely little filly. Born that way, you see, and was run-
ning wild about the north of South Aus. when we picked
her up. It’s all as Australian as we can get it. (The calf
too—yes, that came from Quirindi.) Tent—fine tent,
isn’t it. Used Saturday night for the first time,
and made in Sydney. You can’t tell how long a tent will
last. We have the big green fellow still, the one we
showed in here in Sydney last time, and he’s good ; but
that’s probably because we don’t put him up in every
town. It depends on the weather—and other things.
Last October we had a new tent sent us for the
country tour; and it’s ‘done’ already. That sort
of thing knocks a tent about, too.” “That sort
of thing ” was the hole in the top made to
let the high diver through. This is one of the lines printed
this season in the big letters in Wirth Brothers’ bills. In
the ring is a tank, with 4ft. of water in it; Cormack dives
from a height of 50ft. or so, and some evening when his
liver-pills haven’t answered, or when, for the fraction of
a second, he thinks of his best girl, there will
be the foundation for a funeral. The circus
is pitched this year in Prince Alfred Park, be-
hind the Exhibition Building. It is strongest in
wild beast—the wild beast that is wheeled into the big-
iron cage within the ring and snaps and snarls through
an act; eke the wild beast that has never enjoyed the
blessings of education, and earns his raw beef-bones
or his bundle of hay by scattering loud noises and
violent odors. Twelve months ago Sydney first saw' the
three jaguars—the two vicious, graceful, undulating
beasts that never seem to rest; and alongside them,
barred off from their fangs, a blind one. Affliction, so
Wilde, the new trainer, tells you, is not a good school in
which to teach the jaguar the virtues of a sweet temper.
But; if it comes to “accidents,” the tiger is still the most
unpleasant toy to play with; and the “tiger turn,”
though it isn’t new to Sydney, still remains the most
striking thing in the show, in spite of all the new
things that the Wirths have got hold of. After
the wild beasts .come Phil Wirth’s horses, includ-
ing those two noble white animals bred up at
Narromine (N.S.W.), and fathered by Larrikin. To this
section of the show' has been jadded a handful of a pony
which takes the place of a human clown, and so gives a
number of jokes a chance to lie up and get their hoary
whiskers dressed. Other items that deserve a word are
the Herberts’ trapezing and the comfortable backed seats
that are provided for most of the house.
** * *
The Sydney Philharmonic Society presents
the famous “Mary Magdalen” on Wednesday,
18th. This beautiful, frail and repentant female
was last presented in musical form in 1888, with
Miss Colbourne Baber in the soprano part, and
the gifted and volatile Kowalski flourishing the
baton.
* ffc * *
A young dramatic soprano with the for-
tunate name of Cash—Elizabeth Cash —will give
an invitation recital on the 27th.
*X * *
George Buller, who wears a beard nowa-
days, has arrived from Maoriland as touring
manager for the Lydia Yeamans-Titus and Leslie
Harris Combination of Society Entertainers. The,
combination will begin to entertain at Melbourne,
Athenaeum Hall on Easter Saturday, with that,
immense and capable person, Allan Hamilton, as-
director.
** * *
A revival of “ Romeo and Juliet” at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) finds the local womenkindl
still disposed to take a warm interest in that;
antique tale of love and bloodshed. It is told
with a wearisome superfluity of words, also the
meaning of many unnecessary speeches is lost
amidst the fluffy elocution of sundry speakers, but
the girls in the audience bear patiently with
what they don’t understand for the sake of
the simple woeful plot, which makes them
THE DALEY MATINEE: AN UNPROGRAMMED
ITEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The play had ceased, but, ere the curtain fell
And stalls and circles rose to go their way,
Upon the vacant stage, his thanks to tell,
Stood Victor Daley, mellow-voiced and gay.
“ Messieurs and Dames,” he said, “ this gracious thing
You do to honor me makes warm my heart.
I was a poet—is a bard a king
That, being dead, he plays so great a part ?
“ I ask you this : When life is dark and drear,
Who is it lights our way and makes us strong ?
These sweet, fair ladies of the Drama here,
These gentlemen of Comedy and Song.
“ For all the gallant, gay career they lead,
As courtier, princess, demoiselle, and page,
They haste tp help the helpless in their need—
These kindly-hearted people of the Stage,
Since Charity’s a cloak for many sins,
Then they may sin their full and be forgiven;
Their cloak’s so ample that its measure wins,
Sure place for them upon the stage of Heaven.
“ Messieurs and Danies, ’twas lonely up above,
My golden halo seemed a tinsel toy ;
For here, within the city of my love,
The afternoon was full of promised joy.
“ I said to Peter at the jewelled gate—
‘ I’ve business down below in,.that far town
That gleams a diamond point.’ ‘ Well, don’t be late,
He said, ‘ and hurry back ere night comes down.’
“ I moved, a shadow, through the breathing throng,
And heard you make remarks about my lyre;
’Tis true that Sbakspeare sang a fuller song,
But then he lived before me . . . stole my fire.
“ I laughed at Lauri’s royal, rolling fun :
He’s droll, he’s mighty droll, his mirth would move
A marble Niobe to smiles ; when sun
And moon have set for him there’s room above.
“ I thought of Blanchelys and Years Ago
Of Love, the first of things, the all-divine,
Of dear, fair women dead, with throats of snow—
When Margaret Thomas sang that song of mine.
“ And then ... so many stars ! Why here on earth
You’ve got a universe of shining lights ;
God bless these merry-makers for their mirth,
And give them joyous days and golden nights !
“ My thanks are yours and theirs.” He waned, and then
The curtain fell, and people talked, and feet
Be' an to scrape and stir, and maids and men
Passed through the open doorway to the street.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“feel wretched,” and is. almost as thoroughly
enjoyable as “Bast Lynne.” The language
of Divine William retains its old literary
reputation for being a matter of the first
importance in “Romeo and Juliet revivals;
nevertheless the present show at Her Majesty s
would probably give more joy to Miss littell
Brune’s adherents if the dialogue were recon-
structed on modern melodrama lines. In that
case the profane person who tampered with the
Immortal text would be careful to spare Miss
Brune the trial of speaking any line® that ter-
minate in the little word “ of. ’ Many short
words beginning with a vowel are stumbling blocks
to a disguised ’Murkan accent, the
leading lady arrives at an ultimate of it re-
quires a special effort on her part.
* « * *
Frankly speaking, Miss Brune —a pro-
gressive artist in most of the characters she plays
—has not improved her Juliet. Ihe pleasing
touches of youthfulness in her previous perform-
ance have been partly obliterated, not by the hand
of Time, for Time is only 14 months older than he
was, but by pressure of work. The actress is
tired. On Saturday she seemed wanting in en-
thusiasm, and it was more than ever apparent
that she is most spontaneous when the scene
allows her to get noisily excited. Bor instance,
she was admirable in her tearful wrangle with
her parents on the burning family question cf
her marrying Paris. Thomas Kingston, as
Romeo (his first reappearance), was not a bril-
liant success. One can’t accept Kingston as a
headstrong, beauteous boy, but he would pass
very well for a gloomy elder brother of Carrie
Moore. His facial resemblance to Carrie is
startling at times. The cast otherwise is pretty
much what it was last year, a notable point of
difference being the new Nurse, a feeble, doll-like
lady of uncertain age. “ Romeo and Juliet will
drop out on Friday to make room for Camille.
** * *
The Princess’s is subject to only occasional
openings these times, and the advts. need careful
watching. A performance of “ The Wilderness
was to happen last night (Wednesday), but owing
to the large sale of tickets in advance there is
some talk, at time of writing, of a second per-
formance to accommodate the overflow.
* « * »
On Saturday the attraction will be Miss
Beatrice Miranda and co. in four acts of grand
opera, picked from “Rigoletto,” “Lucia di Lam-
mermoor,” and “Martha.” The charming prima
donna is to have the support of a large chorus, in
addition to a satisfactory co., and the orchestral
chair will be taken by Albert Zelman. A
one-night outbreak of Italian opera should
appeal to Melbourne’s musical feelings—if it has
any. On the following Wednesday (11th) a fare-
well benefit to George R. Ireland will bring that
respected old actor to the fore once again. Apart
from “The Hunchback,” wherein the beneficiare
takes part, the Ireland show will introduce a lot
of people in song, dance, and comedietta, ior old
playgoers a revival of “The Hunchback has a
sentimental interest. It dates from “I he Lady
of Lyons” period, and its author, oheridan
Knowles (who also wrote “ Virginius ’), is distin-
guished among the dramatists of all time by the
fact that he afterwards developed a Noncon-
formist Conscience and became a popular Baptist
parson.
OLIVE COULSON (aged 17)—a pathetic victim
of modern commercialism. Her mother was
left a widow with a large family, and Olive,
to help keep the pot boiling, took a post as
cashier in a Hobart (Tas.) drapery shop).
She was paid at first 5. and then 7s. 6d. a
week, and daily handled very large sums.
She embezzled a trifle, was found out, and, in
shame, drowned herself.
For seven more niglits infant Maisie
Posner will vex the soul of her wicked auptie at
Melbourne Royal, and then “ The Fatal Wed-
ding,” likewise the surprise party of children, and
the providential thunderclap, will be shifted to
Sydney, via Ballarat. The thunderclap in
Meynell and Gunn’s amusing tragedy is a very
artful incident. Wicked auntie has emptied a
bottle of poison into the physic intended for
Maisie’s “ momnier,” and the unsuspecting child
is about to give her parent a dose that would
stiffen her out for ever when the thunder comes,
arid the glass of medicine drops violently from
Maisie’s hands. After which there is no more
thunder, merely a storm of applause from the
amphitheatre. “The one thing wanted to intensify
the success of this scene is an educated cat, which
would come along and lap up the spilled 1 hjuor,
and simulate sudden-death.
** * *
Andrew Black, the baritone from Britain,
gave two concerts at Melbourne Town Hall last
week, and is giving one or two more this week.
An artistic singer, with a good voice, and of mel-
low tone and wide range, Mr. Black is no longer
quite as young as he was, and his tender waible—
he’s best in the tender little pieces—doesn’t touch
the hearts that beat for Wallace Brownlow of yore.
He even calls attention to his plump middle-age
by sitting down to the piano and singing “ The
Vicar’s Song” from “The Sorcerer,” sighing
humorously as he recalls the time when his cough
agitated the ladies. Andrew Black resembles
Edward Lloyd in appearance and platform man-
ner. He holds a sheet of music before him in the
same old way, refers to it frequently as though he
could not get on without it, and on occasion brings
his pince-nez to bear upon the matter. A vocalist
who declaims the “Pagliacei prologue from a
sheet of music practically invites unfavorable com-
parison with the operatic artists who hold up their
heads and roll out their notes from memory.
Musical critics may hail Andrew Black as a star
of magnitude, but the general public will wonder
where his brilliance comes in. The supports are
Miss Ethel Sinclair, violinists, and Adolphe
Borschke, the young man pianist who ought to
have been a girl. Borschke deserves to be taken
more seriously. He plays pretty music with dis-
tinctive masculine-feminine art and feeling.
m* * *
The programme at the Melbourne Opera
House was strengthened on Saturday by the
clever banjo-cum-harp performance of the Miles-
Stavordale Quintet, who seemingly produce sweet
singing tones from their string instruments,
without the assistance of a humming accompani-
ment. The effect is a novelty anyway. Jhe
Scotch Meisters are collectively tuneful, and the
Caledonian frivoller of the party frivols as before ;
also the Carrnos c'ontihufe to give a highly praise-
worthy performance in a painstaking manner.
And there are others, not forgetting the l’i un-
roses. But the legs of those eight young women
have been turned upwards for nine long weeks.
#* * *
With the break-up of the weather, Adelaide
amusements have got fairly into their winter
swing. Florence Lloyd is at the Royal in lhe
J.P.” (carefully explained on the bills as meaning
“ Justice of the Peace.” If ever there was a State
that didn’t need instruction on the point it is
S.A., where .J.’sP. can be fallen over at every
street corner). The lady wears trousers vuth
almost as much grace as she did in ‘ In J own,
years ago. The pantomime has gone West. Its
incidental turns were the best part of it; hut it
was quaint to see an imitation of Florence Challis
given to a matinee crowd of ladies and children
who never saw the lady at the livoh, and who
probably thought the “Bull and Bush referred
to stock-raising up-country. The Livoh itself has
reverted to melodrama, Sanford’s American co.
having arrived with 70 alleged tons of scenery,
and opened bloodshed with “ The Power of bold
Also, the Bio-Tableau continues to unroll itself at
the Town Hall, with the help of some miscellane-
ous “ turns” ; cind the music&l tuleiit of the city
has combined to “tender a concert to one
Shakespeare, who has pounded the same church
organ tor 45 years. On a vacant corner block,
open to the sky, Broncho George’s rough-riding
team has its immortal soul kicked nearly out of it
every evening in the starlight.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Actor Kingston, back in Melbourne as colleague of Tit-
tell Brune, has less cause to regret his frail physique than
when Nance O’Neil overshadowed him. Who can forget
his Macbeth ? Miss O’Neil took Lady Macbeth in a rush,
and top-noted from the start. Her stage partner, not to be
absurdly tame by contrast, endeavored to yell up to ner,
with the result that his voice went to rags, and most of his
Macbeth was done in a whisper. He complained bitterly
to cronies (so they said) that Nance’s embrace-method
was to fling herself headlong oil top of her stage-lover,
and weigh him nearly to the floor. One night fedora
was particularly tropical in her endearments, hugging
and hustling her victim till a gallery-boy felt sorry foi
him and yelled as the large lady sprinted apace, intent
upon hurling her sheer hulk once more on the prey,
“ Dodge her, little feller ! ”
Miss Daisy Ireland, a youthful pretty sister of the
beauteous Harrie, is to make her first appearance on the
stage at her father’s benefit (Melb. Princess s) next
Wednesday night. She plays Helen in a condensed
version of “The Hunchback,” the hackneyed comedy
scene between Helen and Modus having been cut out.
Outside of the duologue with Modus there isn t muchi for
Helen to do, but what little there is will be very brightly
done by Miss Daisy without a doubt. Most of the fat
in “The Hunchback” falls to Julia, the part that Miss
Charlotte Hemming is to play, and, if she can act as
effectively as she recites, Miss Hemming should opine out
strong in'this showy character. Veteran Ceorg-e Ireland
can give her all the points, for when he took the name-
nartin “ The Hunchback ” as an amateur, 50 years ago,
the Julia who coached him was Mrs. Charles Young,
afterwards Mrs. Herman Vezin, an actress who is still
ranked among the Best.
The committee for the Leila Doubleda.v benefit fund
has fixed May 10th as the date, for a concert at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, where the damsel will make her
appearance in the doable capacity of violimste and
pianiste. There is a strong feeling m Melbourne that
Mrs. Doubleday’s little daughter, in whom the artist
nature is as strongly developed as the talent for
instrumental performance, deserves a handsome send-off
to Europe. It was Mrs. Doubleday who made the fortune
of Amy Castles by bringing her down to Mel-
bourne, and running the first concert at which she was
dul v “ discovered ” with the result that she was taken
out of the hands of her plucky, unlucky men tress. Now
that Mrs. Doubleday has her own child to boom and
Miss Leila is admittedly full of promise, there ought to
be a practical expression of public interest in the girl s
future. Thernare good business possibilities m her name,
anyhow. Leila Doubleday ! It catches the ear.
Among the sufferers by the great fire in Clarence-
street Sydney, last week was author-actor George Dar-
rell who lost'his stage wardrobe and some manuscripts,
stored in Skinner’s Custom House Agency.
Miss Poole (Mrs. Elizabeth Bacon), a long-time famous
English vocalist, died the other day, aged 86-another
reminder Of the fact that grand singers have fine consti-
tutions. Miss Poole’s name- as a vocalist—is recorded on
the title page of many ancient pieces of ballad music.
She appeared in the first production of The Bohemian
Girl ” at Drury Lane, some 60 years ago.
The “ Fitzstubbs Twins” appear to have broken new'
ground in London. In full and correct Maori costume,
they danced the “ Haka,” their instructors being the
Maori football team.
When asked by a fellow entrepreneur to lend a helping
hand towards the Victor Daley fund a well-known popu-
lar provider of entertainments in Sydney replied, When
is he going home?” “He’s gone home, lie was told.
“ Then what does he want a benefit for ! He s dead,
and we’re getting up a benefit for his widow and chil-
fh-t-n ” “ Who was Daley, any road, then? demanded
the entrepreneurs, and being told Daley had been a con-
stant Bulletin contributor,-fie said, Well, I always lead
The Bulletin, but don’t remember the name. 11l do
what I can for his w'idow and children, all the same.
Aiid the moral is that you can have a good heart without
a taste for poetry.
“Melb.”: Coppin had no conceit of himself in high
comedy, and would not allow his Peter Teazle and Colone
llamas to be named in the same breath with those of
Boger S The low-comedy model he took was Liston.
fV.min’s favorite parts included Bob Acres, Tony Lurap-
kinPPtbe Artful Dodger, Crack in “ The Turnpike Gate,”
Paul Pry Lovibond in “The Overland Route,’ Peckover
in “Tlie Contested Election,” Mould in Not Such a
Fool as He Looks,” Milky White, and Jem Baggs in The
Wandering Minstrel.” Acting with Brooke the pair were
enormously relished in “The Honeymoon and The
Serious Family.” One of his latest studies was Chrysos m
“Pygmafion and Galatea.” As Lord Ptarmigant in
“ Knt' ipfv ” he took off Governor Manners-Sutton.
As Cupid, he used to burlesque Lola Montes’s Spider
Dance P At the Iron Pot, in this piece, the boys g_ot to
shying coppers at him. He prosecuted some font, m the
nolice court. He only had three favorite songs , Villi-
kins ” “ Old Dog Tray,” and “ Constantinople. He was
not an artist, and despised rather than hated tlie stage.
His obiection was great to any of his children performing.
However, his son George used to act round Melbourne
suburbs, and must have been remarkably like what his
father was in the forties, in appearance and voice. As a
manager Coppin gained the nickname of the Artful
Dodger. He liked Bland Holt better than any other pro-
fessional.
ANOTHER GRIEVANCE.
Mr. Bent visited Bombala (N.S.W.). — Daily Paper.
ADVT.-Strayed into my yard, strange dog. Answers to name cf “Vic.” Owner can have same
by paying expenses.—Signed, N.S.W.
Apropos G. K. Ireland Jubilee Benefit. In September,
IS7J, Alfred Dampier produced “ Faust and Marguerite
at Melbourne Theatre Royal, Ireland being the Faust. In
a review of the performance, the Licknsi d V ictuam.khs
Gazette said : “ In the hands of that slovenly actor, Mr.
Ireland, Faust was a farce,” It added many assertions
that his dressing was unclean, his garments soiled, his
speeches low, sulkv, lifeless, &c. Ireland sued for ma-
licious libel, and called as witnesses George Coppin, * red
Belton, Alfred Dampier, Dr. James Edward Neud, and
Richard Stewart. The paper called Donald Cameron,
who wrote the article, Marcus Clarke, who wrote the
Argus'critique, and others. The jury gave Mr. Ire.and
£loo.'
Another Australian actress who appears to have got a
footing in the Condon district is Miss Hope Mayne, the
tall daughter of Alec Mayne, business manager for Brough
and Boucicault of yore. Miss Mayne was a member of
the Willoughby-Geach co. before she went to England.
When Nat Goodwin, the ’Murkan comedian, came to
Australia, he spoilt his chance of a successful tour by-
making his first appearance in “ A Gilded t 001, the
name-part being intended to bring out Nats alleged
resources of pathos and passion. It was an unconvincing
plav, and Nat failed in it, but lie put the failure down to
the soullessness of Australian audiences. He tried The
Gilded Fool” in London lately, and failed again, borne
comedians never weary of trying to persuade the public
that they are strong emotional actors. _ Nat Goodwin is a
slick, polished mummer in farcical business but he can t
strike a deep note of human feeling.
Mr. Frank T. Bullen, the South Sea whaler and author
of “The Cruise of the Cachalot,” is due at Adelaide bv
the Omrali on Easter Monday, and will give bis -opening
lecture in the Town Hall there. Said that he has ar-
ranged with R. S. Smythe to engineer the tour. If so it
can be reckoned that there will be enough power in the
engine-room of the Cachalot.
“Melb.”: Apropos Coppin. Something about G. V.
Brooke, from his memoir by Lawrence. .Born 1818. First
went to a theatre in 1832, when he saw Maeready act, m
Dublin. Stage-struck at once. Same year Kean dis-
appointed Calcraft by not coming to Dublin. Juvenile
phenomena happened to be much followed. So Calcraft
brought out Brooke as William Tell. Great success. He
was thenceforth a leading actor, known as the Irish
Roscius and Boy Tragedian. His mother travelled with
him for four years in Ireland, Scotland, and England, lhe
boy excited much wonder off the stage, going about
in his jacket and cap, which covered a profusion of
<>-olden locks. His hair was not dark, as would appear
from the photos, but sandy. His eyes were grey, and it
took a lot of training to make them expressive, lhen
ao- a in his face was not susceptible of much change in
expression. However, these drawbacks counted for little
with the fire of his genius. His height, sft. 10in., was the
correct thing’. He had the form of an Apollo. His
voice was perhaps the finest ever bestowed on an
actor, but was greatly impaired even before his
London hit. He imitated Maeready servilely at first,
but afterwards took Vandenhoff as his model.
People who, like Coppin, got Brooke into the blood,
would not listen to the mention of any other actor, in
1848 he made the triumph of bis life as Othello at the
Olympic, being then 30 years old. The sketch writers,
like Coleman, make utterly false statements about Ins
subsequent proceedings. He never became the wreck
represented, and, indeed, it does not stand to reason with
what he subsequently achieved. He played three en-
gagements at the Olympic. VVhether Mane Duret in-
fluenced him banefully or not is a moot question. He
lived with her for eight years, from 1842 to 1850. She
nearly suicided once through poison, in consequence of
not being invited to parties where. Brooke shone. Accord-
ing to his account, she deserted him shamefully, having
robbed him of immense sums and eloped,to America, fehe
came to Australia in 1861 with J. H. Le Roy, and they
were the first to play “ The Octoroon ” here. She died
in San Francisco in 1881. In 1851 Brooke married Mrs
Bray, not connected with the stage. He went to America
for two years, made a heap of money, lost it managing a
New York theatre, but recuperated and returned to Eng-
land with a goodly sum. Under E. T. Smith’s management
lie played for a month at Drury Lane. Then Coppin engaged
him for Australia, at £5O a night for 200 nights. R. Heir
was affianced to Miss Cathcart in England, but did not
come out with her. Brooke only gave her £2 a week, but
raised it to £l2 when she married Heir. Yet they seceded.
Brooke in his letters to his sister, wife of the Rev. Canon
Heatlv’makes out that the Heirs were brought to their
bearings through his getting an injunction to stop her
from acting elsewhere. After quarrelling with Coppin, in
1858 Brooke (according to Coppin) lost over £30,000 in
one year, and left Australia £l5OO in debt. While Coppin
was away in England, during 1857, Brooke managed the
Royal Cremorne Gardens, and a place they had called
the Argyle 'Rooms. He split off because “Coppin en-
gaged in ifuch hare-brained enterprises.” There never
was a quicker study than Brooke. He could learn the
longest and most difficult part in a day. He seemed only
to need to read it over. The puzzle was when he studied,
for hardly anyone could recall having seen him getting up
a part. He could write decent verse in a conventional
way.
“ Cockaigne ” : Little Gulliver died just in time to miss
a fortune The London draw of che moment at the Cri-
terion is a farce called “ The Little Stranger.” They have
got hold of a dwarf no cleverer than Gulliver. His name
is Garrard. He figures in the play as a freak substituted
for a baby.
The latest venture of ex-Maorilalid champion Fitz-
simmons is a tour through America with a drama, “A
Fight for Love,” in which he plays the hero, shoes a horse,
and boxes three rounds with the villain. Fitz expects to
come Australiawards next year. It is to be hoped his
plav is something quite different from Johnel Sullivan s
“ Honest Hearts and Willing Hands,” though that might
have looked better if John L. hadn’t got into the habit of
winking confidently at the audience.
That daring French girl, Mdlle. de Thiers, who so long
hit Paris just where it lived by looping the loop and
jumping a chasm in a motor car, now loops and motors
no longer. Parisians used to place their hands across
their midriff area and hold tight while the lovely girl
whirled round the loop, and with an arrow-like flight
soared across the broken space on to the track below and
disappeared through tfie crimson curtains. It was thril-
ling but hundreds of French gentlemen declared that the
si'Hit °ave them indigestion. When the Paris season v\as
over Mdlle Tniers went down to Lisbon, and the Dagoes
rolled up and fought like tigers to get into the building.
Ri<>’ht at the summit the car swerved, and running- clean
out of the loop was hurled across the building into the
arena below. It fell on the unfortunate lady, and every
bone in her body was broken.
Moss’ Empires, Ltd., working in conjunction with the
Stoll Companies, is a syndicate with a capital of
£■’ 086 000 controlling 35 theatres and music halls
throughout the United Kingdom. The Chairman, Moss
was recently knighted and became Sir Moss or the Earl of
Moses, or something of the sort.
The feud between the discolored comedian and the man
with the big fiddle in an Australian vaudeville show came
to a climax- one night recently. The imitation coon was
in the habit of chucking off at the man with the dog-
house as he insolently termed the bass-violinist, and the
chucking-off became more bitter and personal each even-
ing untfil the comedian told the audience that the differ-
ence between the artist behind the great viol and a dead
ass rested in the simple fact that the fiddler was ahve
Then the fiddler jumped up and declared aloud that if the
fictitious nigger would wait till after the show he would
punch Gehenna out of him. Next night the comedian
was most respectful towards the bass-viol, and bis tain
was tame anTtimid ; and suddenly a mussel-o voice in
iu o-qllprv cried derisivelv ‘ You waited, old man .
The man with the bass-viol bowed politely to the laughter
and applause that followed.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of ct hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Acting and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , ivhether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any Stale) accompany.
Glenbarr : “ Dream Faces” weak. , We’ve only
once had a dream poem which made, us feel g00d....
A.B.C. : “Budge” declined. The other will do
Nilgo: “ Holiday ” too faint a trifle... .J.F.B. : “Un-
known ” has some good verses —and too many othei
verses... .Robert J.X. : “ Goldfields Idyll ”is a very 7 tame
story. The mining man who would be taken in like that
should go out and be a small hermit in a deep cavern....
Colin C. : “ Saturday at Dooley’s ” is rather crude mirth.
T. Deecee : Only one good idea in the lot, and it
isn’t a fresh-laid idea.... Geo. Q.lt. : Declined....
S.R. : Yes, we know. That paper was started
to “ supply a long-felt want,” or to amuse a
long-killed aunt, or something of the kind
Carolus: Has been often—and better—done before....
Jade : Fairly smart, but too vague and incoherent....
A. E. : Realistic, but lacking in power... .Eric .1. : Rather
clever, but desperately trite Rex: Well enough writ-
ten, but hardly in our line... T.O.M. : Improved, but
still not compact or terse enough.... Show : Falls very
flat at end.... Dreamer: More of a nightmare than a
dream.. ..C.B.F. : Subject requires a lighter and defter
hand Em. En. : Smothered in superfluities. A great
part of literary art is judicious omission Bert H. : Too
frothy 7 and flimsy for print... .F. 0.0. : Has. humorous
touches, but lacks vital interest... .Lela M. : Picturesque,
hut loose and slipshod of style.. . .Yumbo : Far below
print level... .Drifter : Some of it is good, but ltsveiy
clap-trappish in places... .E.R.E. : Dull and dreary 7 ....
H.K.: Mildly pretty.... J.T.E.: Verse rickett.v Babs :
Too much straining after effect... .C.T.W. : Yes, stamps
of your State will serve if sent loose. .. Weena : You are
on the right track, but you have a long way to travel
Ettie H. : Matter submitted not promising Eucal.vpt :
Public sentiment not ripe for that yet. Why not urge
something practical, such as the municipal supply at cost,
or under cost, of properly sterilised and “ humanised
milk ?... .O.N.C.E. : Can’t tell you how to get that letter
delivered, and would advise vounotto try it LongW. :
Can’t say till they come ; but already get far more from
that quarter than there is space for Locke Mecke :
Treatment rather feeble and schoolmiss-ish Lewin
Crade : Some of it very good, but the earlier stanzas are
weak H.A.C,’: Very tame and troublesome F.W.D.:
Pretty fair work, hut too narrow of interest A.Z.A. :
Savors too much of the London Journal. ... Jusso : Funny,
but crude and ill-finished... .J.H.W.: Good of its kind, but
too long for B P. Moses : Please call, re those MSS
Jinker: You don’t begin to understand the subject
OF. Mac: Too formal and elaborate W.N.D. : Mere
waste of time on your part... .The Prooshan : Fear we/ve
lost them. The devil only knows. Will inquire...-P.C. :
Most of the amateur poets who “ don’t know ” at least
chop up their lines into equal lengths. You don t even
do that Widow (W. A.) : Probably under the statute of
limitations the property 7 has been lost. But inquire at
Brisbane Lands office.... Demos: No, you bet it didn’t....
Ooonamble : Still not enough brightness M.C. : In-
teresting, but not general enough in interest Tambo :
Does London Punch print locally an Australian edition?
If so we haven’t heard of it... .T.P.D. : Can’t say really.
Once a yarn is noted it passes from memory. Seeing that a
hundred or so come every week that is natural enough...
Boshtoon : Miss the mark The Hack: In Sydney
earlv-closing legislation has not ruined the suburban
shopkeeper. Indeed, since its advent, some suburban
shops have progressed marvellously. That it may 7 have a
tendency to concentrate the shopkeeping business is true ;
if so, that will be a benefit to the community, though it
will be very hard on the shopkeepers who go under.
Quite two-thirds of the labor spent in shopkeeping is
utterly wasted — i.e., the whole work of distribution could
be just as effectively carried on by one-third of the pre-
sent shops Ulula: Vigorous, but not well enough
versed. There’s always grave danger of lapsing into
bathos with the “awake, arise” sort of verse
M.E.G. : Translation not Of enough merit Phoenix: As
you say, you are not an artist, palpably.... Hopeful .
Sorry. Can’t undertake to trace a poem of which you
give the first line. Running a newspaper is our prime
business, and it leaves but a little while in which to be
obliging... ,D.H.R. : Chances are against; but can’t say
for certain* unless a specimen was submitted B. :
Pawnbroking at 8 per cent, probably wouldn’t pay private
capital. The average amount of the loans is too small,
and storage expenses are high. In Paris the pawnbroking
business is a municipal monopoly, and should be so here.
Uckle : Doesn’t matter to whom the par. was credited ;
if it was your par. you are entitled to charge for it. But
often the same information is sent in by several contri-
butors •
Unsuitable: Magdalen, R.K.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Popplewell : Nothing hopeful among them. The
Outcast: Picture cast out.. .J. Hogan: Gone where
the dull jokes go J.B. : “Coming Home by Rail”
declined after some consideration. The evening dress
drunk is a subject that has seen better days A.B.C. :
About the most utterly humorless things we remember.
Patch: Wooden jest. Would make good chest of
drawers Hornby: Ham-and-egg joke looks like an
American steal. We don’t throw eggs at Hamlet in this
country J.M.P. : Two badly-drawn kiddies talking a
small foolishness about babies H. Bradley: The idea
is an old one slightly varied, the sin-shifter is out of
drawing, the pier is out of perspective, and the small boy
looks as if he were just out of gaol T. le B. : Couldn’t
publish a girl like that without heavy payment
Moonah : Cartoon idea not interesting enough. Only
when Tasmanian affairs rise to Australian importance are
they important enough for a cartoon.... B. W. : Joke too
thin Tulip: Yes, you have some idea of drayving
Unsuitable. —J. M. B.
Mrs. Jeannie Gunn, authoress of “A
Little Black Princess,” should have sought out a
blackfellow acquaintance during her recent Nor-
thern experiences, and sent him to compete in
the Olympic long-distance events. During the
illness of the late iEneas Gunn, the said nigger—a
tame servitor of the household —was despatched
to a station, 90 miles away, for a bottle of brandy.
He started off with an easy swinging stride, and
three days later—so the legend goes—appeared on
the horizon with the same stride and a bottle of
brandy in his dusky fist. To turn off 60 miles a
day for three consecutive days is feat enough for
anybody, but for a darkey to carry a bottle of
brandy half the distance without finishing it is
superhuman. Mrs. Gunn comes of a literary
family. Her father is “Tommy” Taylor, reli-
gious expert of Melbourne Argus, who is able to
describe an alb with the exactitude of an Eccle-
siastical Court, and can “moderate” in a call
with the red-headedest Scotchbyterian who ever
worried a haggis.


BOOKKEEPING fr POST
We qualify for Positions as BOOKKEEPERS,
ACCOUNTANTS, &c.
We Prepare for all. . .
Accountants’ Examinations.
“Howe Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
riOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [l.
Lord Elgin’s interference with the Natal
Government looks like an attack of the wrong
brand of policy. He should seek an immediate
remedy from the right inspiration—D.C.L.
whisky. In fact all parties to the trouble, in-
cluding the condemned niggers, should resort to
the mellow heart-cheering tonic aforesaid. For
that matter, it is said that the gaol authorities in
most countries nowadays offer condemned
prisoners a nip of D.C.L. for their last drink. It
gives them one more happy moment ere they die.*
CENTURA N°s
ra
!
If You
Want
A GOOD CAMERA
ASK TO SEE
The Simplest and Best Film
CAMERA NOW OFFERED.
Can also be used for Dry Plates. Folds flat like a book, and
will slip easily into the coat pocket.
Takes Photos 4|in. x 3Jin.
HARRINGTON’S
No. 3 CENTURA.
Fitted with Beck Symmetrical Lens, with Iris Diaphragm.
Brilliant View Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter
(giving exposures from 2 seconds to 1-IOOOth of a second),
Rack and Pinion Focussing and Ground Glass Screen, and
all modern movements.
CAMERA, complete, for Films - - £4 12 6
Focussing Screen for Plates - 2 6
Dark Slides, Single Metal, each - 2 6
Cameras, from ss. to £5O,
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD
Photographic
Merchants,
386 GEORGE ST
Near
G.P.O.
SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“ Binnacle” writes :
Tliose who go down to the sea in ships, to say nothing'
of the underwriters, received a surprise last week when
the local Lloyd’s agents received a shoal of cables from
the Board of Trade ordering the raising of the load line
marks on many of the British ships now in Commonwealth
ports. The Board of Trade tables for calculating load
lines are a sacred institution, and no one, apparently, at
this end of the world knew of any contemplated revision.
The most favored explanation is that the Board has
yielded to pressure to bring British freeboards in
line with the German figures. Load lines or
“ Plimsoll ” marks are now shown on all the best
vessels of Kaiser Bill’s country, but they are
permitted to load deeper than British ships. The German
tramp steamers have no load line ait all, and the British
Parliament threatens to legislate to cope with
them in British waters. But. the House of Com-
mons is slow, and trade is being lost, so a hasty
revision of the tables has been rushed on the
mercantile community. The British Piimsoll mark
has always been considered the bulwark of British pride,
and if it really is a fact that the German standard has
wiped out the British one, it is enough to make Britannia
leave the seas and go on the land.
* * * *
S.A. Federal members are asking for more
suddenness on the part of the so-called express
which now crawls between Adelaide and Mel-
bourne in 18 hours. They want a dining car run
on the train, with a corresponding saving in the
period of stoppage at many stations, and they
think that two hours can be easily cut off the
crawling time. But Commissioner Pendleton
doesn’t see his way to shorten the lingering per-
formance by more than 25 minutes.
THE CRUEL WIND.
“ Say, Miss, would you lend me a warpin? This ’ere tornado’s blowed me
paralyser away!”
A case illustrating the adage that the
Government can be sued for anything was heard
in Sydney last week, when an unfortunate indivi-
dual, who is crippled for life, brought an action
against the State for £lOOO. He was driving across
Lennon Bridge, Penrith (N.S.W.), when his horse
shied at a swagman, and, the parapet being low,
the frightened animal jumped into the gully
below'. The bridge was built in 1833, and for over
70 years has been the main artery for traffic bound
over the mountains, and during all that time no
other similar occurrence has been recorded, nor
lias any complaint been made. The case was
withdrawn from the jury by the Chief Justice,
otherwise the sympathetic jurymen, biassed by
the plight of the plaintiff, might have awarded
him damages, only to run him into the expense of
fighting a losing battle afterwards.
The treaty of Waitangi, which dates back
to February 6th, 1840, by which the
right to iish in all streams and
lakes was reserved to the Maoris
for ever, has again cropped up.
It is the most incessant cropper
in Maoriland history, and hardly
a year passes but the Maori
scores off his white fellow-
subject under one or other
of its clauses. The Acclima-
tisation Society stocked Lake
Rotorua with trout, and,
as usual, the imported tish
promptly exterminated the
native koura, or little
crayfish’. The Maori goes
on fishing for koura
and catching trout, and
when the Acclimatisa-
tion Society ranger
runs him in he
pleads the Treaty
of Waitangi, and
lands the court in
a bog at once.
Things have
reached a crisis
now, and King
Dick lias been
called upon
to adjudi-
cate, and
that large
gentleman
is at pre-
sent sitting
on a rail in
a way that
would be
worth £5O
in a cirous.
The treaty
did not
stipulate that i
the Maoris
should take
only native
fish, but gave
them unlimited
right to follow
all watercourses
through private or
public property and to fish therein. And that
certainly does seem like an unlimited license.
If the verdict goes against the Acclimatisation
Society that body will probably abandon the
Northern Island. Then the Maori w’ill have lost
both koura and trout, for owing to the wholesale
way in which the Maori destroys fish the trout will
soon be a creature of the past if the society stops
dumping millions of ova into the streams and
Jakes.
* * * *
The steamer General Gordon, propelled
by the hind wheel of a buggy stationed at
its rear, and a well-known feature of the Hawkes-
bury River (N.S.W.), came under the hammer
last week. The idea of the fiat-bottomed stern-
•wheeler came from America, like its owmer and
skipper, Captain A. S. Murray, as familiar a
figure on the river as his boat. Murray is fond
of saying that Freetrade in N.S.W., and nowin
Australia (he doesn’t count the present tariff), is
sufficient to ruin anything, let alone the General
Gordon. At the auction, Murray was insulted
with an offer of only £llOO for his cherished boat.
The rich Harvey Patterson’s reliable
Japanese houseboy has got six months in Mel-
bourne, and this paper hopes that, in consequence,
Harvey Patterson Won’t so often pause in the
midst of addressing a mining co. meeting to re-
mark on the blessings of colored labor Patterson’s
Jap admitted to P.M. Pan ton that he had for over
a year been in the habit of popping his employer’s
property, and had done it with such frequency that
some of Patterson’s suits of clothes were put up
the spout a score of times, and the three-ball men
had come to look upon the Jap as their best cus-
tomer. The brown alien described himself as a
“journalist on a Japanese paper, ” and had been in
Victoria three years. How he jumped the Immi-
gration wall wasn’t explained—possibly he came
in as a student, merchant or traveller. He seems
to have been a pretty frequent traveller to and
from uncle’s, anyhow.
THEN COARSE LAUGHTER AROSE.
MAIDEN LAID (orating on the declining birth-
rate): “You seem oblivious to the sacred
duty you owe to the community.”
The latest tragedy at Surry Hills, Sydney
(Surry Hills is great on tragedies), is another evi-
dence that to a certain class of mind true affection
can only explain itself properly with an axe, or a
gun, or a carving knife. The epitaph on barmaid
Rose Arnold should be just this : “He loved her,
therefore he shot her in several places, and cut
most.of her head off.” The daily press spread
itself considerably on the event, and rushed into
the breach with a picture of the house where the
bloodstain took place. It was a deadly ordinary
house of two storeys, with one front window up-
stairs, and one front window downstairs, and a
front garden the size of a grave, and a front bal-
cony the size of a coffin, and a wooden back fence,
and a dead wall at the side ; and the picture had
a cross on the dead wall to show just
where the dead body was found. Presumably
there is a public demand for the photo, of
the house where the ’orrer ’appened or else it
would not be published, and this obvious demand
suggests, in a rather disconnected sort of way,
an idea. The house in which a murder took place
should be at once painted a bright red, and
thereafter, so long as it stands, it should be
compulsory upon the owner to keep it painted
bright red. When the house perishes, and a new
one is built on the site, the new one, provided it
is the same size as the old one or is smaller than
the old one, should also be painted all over a
bright red. If the new building is larger than
the old one, then enough of it should be painted
bright red to represent the exact dimensions of
the ancient structure—the one in which the
murder happened. Additional tragedies in
tbe same premises could be represented
by a black stripe, or a picture of a
devil, or something else of a light and airy
character. If no buildings except the ones which
could boast of a murder were allowed to be painted
bright red, then the bloodstains along the street
would be a record of the city’s tragedies ; their
redness would keep memory green, so to speak.
The morbid classes would wander up and down on
Sundays looking at the red-painted houses, and
telling their morbid friends from the country the
awful tale with variations, and it would be as
healthy a recreation as haunting the cemetery to
watch for funerals. People with a turn for
mental science would note how the microbe of
butchery got into a building, and how one tragedy
led to more. Members of the Psychical Research
Society would haunt red-painted houses in search
of ghosts. Homicidal maniacs would also haunt
them and get inspiration, and would call on the
agent with a bloodshot eye and ask how much the
rent was. As for the effect of the red coloring on
the value of the property, it would produce one
of three results; either it would send the value
down, or send it up, or leave it where it was. Any
one who carefully considers this last remark will
see profound wisdom embedded in it.
The Surry Hills tragedy, though it was
finished with the knife, began, as usual, with
the revolver. Firearms are too inexpensive in
this country, and the cheap Belgian and Yankee
slug-slinger, which is retailed at anything between
three half-crowns and 12s. 6d., is a positive curse.
It is the means to do ill deeds that is responsible for
more than half the murders that are committed in
the name of Love. A sudden outburst of jealous
rage and out flashes the cheap revolver that
almost every other man in Sydney seems now to
carry in his clothes. It is strange how people
who would shrink from using a knife or a blud-
geon on a woman will cheerfully shoot her, when
their blood grows hot. The idea of shooting
doesn’t convey to their minds the idea of atrocity
that the use of an axe might do, and having the
means to shoot handy, they bombard on the spur of
the moment. And they have firearms handy
because firearms are cheap, and because of the old
idea that to carry arms is a proceeding of some
pomp, dignity, and importance. It is not much
good legislating against the carrying of ‘ ‘ squirts ’
—that is already illegal, and a “ squirt ” does not
betray its presence by an outward and visible
sign, and the police cannot bail people up at the
street corner and search them for “ squirts.” The
best way to discourage the carrying of firearms is
to impose a tax that will send the price soaring up
to somewhere about 30s. for even a very common
weapon. A man doesn’t mind spending 7s. fid.
on a thing that gives him a pull when the row
starts, but he looks several times at 30s. Of
course, this is admittedly a bad remedy, because
it gives the scoundrel who has money a prefer-
ence; but then the scoundrel who has plenty of
money very rarely shoots the woman who won’t
have him. This is partly because the woman
who won’t have the scoundrel with plenty of
money is comparatively scarce, and partly because
so many others will have him that it is rather a
relief when one of the procession drops out,
and partly because the money makes life too sweet
to be thrown away. It is the man who can only
afford one pet girl who does the killing, and he is
the man who would be dissuaded from buying fire-
arms if “squirts” were two guineas apiece.
* * * *
An astonishing instance of undue respect
for the law comes from Pinepoint (Victoria).
There had been a plain and fancy dress raffle, and
the wild young devils of Pinepoint had looked on
the cider, and half-a-dozen of them were going
home in the morning, playing the dizzy camel,
after the manner of brilliant young sliickers, when
they came upon a lone swagman who was plain-
tively inebriate and trying to bore holes in a hotel
with his head. One of the stackers was dressed
in a slop-made attempt to impersonate a police-
man, and, being possessed of the spirit of
beery humor, he arrested the aged swagman,
and ran him into an old, deserted, roofless,
chock-and-log barn standing 200 yards back from
the township, dumped him there, shut the '
ricketty paling door, and remembered the incident
in the morning only as a happy dream. Two days
later the swaggie was discovered doing a miserable
perish in the old barn ; he was nearly famished,
and almost dead for the need of strong drink, arid
had to be carefully nursed and nourished. He
could have walked out of the barn at any time,
but apparently he was prepared to die a lingering
death there. He explained that he thought the
barn was the Pinepoint lock-up; he’d been placed
there by an attempt at a policeman, and he was
afraid it was gaol-breaking, or contempt of court
or something to come away without leave.
TALKING AND
PAYING.
“By Himmel, you you talk
through your nose. Moss
Isaacs, hut—you look out I don't make you
PAY through it! ”
A Victorian C. of E. archdeacon lately
admitted that a Chinese missionary employed by
the Church Missionary Association received a
whole £6O a year, out of which he had to keep a
horse. The sweated laborer in the vineyard had
to fulfil an order for wife maintenance of 7s. 6d. a
week, the horse cost 65., and he talked the bless-
ings of Christianity on 9s. himself. He was
charged with leaving his two children without
adequate support, and the court dismissed the
case; but it gave no reason why the Church
Missionary Association wasn’t charged, instead of
its sweated employee The mission people are
fond of insisting that all men are equal in the
sight of God. What is the archdeacon’s salary ?
SIX MONTHS WITHOUT THE OPTION.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bowling Association asked N.S.W. Attorney-
General Wade to remove certain restrictions imposed on
Bowling Clubs under the new Liquor Act. Mr. Wade
urged-atrial. “ He would be ready in, say, six months
to go into the matter again ! ” —News item.
Be not angry, gentle brethren of the bowl !
Do not play with bitter curses in your soul.
And ’tis very wrong indeed that glances black
Should attend the feat of cutting out the jack !
I’m becoming very seriously afraid
You are losing your regard for Mr. Wade ;
That your usually kind and gentle hearts
Are embittered and are suffering from smarts !
But six months without a drink you’d scarcely call
An unreasonable period, after all !
There is comfort in the thought for him who seeks
That it’s really only six-and-twenty weeks !
As you get the bias on just pause and think
That in six-and-twenty weeks you’ll get a drink !
Keep your tempers and suppress the angry curse,
Or your play (which now is bad) may get much worse.
N.S.W.
W. T. GOOGE.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first.class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
~ WHILE IN TOWN
Visitors to the Royal Agricultural Show should
take advantage of leaving their measurements
with the best Tailoring Establishment in Sydney.
HARD WEARING SUN RESISTING
AUTUMN A A _
* * SUITS, *-fS.
R. C. HAGON, M^cha^ TaMor '
129 King Street, SYDNEY.
Geelong, famous all over Australia as the
town of the livihg dead, has been wakened by
the Victorian Board of Public Health. While
Melbourne, Bendigo, Ballarat, Warrnambool and
all the fair - sized towns of Victoria have
been advancing with the times in sanitary mat-
ters, Geelong has stood stock-still, with a sanitary
system that was adversely criticised by Oliver
Cromwell. It did occur to Geelong to wonder
why its infectious diseases figures were so high ;
but the health officer’s explanation was pooh-
poohed and his reports filed in the waste-paper
basket. Now, Norris, Chairman of the Board of
Public Health, has threatened to use his powers
under the Health Act, and instal a modern
sanitary system in Geelong, at the cost of the
Geelongese. This_ has powerfully scared the
municipal authorities. It is feared that Norris
may go so far as to sewer the town, and that
would be altogether too modern for Geelong. So
the mayors and councillors of the three Geelong
municipal bodies have left their sleepy little lotus-
eating town (probably for the first time in their
lives), and journeyed into the cold, cruel world in
search of a nice, cheap sanitary system that has
stood the test of at least a quarter of a,century.
Nothing less matured would do for Geelong. One
party has gone to Sydney,, while another party is
viewing the septic tank system at Hobart. When
they all get back they will be able to discuss sys-
tems for the next five years, and in the meantime
—well, a matter of five centuries is nothing at
Geelong.
* • **
A Melbourne undertaker counters effec-
tively on Archbishop Clarke, who is whooping for
cheaper buryings, with the assertion that the fee
of the Church of England clergymen is exorbitant
in the case of poor people, and must be paid,
whether the parson is employed or not, if the body
is buried in the C. of E. department. It pro-
bably hag not occurred to Dr. Clarke that his
church is one serious reason why poor people can’t
afford to be buried.
IMBUED WITH RESOLUTION.
HAWLEY: “ Very inspiring, Shrunk shank's Ham-
let, is it not?”
HEAVE: “By Jove, yes! It inspires one with
courage to stay out at the bar in defiance of
one's wife .”
From a Willis letter to the S’African
press :
Willis has had 15 years in Parliament, and is now
wanted badly by the “ indignant ” party—not to answer
any criminal charge, not to have the law vindicated, but
simply to be brought back to Sydney to give evidence
before a Lands Inquiry Commission, with the hope that
something might be said which would damage the present
Government; and the present Government, knowing their
hands are clean, and that nothing can be said against
them, are helping the “indignant” party to have him
brought back.
Is this an artful tip to the N.S.W. Government
that if it doesn't know its hands are clean it had
better not help to bring Willis back ?
THE GUILE OF THE SERPENT.
WILLIE (who has just even his apple): " Mabel, let’s play Adam and Eve. You be Eve and
I’ll be Adam.”
MABEL: “ All right.”
WILLIE: “ Now, you tempt me to eat your apple, and I’ll give in.”
“ Trineulo ” : Be the condemned lad
Q uinlan and the absolute unconcern which (as
.. , . 0 00/o „ A£? v T ~ •
mentioned mB. 23/3/0b) he mani es s i >ou is
crime and sentence. This condition, under the
name of “ mental anaesthesia, ” has long been
recognised by criminologists as peculiar to the
instinctive criminal-the “ congenital incor-
. ~ , , , ■ , v
rigible, who is generally also characterised by
physical anaesthesia, the “ disvulnerability ”
(great power of recovering from bodily injury),
th « la( i k of anticipatory nervousness. All
* his locates reversion to a lower and less evolved
o organism, am s o >s< rva > . og ) t
further afield, m the Australian blackfellow of the
piesentaay.
. , ~ . IT ,
. fh e f a ' jk elicited at the Major Hawker
inquiry that officers pay less for their liquor than
privates, has been always looked upon in N.S.W.
as the canteen cor-
ner-stone of caste.
The officer is not
charged below a just
rate, ,but an addition
is put on to the pri-
vate to make it im-
possible for him to
ape the liberal drink-
ing habits of those
above him. The prac-
tice began wheri “as
drunk as a lord ” was
a rule of life. In the
old military barracks
in Wynyard Square,
the officers, in their
occasional sober mo-
ments, raised the
price of liquor again
and again on the
privates. In a com-
mercial sense, the
practice had its
points, for officers
frequently failed to
pay up, and the extra
charges on the privates balanced the accounts of
the regiment. N.S.W. soldiering and drinking
were associated from the start. It was their close
association that led to the Bligh deposition and
the Macarthur trial. Officers then regularly kept
their casks and quarter-casks for retailing both to
privates and convicts. The Governor sold rum to
them at 4s. a gallon and the officers dispensed it
at 16s. a gallon. They also broke the stuff down
with water and filled it up with adulterants. A
nice crowd were the officers of the old Rum-selling
Corps.
* * * *
“ School Miss ” (Broken Hill) : The long-
looked-for change has come at last in the shape of
a terrific dust storm. It was in sight for fully an
hour before bursting over Broken Hell. At a dis-
tance the approaching disturbance seemed like a
huge funeral pall closing over the city of Cracked
Gehenna. For a time the threatening dust clouds
remained suspended overhead; then collision with
some opposing current took place, and a heavy
darkness rushed down over Shattered Hades.
When the clouds finally burst the air was thiek
for miles. All business was suspended for a couple
of hours; all doors and windows were shut, and
lights were kindled ,in all the houses. Imagine a
period of sudden darkness during broad daylight 1
The eeriest feeling settles on one. All the in-
mates of our bungalow braved the dust to watch
the magnificent effects of the oncoming storm.
Thank Heaven for the cool change which it has
brought on this dreadful town of Fractured Sheol.
Once more we are enjoying life and its woes.
Had the days of 112° in the shade lasted there
would have'soon been a vacancy here for some
other unfortunate to fill. I was rapidly dwind-
ling to a grease blot.
“ H.” : Who says that humanity has not
attained years of discretion ? A big displayed ad-
vertisement in a recent number of the Harbinger
OF Light, the official organ of the Melbourne
occultists, sets forth that “Dr. - ——, F.R.C.
(whatever that may be). Professor of Archaeology,
Fellow of the Numismatic and Folk Lore
Societies, Associate British Archaeological Asso-
ciation, &c.,” casts horoscopes for from 10s. 6d.
upwards, and answers horary questions for 2s. 6d.,
which latter seems remarkably reasonable to an
outsider who never asked a horary question in his
life, and would have doubts about doing so in a
public place. The advertisement also de-
scribes a remarkable book by the doctor, con-
cerning “ Numbers, Their Magic and Mystery,”
which may be had for Is., and is dirt cheap at
the price if it will let you know what numbers
will be raised at Flemington next November.
Finally, the folk-lore person offers to construct
talismans “in accordance with the laws, of the
ancient philosophers,” and let the common herd
have them at ss. a time. Five shillings seems
but a poor return for a small ornament, which
fulfils the mission of Tattersall and the A.M.P.
Society in one, and does side-lines in the way of
staving off buponic plague, and preventing the
bottle hitting you when the push throws it pro-
miscuously in the street. Almost am I persuaded
to borrow 2s. 6d. and rush off to ask a horary
question at once. The only thing that prevents
me is the fact that 1 don’t know any horary
question to ask.
* * * *
A complaint from Tortoise Town :
The ruling body of the Adelaide University has so
arranged the schedule of marks given for various subjects
that students who take science subjects are hopelessly
out of the competition for scholarships as compared with
those who take Greek, Latin, and English history. For
instance, it is possible for a student taking those last
three subjects to get 1100 marks, whereas the maximum
possible in applied mathematics, physics, and chemistry
is but 000 marks. At the higher public examination,
where the scholarships are decided, only five subjects can
be taken. Supposing a boy takes English literature,
history, Greek, Latin," and pure mathematics, he could
obtain 2000 marks, whereas. a lad in the science course
taking puremathematics, applied mathematics, physics,
chemistry, and geology could only get 1400. This g rossly
unfair arrangement has been made by men who put so-
called “ culture ” beyond all that is practical and likely
to be of real service to a student in after life. A Univer-
sity Senate is usually too obstinate and too devoid of
common sense to be influenced by business-like arrange-
ments.
A like stone might be cast at Sydney Uni.
authorities, whose scale of marks is arranged on
the same cobwebby basis.
WHITE AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Gregory, of the University of Glasgow, lec-
| tured before the Royal Geographical Society recently on
' “The Economic Geography and Development of Aus-
i tralia.” He defended the White Australia policy as far-
sighted, patriotic, and economically the best, and con-
• sidered that distrust of Australia and misunderstanding
■ of its ideals constituted the most serious danger between
Australia and the Empire.— News Item ..
' Your health, Professor Gregory ! And heartfelt thanks in
song,
i For telling these Geographers some truths they’ve wanted
Jong ;
'.Your courage and "your common-sense and patriotic lore
Are qualities now somewhat scarce upon that Island
store.
For very ignorantly dense are they regarding us,
Those stay-at-homes who smugly blame our “ Anti-Oolor
fuss.”
White peoples of the Occident, who live as white folk do,
Whatlhave we got in common with the men of other hue?
JBrown may be right for people with the bad luck to be
brown ;
.And black may suit the sable, who were born of Fortune’s
ffrown ;
.And red and yellow may be nice, perhaps, if you are used
'.To being red or yellow ; but we’d rather be excused.
.The dun-clad night is colored, but resplendent day is
white;
And who would walk in darkness still who had his choice
of light?
And as regards the dun-skinned man, we only wish to
say
’He looks best at a distance, and we want him kept away.
So, as your lecture comes to hand, we look across the sea,
And wave our hats with emphasis to you, Professor G. ;
And cheer a cheer of sympathy and heave a sigh or two
That Coles and Smiths are many and that Gregorys are
few.
N.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.
WEAK AND WORN OUT.
Dr’. Williams’ Pink Pills.
;•* .... • - 1 /v.
“Up till five years ago I didn’t know what it
was to be even one day sick,” said Mrs. Fanny
Smith, who has a fruit and confectionery business
in Union St.. Adamstown, Newcastle. “Then,
little by little, my health started to break up.
M.y blood grew weaker and thinner, till at last it
was little better than water. In summer I was
fit for nothing. I could hardly drag my legs after
me. For two and three days together I had to lie
up in bed. The doctor trek'tbd bib Tor nearly
twelve months, but I wasted away in spite of all
he could do. I don’t know what would have
happened if it hadn’t been for Ur. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. I looked as if I couldn’t
live a month when a friend got me to give them a
fair trial. I started them just before Christmas,
and I didn’t leave them off till March. By that
time I didn’t have a single thing the matter with
me. My health was perfect, and it has been
perfect ever ■ since. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
didn’t merely build me up—they cured me for
good.
“ Before coming up here to Newcastle I had a
laundry business at Kirribilli Pt., North Sydney,”
said Mrs. Smith. “ That meant a lot of work and
a lot of worry —and the doctor said that work and
worry would be the death of me. I went to bed
tired, and I got up the same way next morning.
There wasn’t a bone in my body that didn’t ache.
Everything was a bother to me. Some days my
feet and legs ached till I simply had to give in and
rest. I was utterly down-hearted, and never
wanted to talk to anyone. I tried hard to fight off
my sickness, but it was no use. Everyone noticed
me going down hill. It often took me the best part
of a day to turn out work that I used to do in half-
an-hour. My face had a care-worn look, and not
a scrap of color in it. My lips turned almost
white. Round my eyes were heavy black rings.
All my blood seemed to be drying up. My hands
were always clammy, and my fingers stone-cold.
I kept taking the doctor’s medicine, but I
grew thinner and weaker.
“There seemed no hope of me ever getting
strong again,” Mrs. Smith added. “My appetite
got more and more faddy. Soon I could not fancy
my food at all. I found fault with the nicest
dinner. Whenever I did force anything down, it
turned sour, and made me feel sick. My tongue
was horribly dirty. Every morning I got up with
a taste like brass in my riiouth. I was so miserable
that I didn’t care whether I lived or died.
“Month after month I was getting weaker. It
was much as I could do to stand with the dragging
pain in my back. Often my head felt as if it
would burst. There were days when I could
hardly keep my eyes open with the pain across my
f )rehead. Even when I went to bed my temples
~ept throbbing. It was seldom that I ever slept
well. For hours I twisted and turned from one
side to another. Many a time it was daylight
before I dozed off. I got up as limp as a rag, and
I simply could not shake off an utter down-hearted
feeling. All day long I was nervous. If a knock
came to the door I felt it was some bad news for
me. I used to work myself up to an awful pitch.
A cold sweat broke out on me, and a horrible
dread of death came over me. It was all I could
do to keep from fainting.
“ When the doctor’s medicines failed to cure me,
I got all sorts of mixtures from the chemist, but
they did me no good,” Mrs. Smith went on. “ I
didn’t know what to do for the best when a, friend
brought me some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and begged me to give them a
good trial. When I had been taking them for a
couple of weeks everyone said how much better I
was looking. Certainly I was eating three times
as much. When I was doing so well I said 1
wouldn’t leave off Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills till
they cured me—even if I had to take them for a
year. For fear of missing a dose I used to carry a
box about with me, no matter where I went.
Gradually the color came back to my cheeks, and
my lips got a healthy red. The headaches and
backaches eased up.. My nerves grew steady, and
I started to sleep well at nights. Every morning
I got up full of life and ready for my day’s work.
Since the time I left off Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
I have never fainted once—my heart is now
sound and strong.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mrs. Smith by
going down to the root of the trouble in the blood.
That is why they never fail. Bad blood is the
cause of all common diseases like anaemia (blood-
lessness), eczema paleness, headaches, neuralgia,
sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago, general weakness
and the special ailments that only women-folk
know. Bad blood is the one cause—and Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are the one cure, because
they actually make new blood. They do just that
one thing but they do it well. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They don’t cure for a day
—they cure for good. But, of course, you must
get the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People—in wooden boxes —never in glass
bottles. Price 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.—•
from retailers, or, post free, from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.
“Euroa”: The morning following the
Sydney storm, Melbourne Age posters came out
with : “ Tornado at Sydney, loss of life.” The
Argus had : “Tornado at Sydney, great damage
to property.” What a shiver runs through the
Argus at the thought of damage to proputty !


YOUR ENGAGEMENT RING.— We are from
London to supply you. That will explain why we can
interest and offer you more than most. We lead with
these unique gifts, and, moreover, facilitate your means
of immediate purchase if necessary by our novel and easy
plan of Monthly Deferred Payments. Our jewellery is of
modern, high-class and newest design. English Hall-
marked 18ct. rich-carved half-hoop setting, purest gems
from 40s. to £6O. Deposit and terms are easy, and can he
privately arranged. Write or call for our illustrated cata-
logue of jewellery and plate, free. It will pay you to do
it now. The British Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-street
corner of Bridge-street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J. H. Curie, of the London Economist, says
what Thk Bulletin has been trying to drive in ever since
metals started to race up to about where they are now—
that, if you want to invest in a mine (which is a different
thing from gambling in stock),” it is not sufficient to know
ivhat ore reserves a copper or silver-zinc mine has.” Says
Curie : “ Unless a copper mine can show the necessary
margin of profit at £55, leave it alone. It is not safe to
value lead at much over £ll, certainly at not more than
£l2 a ton ; and as for zinc, I expect it is coming down to
£l5 or £l6 a ton.” Whereupon with one united boot
they jump on Curie for a pessimist. Unless something
extraordinary in the way of supply or demand has hap-
, pened in the past year or two (and it hasn’t), absolutely
the best guide to the future is the experience of the past.
And here is the past:—
Copper (present price, £B4).—The highest average
price for any one year in the past quarter-century was
£Bllls. 3d. in 1888. That was in the days of the French
Copper Syndicate, when business is alleged to have been
done at over £loo—next year the price toppled to £3B. In
25 years the average has only once been over £80; only
nine times has it been over £6O. The average for the
past 10 years is £59 9s ; for the past five years £6l 25., or
£23 below the present quotation. A run of prices of over
£6O in the early ’Bo’s was followed by a smash to below
£4O. The French Syndicate’s boom was followed by a
falling market, till, as mentioned just now, £3B was
reached. The average of £73 13s. 9d. and £73 12s. 6d. in
’99 and ’OO were swiftly followed by an average of
£52 Us. sd. in ’O2. The history of that metaMsn’t
therefore in doubt.
Lead (present price, £l6).—Twenty-five years ago the j
average was £l6 6s. 3d. ; since then in only two years has
the average been over £l5. In 10 years out of 'the 25 it '
has been below £l2. For the past 10 years the average
has been £l3 25.; for the 10 years before that it was £l2
Is. Within 15 months of the quotation of £l7 17s. 6d.
reached in 1900, the price was down to £ll ; and the
fillip to production given by the high prices of 1888-9
(through American silver legislation) was followed by a
gradual fall till £9 was reached in 1894. So it isn’t the
average you have to fear after a spell of abnormal prices;
it is something a long way worse than the average.
Spelter (present price, £2s).—Before last year this
metal had never in 25 years averaged more than £24 17s
2d. This was in 1899; at one point in that year it
touched £2B 10s., as it had done in 1890. But for the 10
years prior to 1905 the average had been £l9 2s. sd.
Curie says he expects it to go back to £l6. Possibly,
though that seems to be under normal. In the past 20
years the market has, at any rate, only three times fallen
below £l6.
Tin (present price, £l6B).—This metal has never in
modern times maintained that average for a year. For
25 years the highest in any .year was £133 11s. 6d. (1900).
As late as 1896 the average for the year was £59 9s lid
In 1898 the average was £7l 4s. Id. ; the next year it was
£122 Bs. 7d. That is the sort of movements it has. For
the 10 years 1891-1900, the average was £B4 125., almost
exactly half the present price.
As to these four base metals, that is how the
market stands. Or put it in the shape of a table :
Price, Average
March 31. for 10 years.
Copper .. ~ £B4 £59 9 0
Lead .. .. 16 13 2 0
Spelter .. .. 25 19 2 0
Tin .. .. 168 109 4 0
Of course, it is said that conditions are different now.
No doubt. They always are.
In his last report the Westralian Auditor-
General gibbetted the Government for not writing down
the value of depreciating works paid for out of loans, and
for not providing a fund in the Treasury for replace-
ments. Now the Fremantle Harbor Trust holds the
Government over the fire for the same reason. Ever
since it has been in existence, it says, it has been trying
to get from the Government a schedule showing- the
capital value of the works it is supposed to administer •
yet, though the Harbor Trust Act said that the schedule
should be settled before January Ist, 1903, it isn’t settled
yet, and the Trust doesn’t know whether it is making
the thing pay or . not. All it can do is to
make a guess that the amount involved is about
£1,330,000; if so, as it earned £52,911 over working-
expenses last year, it reckons it returned 3’98 per cent
on cost. But it is not charging anything for current
depreciation. “No advance,” it says in its report “ has
been made in the matter of the Government providing
as asked by the Commissioners, a fund in the Treasury
for the purpose of writing down for depreciation plant
bought out of loan or other funds not the revenue of the
Trust. This is a most important financial question which
will not improve by keeping unsettled, as the plant is
being very strenuously worked, and is certainly steadily
depreciating.” Shipping co.’s, running things on com-
mercial lines, and with the fear of the Bankruptcy Court
before them, charge profit and loss with as much as
7i per cent, for wear and tear- of the sort of
plant which the Trust controls. Yet, though current
work is wearing out the plant, and destroying its value
that work is not being called upon to contribute to the
cost of new plant. Instead of profits being written down
to the extent of £19,950 (at the rate of 1J per cent all
round), the whole net revenue receipts of the Trust" are
turned into the State’s Consolidated Revenue, which is
inflated accordingly ; so that the size of the State’s
chronic deficit is really bigger than is represented.
When this matter was mentioned once before
in connection with Westralian railways—an ex-Treasurer
pointed out that Westralia, so far from deserving bricks
from The Bullbth?, was really doing this paper’s bidding -
and the size of Westralia’s sinking fund was pointed out
with a triumphant finger. It may be cheerfully ad-
mitted that Westralia makes a larger attempt at a sinking
fund than any other State—looking at the matter merely
on the surface. In 1904 it appropriated £176,669 to ex-
tinguish a debt of £16,450,339, or a contribution of a frac-
tion oyer 1 p.c. ; but a.s it only paid this contribution by
incurring a deficit, which had, of course, to be covered by
further borrowing, the sinking fund was to that extent a
farce. It was merely a matter of borrowing from Cohen-
stein to-day in order to pay Cohenloup at some distant
date, with the chances of some hard-up Treasurer dis-
covering a way of collaring the money before Cohenloup
gets it. And, in any case, even if Westralia’s sinking fund
was the straight thing, it ought to be growing faster than
that of any other State, because of the vast proportion of
loan funds sunk in works whose value wholly depends
upon mines which are being rapidly exhausted.
And, anyhow, a sinking fund doesn’t do away
with the need for a depreciation fund to pay for replace-
ments, &c. The Harbor Trust is working with plant
&c. paid for out of loan funds. It is highly important
that there should be a sinking fund to pay Cohenloup his
money ; but it is equally important that there should be
a fund out of which more plant may be bought when the
old wears out. If there isn’t such a fund, only two
things can be done—borrow again, or do without works
when once they fall into decay. Nobody can be sure of
being* able to borrow ; and when a Government which
hasn’t a fund for replacements has made up its mind that
it won’t borrow, or when it can’t borrow anyway such
things are liable to happen as have been happening’latelv
on Bent’s railways. No decently-managed co. which is
working (say) on debentures thinks it is doing its whole
duty when it whittles a bit year by year off the amount
outstanding against it; its whole duty isn’t done until it
also makes current operations pay for current wear and
tear ; and the only way to do that is either to write
something off book-values out of profits, or keep book-
values were they were and accumulate a depreciation
fund against the wear and tear. And no decently managed
State can afford to do less in this matter than any
decently managed co.
N.S.W Miners’ Accident Relief Fund :
Carried
to Re- Re-
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses, serves. serves.
1901 .. £31,906 £6,821 £lOl £24,984 £24,984
1902 .. 39,036 11,096 1546 26,394 51,378
1903 .. 45,559 14,520 1050 29,989 81,367
1904 .. 48,288 17,587 1146 29,555 110,922
1905 .. 51,775 22,583 1253 27,939 138,861
The accounts of this semi-State institution are not
presented as simply and clearly as they might be; and
there is some doubt whether there are not cross-entries
which affect the totals. In the “ receipts by committees ”
is annually included an item “ advances by Board ” ; and
these advances represent money which apparently has
already been shown as received either from
mine-owners or miners. The Fund has three
sources of income. The miners pay 9d. a fortnight
(the owners have to deduct this from the wages, and hand
it over to local committees), the owners subsidise this to
the extent of 10s. in the £, paying the money to the cen-
tral Board, and the State adds another 10s. The local
committees, as far as possible, meet claims out of the
miners’ contributions ; when those contributions won’t
go far enough the central Board has to be drawn upon. The
bigger the draft the larger the receipts will appear to be
in the accounts as published ; but the real receipts are
not affected by the size of the drafts on the central Board.
Therefore, if this reading of the accounts is correct, the
true income, and also the real expenses for 1905, were
£lBO2 less than the figures shown, for 1904 £1092 less, for
1903 £751 less, for 1902 £6Ol less, and for 1901 £338 less.
The rapid increase of these figures since 1901 is to be
noted. It shows how the claims upon and liabilities of
the Fund are growing ; and it once again raises a grave
doubt whether it was wise to recently put up the scale of
allowances.
Recently discussing the subject of alleged exces-
sive premiums demanded in Queensland for workmen’s
compensation, the experience of this fund was mentioned ;
and it was shown that the claims had enormously in-
creased since its establishment. The same thing is still
going on, as this comparison shows :
Non-Fatal Acci- Average Amount
dents per 1000 of
Employees. Relief per Case.
1901 .. 13045 .. £2 2 6
1902 .. 146-18 .. 2 5 9
1903 .. 164-9 .. 2 8 5
1904 .. 170-76 .. 2 11 4
1905 .. 195-45 .. 2 14 0
So that there has not only been an increase of almost
exactly 50 p.c. in the number of non-fatal accidents—or,
rather, in the number of claims allowed—but also the
average amount of relief given has grown slightly over
20 p.c. But even these figures do not show the full ex-
tent of the growth of the claims and liabilities. Take
these, showing the relief granted per 1000 contribu-
tors :
Through Fatal Through non-
Accidents. Fatal Accidents.
1901 .. .. £24 17 5 £276 15 5
1902 .. .. 11l 4 2 356 18 7
1903 .. .. 177 87 431 3 5
1904 .. .. 209 16 2 496 3 0
1905 .. .. 257 111 602 2,9
This rate of progression is startling ; and with the increase
of allowances, recently decided upon, future figures will
(for a time, anyhow) jump probably faster. The fact ap-
pears to be that the Fund is being used as an old-age
pension scheme ; and, good as an old-age pension scheme
is, this one was only intended to provide for accidents,
and the contributions were calculated on that basis. Of
the 47 men who are already listed as “ permanently dis-
abled,” and consequently entitled to a life pension of 15s.
per week each (it was 12s. until last year), with 3s.
per week for each child under 14 years, 28 are
over 50 years of age ; and that seems significant,
because it is certain that nothing like 60 p c of
the miners of the State are 50 years old. It is doubt-
ful whether there are 20 p.c. of that age : for the
aged miner has a poor chance, nowadays, and generally
drifts into some other calling. And that probably
accounts for the comparative ease with which old miners
get on the fund as pensioners. It doesn’t take much of an
injury, in addition to their grey hairs, to permanently
bar them from making a living in the old way, and local
committees know it, and soften their hearts accordingly.
The funds are invested wholly in N.S.W.
Government stock and Treasury bills. The cost of
management is very small, amounting to only £2 10s. 2d.
p.c. of the income. The cost; of collecting the income is,
however, practically nil; the only expense is in distribut-
ing it, and much of that work is done for nothing.
Provident Life Assurance Co., formerly the
Provident and Industrial Insurance 00., of Maoriland
and Sydney:—
Expenses Total Carried to
Total and Divi- Out- Assurance De-
June, Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund, ficit
1898 ..£8,673 £2530 £7837 £10,367 £2203
1899 .. 9,177 2835 6462 9,297 2323
1900 .. 9,797 2936 6195 9,131 £666 1657
Capital forfeited 60 1597
1901 ..10,738 3332 6205 9,537 1201 396
1902 ..12,237 3907 7231 11,138 1099
Capital forfeited.... 20 723
1903 ..13,472 3988 7791 11,779 " 1693 2416
Taken over from old co 612 3028
Dec.,
1904 ..15,289 3434 8449 11,883 3406 6434
1905 ..15,826 4342 8402 12,744 3082 9516
Shown above is a doubtful item, “ Taken over from old
co., £612.” Apparently that was the amount available
for the assurance fund, as the result of the old co’s
operations from June to December, 1903, for which period
no balance-sheet was given to the public. At June
1903, the old co. claimed an assurance fund of £7725 of
which £2069 was expenses carried forward as an asset
and £3240 was paper value added to premises. The new
co. retained the latter, but wiped out the former paper
item. r r
Without charging the expenses with stationery
and office furniture written off, costs (including 5 p c
dividend on £5250 capital) show up in this way
Expenses in Proportion to Income.
iooo " o l* percent - 1903 ..£57 16 7 per cent
1900 .. 70 8 3 „ 1904 .. 52 16 4
1901 .. 63 4 8 „ 1905 .. 51 18 11 ”
1902 .. 59 1 10 ”
It is still a tremendous amount of money to pay away in
expenses ; the only pleasant thing about it is that it isn’t
as large a proportion as it used to be. Most, if not all
of the business is, of course, industrial, and when an
office doing that sore of business gets its expense
rate down to 40 per cent, it may reckon that it is doing
fairly well; and this co. looks as though it might do that
much within the next live years. Of its funds (including
capital) £.5000 is on fixed deposit, £4508 is represented as
oPrArP? rfc^’”, an , fl 3755 is oufc on various loans. In that
£4508 is included the paper asset of £3240 previously
mentioned. Year after year this item has stood in the
balance-sheet without change; yet the premises were
actually held upon lease, and this lease expired a couple
of months ago. The lease has, however, now been re-
newed, it is stated, at a rental reduced by £39 per year
winch means apparently at £l6l per year ; also it is men’-
tioned that the building*, which was valued at £5540 by
some local (Dunedin) authorities, is only included
m the balance-sheet at £4508. Adopting the very
same plan by which the co. arrived at the book-
value of £4508 in 1898 (that was by taking
the value of the buildings and deducting from the amount
the present value of £2OO for eight years at 5 per cent ) it
will be found that something over £2OOO must come off
the valuation ; for the present value of £l6l a year at
5 per cent, for 21 years is £2064. Therefore, that amount
at any rate ought to be written off. And that is bv
adopting the method by which the co. justified itself in
writing up the asset in 1898. If a method is good enough
to justify a co. writing up assets, the co. that won’t
notice the same method when it would mean writing
down its assets needs to be spoken to severely ; and when
the co. is a life assurance co., the language deserves to be
rather more severe than usual.
* * *
„ a Co-Operative Society, Ltd. (Broken
Hill, N.S.W.): —
Divs. (5 p.c.)
and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonus. off. serves, serves.
® eo > £371 £lO2 £123 £169
June, 1905 1129 591 232 306 475
Dec., 1905 1210 822 183 205 680
But of the profits shown above £45 consists of unclaimed
bonus, now passed to reserves ; and the doubtful policy
has been followed of writing: up the value of the plant by
£4B, which also consequently has to appear as profit.
Still as against that can be set the fact that, unlike many
co-operative societies, this one is building up a reserve
fund, which now, after a little over three years, amounts
to £680; further, a steady 5 per cent, per annum
is written off stock, premises, &c. The society’s
progress has been rapid ; beginning in a very
small way, its turnover is already at the rate of over
£32,000 a year. And there is this laudable remark in the
directors’reportOur efforts to create a demand for
Australian manufactured goods have not progressed as
well as we could have wished, and your committee would
like to see shareholders wherever possible asking for and
using goods of Australian manufacture, believing that by
so doing they will benefit both individually and nation-
ally.” If it is a good thing individually and nationally to
encourage Australian manufactures, what is the Labor
party (this is practically a branch of the Labor party)
doing by “sinking the fiscal issue”? And why all this
row at Broken Hill because Labor-leader Watson is for
the time being prepared to join forces up to a certain
point with Deakin ?
* * * #
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers, of Queensland,
reckoning dividends, etc., on the basis of capital actually
paid (£58,333)
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1896.. £11,784 10 p.c. =£6,125 £5,659 £18,593
1897 .. 12,945 10 „ „ 6,125 6,820 25,413
1898.. 15,067 13J „ „ 8,167 6,900 32,313
1899 .. 19,456 134 ~ ~ 8,167 11,289 43,602
1900.. 24,404 15 5-Oths 9,698 14,706 58,308
1901.. 26,165 16§ „ ~10,208 15,957 74,265
1902.. 28,496 184 „ ~11,229 17,267 91.532
1903.. 26,565 234 », ~ 14,292 12,273 103,805
1904.. 23,435 25 „ ~15,313 8,122 111,927
1905 .. 26,236 36 . „ ~ 21,000 5,236 117,163
1906.. 25,697 40 „ ~ 24,500 1,197 118,360
As stated above, this is viewing the co. as still having a
paid capital of £58,333. But a little under two years ago
the co. capitalised £41,667 of reserves, issuing the
previously unallotted shares, so that officially the capital
now stands at £lOO,OOO (133,333 shares of 155.), and on
that basis the div. is at the rate of 234 per cent. For
depreciation a charge of £1421 is made against profit and
loss. This means 14 per cent, per annum on the book
value of freeholds, machinery and plant. It looks a
pretty poor allowance to be made by a co. in the days of
its great affluence. Some other figures :
1896. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Freeholds, plant, &c.. .£41,050 £94,189 £94,620 £95,126
Stocks 18,235 38,958 36,732 33,026
Loans, customers, &c.. 24,484 59,854 60,004 62,220
Cash balances .. .. 5,212 7,612 10,451 11,875
Trade creditors.. .. 9,093 21,165 14,061 13,304
Net sales 18,946 34,854 41,120 38,438
General expenses .. 6,277 10,255 13,256 11,163
General expenses include provision for bad debts; and
it is probable that with Queensland’s better times lias
come a call for smaller provision on this account. But
even if Queensland can better afford to pay, this co. is
apparently not calling upon it to do so ; for the steady
increase of loans, customers’ balances, &e., again
attracts attention. The nature of the items which
make up the total shown above is, however, in doubt.
“ Loans’’—what sort of loans? “ Bills receivable, liquid
assets, etc.” —what sort of liquid assets? The rapidly-
swollen item may be a risky one ; for a sundry debtors
item, when it mounts up so rapidly, frequently means
that not enough provision has been made forbad and
doubtful debts, and consequently that the reported
profits have been inflated. It may be so in this case ;on
the other hand, it is such a composite item that the
position may be no worse than it looks. But, anyhow,
the item can’t be better than cash, and it
can’t therefore include anything in the way of a
secret reserve. The accounts altogether, in fact,
can’t be better than they look (if figures mean anything),
and they may be not quite so good ; and that being so,
a dividend which absorbs 96 per cent, of the profits, after
an allowance of only 14 per cent, has been made for wear
and tear, is cutting things absurdly fine. Evidently the
market has a suspicion of this; likewise it may have a
hint of the possible awkward effects of co-operative
competition; anyhow, at 345. for the 15s. share, the
market is only giving a price that will return a shade
over 10 per cent.
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building Co. :
Profit Loss Total Capital
on on Loss Nomin-
Busi- Proper- for Total ally
Dec., ness. ties. year. Deficit. intact.
1896.. £16,395 £86,360
1897.. £lB7 £1,522 £1,335 17,730 85,025
Loss on
Business.
1898 .. 32 3,383 3,415 21,145 81,610
1899.. 33 2,328 2,361 23,506 79,249
1900.. 340 34,372 34,712 58,218 44,539
1901.. 562 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,254
1902.. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,887
1903 .. 89 89 63,959 38,798
1904 .. 383 1,725 2,108 66,067 36,689
1905.. 352. 236 588 60,655 36,101
Having’ during the year sold its office premises, this poor
derelict’s balance-sheet shows considerable change ; the
mortgage has been cleared off, and the debt to depositors
reduced to £48,473. For a while after the co. got into
difficulties (that was 13 years ago) depositors received
2£ per cent, interest, but for many years past they have
got nothing; and partly in that way, but mainly by
exchanging deposit receipts for properties, the liabilities
to the public (including depositors) have been reduced
from £165,766 as at Dec. 31st, 1895, to £48,943 as at Dec.
31st, 1905—a reduction of £116,823 in 10 years. In 1895
the book value of assets was £254,991. It is now
£85,045, or a reduction of £169,946. If £169,946 of assets
have wiped off £116,823 of debt, it looks quite easy for
£85,045 of assets to wipe out £48,943 of debt. How well
or how very badly things pan out depends very much
upon the depositors themselves. Almost the whole of
what is left consists of vacant lands. The net rents and
interest on time-payment sale balances last year totalled
only £617 ; and this current year rents will be less and
expenses more. So the co. will drift further and further
into debt, and the depositors will simply pay for the fun
of keeping directors, auditors, and others whom they
don’t even appoint. The co. having sold its premises,
the sooner the thing is finished off the better; there is no
visible excuse for prolonging the agony of cutting up
what is left among the remaining creditors.
* * * *
The New York Tobacco Co., formerly the
New York and Brooklyn Co. (Sydney), which began in
1897 with a deficit of £2119, represented by goodwill and
preliminary expenses:—
Applied to
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1897 .... _ £211.9
1898 .. ..£2603 10p.c.=£1625 £978 1141
1899 .. .. 1520 10 ~ ~ 1500 20 1121
1900 .. .. 2111 10 „ „ 1500 611 510
Reserves.
1901 .. .. 2318 10 „ „ 1500 818 308
1902 .. .. 1432 10 ~ „ 1500 240
Deficit.
1903 .. ..445 5 „ „ 796 ill
Loss.
1904 .. .. 1110 Written off, £458 1679
1905 .. .. 1127 ~ „ 3274 6080
In the foregoing, goodwdll and trade-marks, being
paper items, are not reckoned an asset; they were added
to, to the extent of £175 in 1904 and £l5 in 1905. This
expenditure, not being represented by tangible assets, is
in the foregoing added to the losses. It is fairly certain
that a large part of the amount shown in the last line as
written off should also be shown directly as a loss to be
charged against the year. The item is referred to as an
“accumulation of losses incurred during the former half
of the year, and in respect to previous trading, together
with the cost of cancelling arrangements then existing.”
It appears that for some time the co., believing that it
could not reach the retail trade, put the distribution of
its goods in the hands of another concern ; and the result
was disaster. Apart from the amount put to suspense and
now written off, the loss in the first six months of the year
was £l6Bl. Then the co. made up its mind that if it had
to be flattened out, it might as well be flattened
out fighting; so it took the distribution in its
own hands, and claims a profit for the second six months
of £569. With a paid capital of £17,500 the deficit of
£6OBO is a serious matter ; the one satisfactory feature is
that the heavy loss isn’t represented by debt; the liabili-
ties have been kept about where they were a year ago by
realising stock.. Present debts are £262 to the public, and
£3097 to the bank, the latter holding a mortgage over all
assets. The co. has a hard row to hoe ;if it pulls through
at all it will most likely be because the Tobacco Trust
concludes that it will pay it best to have one or two little
independent people in the trade, so as to nominally d.s-
pose of the charge that it has a monopoly. The Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. has pursued that policy with great
success ; and the plan is, apparently, recommending itself
now to the Tobacco Trust. But, at the best, tiie tender
mercies of a Trust are a doubtful lease on which to hold
life.
* • w *
Equitable Building Society (Launceston, Tas-
mania) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1900 .. . _ £12,539
1901 .. £3Bll 7 p.c. =£3282 £529 13,068
1902 .. 3630 7 „ „ 3342 288 13,356
1903 .. 3674 7 „ „ 3363 311 13,667
1904 .. 3650 7 „ „ 3270 380 14,047
1905 .. 3264 7 „ „ 2946 318 14,365
But the falling away in profits is not quite so serious a
matter as it looks, because capital has been reduced.
Still there is not the money in the business that there
was ; shareholders’ funds earned £5 7s. Id. p.c. last year
as against £5 10s. 9d. p.c. in 1904. Other movements are
shown hereunder :
1901. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Capital .. .. £50,883 £53,867 £52,273 £46,904
Deposits .. .. 83,677 63,419 59,827 61,959
Mortgages.. .. 140,453 117,742 118,166 114,162
Management .. 1,046 1,178 1,198 1,130
Interest earnings were not quite so good; but there is
still a fair margin between interest paid and received.
The former, on the mean of the deposits, is about 3J per
cent. ; the latter, s£' per cent. —both very modest
figures. And the management expenses are modest also.
• • • •
Returns and profit (or loss) from the principal
Westralian mines for FebruaryOroya-Brown Hill,
12,6470 z. gold and £39,800 profit ; Great Boulder,
12,4800 z. and £27,300; Great Fingall, 10,6090 z. and
£23,000; Horseshoe, 12,6400 z. and £22,600; Ivanhoe,
IO.OOOoz. and £21,000 ; Perseverance, 73320 z. and £18,200 ;
Kalgurli, 60850 z. and £15,600; Associated Northern,
33000 z. and £10,300 ; South Kalgurli, 30120 z. and £4600 ;
Associated, 43500 z. and £3200 ; L.V. Consols, 34050 z. and
£1500; Hainault, 15300 z. and £1500; Sons of Gwalia,
51900 z. and £9750; Tower Hill, 19220 z. and £2200;
Menzies Consols, 9350 z. and £1360 ; Red Hill, 7230 z. and
£920 ; Ida H., 9440 z. and £BOO ; Greenmount, 5150 z. and
£630 ; Cosmopolitan, 20410 z and £BOO ; Bellevue, 14540 z.
and £4OO ; North Feather, 6140 z. and £370 ; Golden Pole,
10260 z. and £290 ; Golden Ridge, 5270 z. and £LOO. Loss :
Merton’s Reward, 7720 z. and £7BO ; Princess Royal, 5770 z.
and £5OO ; Craiggiemore, 288 oz. and £390 ; Vivien, 4570 z.
and £80; and Fast Murchison United, 13960 z. and £1450.
February being a short month, most of the outputs and
profits show declines. Great Fingall shows a decline of
11720 z. and £6OOO. But Oroya shows an increase profit of
£2lOO, Horseshoe of £lOOO, Gwalia of £l9OO, and Red Hill
of £5OO.
•* * » *
Great Boulder has at last published monthly
costs, although not locally. Total is 305., exclusive of
London exes., div. and income-tax—say ss. a ton, making
in all 355. Ivanhoe and Horseshoe include everything in
their costs, and they work out at 275. 6d. arid 295. 6d.
respectively. Boulder’s ore reserves on December
31st were estimated at 453,600 tons, worth 855.,
as against 379,200 tons, worth 965., a year pre-
viously. Last year’s actual results only averaged
about 745., while, for this year, the average so far
is only 70s. Either the gold contents are over-valued, or
stated in bullion, or the extraction is poor. It may be
taken for granted the tonnage of reserves is conserva-
tively estimated whatever may be said of the contents,
and that there is quite three years’ supply in sight. The
developments from the 800 ft. and 1000 ft. levels of Hamil-
ton’s shaft continue satisfactory, and a large amount of
ore is being developed there, which is not included in
reserves. Diamond drilling is also-going on at the 1200 ft.
level.
* » * •
Holders of Lake View Consols extra shares
created in August 1902 may not have known that, owing
to the deal in Broken Hill South Blocks, two calls have
been made. These shares were issued with ss. called up,
and since then a further 10s. has been called, the last
ss. due on Feb. 16. No public announcement of the fact
has been made in Australia; and, consequently, holders
of this scrip may have had them forfeited without any
notice whatever. Another somewhat similar case is that
of the Lancefield (W.A.), which created 100,000 shares to
provide a new plant to treat the refractory sulphide ore.
Three shillings per share was called up in Dec. and Jan.,
and a third call of 3s. was due on Feb. 28, and the last
call of 3s. was payable at the end of March. Here, too,
the English directors seem to have had the idea that
Australian holders could be ignored and treated with
contempt.
On June 30, 1905, manager Judd, of Merton’s
Reward (W.A.), estimated the ore reserves at 76,000 tons,
worth 30s. From then up to the end of the year he
treated 20,000 tons, averaging 325. 9d., at a cost of
28s. Id., showing a total profit of about £5OOO. Judd then
reckoned his reserves at 126,000 tons, or nearly four
years’ supply. But his sanguine anticipations have hot
been fulfilled, as the January return showed only 275. 9d.,
and the profit earned was £5OO, while the February
return dropped to 21s. lOd. per ton, which meant a loss
of £BOO. There are 30 head of stamps, but, owing to
scarcity of water, only 15 to 20 have worked. It is now
proposed to increase the milling power to 50 head, and to
arrange for a full water supply. Unless the grade of
ore can be improved, the outlook is sick. Kaufmann, the
largest holder, is expected on the property in May, when
a policy is to be decided upon.
* * * •
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, has had an ex-
perience. Manager Hocking sent 100 tons to Boulder
No. 1 mill, where previous parcels had been treated.
Hocking reckoned on about 10dwt., but, after running
through about half of it, he was disappointed with results,
closed down, and cleaned up for less than 3dwt. The
balance of the parcel, some 53 tons, was then carted to
another mill, and panned out at BJdwt. The late Capt.
Rodda had some of his oxidised ore from the Associated
Northern treated at the same mill, which has since been
closed down, and he didn’t get wbat he expected either.
It is quite possible that previous manager Johnson and
Tom Hewitson have been wrongly blamed, owing to the
failure of the battery to save their goldL
* * * «
Fremantle Smelter (W.A.), paid a Is. div., or
£5OOO, on Feb. 28. This is the third div. for the financial
year 1905-6. Still the profit is not a patch on the previous
year, when it made £68,786 and paid 16s. 8d
per share in divs. The Horseshoe is now sending very
little ore to the smelters. Its treatment costs have fallen
to 295. 6d. per ton. Incidentally also note how the
Fremantle Smelter profits have fallen.
* * * *
White Feather Reward and Main Reefs, Ka-
nowna (W.A.), have been amalgamated. New co. has a
capital of 300,000 shares, on which there is an assessment
of Is. 6d., equivalent to £22,500. Shareholders are en-
titled to apply for one new share for each old one. As a
new main shaft will have to be sunk, and the battery
removed to a new site, even if all the shares are applied
for, the working capital is inadequate. The reef is
patchy, and the pay shoots short, so the concern can
only be looked on as a gamble.
* * * , •
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.), has
been looking rather better at the bottom (614 ft.) level.
The first 20ft. north was worthless. From 20ft. to 90ft.
the reef averaged sft. wide, worth sdwt. ; but from 90ft.
to 170 ft. the average for 4Jft. wide was 20dwt. The mine
is, however, worked too much from hand to mouth to
ever do much good, and it is so patchy that such a system
may be deadly. During January the mill treated 1785 tons
of 31s. 3d. ore for a loss of £3OO, while in February only 1010
tons were milled worth 425. 2d. pfr ton, and the profit
realised was £370. As showing the erratic nature of the
returns, it is worth noting that, in December, a profit of
£2lOO was realised from 1770 tons of ore worth 555. 4d.
per ton.


Three Friends
I®
The Best
Tobacco
on
Earth.
376 George St. f Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St, Sydney
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agfent.
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining- properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* #
The balance of Machinery and Plant at Block
14, Co. Works, Port Adelaide, is for Sale by Tender,
returnable 24th April, 1906. Lists on application to
Butterworth, Hancock & Co., Port Adelaide.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 PUt St., SYDNEY appliances prop | TIV 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL .
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEFLASTRIER, Managing Director.
ROBEY
The pumping difficulties which many mines
have to contend with sometimes develop into a scare which
tends to knock shares out of the market. The A. S.
Cameron Steam or Air Pumps, have saved many
precarious situations by their ability to handle water,
even gritty or aciduous without fear of the pumps getting
out of order. Broken Hill Mines, the Mt. Lyell, and other
leading coys, have recognised the great value of Cameron
pumps in their simplicity, strength and durability under
all conditions, whether driven by compressed air or
steam. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne—the Sole
Agents—are continually supplying Boilerfeeding, Piston,
Horizontal, and Vertical Plunger Pumps from their
stocks. Mining requisites are specially catered for.*
* * * ■»
Important notice to mine managers and others.
The High Court having decided that the Wilfley patents
are invalid, the threats held over buyers of concentrators
for so long are idle. Having at very great expense fought
the battle of the mining industry against monopoly, we
look for a fair measure of support from mill owners and
others, whose sympathy we invoke. All we ask them to
do is to satisfy‘themselves of the superiority of the Card
concentrators and adopt them. The great merits of the
Card are now pretty well known, and the points of
superiority over every other Table understood. Anew
booklet may now be had, giving the latest information
and evidence of its superiority. N. Guthridge, Ltd.,
263 George-street, Sydney ; Collins-street, Melbourne.
* * i
The West Austealian (Perth), of 2nd June,
1905, wrote as follows re the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited The policy-holders of the
Colonial Mutual have good reason to be satisfied with the
administration of the Society, which now possesses an
annual income of £455,000 and accumulated funds exceed-
ing £2,920,000.”*
° * * * »
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby”
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * * »
It is extraordinary that with all the rapid
advance made in recent years in mining appliances, the
gravity stamp mill, which is as old as the hills, should
still be generally used for crushing ore. At last its
supremacy is threatened by a new invention which will
effect a revolution in mill equipment. This machine is
Richards’ Patent Rapid Economy Stamp Mill, which is
guaranteed to crush more ore in a given time, to consume
less power.per stamp, and to save a greater percentage of
values than any Gam mill in the world. It strikes a live
blow of 200 strokes per minute, as against the 100 dead
drops of the Cam mill. All interested should study the
merits of this invention before laying out money in the
old style mill. N. Guthridge, Ltd., sole agents, Sydney
and Melbourne.
* * • •
A 15 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Tanjong Rambutan Syndicate of the Federated
Malay States. The plant is similar in design to those now
working at the Pioneer and Briseis Extended Tin Mines in
Tasmania. The 15 inch gravel pump will be of the latest
and most approved design, very strong and massive, and
will be driven by a vertical compound condensing engine,
self-contained and of 250 I.H.P. The centrifugal nozzle
pump will be driven by a separate vertical compound
engine and will be capable of discharging about 4000
gallons of water per minute with a pressure equal to a
head of 112 ft. An Edwards type of air pump, a surface
condenser, and an electric lighting plant will be provided.
Mr. T. R. Toby is the engineer representing the Syndicate
and the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Mel-
bourne, is designing and manufacturing the plant.* [c
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.* * ♦ ,
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbisrg and Co., 443 Bourke*
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Recent reports from America show that the
Sperry Vanning Buddie is rapidly proving itself to be
greatly ahead of any other Slimer. In addition to its
great merits as a treater of slimes, it is a very simple,
strongly constructed machine, and very inexpensive in the
matter of repairs. In other slimers the cost of renewals
is a serious matter. Full particulars of this valuable
invention may be had from the Sole Agents, N. Guthridge,
Ltd. Sydney and Melbourne.
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * »
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
• • * •
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * • *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
begs to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will be advised in due course.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
The late George Lansell, of Bendigo, used
to tell of a dream in which be journeyed to the
main entrance of Heaven. St. Peter put the usual
question as to applicant’s title to a mansion in the
slues. “ Well,” said Lansell, reflectively, “ I paid
calls on Eureka stocks for forty years.” He was
passed in immediately. TheEurekastill announces
calls for the benefit of other patient persons who
wish to qualify for a reserved seat near the Tall
Pale Throne.
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Coolgardie, which was
closed down in October, after an inglorious career, is in
the hands of tributors. Co., since reconstruction,
ran the mill four months, and treated-8500 tons for a loss
of £lBOO, the ore averaging 6dwt. During February
tributors treated 1100 tons for 6660 z., or over 12dwt. ; one
party averaged £22, and another £2l 10s. a week per
man. Someone blundered, or this sort of thing could not
have happened. The tributors had no time for develop-
ment, and must have worked ore more or less exposed
by the co.
» * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), made a poor
showing for February ; 90 tons treated yielded only 48oz.
fine—a farcical result for a mine that employs such a staff
as this one does. Except for patches the mine is worth-
less, and even the patches are few and far between.
Waihi, Davyhurst (W.A.), has lost Manager
Watt, who has taken charge of the adjoining Homeward,
which was recently floated in Calcutta. Watt is a first-
rate metallurgist, but that isn’t all that is wanted for a
gambling counter like the Waihi. February’s return
from the mine panned out 5930 z. from 1075 short tons,
and showed a loss of £lOO. There are any amount of
reefs and leaders in the property, but the quartz only
occurs in bunches, and is erratic. Mine can hardly become
a div.-payer, but with managers of a sort scrippers may
get a lot of excitement for their money.
* * * »
Broken Hill butchers’ bill for 1905 was a frac-
tion over the average —20 men killed. Accidents seem to
be most numerous in stopes where “ bulks ” are used, and
fewest in “ square-set ” stopes. There has been much
argument over the question of how to timber big lodes,
but there should be enough statistics now to settle the
question. In 1897, after the Block 12 fire, they adopted
the “ tom and headboard system,” drawing all the timber
after the stope had been mullocked, and using it over
again. This meant a big saving in the timber bill, and
also provided an effective fire-break ; but it also meant
heavy loss of life through falls of ground. Next was tried
the “rill set” system—i.e., tapered legs and cap, and
lathing-over between the sets, all timber being drawn
and used again. Still the slaughter went on. Next they
tried light sets on the principle of the “ square set ” ; but
the timber was too weak to be of any use, so they went
back to the old 10 x 10 square sets in friable or tricky
ground, and underhand - stoped them. In machine
stopes and in a few hand-labor stopes where the
ground is hard they still stick to the “bulks,” and
it is at such places that a very heavy proportion of the
accidents through falls of ground have occurred. At in-
quests, evidence is always tendered by co.’s and inspectors
re the safety of the bulk system ; but it is significant that,
as soon as a stope becomes too bad to work with bulks,
they swing square sets into it, and beat it out, usually
without any trouble or loss of life. They have got the
timber-bill down now to almost vanishing point in some
B.H. mines ; but a wary eye will have to be kept on the
butcher’s bill. Men may be cheaper than timber ; but
there’s some absurd prejudice against allowing even rich
co.’s to use them up too fast. >
* * * *
B.H. Junction North is as thorough a gamble
as anything in Australia. The unknown thing is the
state of the shaft below 400 ft. as the result of the pouring
in of water to quench the Junction fire. Soon after
the crosscut, now being driven, is finished, that point
should be settled. If the shaft has caved in, the stock
will see 15s. or less ; if it hasn’t, it will spring to 275. 6d.—
unless the metal markets play a nasty sudden trick
meantime.
* * * *
The weak Adelaide crowd at the back of the
Junction, Broken Hill, which (in consequence of the fire)
has had to start calls again, is nearly worn out. Amalga-
mation with Junction North is therefore talked of once
more. Recent events have proved over again that the
two ought to be one. There are 200,000 shares of 10s. in
the Junction, paid now to Bs. 6d. (sixpenny call out-
standing). At ss. 6d. this means £55,000 for the mine.
Wretched as its immediate outlook is, this makes the
Junction the cheapest thing on the Barrier; for, as a
position claim alone, it is almost unique.
* * * •*
“Fitful ” : Ever seen the effects of pyroligneous
gas when breathed in a confined space? They are
various and curious. The first Block 12 fire broke out on
a Sunda3 r morning, and by 3 p.m. all the available doctors
in Broken Hill were collected at Dickenson’s shaft in
attendance on the affected fire-fighters as they were
brought up from below. Some were carried out like
dead men, white and motionless. Others groaned in
uncontrollable anguish, or were deadly sick, while some
looked about them with a bewildered air as if
they had arrived under an open sky for the first time.
One tall, elderly chap with a long serious face
stepped briskly from the cage, and started
walking round and round in a circle with an air
of purposeful decision, and wasn’t too well pleased
when a medico crossed his orbit and led him away. On
some the gas has all the effects of a costly “ jag,” even to
the realistic suffering of a recovery afterwards. You will
see ’Lias Pascoe, who on the Sabbath day wears the black
(logger of a Wesleyan life and expounds the Word at his
little Bethel, emerge from the shaft with his cap set at a
devil of an angle and the glint of a consummate razzle-
(lazzle in his eye. He is as irresponsible and happy as
though he were full of beer and sin, and if left to himself
would stand an admirable chance of falling to the lot of
some vigilant “ John.” All the effect of pyroligneous gas.
* » • *
The men who are trying to force holders of
mineral conditional purchases in N.S.W. to either work
the ground themselves or let others in are not getting
much public encouragement. Trouble started at Lloyd’s,
Burraga; some of the people interested in that once
great old mine proposed to raise Cain because trustees of
Hockey’s estate, their neighbors, who have a possiblo
mine, won’t make terms with them. But apparently the
Fat man bethinks him of the sacred rights of Prop-
puty, and the working miners are now practically the
only people left who haven’t dropped the business as
though it were an unpleasant virtue. The Lloyd Co.
is probably beginning to remember that it has four 80-
acre M.C.P.’s itself. Same with most other copper-
mining people throughout the State. But for that the
Amending Mining Bill, introduced some time ago, might
have had a chance of going through. Meantime, if
Lloyd’s can’t get another mine, its future is apparently
Mud. For two years it has been steadily going back;
and the recent development in one of the northern
blocks, on which the local people have been feeding their
hopes, is of comparatively small account. At the best,
at about 75ft., it consists of much quartz and little ore.
And the chances are that, poor as it is now, it will do the
same as the other bodies have done in the lower levels.
• * * *
The attention of some Victorian mining men
has been directed to an extensive area of deep alluvial
deposits near Rockley (N.S.W.). The shallower ground
on each side of the lead has been worked by co-operative
parties, with results which must have been satisfactory,
judging from the large amount of tunnelling which has
been done. It was only recently that any attempt was
made to test the deeper ground, all the old tunnels
having been put in at too shallow a ve * D’
tap it. The party which is working in the deep
tunnel has not yet touched the deepest part of the
gutter, which seems to be from 400 ft. to 500 ft. wide. The
washings of this party, from dirt taken out in following
down about 200 ft. on the slope of the gutter, are said to
have averaged 6dwt. of gold per load. Writer recently
inspected the show, which is now under offer to men who
thoroughly understand this class of mining.
* » » *
Further important changes are pending in
Bewick-Moreing’s Australian control.
* * * *
Died, John Ferguson, a big holder of Mount
Morgan (Q.) stock. Lately the market has been watching
him nervously ; he was hovering on the edge of a decision
to sell out, and that would have meant a tumble. It is
pretty certain the shares will be passed out now ; and,
though they won’t be thrown at the market, it means
that the upward movement in Mount Morgans is stopped.
* * * *
Queensland Workers’ Compensation Act, now
in operation, is being blamed up North for everything
but the rainfall. (The Philp party practically claims
credit for that.) When the Aldershot Works announced
that they would close down on the 31st March, the
Workers’ Compensation Act, to become operative on the
following day, was publicly assigned as the cause.
Last week the New Ravenswood, Ltd., mine put
off 84 men, and again the Act and the Labor Premier
were maligned ; but Laurence Wilson promptly slaugh-
tered the tale by stating that the reduction of hands was
merely a temporary expedient, and the Act had nothing
to do' with it. No doubt we shall presently hear the
reason for the closing down of Aldershot. Co.
keeps too quiet for it to be attributable to a
thing that affects it so little as a Compensa-
tion Act. On Gympie the Act promises to be
practically frustrated by the reduction of wages, already
effected by all but a dozen co.’s. Gympie miners are
apparently too slow to avail themselves of the law’s pro-
tection. Generally speaking, the big employers of
Queensland are not worrying greatly over the Act. Half
of them hope to make the workmen pay the premium ;
the other half are passing their risks on to the accident
insurance co.’s. Meantime, the whole question of insur-
ance having been raised, the Queensland Labor people
propose to consider within the next few weeks the estab-
lishment of a State insurance department, to take fire,
accident, and workmen’s compensation business for a
start.
• * * *
Lionel Robinson, on his way back to London
via ’Frisco, interviewed Premier Kidston in Brisbane
about the Cloncurry railway. Robinson’s business obvi-
ously was to obtain an assurance that the Government
would carry the line right on to Cloncurry, and that
being accomplished, private enterprise, if the Government
preferred it, would connect with Hampden (47 miles),
thence with Mount Elliott (16 miles), and also construct a
north-westerly line of about 80 miles to Mount Cuthbert.
But Kidston, as usual, was not to be hustled into any
promises, and stated that it was a matter of several years
before the line would reach Cloncurry, and future action
depended upon the way the field turned out. It might pay
the State to make extensions to the mines on its own
account. This reply evidently frightened soriie of the Mel-
bourne “ investors ” (all Melbourne people are investors) ;
but Minister for Railways Denham, i nter viewed in that city
by Queen-street, put everybody in a good mood again by
saying, in his own enthusiastic, irresponsible manner,
that the survey of the second section was under way—
wherefore everything was right, and the railway would
be at Cloncurry in the mornin’. All the same, Kidston’s
caution is right. Even if everything goes swimmingly,
and the mines open up well, it will probably be three
years before a locomotive runs to time at Cloncurry.
* *■* * *
Rutter Clarke tried hard to get Lionel Robin-
son interested in O.K. (N.Q.); but he passed on. His
hands were full. The fact is, some of Robinson’s ad-
visers have been spoiled ; but the North Queenslander
crowd which has most to do with the O.K. isn’t used to
bowing down and worshipping. And that hurts.
* * * *
Curious to notice how the Knox-Schlapp
element has forsaken the Chillagoe-Etheridge scheme ;
likewise Bewick, Moreing and Co. Yet perhaps it is not
curious, but merely an indicator. The first element
went out early during the ore-shortage revelations.
Bewick-Moreing dropped their Etheridge bundle when
they ascertained that the State did not intend to raise
the money for the line. Those who have remained loyal
to the Etheridge scheme will have to hurry up if they
desire any subscription from Australia, otherwise most of
the loose speculative cash will have been drawn into
Cloncurry ventures, where, according to Lionel Robin-
son, the chairman of Mt. Lyell Co. and chairman of the
B.H. Prop loom large.
* » * *
About time something was heard of the money-
required for Etheridge (N.Q.) railway. The Warden at
Georgetown is busy receiving applications for leases from
all parts of the.district, and both copper and silver-lead
shows have been taken up adjacent to the Almaden sur-
vey track. Finds are likely enough, but there is just a.
suspicion that many are being squatted on pending the
little boom that will be attempted when the railway
money is subscribed. W. H. Woodhead, who found the
Einasleigh railway a bit too heavy for him, has taken up
the Einasleigh South Blocks, previously a Melbourne
proposition. He evidently does not want anybody else on
that field—at least at present. Perhaps they will not
come in later, when they will be wanted.
* * * *
The Stockholm proposition was put in a carpet
bag at Charters Towers and hawked through Australia,
and then on to J. Bull, without eliciting a bid. Varied
were the tales poured into the shy public’s ear of the
wealth hidden in the 40-acre lease. For once the mining
promoters spoke the truth ; but they may be let off with
a caution, for they knew not what they said. When the
old Brilliant P.C. at Charters Towers was handed over to
tributors the co.’s reserve fund was sunk in prospecting
ventures. No less than £20,000 went into Plant’s
Deep; and all there is to show for that is the
most elaborate surface equipment on the field, a hole
in the ground, and six months’ exemption. Then the
Stockholm lease of 40 acres was purchased for £500; a
three-chambered shaft was put down to 520 ft., and it
disclosed 10ft. of stone, assaying from lOdwt. to 3oz. per
ton, the top section being the poorer. The Stockholm
reef was worked some 10 years ago in the shallow ground,
and was reported to have gone into the footwall.
Stone is similar to that worked in the olden days ; but
the chances are that this 10ft. is only a blow, and that
the correct thing is still lower down and just as erratic as
ever. Sinking is still proceeding in the reef, which is
dipping at an angle of 60deg., and 50 tons are on top to be
crushed immediately the shaft is through the reef. There
is nothing sehsational about the assay returns—lOdwt. to
3oz. for a 10ft. reef will probably clean up 14dwt. Under
present conditions cartage for five miles and crushing will
swallow 6dwt. to Bdwt. Co. is in 250,000 shares, and Bull
is selling ; there are only 12,000 shares on the Australian
register. Co. has no crushing appliances of its own ; but
if the stone lives that should be easily remedied.
* * * *
Returns from Kelly’s Block, Charters Towers —
1077 tons for 18580 z., worth £6503. Concentrates sold
for £2634, residues £lO5O ; total £lO,lBB, equal to £9 9s.
per ton. A dividend of 6d., amounting to £3600, has been
declared, and another is in hand.
• * * •
Developments at the New Dawn, Gympie (Q.),
will be watched with interest. The lease is on the
southern end of the field, a good deal south of the Ingle-
wood dyke. Nothing decisive has, so far, been discovered
of the Monkland slates, and consequently of the gold to
the south of this dyke. A 10-head battery has been
erected at the Dawn, and crushing was to have started
this month ; but neither mine nor battery is quite ready
yet. The show deserves fair handling, for by many it
will be taken as a test of the southern part of the field.
In the early days, 30 years ago, some good crushings are
reported to have been taken out by the original Dawn co.
Haven’t they got off all the shares in that pre-
cious St. George Copper and Coal Mines, Limited (Q-),
yet ? It doesn’t look like it; for a Northern correspon-
dent reports that he has just received a prospectus.
It was mentioned six weeks ago that the public was in-
vited to bite, because—“The well-known O.K. copper
mine lies about 30 miles away, in a southerly direction.
The Bulletin is assured by a man who knows ms
North Queensland like a book that it is 70 miles at least,
so a bad excuse for asking for the public’s money begins
to look about ten times worse. Further, said the pros-
pectus—“ One of the chief assets in connection with the
leases are the coal deposits.” He those deposits, Govern-
ment Geologist Rands said in 1893: —“ I regret not to be
able to report favorably on the probabilities of the Little
River as a payable coalfield. In the first place the coal is
inferior in quality ; secondly, the seams, being perpendi-
lar, or nearly so,' the cost of mining the coal would be
great. Then the distance from the nearest port, Cook-
town, about 100 miles, of which only 67J miles are covered
by rail, would not allow of competition with coal from the
southern fields, except for railway purposes, unless the
coal were of superior quality.”
« « * *
Cybele tin (Tas.) took a bit of pushing off; but
it is reported floated. Already, however, there is talk of
working the claim otherwise than by dredging ; and the
market is beginning to wonder, from this, whether those
profits are as certain as they looked in the prospectus.
» * * *
Adelaide seems to be having an epidemic of
cheeky mining prospectuses. Here is one of the Enfield
Sluicing Co., to work ground near Ballarat (Vic.). Of
16,000 shares the vendors take ?10,000 fully paid. Then
of £3000 capital paid up, they take £1500 ; and after that
it is set forth that the vendors have spent some money on
the property, and it is to be repaid. But perhaps this
isn’t Adelaide’s fault; for the vendors appear to be
Ballarat people. And any city-that reckons to get much
meat off the bone that Ballarat throws out is very liable
to be disappointed. *
A.H. : (1) Prospects poor. (2) Hang on
F.G.D. : The co. is in the hands of a crowd of market
spielers—that is all that is the matter Haroun : Yarn
that the problem of zinc extraction has been solved is
three-quarters perjury. They are still groping after a
solution. The extra dividends and bonuses that have
lately been paid by Broken Hill co.’s are not the proceeds
of zinc-treatment; they are the proceeds of payments
made by a co. which hopes to make money by zinc-treat-
ment. The best that has been done so far is to show a
very few shillings per ton profit out of stuff carrying, say,
£9 worth of metal ; and that at the present top of the
metal market.
* * * *
A prospector sent along this query lately, and
it came treading on the tail of some others much like it:
“Can I make this pay—Quartz and mostly arsenical
pyrites, with some iron (from 1 to 25 per cent.), no lead
and copper, containing 18dwt. gold (very little free) per
ton ; reef about ISin. wide in very easy country ? And
how ? ” But in this, as in nearly all such cases, information
isn’t precise enough or sufficient to make an opinion worth
much. In the absence of an analysis, and assuming that the
arsenic goes over 10 p.c., such a show may be set down as
a concentrating and roastingand chlorinatingproposition,
and not too attractive at that unless local conditions for
concentration are favorable. Victorians have had more
experience with auriferous arsenical ore than any others
in Australia. At Bethanga the ore is like this : Silica,
30’4 per cent. ; iron, 27"4; copper, 1'85 ; arsenic, 12-3 ;
sulphur, 19-5 : gold, loz. 12dwt. per ton. After trying
many processes (including smelting), the following sur-
vives :—Crush, put through ball mill, roast in reverbera-
tory furnaces (arsenic fumed into chamber), salt added at
last stage of roast, gold dissolved out by Dr. Blade's solu-
tion, copper also precipitated out with scrap iron. In
above, however, they do not concentrate, and have
copper,; so that perhaps does not apply to the case in
view. Another case: Oassilis (Gippsland), which contains
arsenical pyrites, iron pyrites, lead sulphide, zinc
blende, a little antimony and copper, and gold.
. This is submitted to crushing, concentrating, roasting,
amalgamation (of free gold), and chlorination. Then
there is the Maude and Homeward Bound (Vic.). The
stone is a bluish quartz, carrying arsenical pyrites, iron
pyrites, antimony sulph., with silver sulphide and gold.
Here, owing to a peculiarity in crystallisation, concen-
tration is difficult. As mineral is only from 3 to 5 per
cent., and there is apparently a good deal of gold in the
free state, they crush the lot, amalgamate (no roasting),
concentrate, re-grind (Berdan pans), passing the sands
over Halley tables and Luhrig vanners, and the slimes
into a Spitzkasten and then over the Frue vanners.
Lately the sands have been successfully cyanided. But
when a man has a complex pyrites ore his best plan,
in order to test the applicability of his ore to modern
methods, is to send a 10-ton parcel to, say, the
Edwards pyrite works, Ballarat, or Jaques Brothers, at
Richmond (Vic.). Afterwards, if necessary, he can work
out the process upon local conditions.
Probably’ the scheme hasn’t been tried up to
now, but it might be worth the while of somebody
with a big arsenical gold body to make a fairly rich
concentrate, going, say, 50 p.c. arsenic and 3 or 4oz. gold
per ton. He might be able to find a payable market
in Europe; it is possible that this trade, as with the
Broken Hill leady concentrates, might be developed
in Germany, of course. Germany is the chief
source of the ‘world’s supply of arsenic, whose principal
use is in Paris green, pigments, preserving skins and
woods, dyeing, calico printing, vermicides, and glass
manufacture. Australia wants all these things; and
when it gets the right tariff it will be able to use its own
arsenic instead of sending it up the stack.
* * * *
Australian fire insurance offices were not hit
disastrously by the fire at Edwards-Dunlop’s, spreading
to Stedman’s, Sydney, on the morning of March 31st.
Like most of the goods in that quarter of the city the
bulk of the fire policies were imported; and the Royal,
Aachen and Munich, North British, and a few other
foreign offices have been struck for about £100,000. The
Royal is the heaviest loser ; and the loss would have been
much heavier still if the fire had not been beaten back from
the Grand Central Coffee Palace, over which it has a policy
of £26,000, partly, however, covered by re-insurances.
Australian insurance losses are mainly through Stedman’s
disaster; apparently as an Australian manufacturer
Stedman had an idea that it is a good thing to encourage
Australian institutions, and directed his insurance broker
accordingly. He sells his goods in Australia, and pro-
bably sees "that the less money he sends out of Australia
the better business he is likely to do. As mentioned just
now the fire occurred on March 31st. If it had occurred
24 hours later it would have made considerable difference
in the allocation of the risks. Such is the luck of under-
writing. ,
Lately a body of Melbourne experts, testing 122
exhibits in the dark, so to speak, placed Australian wines
first in five classes—hock, chablis, claret, burgundy,
madeira—with four seconds and two thirds, the imported
wines coming simply nowhere. In port and sherry, how-
ever the foreign liquors beat the Australian out of hand.
But’no matter how good the Australian wine, so long as
the merchant demands 10s. for a bottled gallon (he pays
the grower 2s. 3d), there isn’t much hope of its being a
popular drink. » * *


WATSON’S WHISKY
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents. 1
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 George St. f
SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
“Homo”: Re women-fcoilers (“Falcler,”
B. 22/2/’00). I knew, years ago, a large Bungaree
(Vic.) farmer who never employed any man-labor,
except at threshing time. He had a family of
daughters (eight was the maximum), who could
plough, and sow, and reap, and mow, and accom-
plish all the 101 arts and crafts of the farm as well
as any man—better, in fact, for they gave the
work their whole attention and didn’t waste
valuable time in smoking or reading The Bul-
letin, or other reprehensible practices, as men do.
He started as a small cocky, and Mrs. Cocky proved
an able coadjutrix, and handled a plough or an axe
with perfect grace and ease. At first Mr. and Mrs.
Cocky comprised the whole staff. In the fulness
of time, as the staff increased, so did their landed
Eossessions, by the purchase of adjacent holdings.
t was a common thing to see Mrs. Cocky driving
the reaper (that was before reapers and binders
became so general), with the eldest daughter
delivering, and the rest of the staff binding and
keeping the machine going at high pressure in
heavy crops. In slack times, the girls would slog
loads of firewood and hawk them for sale in the
streets of Ballarat; while at ploughing, carting-in
the crop, stacking, etc., they excelled everything.
OBVIOUS.
BOOZER BILL: “Say, Billy, some of those pictures
cost thousands of pounds.”
BILLY THE WRECH : “ You wouldn't catch me
givin' it for them.”
“ Sag ” : “ Uckle’s” melancholy recital of
heat-happenings at Wyalong (B. l/3/’OG) reminds
me of an overplus of summer climate being put to
really practical use. On a little mine about three
miles this side of Hades, on the North Coolgardie
goldfields, they had a portable engine which stood
out in the open ; and they never used a stick of
firewood for her in the summer. The driver
would get matters ship-shape as the sun was
rising, and before it had been up an hour things
would be sizzling in the boiler. So my informant
told me, one red night in Coolgardie. He said
he had worked on that mine for six months. His
job was to ladle the gold from a race as the sun
melted it out of the dump.
ELEPHANTS—WHITE AND BLACK.
The solution of the Northern Territory problem lies in a supply of cheap labor. By this means alone is it
possible to transform this great “white elephant” into a valuable national asset.— Tory Press.
A white elephant is bad, certainly, but The Bulletin prefers a tame white elephant to a
wild black one any day.
“ Gip ” : Why are bush girls so stolid?
Why aren’t they bright, like town girls ? I have
been eighteen months in the bush, and I haven’t
met a slim, graceful girl with an elastic step and
b#ght voice yet. And they’re as plentiful as
grass seeds in the city. Is it too much sheep and
cow that makes them heavy and hairy-faced and
thick-ankled ? And is it because they don’t read,
and have no matinees to go to and no actors to
worship, that they can’t converse, and only drawl
things about the weather. Even frills and boys
don’t seem to interest them much.
“Homo”: I hasten to agree with
“ C.X.G.” (B. 22/2/’O6) that goats are hard to kill,
and the younger they are, the harder.
We used to keep some when I was
a boy, and occasionally assassinated
a young one for home consumption.
I’ve frequently known goat junior
to frisk around the yard, with the
severed windpipe making a pecu-
liarly weird and gruesome accom-
paniment, after he had been decapi-
tated per knife and axe. The adult
goat was not so hard to decease,
if scientifically slain, but gave
more trouble after being cooked.
We traded off a venerable nanny
once, in part liquidation of a vege-
table debt, to an old gardener who
was something of a hermit, and saw
or heard no more of him or Nan for
a week. Then a report was circu-
lated of a very dead hermit being
found in his hut. He had been
ascertained in a sitting posture
behind the table with an alleged
mutton bone firmly clutched in
his hands and the remains of an un-
finished meal before him. The post
mortem showed that his neck was
broken. There were no signs of
foul play, and it wasn’t feasible,
with his back to the wall, that any-
one could have struck him from
behind. We understood, though, and
felt like murderers, but held pur peace.
He had broken his neck trying to bite
that goat.
“ Itan ” : I recently saw a carpet snake,
10ft. long, in the Lands Office, Brishane. It con-
tained an undigested wallaby. The body where
the food lay measured 2ft. in circumference. The
reptile was so satisfied with his catch that he
could scarcely be made to lift his head even when
pushed with a stick. The officers talked snake
all day, and asked questions. How could the
thing swallow the wallaby, for its head was only
about 3in. across ? How did it catch the wallaby,
generally a pretty elusive individual in the scrub ?
How long would it take to digest the wallaby ?
Would it Avake up and eat again before next
spring if left in the bush ? An officer explained
the catching process. The snake got on to the
limb of a tree over the scrub path where the mar-
supials travelled for Avater, and fell on its prey as
the latter hopped along. He said he saw one
drop on to a dog in this fashion, and he had some
difficulty in releasing the canine. The “carpet ”
is going to London.
“ Grey steel ” : Not generally known that
the Japanese shimose powder is largely made
from Australian “ grass-tree ” gum. Xanthorrhcea
hnstilio, the “yellow flowering spear-bearer,” is so
named from the tall lance-like shaft that springs
from its crown of spiky leaves, and from the color
of the gum found beneath the scale-like coating of
the stem. This gum is rich in nitro-phenol, or
carbazotic acid (not differing materially from
picric acid, the salts of which, such as picrate
of potash, are all violently explosive). The gum,
which is also locally used as the basis of various
curative ingredients, brings from £lO to £25 a
ton, according to quality and care in preparation.
* * * *
“Remo”: Can any
aboliar state definitely
how long sheep can do
without water? A West-
ern man has informed me
that at Brixton (Central
Q.) a selector left 70 sheep
(which were too weak to
move) on his holding.
Absolutely the only water
in the paddock was a drop
at the bottom of a 60-foot
well. Six weeks later
(after rain had fallen) he
went back to his selection
and found 30 sheep alive.
For six weeks those ani-
mals were without water,
unless they contrived to
climb down and up that
60-foot well. Have heard
old squatters state that
sheep do not need Avater
at all if feed is plentiful.
The drinking habit they
have acquired by having
been supplied freely with
the fluid. I have myself
noticed the almost entire
absence of sheep at the
waterholes in the good
seasons, but in drought
time they seem to live (or
rather die) on water.
Some Australian naturalists have been
telling this to the Daily Mail
Of the wallabies, the most interesting are the “nail
tails.” At the end of the tail is a strong nail, chisel-
shaped, which the animal, in its native wilds, when about
to retire for the night, digs into the withered crass, and
then running round and round in a lessening circle
gathers together a heap of material, under which it
sleeps.
Any abo-liar met this animal gyrating around
like G. H. Reid ?
“ Steel Silver ” : He the bonanza that is
found once by a stray prospector, but never again
located. Woods Point district (Vic.) sports two
or three of these. One alleged marvel was found
back in the fifties near Mt. Useful by a prospector
who was lost. This man was missing for some
time, and a search party found him at last at
Connor’s Plains near the head of a branch of the
Mac Alister River. He was in the last stages of
exhaustion when discovered, but they managed to
bring him round. He had with him a bag of
specimens which were something more than half
gold, and his story was that he had broken them
off the cap of a reef with a tomahawk, had filled
the bag and his pockets, and had stuck the toma-
hawk in a tree alongside the find so that he would
know the place again. Why he didn’t keep the
axe and blaze a trail with it heaven only knows.
Anyhow, neither the reef nor the axe was ever
seen again. It was a good axe, too. Another
of these bonanzas was found by Russell,
a prospector from Jericho (same district).
He firmly believes that he met with a reef outcrop
at the end of a blind gully ; it was sticking up
out of the ground some 3ft., and the gold could be
seen at a distance of 80 or 100 yards. He and
hundreds of others have looked for this reef since,
but it has always hidden itself when it saw anyone
coming. Russell is an old man now, but he still
seeks his lost reef now and again, and some day
he may come on it unawares. If the blessed thing
could be surrounded by a strong party of prospec-
tors I believe its capture would be almost certain.
* * * •
“ C.X.G.” : I notice a lot of your writers
talk about the heat in Thargomindah, Bourke, and
around that locality, referring to them as places in
the kitchen of Gehenna, &c. Let me advance the
claims of my own little village, Farina, only 400
miles north of Adelaide. We had 50 days run-
ning this summer with the top register averag-
ing over 100 in the shade; and, mind you.
it was proper shade, in an observatory shelter
box, with louvred sides. The top register
averaged 109 for 23 days running. If the
man from Broken Hill, whose rubber heels melted
on the pavement, had been here, I guess he would
have melted, too. Thanks be, we have now had
glorious rains, and the heat is an evil memory
only. We had three inches in a week, and to-day
have the old, familiar spectacle of a blinding dust-
storm, which is as good to us as a bad father, and
can always be relied on to turn up when not
wanted.
* * * *
“ Jan or Wonder what “X. 0.” liquors
up on ? Must be a bad brand, or he’d had too
much when he wrote that ant pa r (B. 8/3/ y of>).
The “perforated mound,” which “X. 0.” garri-
sons with black ants and reduces to ashes, houses
the white ants (termites) who build it, and it is
impervious to fire; if it were not so; bush fires
would have wiped the white ant off the face of the
continent long since. It makes a capital substi-
tute for mortar. Can’t beat it for the bed of a
forge, chimney building, or setting poppet-legs in.
The black ants (pismires), to which “X.O.”debits
the loss of the station outfit, do not raise lumps on
the earth s surface, but home in hollow logs and
trees, under stories or bark, or in a fellow’s bunk
or the sugar basin. Their troubles about archi-
tecture! Tucker is the only plank in their plat-
form.
“ F.H.R.” ; Heard a swaggie explaining
to another why he did not arrive at a
certain rendezvous; he said he got “Major
Mitchelled.” On inquiry, I found that the 'ex-
pression meant turned round in the bush. The
speaker had left the railway line to make to. a
homestead, but, after walking some ten miles, had
struck the line again. He further expounded
that explorer Mitchell was popularly supposed to
be more often lost or out of his reckoning than in
any other state, and that he seldom arrived any-
where except by chance—hence the double-bar-
relled expression.
A LOSING WIN.
“ What the devil's wrong with Smith?"
“ Oh, his camel's sure to win this race, hut he's backed another,
and he can't stiffen his own because the jooke don't under-
stand English."
Bena : Had a strike last shearing.
Cook made a pudding, but found the boiling-
cloth missing. A goat had made a meal off it.
Hunting round our quarters, cook hit upon a
bundle of trespass notices done on canvas, all
ready for nailing on trees bordering the stock-
route. Was called out at dinner-time by a mob
of shearers, wild as a nest of disturbed ants,
showed me a huge duff on which was branded the
words “ Irespassers Will Be Prosecuted.”
THE FETISH OF CHEAPNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Behold a country’s fetish, inspect her crazy joss ;
Her ancient Mumbo-Jumbo set on a throne of dross.
Behold our Fat Men worship and bend the foolish knee.
And expound the Creed of Cheapness to the world most
anxiously.
“ Give us no other deity, give us no nobler faith—
Our gods are cheap and shoddy,” the Fat Man’s Credo
saith.
Aje, Cheapness, always Cheapness; cheap men, cheap
thoughts, cheap ways—
They rush down old Time’s steepness in cheap, time-pay-
ment'drays'l
When lo ! the old State shudders—was that the Prophet’s
voice
Telling how other josses will make the land rejoice ?
She rushes to her doorway, and sees Yes-No go by ;
His brand-new flapping banner borne up against the sky 1
“ Is anti-Socialism the new unfailing god ?
Ah, surely no,” she.mumbles, “ I’ll go the way I’ve trod '
Come back, come back, dear Prophet, the way you used
to go 1
The wind bears back his answer, “I will—l won’t —Yes-
No!”
She staggers from her doorway, and sobs in misery ;
“ Why hast thou me deserted, my cherished effigy ?
Have I not burnt sweet incense each day before thy
shrine?
What prayers, what adorations, what worshippings were
thine?
And now, alas ! you leave me—the Seer I thought so
true,”
The haggard creature grovels, and wails “ What shall I
do ?
The Master’s mad,” she mumbles, “He’ll preach the
Cause again—
I’ll guard the sacked fetish, and keep it from the rain !”
And though the fallen Prophet expounds another creed,
His Ma State clutches sadly her broken fiscal reed.
She bows before her fetish—her god of little worth ;
With barren supplications that are answered but with
dearth !
As when the pale fanatic makes havoc with his hair,
So New South Wales still worships within her haggard
lair.
“Joss! Joss !” she wails, “I trust you. True god thou
art, I know
And the midnight winds make answer, “I am ; I’m not—
Yes-No!”
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


By
Royal
Warrant
to
H.M. KING EDWARD VII.
Cerebos
TABLE SALT.
Every grain of food is made more
nourishing by using it in the
kitchen and at table.
Wholesale Agents;—Harrison & Attwood Sydney.
Householders will find that for universa-
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &e., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
OOr 21/'
Broocbes
Are in Solid 15ct.
Gold set with Choice
Whole Pearls or
other Jewels.
15ct. Gold, with whole
Pearls, special value, 21/-
1J inches long.
15cfc. Gold, with Choice
Whole Pearls, 21/-.
15ct. Gold, set with 6
Choice Whc4e Pearls,
21/- 1} inches long.
The range of designs is a large one.
The designs are unique—absolutely new, and from the latest
We finish them exquisitely.
We out the Opals and Sapphires from the rough.
OUR PRICES ARE LESS THAN
We make them in our workshops,
approved by the “ smart ” set in England.
We receive the Pearls direct from the fisheries.
No intermediate profits anywhere.
THOSE OP LONDON.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ San Remo ” hands out a whale
Re “ Flabby Paul ” on smells. Before the perfume
championship is awarded to the l! ea 4
carpet snake I wish to enter my whale for the event. I
have no desire to disparage the merits of a thoroughly
dead carpet snake, but for quantity, quality, and solimty
of smell I’ll back a properly dead whale to give creation
10 yards in 100. , „ , ,
About 10 years ago Rockhampton (Q.) had a dead
whale. The object was stranded at Sea Hill, near the
mouth of the Fitzroy River, and a syndicate, headed by
Fred. Cowley, publican (since deceased), decided to ex-
ploit the leviathan. It was towed up the Fitzroy and
anchored in Alligator Creek, about 1J miles below the
city. A big canvas barrier was erected on the creek
bank, and the toll to get to windward of that whale was
Is. That was where the syndicate made its first mistake.
Inside that enclosure there should have been the bob
stand to leeward, and to windward the grand stand Is.
When that whale was brought up he wasn’t properly
dead —just dead, you know, not thoroughly dead. He
hadn’t settled down to the business yet, so the papers
were full of whale, and budding naturalists browsed round
him, talking whale and prodding him with their gamps.
Also, school-teachers took whole classes to view the mon-
ster. Sunday schools were specially strong on whale just
then, and the story of Jonah was in every kiddie’s mouth.
All went well until the whale began to go properly dead.
After a few'days real deadness the smell w»as something
terrible. And the worst of it all was that there seemed
to be no limit to the increasing deadness of the object.
Every day the syndicate smelt its whale afar off every-
one else had fled the scene by this time and the influx of
shillings had w'holly ceased —and decided that it had at
last reached the climax of deadness and couldn’t get any
deader, yet next morning it always was deader, and the
syndicate had to smell the property from a new mark ten
yards further back. The whale never seemed to become
deadest—it alw'ays had about it some further reserves of
deadness, so to speak. I never got near enough to find
out what became of the whale ; I think it blew up at last,
and was gradually dispersed by crows. Anyhow, I
hereby enter that whale for the dead scent competition.
* * '* *
H. Wilkinson (address, Calle Monroe
2950, Belgrano, Buenos Ayres, Argentina)
I would like one or two of your readers who collect
butterflies and moths in your district, to exchange some
of them for moths and butterflies that I have caught and
bred in this district. lam not a dealer, but merely a
private collector. *
The Bulletin is not sure that swopping bugs is of
any material national advantage, but gives the
Buenos Ayres man the benefit of the doubt, and
of this publication.
A FATREE'S ADVICE.
PATER: “So ye’re to be spliced ter-morrer, Bill?”
BILL: “Yes, father.”
PATER: “ Well, good luck, my lad. I was very appy when I married
yer mother. She were my first. But don’t you marry twice.
Ah, Bill, it ain’t the cost of furnishing, or the parson's fee, or
the ’oneymoon; but when you get her, Bill, it's the cost of
keeping her in repairs, my boy.”
“Dulcie Elmhurst,” on the Cow :
The cow, apart from its purely useful qualities, of
which one has enough and more than enough in infantile
reading books, is a decorative animal. One would not
think so at first sight, but the fact remains. Some red
and white kine feeding on a country road add just the
one touch of color that converts it into a living Academy
picture ; while a solitary cow chewing the cud of reflec-
tion in a meadow bestrewn with buttercups is simply
idyllic. It is an incarnate sonnet if ever there was one.
Yet, though we pick buttercups and daisies, no one
dreams of ornamenting his parlor with a cow.
In one point, however, does the genius-inspiring cow
fall short—in its eyes 1 I had heard so much of the soft,
beseeching eyes of cattle that the reality was a cruel
shock ; for the orbs of the cow are rolling, bloodshot, and
uncertain. The cow is the symbol of all natural blessings.
Take an ordinary country landscape. There is nothing
particularly attractive in it. Sprinkle it with a few graz-
ing cows and immediately the scene overflows with rural
prosperity and peace. Add some calves, and the Golden
Age appears to descend on earth. To sum up : this rustic
quadruped, brindled, streaked or splashed with various
shades of red, roan, black, or brown, becomes, at a dis-
tance, the embodied peace and poetry of the countryside ;
v’hile, on nearer view, in the cramped milking yard,
churned to a sea of mud by the daily passings of its blun-
dering hoofs, the cow appears as a perambulating
nuisance, often unquestionably dirty, and alw'ays more or
less idiotic.
* * * *
“ Billy the Pup ” : I knowed a bloke wunsfc
as ’ad a job of night-watchman at one of them
noomatie tyre fact’ries. It wuz five storeys ’igh,
an’ ’e slep’ in a room at the top. One day, a fire
broke out, an’ when ’e woke ’e found ’e ’ad no
charnst of gettin’ down, ’cause the ’ole of the blime
buildin’ wuz a reg’lar little ’ell —a seethin’ mass of
smoke wit’ flames o’ fire pokin’ through. ’E stuck
’is ’ead out er the winder an’ looked down ; it wuz
about 500 ft. So ’e gets a big ’eap of them there
bike tyres an’ winds ’em all round ’isself, an’ then
’e pumps ’em up as ’ard as ’e can, an’ when ’e wuz
about 3ft. deep of noomatie tyre all over, ’e jumps.
’E ’it the ground wit’ such a.bump that ’e bounced
up again as ’igh as the buildin’, an’ ’e kep’ on
bouncin’ up an’ down for close up a nour, an’ they
couldn’t stop ’im. But ’e wuz a clever bloke at
thinldn’ of things, an’ at last ’e tells ’em to shoot
’im. An’ as the air comes out of the ’oles the shot
punctoored in the toobes, ’e gradjuwilly stops
bouncin’, an’ when ’e finishes ’e ’adn’t a scratch
on ’im.
• * * *
“Curlew”: Talk-
ing of boxing kangaroos,
an “old man” kept by
a neighbor was a ringer.
They got him as a joey,
and taught him to box.
He grew into a big
fellow, and would “ play
light ” with his Mentor.
Bena Clavarina, who
distinguished himself
fire-fighting at Foster,
Gippsland, recently, was
about 17 then, and
worked on this place.
One Sunday morning
Joe was getting his usual
boxing exercise when
Bena reckoned to have
a go. Bena and Joe
got at it in fine style,
and like all young box-
ers, Bena forced the
pace somewhat. This
got Joe’s dander up, and
he rallied in great style
—so much so that Bena
broke for the ropes, and
tried to climb a 7ft.
paling fence. Joe had
foot enough to keep up,
and as Bena was scaling
the fence the kangaroo
ripped the shirt off his
back, had a pull at his
breeches, and dragged
the boots clean off his
feet. Bena wasn’t much
hurt, but he never took
Joe on again. Five
years ago we suffered
from a disastrous bush-
fire, and Joe obtained
his liberty, the fence
being burned. He be-
came a nuisance. He
travelled for miles, and
would challenge any-
one. One day a swag-
man called, and Joe
sought to inspect his
swag. Swaggie resented
any interference with
matilda, and not know-
ing Joe, sought to beat
him off. A battle took
place for possession of
the swag; swaggie
wasted too much energy
in cussing, while Joe
strictly attended to busi-
ness. Swaggie got a
rough handling, but his
cries of distress brought
some members of the
household to his assistance. With difficulty they
restored his possessions and escorted him off the
premises. That place was tabu to swaggies ever
after. Poor old Joe grew such a nuisance that
they had to shoot him.
*,* * *
“Gum Boot”: Be “The Prooshan’s ”
lady scrub-cutters. Can’t place those two
Tumbarumba girls, but know a woman in the
same district who has carted a two-horse load of
wood into the township every day for years past,
stockings in her life, and she can beat plenty of
’Tis said she has never worn either corsets o
men with the axe.
NOT ACQUAINTED WITH THE REMAINS.
SHE : “ Good Heavens! Aren't yon going to stop? ” HE : “ Why! Is it a friend of yours?"
“ Fitful ” : Witnessed, to-day, the meeting
of a camel and a motor car. It accented the curious
position Broken Hill holds. Here is a modern
city, familiar with tram cars, electric lighting,
and the cash register, clipped to the gaunt bosom
of the original Out Back, with the slant-eyed
dingo skulking in the surrounding hills, near
enough to sniff the savor of its smoke. Through
the outskirts stalks the desert tram, with his
old red sandstone air unchanged since the grey
ages which enthralled him, giving the road with
lordly indifference to the modern marvel that
flashes by and bequeathes a twentieth century
stink to mingle with the camel’s time-honored
fragrance—the fragrance that has been the same
since Abraham was young, and even the Devil
wasn’t nearly as old as he is now.
* • * *
“ Spring ” : Be “ snaggers.” A “ snag ” in
a milk-yard is not a vicious cow, but simply one
whose teats require great squeezing to get the milk
away. She is invariably a kind, benevolent-
looking old lady whose high personal character
saves her from the lurid abuse generally showered
upon the other double-dashed “cows.”. She
is mostly a heavy milker, but up-to-date dairymen
sell her to the butcher, considering her a waste of
time and energy. A Camden dairyman got hold
of a snag from whom the best milker in the
yard couldn’t get enough milk to save her udder
from inflammation and mortification. Her own
calf was put to her, but after an hour’s
ardent but vain effort the poor youngster took
convulsions and died. Then a poddy calf that had
never been properly weaned was put on the job.
“ Poddy ” was a perfect sucking machine. When
he had full steam up he’d draw milk from a
clothes’-prop. He approached the bailed-up snag
with a do-or-die gleam in his eye. For 15 minutes
his sides worked like a bellows and his tail like a
pump-handle. Then all was still. Next day, he
sulked in the corner of a paddock chewing the cud
of defeat.
“Cornstalk”: Concerning the relations
of sheep and cattle drovers and “Milo’s” par
(B. 26/l/’O6). Fact is that a drover with cattle does
not like a flock of sheep in front of him. And
vice versa. Cattle-man’s objection is that sheep
trample grass so that cattle won’t eat it; sheep
man’s trouble is that cattle settle almost any water
hole for sheep (or for anything else if the hole is
small or banks anyway soft). But when “Milo ”
says cattle-men burn sheep-breaks—come off !
Most drovers nowadays drove sheep and cattle
indiscriminately; so on the track he is taking
cattle down this trip he may be taking sheep
down next. As for the Warrego being chiefly
a cattle route, for every cattle station on or near
the Warrego there are twenty sheep stations ;
so where do the sheep and, incidentally, the
interloping drovers get to ?
* • • •
“ Quandong ” : The announcement by
Minister for Customs Dyne that the bonus on
white-grown sugar will be paid only to those
farmers who pay their men the standard rate of
wages has caused quite a flutter among some
mean cookies who expect white men to work for
Kanaka wages. The man who is a cane-grower,
pure and simple, is not of this kind. The offender
is, without exception, the man who combines
cane-growing and dairying. He pays 15s. per
week and provender (mostly corned beef and
pumpkins), and for this he expects his men to
work from 4 a.m. till 8 p.m. Milking, separating,
scalding separator, cans, &c., occupy the first four
and the last four hours—a fair day’s work. The
balance of the 16 hours, deducting time for break-
fast and dinner—supper being taken after 'the
day’s work is finished —has to be spent at work in
the cane-fields. The work is honestly worth £3
per week and good food.
m + * +
“Gunner”: “ W.P.8.” (B. 22/3/’O6)
writes re the absorptive power of greasy wool.
I have been on the roads for a space, and take
rather an interest in matters of suction, and can
conscientiously say that “W.P.8.” knows
nothing. For a genuine suctionist I’ll back
Greasy Jim, of Woorigoluna station, at 1000 to
one, provided the water has had a hop and a few
details boiled in it. Next comes Abdul Maho-
met’s bull camel, who can drink anything that
will flow. After him—a good bit after—Greasy
Wool shows his nose in the straight. Also,
“ W.P.8.” asks re hair, etc., growing after death.
Now, I would like to ask him the old, old ques-
tion, when is a man dead ? Most decidedly not
when he has finished breathing. As a matter of
fact, death is progressive, even when most sudden.
The hair and nails being extravascular— i.e., out-
side the line of march of the blood —are not
immediately influenced by stoppage of blood
supply.
* * * *
“N.J.H.”: Two raw police officers in
N.Q. effected the capture of a gin, wanted for
some offence. The senior, leaving Johnny Raw
in charge with instructions not to let the gin out
of his sight, started for a second camp to look for
another “ wanted.” Directly after his departure,
the gin began to squirm and groan, appearing to
be in intense pain. “ I tink Igo alonga scrub,”
said she at length ; “I tink I bin hab it piccan-
niny. Igo alonga scrub.” Johnny, modest and
moral man, thought he was doing the right thing,
and allowed her to depart on her promise to at
once come back. She went into the scrub, and
—the policeman’s captive is still at large. But
there’s a heavy charge of concealment of birth
hanging over her head.
A RELIGIOUS DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The savage squirmed beneath a tree,
And scowled about on land and sea,
And at the sky most horribly.
Some time he sat; anon he knelt,
His hand was clutched upon his belt—
It did locate the pangs he felt.
And to the cold and callous sea,
“ Oh, curse these Calvinists ! ” cried he ;
“ They never did agree with me 1 ”
VIC.
SNELL.
BROKEN VOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the boozer’s quenched his thirst,
Spent his cheque upon the burst,
And has left the pub to tackle graft again,
Prom his lips he breathes anew
Vows (the same as me and you)
That another glass of rum he’ll never drain.
But as time goes marching on
(As it did in days bygone),
Sure a thirst within again is bound to grow,
And the vows of late he made
From his mind are bound to fade,
And he says within another week or so
From his work he’ll take a spell,
And he thinks he might as well
Have a look how things are moving in the town ;
Now he’s restless as can be,
And it’s very plain to see
He’s a cheque to draw and means to knock it down.
With a thirst that must be drowned
Soon I know we’ll see him bound
For the pub. at Wantigong or Moombooldool,
And within a week, or less,
He’ll be in financial stress
At the pub. upon the old verandah stool,
Waiting for some friend to come
Who may stand a casual rum,
For Bung has stopped his tick since yesterday;
And to modify the shakes,
And to scare away the snakes,
Another drink or two he needs to-day.
Now his spree is near its end
And anon our boozer friend
We shall hear discoursing on the ills of drink ;
And in language so sincere
He’ll condemn both rum and beer
That he’d joined the Salvo Army one would think.
N.S.W.
WILMOT WATSON.


END OF N.S.W. LANDS INQUIRY.
THE DISTRIBUTION OF HALOS.


tfc PefToJ AjncaltHKft W
efeedea td (sroli«bir
of ta»V>V* S^A'^-
' lArf
brdijbi^
" Ue Police orce ' |rV) ° 6 ’^
om!^
'ftje °^
C*tovei defeat 'Wor*
ir i
’ doh't-ttJ’mK
Sckcc<7 , %• h!^‘* re '
"Wind «i ’’ [Ar^s)
No to 1 <====^
of devils Jj II
'XJ' iron foundry mvJsic>] i J-p--3
j in^^_T\ >7 *e r fVi *7 nj e^Uy
" SoWtnmJaJ fcof>le
in m|»W frot.b.W,
Ce Sooner eytr e „
£Ar S *Q
%
0 f
4
I« cej
j * h\o w
' %q dc.u.ee
art” ? '
NlocUr** S i- I |>l'ot>l j?if” 'v 1
| broVit'lT 'NJvH ~~ I "< , . ,
" ij- y° u <loh+ '^ , K
S|>€ecV, 111 >u where yo« wul We
'Tfie
fo|> s S<?l , * t 'e A^s
Quality oV
Sullied
-fo %<*-*)&JJ "
tie Ibovrne is &
o•'curl4
Harried out" oj. t^ei^h pouring s^V^S
°\
A
-f
” wkt~\
bu+- it~ x
//= \»>S*r»J« ,
Uv oov ’—
elected
S*«*Ke<A IV, vyl»k "He *Tjon K«Y |f >?.
wiH> 'tije bofes J "
AN APRIL FOOL AND SUNDRIES.


■mSSBBi
■
m
MOHRI M
■i It I am
m
m ji
i
: V ,,V
.. "
m
■
it«ii
■
■ 'V.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6). Of All Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Said that Jack Wren’s birthday will in
future be gazetted a public holiday in Victoria.
The late T. MacDonald Paterson, once
Queensland Postmaster-General, left at least one
definite recollection behind him. He always had
his trousers made without pockets.
There is another mound over an Australian
in Central Africa ; Laurence Brooks, a well-known
prospector of Charters Towers, New Guinea,
Westralia, and other fields, lately went under to
fever while pursuing the nugget in Uganda.
A family in a N.S. W. border township,
which includes children named Victoria Jubilee,
Diamond Jubilee and Baden-Powell Mafeking,
has touched the lowest depth in the name of the
youngest—Togo Port Arthur Mikado Smith.
Some birthdays for April. “Bill” Lyne,
02 on the Gth ; Chief-Justice Way, 70 on the 11th ;
Brewer-knight Smith (S.A.), 76 on the 6th ; Dr.
Quick, 54 on the 14th; “Pa” Brunker, the man
who never sold a bad cow to a constituent, 72 on
the 22nd.
Major Scannell, who died the other day at
Auckland (M.L.), aged 69, was an officer of the
57th Regiment, and fought in the Indian Mutiny.
He arrived in Maoriland with his regiment in
1861, and served right through the Maori War.
He was appointed a Judge of the Native Lands
Court some time back.
The “Polar craze ” has struck a Welling-
ton (M.L.) man rather acutely, and he has de-
signed an airship in which he reckons the South
Pole oan be reached. All he asks for is cash “to
help to bring to a successful issue that which may
prove financially beneficial, and bring honor and
glory to the British Empire.” Good old Empire !
Lansell, the dead Bendigo millionaire,
tried his luck at the Echunga goldfields, about
25 miles from Adelaide, before going on to the
Victorian diggings. Gold has been got by fossickers
at Echunga for over 50 years but no one has yet
made a fortune there. Yet Government Geologist
Brown looks upon Echunga as likely to prove a
rich field if properly worked. A hopeful man is
Brown.
One of the peculiarities of the late editor
Haddon was his fear of secret assassination.
During the later years of his occupancy of the
Argus editorial chair, he worked with the door
communicating with the sub’s room open, so that
assistance might come at any moment if a member
of the Trades’ Hall Council burst in with a
revolver, or a Protectionist leader heaved a bomb
through the Collins-street window.
A cry from the press gallery;—
The shelving of Arthur Rutledge in a District Court
appointment rids Queensland politics of a per-
sistent place-hunter. A D.C. judgeship very far
from realises what Rutledge set out to sepure—the
post of Chief Justice and Acting-Governor was his
lode-star. And in the muddy chaos of Queensland politics
and under the regime of Rutledge’s friends, Philp and
Co., he nearly succeeded. His whole life lias gone in
political scheming, the beginning, middle and end of all
the schemes being something good, with ruffles on it, for
Arthur. It is doubtful whether he should have been
given a judgeship of any kind. But whether or not he
will ornament the D.C. Bench, he ceases to afflict Queens-
land politics—and that is a pleasing circumstance.
NOBODY TAKES ANY NOTICE.
J. Russell French, manager of the Bank
of N.S.W.. goes off on a holiday, and incidentally
to study banking systems in Canada and else-
where. Now, supposing Mr. French comes back
with an unbiassed opinion of the Canadian bank-
ing system, which includes the compulsory hold-
ing of 40 per cent, of the cash reserves in Govern-
ment notes, just how angry will his directors be
with him ? In other words, can the manager of a
big joint stock bank afford to come back with an
unbiassed opinion ?
WHEN MEN WERE MEN.
THE ARISTOCRAT OF THE FUTURE (doing the honors of his family portrait galley):
“Yes, our progenitors were a sturdy, self-made race. I sometimes think we do
not do their memory justice."
Premier Bent, of Victoria, has had another
vehicle accident—at Nowa Nowa, Gippsland.
His coach sank right over the wheels in the mud,
and the head of the Government had to be un-
loaded and removed in another trap. Now the
Gippsland shires are complaining that the weight
of Bent cuts up their roads dreadfully.
The will of Josiah Perry, of the ex-firm of
Perry Brothers, softgoodsmen, Sydney, who died
at Cannes, last January, has been proved at
£62,000. The will contains one curious word.
Having previously made “bequests ” to his son
William Henry, and his daughter Mrs. Blashki,
the testator directed that their shares should be
made into a hotchpotch before they would be en-
titled to share in the trust funds. According to
the dictionaries in use “hotchpotch” means a
mixture of ingredients, soup thickened with vege-
tables, meal, &c. Possibly Mr. Perry meant that
he wanted his jiroperty boiled.
William Croft, the just-retired telegraph
manager at the Vic. G.P.0., joined the service in
'O7, when the staff amounted to 20 and the artillery
of the office consisted of four ink recorders or
tape registers. The first office was in the old
Hall of Commerce, Collins-street west;
then it was moved to the corner of
William-street and Flinders-lane. After-
wards came amalgamation with the post-
office and transfer to the corner of Eliza-
beth and Little Bourke streets. Croft
himself was born in the same street, about
a hundred yards further up, in ’4l. In
’53 a telegraph engineer came from Eng-
land to put up the first line—from Mel-
bourne to Williamstovvn. The next was
to Queenseliff ; then Ballarat and Bendigo
were connected. The department’s best
records have been put up over the Mel-
bourne Cup. In Carbine’s year it had
the result in London before the jockeys
had finished weighing in, and Maoriland
has often had the result before the winning
jockey has left the scales.
S. Australia talks of building something
in the way of a statue to John Ridley, the man
who made the best claim to inventing the wheat-
stripping machine, which is the foundation-stone
of all modern harvesters. Ridley probably didn’t
know what he had made; anyhow, he had the
idea that it would be a good thing to let the
8. Australian farmer have the free run of the
machine, and so he didn’t stop to patent it. Then
the Yankee came along and promptly pirated
Ridley’s unprotected ideas. There do not appear
to be any near relatives of the inventor in
Australia ; but some in England have written out
suggesting that an agricultural scholarship would
be the best memorial, and offering to help to
found it.
Re Joseph Capel Smyth, the silent member
of Queensland Assembly (B. l/3/’O6), there was an-
other very silent man back in the 80’s. ’Tisrecorded
that he only spoke once in the House, and then
he had the misfortune to catch the Speaker’s eye
accidentally. Another very corpulent member
was crushing into a seat, and trod heavily on his
corns. The victim jumped up with a snort of
indignation to appeal to the Chair for protection.
He had only got as far as, “Mr. Speaker,” when
he caught the Speaker’s eye. “ The member for
has the floor,” calmly announced that
functionary, and, amid cries of “ Speech, speech,”
round the House, the member snorted once more
and collapsed into his seat. It was a short but
popular speech, and consisted of one snort.
“A. 8.”: My first recollection of Justice
Cussen, the latest addition to Vic. Supreme Court
bench, was when I journeyed to the University
cricket ground as a small boy, 20 years
ago, to see the club I barracked for en-
gage in battle with the University foot-
ballers. The latter were a poor lot.
They collapsed and dropped out of
senior football after four or five years of
hopeless struggling, but they possessed
a few good men, and these made a
splendid fight of the match I witnessed.
Chief among them was a broad, brown-
skinned, muscular rusher and flier with
a black moustache. The picture of
Cussen, bare-armed, tousle - headed,
bathed in perspiration, racing to and
fro like a fiend and trying to be in eight
places at once—Cussen with his face and
blue and black uniform plastered with
mud, and with a pound of slush in his
eye and ear—always recurred to me in
after years when I heard him pleading
at the Bar. Cussen was the first man of
theMelb. University to qualify in two
professions, for he took his C.E. de-gree
before studying for the law.
Queensland Premier Kidston is a Scot,
and his native town has a motto —“ Better meddle
wi’the deil than the bairns o’ Falkirk.” Which
makes it a pleasant look-out for Robert Philp,
who isn’t at all fitted to tackle Satan single-
handed.
Westralia has been disturbed by a Johnny
immigrant. He wore a waxed moustache; he
expected the Perth Savings Bank to pay him
some money he left in a Savings Bank in London ;
he knew nothing of agriculture ; and he wanted
land for “mixed farming.” Being asked what
kind of mixed farming, he couldn’t say, but he
replied “Oh, just mixed sort of farming, don’t
you know.” Then he announced, through the
press, that Westralia was a dem’d hole of a place,
and quite unfit for anyone to go to.
Grattan Guinness has returned to Aus-
tralia to renew his “ mission ”of years ago. Dr.
Guinness, if The Bulletin remembers rightly,
was an interesting missionary the first time he
visited these parts, and this time he has made a
good commencement by stating that he doesn’t
think the Japs as a nation would be improved by
taking up Christianity. G.G. is a doctor who
doesn’t recommend his medicine as a cure for all
complaints. The morals of the Japs need some-
thing stronger than Christianity to put them
right.
There has just passed away, aged 90 years,
James Pemell, the old flour-miller, of Sydney. It
used to pass as a good-natured joke that Mr.
Pemell was grinding flour on the shore when Cap-
tain Cook sailed by in the Endeavor. Anyhow,
we find him 65 years ago in business in Parramatta-
street (now George-street West) as a baker. Sixty-
two years ago he was described as a baker and
flour "factor, and 60 years ago as of “ The Brisbane
Steam Flour Mills, corn dealer and baker.” On
December 11, 1870, the Brisbane Mills were de-
stroyed by fire, and Mr, Pemell removed his busi-
ness to Breillet’s Mills, in Hay-street. In the Re-
formed Parliament, under the Act of 1858, Mr.
Pemell was one of the members for West Sydney,
having as colleagues J. H. Plunkett, John Dun-
more Lang and Thomas Broughton. Of the mem-
bers of that Parliament about four remain—
Morris Asher, L. H. Bayley, Samuel Lyons, and
E. W. Sayers. f
War Lee, the central figure in the Age’s
yarn of Chinese child slavery, is a leading light of
Melbourne’s Chinatown. Two years ago, when
the bigger Chinese cabinet-makers federated to
crush the smaller men, and thus precipitated a
Chinese strike which filled Lilly Buck-street with
riot for two or three weeks. War Lee was one of
the inner council of seven that organised the lock-
out. He was the envoy who went over to Sydney
and engaged 100 yellow blacklegs to come to Mel-
bourne. They came with knuckle-dusters and
knives. In those days War Lee kept two police
constables constantly engaged to escort him to
and from his work. Three attempts have been
made on his life. Twice his house —full of dry
timber, shavings, and furniture —has been set on
fire, and once he has been hit on the head with a
tomahawk. During the progress of the Chinese
strike the yellow unionists kept him in such con-
stant terror that, by the time it was ended, his
blue skirt was 14 sizes too large for him.
About a Crowe :
Cornelius Crowe, Melbourne’s eccentric ex-policeman,
has been served with a criminal summons on a charge of
attempted blackmail. Crowe is as famous in his way as
Bent. His first bound into public notice was when be
got £2OO damages out of the Ant, a struggling little
weekly. Then he published a slang dictionary which
wasn’t slang, and a “ Guide to Constables," which was
the foundation of O’Callaghan’s “ Straight Talk to Police-
men.” Then there were some complications in the police
force —“persecution ’’Crowe always calls it—and Crowe
was passed out. He established a night patrol in the
city, and commenced to say things and write things about
the police force generally, and the detective office and
Detective Macmanamny in particular. Crowe must have
written enough pamphlets on this subject to paper the
side of the Equitable building. He got to the ear of
Bent, and to the hearing apparatus of David Gaunson,
and as a result the Police Commission spent numerous
weary weeks finding out very little at great length.
Crowe was the witness-in-chief and accuser-general before
the Commission, but at an early stage he withdrew, with
contempt, from all its proceedings. The latest trouble
arises out of the fact that George Bennett, M.L.A. for
Richmond, received a letter, signed “ O. Crowe,” enclos-
ing a copy of a newspaper which “C. Crowe,” or the per-
son who used his name, had “decided to publish.”' It
said a lot of unpleasant things about George. The letter
suggested a loan of £25, and there is a tendency to
describe the act as blackmail. Crowe denies all know-
ledge of the letter, and says it is an impudent forgery,
and that is as far as things have got at present.
BELLTOPPER SPEAKS.
“ Why, if this Socialism comes in, life, liberty,
property —nothing will be safe; you'll lose all
you've got! ”
The Owe’Sullivan suggests to the Cardinal
that he should write a history of “The Irish in
Australia,” and the Cardinal suggests to the
Owe’Sullivan that he should do it himself, but
make it “ The Irish in Australasia.” There is
more in “ Australasia ” than meets the eye, for
“The Irish in Australia” has been written al-
ready—by J. F. Hogan, late of the House of
Commons, in 1887. But that book won’t answer
now ; it doesn’t mention either the Cardinal or
the Owe’Sullivan.


The COAT and SKIRT VARIETY at ANTHONY HORDERN S
I
i r
m
-r
■
ms
mm
m
No. 3016— Fancy Tweed Russian
Coat and Skirt Costume,
lined throughout. Light
and Dark Grey and mixed
Fawn shades ... 29/6
No. 124— Plain Ciotli Coat an J
Skirt Costume, Sa-qiie
Coat, trimmed Applique
Velvet, Metal Buttons,
plain full Tailor-made
Skirt. Black or Navy
only 27/6
No. 8260—Fancy Kopsac Russian Coat and Skirt
Costume, trimmed Fancy Silk Braid, lined
throughout. Black, Navy, and newest
.Winter colors ... 24 / 6
No. 4-335—Cheviot Serge Coat and S.art Costume,
tight-fitting three-quarter Basque Goat,
plain Tailor-made full Walking & kirt -
Black, Navy, Brown, Green and hawn
shades '
Autumn and Winter Fashion
Portfolio, a work of Art and
Fashion, Post Free Anywhere.
No. 1106— Tailor-Made Fancy Tweed Coat and Skirt Costume, Goat
trimmed Plain Cloth and Fancy Oriental Colored Applique
Walking Skirt * ®‘/ ()
ANTHONY HORDERN and Sons
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ask your grocer
For a 21b. Package of H.O. Self-Raising
BUCK WHEAT
Hakes DELICIOUS PANCAKES. H.O. BUCKWHEAT is used in all good American Homes.
Use neither Salt, Yeast, nor Baking Powder. If your Grocer has not got it, send to
Fresh Stock received by each Boat.
437 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Twenty Pounds for a Short Story.
The proprietors of “ the Australasian
TRAVELLER” offer TWENTY POUNDS for the
BEST ORIGINAL SHORT STORY received before June
Ist, 1906. This premium will be awarded in addition to
the price paid for the story, which, like all the others
accepted, will be paid for at the rate of bwopence'a line
(of eight words). The story should consist of about 4000
words, and deal, for preference, though this is not abso-
lutely essential, with the life of a commercial man in
Australia. It is understood that every contribution is
submitted, not only as competing for the special prize,
but also—in the event of not gaining same —as available
for use by the proprietary, for a period of six months
after receipt, at the current rate mentioned'above.
AH accepted copy to become the sole property of “ THE
AUSTRALASIAN TRAVELLER.” Typewritten MS. pre-
ferred. The first story to be published as the result of
this competition will be the First Prize-Winning Story-
Address communications to the Editor, “THE AUS-
TRALASIAN TRAVELLER.” 190 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, from whom all information may be obtained.
Ml
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Ti p p ed with
White.
WRITE NOW.
11
MILLER 5
'' ■
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
5/ Length, 12 inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Price List Free
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
The first
Essential
for the preservation of tha
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies tha
necessary antiseptic properties.
* It is .also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.


\
&
&
<#■
s.*
m
*
Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
MADAME MASSERAN,
CORSETIERE,
Of 9 Collins St., Melbourne,
BEGS to inform her Sydney clients that she will be
at the HOTEL METROPOLE from MONDAY 9th
to TUESDAY, ‘24th APRIL, both days inclusive.
Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
After all, our black brother William is a
poor beggar, in spite of his reputacion. When
Bent was scudding through Gippsland in the red-
and-gold motor-car, “ Billy Brown,” described as
the sole survivor of the Bairnsdale aboriginals,
hailed the big man as “ Gubner, of Australia,”
and requested “ tickapen.” He probably expected
half-a-sov., but Thomas was only good for a “bob,”
and somebody threw in the remark that “ these
blacks are born cadgers.” At the next stopping
place Bent was bailed up by some councillors,
who flattered the flying Premier, and then calmly
begged for £l5OO to repair their culverts and
bridges. And nobody said anything about coun-
cillors being born cadgers.
A PRETTY WOMAN fades early unless she gives
careful attention to the preservation of her complexion.
Every sign of wrinkle, sallowness, or blemish should be
arrested with the least possible delay. A few applications
of Dr. Lykuski’s great discovery—Valaze—removes all
imperfections and brings the lilies and roses of youth to
the oldest face. Is the most exquisite preparation for re-
moving wrinkles, freckles, tan and all other facial dis-
figurements. It is delightfully pleasant, and makes the
skin beautifully soft, white and smooth. A scientific
product of blended fragment herb essences and healing
balsam to promote the beauty of the skin. Specially use-
ful in allaying the dry and parchment-like skin caused by
Australian hot winds. Price, 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d.
extra. New importations from Vienna. Comtesse
Potocka’s “ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar)to be used with “ Valaze ”
Herbal Soap, (2s. cake). A delightful preparation. Comtesse
Potocka’s “ Creme Promenade, ’’ for ’outdoor entertain-
ments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful beautifier.' “ Valaze ”
special “ Blackhead and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed,
3s. 6d. per jar. “Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in
your home. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service,
Sydney, leading chemists all States, or Mdlle, H. Rubin-
stein "and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to
Beauty Free
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating; single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
Are
Dress Fabrics
Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
t*ao E maVkTHE varnished board 9 ’
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Arini,—
Sydney, April 3, 1906.
Mr. Wyatt Rawson, his State Ex.’s youngest
son, has entered St. Paul’s College at Sydney
Uni., and intends to qualify for a profession.
The profession is not named, but it will have to
be one in which first-class eyesight is not a sine
qud non. The stalwart youth failed, so report
says, to pass the sight test for the navy.
The B. R. Wises are to return to Sydney and
settle down somewhere about next daffodil time.
I should think it would be like plucking them up
again by the roots —the Wises, not the narcissi—
to fetch them out of the coroneted society they’ve
been playing with. Some one told me that she
had seen the Wise pair, hand-in-hand, so to speak,
at restaurants and matinees with a niece of the
late Queen Vic., one of the Gleichen family. There
ought to be something good ready for B.R.W.
—a Judgeship, at least, that will anchor him to
these shores.
The fair-headed sister of Earl de la Warr, Lady
Mary Sackville, who had been on a visit to her
sister, Lady Mary Strickland, in Tasmania,
waited till the Orontes was well off the coast, on
its way back to English waters, before she allowed
her engagement to be announced. The happy
man (it is always the man who is supposed to he
broken down beneath the dead-weight of good
fortune ; no one talks of the “ happy ” or “ fortu-
nate” woman) is Captain Maclean Griffin, aide-
de-camp to the Excellency of Tasmania.
A question as to the ownership of a medical
prescription led recently to an unseemly wrangle
in good society. The lady for whom the pre-
scription was written found it a very good
prescription (it was for a tendency on the part of
the left ear to get crumpled in the night, or for
inability to think between meals, or something of
the kind), and she lent it to her friends.
They also found it good, and it saved them paying
a doctor on their own account. But when a
chemist told the doctor that, among his cus-
tomers alone, twenty people were feeding on that
one prescription, the medico got angry and
demanded it back. He didn’t get it back, and
now there is a wrangle and wild threats of law
proceedings. The lady’s view is that it is her
own prescription, and she can do what she likes
with it. The doctor’s view is that he was paid to
prescribe for one person, not for twenty or more.
And the two views don’t seem to harmonise.
The Herbert Marks, who are on their way here,
after an interlude of quarantine, have taken, fur-
nished, “Arlington,” the rather tumble-down old
place inhabited by the Oswald Watts, before they
adopted high farming and crusted port. “ Oster-
ley,” the Harry Levys’ place, has been taken with
all its goods and bijouterie for two years by well-
known squatter people named MacOabe. Mrs.
(Dr.) Jenkins, Mrs. Ewing, and Mrs. Mclntyre
were all MacCabe girls.
Squatter Buchanan, of Killarney Station, has
gone off on a motor trip with his daughter and
some friends to do Victoria and Adelaide. They
will motor, motor all the way, provided the god
in the car and the car itself don’t fall out. Talk-
ing of motors, Dr. Reis Hatton, of Rose Bay,
seems to be the biggest owner of what someone
(who was run over by a motor) calls “kerosene
carts.” He has four, besides an assortment of
motor launches, and—in his grounds—a regular
motor workshop.
While weaving rhymes of fair-to-middhng
order, Lady Jersey has lost both her aged parents.
Verse-making seems to have been a pursuit of the
family. Chandon Leigh, Lady Jersey’s grand-
father, fashioned respectable lines, and wished to
be known as a poet rather than as a politician,
and, in the main, he had his wish. Looking at
Jersey and his wife on their last visit to these
parts, one would have taken his lordship to be the
poet. Brunton Stephens was the only Australian
versifier who could rival Jersey in poetic whiskers.
They suggested trailing clouds of fleece and other
dreamy properties.
Tenor Kenningham and his bride are about
Sydney, but not in operatic harness. Tenor
Roberts takes K.’s place in the Repertory Com-
pany. Another goo-gooing pair of married lovers,
as Tennyson has it, who were doing the block
arm-in-arm last week were Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Baker. Talking of artistes. Mabel Lane, now at
the Royal—a lot of people thought she had gone
away to foreign parts—has been doing a diet and
rest cure course, and now one can no longer
oall her stately. The price of slenderness is
eternal watchfulness —of your diet.
A K.C.M.G.’s wife says an attempt was made
to blackmail her in London for using the title
“Lady” on her visiting card. The wife of a
Knight is not a “ Lady ’’—she is only a Dame.
But I am told that every Dame in Australia, with
the single exception of the wife of George Verdon,
called herself Lady. And that case was excep-
tional : “ Dame Eleanor Verdon ” souifded quaint
and picturesque and beautiful —far more so than
“ Lady Verdon ” would have done. And “ Dame
Jobson ” wouldn’t sound either picturesque or
quaint. The blackmailer wanted money as the
price of his silence re the error in the title, and
the lady fled to a solicitor, who broke the news to
her that she wasn’t “Lady” at all. It was the
first she had heard of it.
Baronet Rupert Clarke and brother Ernest have
booked in Sydney for Easter race-time. Mrs.
Ernest Raleigh—this Melbournian does her
fime hair in a finished fashion—is already
at the Australia with a smart little cousin
named Wilson. All the hotels of standing
haven’t even a cupboard to be hired for Easter
Horse Time. The Seddons of M.L. at the honr of
writing couldn’t find space. Nice, comfortable,
hollow trees would let well about this time.
Miss Eva Carrington, the minor actress in
one of Seymour Hicks’s companies who married
Lord de Clifford, the twenty-one year old twenty-
fifth baron of his name, is a brunette, 6ft.- lin. in
stature. They went to Abyssinia to honeymoon
and “hunt big game.” As if the lady hadn’t
caught big enough game ! The other romantic
peer-and-actress wedding, that of Lord Ashburton
to Miss Frances Belmont (real name Donnelly),
is more surprising, for the austere-looking
nobleman is a widower with five children
and his eldest daughter is not far off her debut.
He and his first wife (she died two years ago)
were out here on a short visit some time back. He
is 40 ; Miss Donnelly is 21, and with a head of
hair once described as “resembling a burning
warehouse.” Those who saw the Clarence-street
fire have now a synonym for an abundance of red
hair. The jocund Ashburton met the girl, who is
described as “comely, with blue eyes and a
laughing manner,” at a supper party. “ He spoke
to her, immediately fell in love, then told her
of his affection.” Widowers can sprint in love
affairs quicker than those who have always lived
in single wickedness.
Lady Northcote’s favorite pursuit is shown by
the frequency with which her carriage halts at
Paling’s. One doesn’t pursue ironmongery or
millinery at Paling’s. Whilst the Lady is in the
warehouse the crowd accumulates and stares at
the other occupants of the carriage—Australian
setters. The concert season threatens to burst
with the fullness of its own programmes. There’s
a recital, or a tootle, or a warble of some kind for
every night in the last week in-April.
Next Thursday afternoon Monsieur Degen, the
French violinist, will give a recital “for critics
only ” at Paling’s, and his public appearances at
the Centenary Hall have been fixed for the 26th
and 28th of this month.
Matinee in aid of the Victor Daley Testimonial
Fund was a regular Rainbow amongst matinees.
It spanned anything of its kind given in
recent years, and all that was wanting to give the
Theatre Royal the real packed-sardine condition
was the oil. Messrs. E. J. Brady, Anderson,
Geach, Lauri, Lytton and a host of other
gifted and charitable men and women may make
profound obeisance to themselves in their mirrors,
even though saying “Not alone I did it.” , The
principal It is, of course, the money result. The
house was worth a bi t over £3OO, and some £l6O
will be cleared for the widow and children of the
poet.
Miss Rose Musgrove announces herself as a
busy body these days—busy getting tailor-mades
fitted and deck toilettes created preparatory to
going on a trip to England.
An actress has to be rather flatly built, not to
say slab-fashioned, to look well in the dress of
Paul Jones. Miss Tittell Brune looks her best in
L’Aiglon clothes. Miss Florence Young as Paul
Jones (revived on Saturday) looks—well, her
great natural resources are allowed full develop-
ment by the elastic belt she wears with her brown
velvet and white skirt. There ought to be a
special make of corset to curb great natural
resources when a lady has to assume male attire.
The new Yvonne in “Paul Jones” looks very
like one of the Chosen-Gifted race. She is a
smart, dark little girl—a Victorian. Her sky-
blue frock (as the sky may be every tone of blue
this description will go) sets off her inky eyebrows
and hair. But perhaps someone will arise and
say that Alma Barber is by nature honey-colored,
and that she ebonized herself as a contrast to the
fair-haired buccaneer P. Jones.
Marriage of Mrs. Fitzwilliam Curtis, who was
Miss Genevieve Fattorini, of Sydney, to Mr.
Hugh Henry Broadwood has been already an-
nounced. It seems that he is a scion of the
famous firm of pianoforte makers, and there is
much money in the family. They will live in
Canada for the present.
A passenger for Natal to-day by the Marathon
is Mrs. John Kidd (ex-Minister’s wife—Minesand
Agriculture). She is going to visit her daughter,
Mrs. Harvey Browne, who was married about
this time last year. Other Marathon voyagers
were Mr. and Mrs. Percy Spence, The artist
goes to London to paint.
Mrs. Chris. Watson, Mrs. G. H. Reid, and
Mrs. Holman were what is known as “ keenly in-
terested spectators ” at the Reid-Holman debate
on 'Socialism.
Mrs. “ Ted ” Simpson is wearing the day after
to-morrow coiffure, six sausagey curls worn length-
wise on the back of her intellect.
A Sydneysider is taking London wards her 12-
year-old son to be schooled at Harrow. The kid’s
name was entered in the Harrow register when he
was three months old, and his turn for ad-
mission has only just come. I always pity Aus-
tralian youngsters sent to the Cold Country to be
introduced to the dead languages and the living
birch. They could be just as well-educated in
Australia—probably better—and certainly better
fed and housed than in the dismal old “historic
schools ”of England. Here, too, the sun would
shine upon him. At Harrow or Eton they have
to put up usually with the minor effulgence of
little lordlings.
There was a sale of furniture in that queer,
most-difficult-to-find old house, “The Rangers,”
at Mosman’s Bay, last week, and a lot of
people took advantage of the going, going,
gone time to have a look at the paint-
ing on the wall—done by Brierley, marine
painter to the Queen, says the label. It repre-
sents the warship Rattlesnake in a squall off the
Island of Timsr. The ship shows a huge display
of billowing canvas, and looks as if it was not
going to euchre, the storm and bluff the eternal
sea. The painting is done on plaster, and covers
the upper part of one end of the dining-room.
The house itself is stone, with stone floors, dark,
with low ceilings, attics, huge bakers’ ovens of
brick, a belfry and roofs sloping acutely as if the
builders expected heavy falls of snow. The trees
are magnificent. The architect didn’t plan them.
Among recent arrivals from the 17. S. are
“ John ” and “ Mary,” of the New Jerusalem sect.
The New Jerusalems practise strict celibacy and
bitterly oppose the birth-rate; the unmarried
Jerusalem must not wed, and the wedded Jerusa-
lems live apart. Consequently, they depend wholly
on conversions for the spread of their faith. They
also hold that “the pure” will live for ever, proof
against sickness, death, or old age. The fact that no
members of the sect have lived for ever up to date
is set down to the fact that they were not pure ,
enough. The male Jerusalems never cut their
hair, and fellow-passengers of “John” and
“Mary” allege that “Mary” used to plait
“ John’s ” mane every evening so that he wouldn’t
step on it as he went below. “Mary” is described
as a stout, friendly sister with a prim mouth and
a poke bonnet.
MISS BEATRICE MIRANDA , who appears
next Saturday in Grand Opera, at Melbourne
Princess's.
Photo, by Inez & Nina Hicks, The Block, Melbourne.
That gallant hidalgo, F. B. Freehill, has re-
signed the colonelcy of the Irish Rifles—a regi-
ment which he was largely instramenta] in forming,
and to the leadership of which he succeeded when
Colonel Murray took the post of Chief Justice of
Papua. Col. Freehill was lately appointed a Papal
Chamberlain with the right to wear a gorgeous
uniform designed by Michael Angelo. He is
consul for Spain, which involves another gorgeous
uniform. And the strain of uniforms was pro-
bably becoming too great for the popular officer.
Dr. J. B. Nash, M.L.C., follows him in command
of the Hibernian Musketeers.
Two Australian blue-tongue lizards drinking
milk out of a saucer, lapping it like kittens, make
a little black-and-striped side-show at the Aus-
tralia Hotel these evenings. They are the pets of
a smart travelling lady, and know her voice, and
like to ambush themselves in the lace of her elbow
sleeves.
Mrs. M. Forrest, a Brisbane lady whose verse
is well-known to Bulletin readers, has been
elected a member of the Lyceum, the London
literary club. It is necessary to be fairly large
potatoes and freq uent in a row to get this election.
A Darling Point beauty, Miss Angel Merivale,
was married quietly last week to Dr. Cyril
Shepherd, of the man-o’-war Pioneer, They will
go to Maoriland for a tour. Another wedding
celebrated with Lenten quietude was that of Miss
Maysie Chisholm, daughter of the late Seton
Chisholm, of Goulburn, to squatter Baird.
A certain, big dressmaking firm has left a lot
of its clients very mad by making, within the last
month or two, 74 frocks of green linen, piped with
white, for travel wear. Some of the wearers of
the uniform are running across each other at
various ports. Then they run from each other
and change their frocks.
An army of debutantes will be let loose on this
already over-girled community during the forth-
coming Easter balls at Government House and
the Union Club. Miss Esme Sly, a daughter of
the K.C., and one of the Morts are said to be
extra bird-like to look at.
Sydney people who haven’t mislaid their minds
are trying to get at the Inner Cause of the head-
long rush to see the “Light of the World” picture.
On Sunday 33,000 persons passed through the
turnstiles of the National Gallery in three hours !
By the way, there’s a new polishing paste which
has paid the alleged masterpiece the compliment
of imitating its name. Fancy having a “Lightof
the World” shine on your electroplate! An
enterprising young Melbourne man followed the
picture from Victoria, and stands at the door of
the Gallery selling photographs and postcards of
the “Light”; and he will trail the picture
through Maoriland, where it goes next week.
The Mokoia will carry the blessed burden free.
Mr. Charles Booth, owner of the magnetic pic-
ture, is a trader with far-reaching interests. In
the capitals of the Commonwealth he has agents
buying skins. In his own land he is mostly a coal
and iron king. When the “ Light ” goes back, he
will give it to a Gallery.
Bernard Espinasse, once of this city, is doing
half-minute interviews with well-known Austra-
lians for the British Australasian. His part in
conversation is represented by a dash and a note
of interrogation. Arthur Streeton is one of his
latest experiments. The artist has evidently got
the Thames on his retina and flowing through his
soul, for he paints it late and early, in sunshine
and in fog, and has tried to fix on canvas its
oldness and mystery, its innumerable secrets and
tragedies. “The King’s State barge making its
stately way to Windsor lock in a blaze of brilliant
sunshine ” is the picture intended for this year’s
Academy. Another on which he is at work is
“ Venus and Adonis” —“a quite original concep-
tion,” he thinks, of the ancient theme; Perhaps
he’ll clothe her in a corslet skirt and bolero, and
him in a golf outfit. Anyhow, a quite original
conception of the beautiful hussy and the hand-
some youth she pursued will be interesting.
There is a significant passage in “Soprano,”
Marion Crawford’s last book. A famous prima
donna, “ the greatest lyric artiste of her day,”
says to a gifted young singer, about to make her
debut: —
I tell you that in Paris or London or Berlin or Peters-
burg' you may have the voice and talent of a Malibran,
Grisi, or Patti all in one, but if you are not “protected,”
you will never get any further than leading chorus-girl,
and perhaps not so far.
It is certainly daring to think of capturing a capi-
tal without great influence or money as well as
great gifts ; but no one, not even the most vicious,
can say that the great Australian singers were
“protected.” The king who figures in the book
is Leopold of Belgium, a gay dog. More than
once he was also a lost dog, and the Belgian
police, after scouring Europe for him, nary a one
of his faithful subjects knowing his whereabouts,
would find him toying with Amaryllis in the shade
of a quiet mountain or seaside resort, and object-
ing bitterly to being dragged back to his throne
and away from his new best girl.
A friend writes to me to report the capture of a
curio:—
I arise in some excitement to announce that I have
caught a specimen at last. He is quite English, and
speaks with great scorn about our Socialistic legislation.
He also wears stays. I accidentally overheard him con-
fiding to a friend that he had intended investing between
seventy-five and a hundred thousand pounds heah only
for the “ Labah ” legislation. This capitalist lives in one
room with his wife, a hard-working tailoress, who
keeps both of them—herself in shabby respectability,
him in beautifully cut clothes. The Presence rarely
addresses the woman when she' is home from her daily
toil, but mostly gives his orders by signs. She scurries
off in anxious-eyed haste to toil at 7 a.m. He lies in for
an hour or so, then walks abroad, dressed to kill, for a
constitutional. The little woman who owns him speaks
of her capture with bated breath, and really regards her-
self as the most fortunate and most completely blessed
tailoress on this earth.
I have been out looking for that specimen for two
whole days. When I find him lam going to hiive
him dried and add him to my wonderful collection
of beetles. I have only one beetle so far, but he
will make two.
Lewisham Fair, in aid of the Hospital, is worth
more than the entrance money. Some rare Eats,
cooked by a past-mistress in the Fine Art of
cookery, are stalled. Also sweet things in laces,
ornaments, and. many inventions.
An American singer of some note died recently
in Chicago, and when the mourners gathered to
attend the funeral they were astounded, not to
say horrified, to hear her high sweet soprano sing-
ing, “Nearer My God to Thee.” Phonograph,
and bad taste.
The Australian man artist in paint is not
addicted to extravagance in butterfly ties, and
excess in the matter of hair, as artists are in other
lands, and is often a plain, hard-looking man who
might manipulate bricks for his daily bread ; but
the girls of the brush sometimes go the whole way
in artistic attitudes, poses, and accessories; and
the less the art the greater the accessories. At
one artistic function recently, I saw: a pale,
willowy, wilted young creature in extravagant
art draperies offered a plate of vapory biscuits.
She looked quite prostrated, and started as if
stung. “Oh, no, no, no, thank you,” she said,
tragically, “no food/” There was abhorrence,
tempered with patience, in the tone in which she
uttered the hated word. Then some of the girls
about got going. “ You never eat! ” “ However
do you do it ?” “Is there positively nothing you
like?” The swooning artist answered the last
question. “Oh, yes,” she said “I am rather fond
of cayenne pepper and olives.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


54
POST
FREE
SARAMA
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon & Niciiolls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
PERFUME
& PERSISTENT
HE
ivnODOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELSOjuRhE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTONnz
The Bulletin has received, and consumed,
a sample bottle of Joshua Brothers’Old Austra-
lian Whisky. It is the best whisky this paper
ever consumed, and it shows that there might
have been a great Australian whisky industry if
it had not been killed by a fool of a tariff. When
Aloysius Fox, the agent and lobbyist for the im-
porters, sued his employers for the wages of poli-
tical iniquity, he made his claim on the ground
that he had done the foreign importer-men great
service by getting the Protection previously
granted to the local distillers so reduced that the
spirit industry was completely crippled. He had
the gall to sue in an Australian court for money
allegedly earned in the destruction of Australian
industry. Joshua Brothers are now selling their
great accumulated stocks, and hoping to do some-
thing more when Australia recovers its senses.
Meanwhile, as already mentioned, it is exceed-
ingly good whisky.
A SCIENTIFIC “PICK-ME-UP.”—No
better tonic and restorative for the victims of
social festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunyadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient.*'
A GOLD MINER S PLAIN STORY.
A Victim of Indigestion, and Mother Siegel’s
Syrup was Worth mere than Gold to Him.
W. 0. Cousins, of King-street, Bendigo,
Victoria, is a gold-miner by occupation, and is
widely known in that city, where he was born,
perhaps 30 years ago. Some years ago he was a
great sufferer from indigestion, and as a result of
it became so ill that he was unable to give
attention to his business. On the advice of his
friend, Mr. W. Hunt, the manager of Springvale,
a sheep station between Melbourne and Ballarat,
Mr. Cousins used Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and was
cured, as he tells in a letter, dated August 9th,
1905, as follows :
“ For more than three years my health was a
constant source of anxiety to me. .1 was costive,
bilious, unable to digest food, and troubled with
headaches, and racking pains all over the body.
My complaints were suffieent to render half-a-
dozen men miserable. Such was my state in 1894,
when my friend, Mr. W. Hunt, manager of
Springvale Station, advised a course of Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup. He spoke of it as his
only medicine, which had been of untold benefit
to him upon several occasions, and said that he
was sure it would do me good if only I would
give it a fair trial. I consented, and the truth of
my friend’s statements soon appeared. The
constipation from which I had so long suffered
was broken up, and the biliousness, headaches,
and other digestive troubles began to abate.
By the time I had taken six bottles of the Syrup,
all of these symptoms had left me, and I had
become quite a different man.
“ My health has remained all I could wish it to
be, a blessing for which I am wholly indebted to
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. But for its
timely aid, I believe my constitution would have
been ruined. It will always be a pleasure to me
to make known the sterling merit of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, as shown in my own case, and
other equally remarkable cases that have since
come to my notice.”*
The
IMP°RTANCt3fFIGVRi:
AWell nvjr
H&Ve a Good Figure, • • • •*
.Eftsurdhij f^Vfe&riivg
Or\lv I
ffli
r>±
m
m
i
m
r!Z
&
'ft.-!.':
tss
m
m
o
ir ASK
'FOR THEM
• AND A
SEE 9
THAT YOU
l GET
kTHEM.i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 3, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Catinat officahs introduced the self-sup-
porting eye-pane into this municipality. The
inky or golden cord that once kept the monocle
tied up and safe is now, it seems, bourgeois. The
fashionable Parisian does without the hanging
rope. He grimaces the pane into position and
maintains it there by sheer weight of hauteur.
Only when the wearer is affronted or violently
amused does the hauteur break up and the pane
escape. Then it is caught, and after a little
graceful play replaced. A resident Froggie who
wished to emulate the Catinat officers confesses to
breaking four monocles, and nearly putting his
right orb out of the map of his face in practice.
Now he juggles with half-crowns, having already
damaged three watch-glasses belonging to the
fellow-lodgers of his East Melbourne roosting-
place. You can’t break half-crowns by monocle
practice. But you can spoil your eye. However,
’tis your own eye.
Rev. A. Wheeler, who took over the solemn
duties of musical critic for the Argus what time the
other divine went jaunting, has been studying har-
mony and counterpoint to some effect. Some
songlets are the result—tuneful fragments hooked
on to verses done by a rhyming chick of Rev.
Larry Rentoul. The reverend youth managed to
become a favorite of Dame Northcote, who heard
him paw ivory, and nodded approval. Since
then the craze to weave melodies and spin songs,
with or without words, has fixed the young
shepherd’s soul. Another artistic amateur strum-
mer with the creative fancy is Mrs. G. Parker,
who threatens to put her songs on the market
before the autumn leaves are scattered.
This capital is so under-manned that the fair
sex, humiliated at its surplus supply, has ceased
going manless to the theatre o’ nights, but goes to
the matinee in teams, in great droves, in
flocks and herds. I sampled “L’Aiglon” one
recent sunny afternoon, and found femininity in
large, solid masses, stretching over the stalls and
circle area and away up to the gods. Here and
there a solitary male loomed out guiltily, as if
caught at some rite sacred to matrons and maids.
I counted 16 girleens in one stall row-—nine of
them smart or pretty, or generally fetching. All
wore expensive clothes, rour of the bevy (an
average one) were hall-marked “moneyed,” and
not one of the dressy 16 was a summer older than
24, and they had to troop to a matinee on a sunny
afternoon because they could sport no he-pilotage
at night!
Yet how catching matrimony is! Since the
last nine days wonder of a wadding, two uncer-
tain young couples have exchanged the vows.
Also, a passee charmer, who has seen her less
gifted and attractive Toorak catemporaries
wedded one by one, is now being wooed zealously
by a seasoned Romeo. They were neighbors at a
marriage-feast of recent fame, and the mating-
fever spread to them.
The Chosen have the most affectionate displays
at weddings. At a recent wine-spilling, canopied
joining-of-hands, the kissing that ensued paralysed
the Christians on the scene. The bride was passed
from mouth to mouth with extraordinary eager-
ness. Young men with characteristic racial lips
and beaks rushed at the victim. They were all
related—the more remotely, the more they rushed.
And one was very like another, all black-eyed,
black-moustached, with the same abundant lips
and interrogative noses. The old men joined in—
fat, rubicund, whiskered, well-dressed. After
something like a hundred salutes, the groom re-
covered his bride. Now, among the Christians,
the kiss that fell to the lot of the best man by
right and the worst man by privilege is no more
in vogue. The best man goes unrewarded. He
sees his pal through for little more than the good
of his health.
Young Hal Cohen, the thinning cherub of the
Marshall-Hall Conservatorium, is the next to be
given an off-to-Germany benefit. Before the
gratuitous treat comes off, the tuneful young man
will strive to reduce his plump proportions. He
complains sorely that fat induces ridicule and dis-
respect—that the mutton-headed public, led astray
by G. H. Reid, associates bulk with “comic”
relief.” So he diets rigorously and exercises no
end to get some angles and sharp corners to his
anatomy. He intends to look wretched enough
to own a soul.
Society scribes persist in writing of Miss Alison
Fairbairn (booked to marry Aide Balmain) as her
parents’ “only child and sole heiress.” The
bride-elect has a brother, a few years her junior,
who is bound to inherit at least half of the family
belongings.
At present the State Exes, may be said to be
gil-gieing round this part of the globe. It’s the
old, aboriginal idea of going from one waterhole
to another for a drink and refreshment. They
gil-gied from the Onion Port last Tuesday and
dispersed the moths and spiders from their Ston-
ington quarters. Miss Stuart-Wortley’s fine blue
eyes must be expressive these days when the take-
up-thy-bed-and-walk order is given out at short
notice and the gil-gieing starts. It’s a ludicrous
business altogether.
There’s one undeniable advantage about motor-
whirring. The defence uniform constitutes a
perfect disguise. The marm who goes a-whizzing
with a giddy motorist, or the philanderer who
takes a roost inside a widdy’s petrol-car is safe
from detection. The other week a domestic brawl
was dodged owing to the fact that the conceal-
ment afforded by the motor outfit is equal to that
of a diving dress. A hubby had been informed
that his liege lady was out a-tooting with a
bachelor rake. The dame denied it with reproach-
ful ire. “ Who dared to say such a thing?” She
cried. Who saw me?” And echo answered
“ Who ? ” No one could swear that the hideously-
!4°"£led and ear-capped scarecrow in the diver’s
uniform was pretty Mrs. Blank. So she escaped
reproach. The only trouble is a spill, when of
course murder—or any lesser indiscretion—must
out. No disguising an impromptu crop of motor
cuts and bruises.
Excited accounts of Mrs. Maesmore Morris
engagement to the African semi-millionaire reach
the Morris family. The curious thing is that the
whole clan are in sympathy. The divorced rela-
tive is disregarded. Van Kyne sounds Dutch.
Every Hollander of self-respect is Van. The
groom-elect is elderly, but probably all the more
loving. That’s how it goes. The greater the
years the greater the devotion, which is a blessing
when it isn’t a curse. We have one example in
this city of a charmer in the thirties mated to a
lover of sixty. His devotion is driving her to
distraction. She holds the adoring sexagenarian
in horror, frankly recommending her girl friends
to marry a youngish rake foredestined to neglect
his spouse rather than the faithful greybeard who
is as depressing and hopeless and invariable as a
permanent sick headache. The trouble of schem-
ing to keep a man at home must sometimes be
preferable to the bother of. having him always
there.
Fortunes provoke their own troubles. One of
the largest beneficiares in a recent fat distribution
of up-country wealth rushed off in the heat of his
new affluence, and married a housemaid —a
charmer who dusted a friend’s furniture with a
certain playful grace. She flicked the goods and
chattels prettily and replaced the liquor-stand
with a fascinating charm. The rest of the
enriched clan frown ominously.
One of the foreign Consuls, whose wife boasts
the bluest blood in circulation in her own
land, was seriously offended by an alleged
breach of precedence at a vice-regal shivoo last
year. He was very irate, and now declares him-
self “done with ’’their Exes. A daughter grieves
some over the stand papa has taken, but he is as
firm as an out-size in collar-studs, and the Miss
has to submit.
Mrs. J. Tuomy, one of the few bright-witted
dames of these parts, sets off for Bananaland this
week and anchors in the Toowoomba district. She
has been farewelled at a dozen or so tiffin parties
and had her small right paw tenderly pressed a
score of times in the access of good-bye emotion.
Meanwhile her husband has been j oily-good -
fellowed no end.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Raleigh are booked for
the Easter junkets in Sydney. The remnant of
the Madden family, burrowing in the Frankston
eyrie, is lazily considering a move north for
Easter. But Frankston is a sleepy place, and the
said remnant has the laziness of the plump, so
the move is a vague matter as yet.
A stout old lady suffering from some plebeian
disorder, in a certain big hospital hereabouts, has
lodged a complaint against the nurses whom “ she
hears laughing and chaffing ” with the precious
appendicitis cases in theother sick snuggeries. Her
complaint was put before the matron, who pro-
mised that they would not for the future dally
in merriment with the fashionable eases. In
another Institution for Repairs three of the nurs-
ing charmers quarrelled over a certain he-patient
whose wealth and good-humor and generosity
atone for his unlovely looks. The matron por-
tioned the coveted case among the three competi-
tors, and even yet dissatisfaction is rife. It
seems impossible to get a Nightingale to bend as
tenderly over a plain, bulky she-patient afSieted
with fatty degeneration as over some scamp of
a sport with field-rash or a dislocated cheek.
Mr. and Mrs. L. L. Lewis, of grain wealth,
leave by the Bremen for a long gad. After a
sojourn in England, the pair move on to Italy,
and linger there for the winter. Merchant Hogan
and his large cheery mate are also off on a jaunt
abroad by the Bremen. They embark with
several lovely loads of fine clothes and good
wishes.
The cobwebs and moths have only been tempor-
arily disturbed at Goathlands. The M'Eacharn
mother and daughter are only here for a casual
rest. It’s little more than a coaling spell. Mal-
colm threatens to arrive any of these days from
Monkey-land ; then he’ll be away again with his
family.
One curly song-master has taken a stand against
the duenna. He refuses pupils who require a
safeguard. The other afternoon, when a wiry-
fringed, gimlet-eyed marm came along with a
fuzzy, furtive-eyed miss, he took immediate action.
“ Madam,” he said in an orange-and-lemon tone,
“if it is absolutely necessary for your daughter to
be accompanied during her lessons by a discipli-
narian, I’d rather not undertake her tuition. A
child of that kind should take instruction per
gramophone, when a chaperone is not essential.”
The dame begged his pardon and left the know-
ing-looking miss grinning in the instructor’s hands
Miss Tittell Brune as Juliet shows that she
can’t yet manage a flying drape with feminine
art. On Saturday a great audience fidgetted while
she trampled on or had her trilbies entrapped in
the. awkward dream draperies, and again it
squirmed when the impassioned Juliet tied her
head up in a long mantilla chiffon, which a
Brown-Potter —no matter what the stress or the
urgency—would have had the grace to twirl with
fantastic grace about her top-storey.
There was a wild feminine corroboree at a
Collins-street cafe the other night, when the
matron of one Federal repairing institution enter-
tained two others who jaunt abroad from pills
and plaster to Paris this week. Those present
were all of the Nightingale brand, and, in toasting
its own hairpin and petticoat sex, boasted largely
of the enjoyment to be extracted at such a man-
less spree. They protested so fervently that it
was quite possible for sensible women to enjoy
themselves without Mere Man that one is inclined
to think they had never known such a thing
before, and were surprised at any fun being at all
possible away from the company of the he-brute.
Miss Lizzie Newbold, a young soprano domi-
ciled at Richmond, put her voice on exhibition in
Glen’s Hall, t’other afternoon. The voice, as
judged by sample, is a high (very high), flexible,
rather light organ. The singer herself is a short,
plump, dark girl, with steady brown eyes, a sen-
sible face, and no graces or affectations. Her robust
physique should serve her well when she has to
face the long course of hard toil demanded by
the inequalities of her promising voice. The
audience, apart from a handful of musical critics,
ran chiefly to petticoat.
A local Benedict who pines to be freed from his
wife has nothing other than decorum to allege
against the, dame. He confesses it doesn’t sound
much of a grievance, but the daily sorrow of a
decorous mate who quotes pulpit aphorisms and
copy-book parables at an irritable spouse appears
to be more than the Benedict can bear. “ Ima-
gine yourself,” he complains, testily, “living
with a table of the Ten Commandments.”
The wife of a Collins-street doctor took the mop-
broom and the brass-plate polish into her own
carefully-manicured hands for a few days last week
and declared she’d do without the kaleidoscopic
Mary Ann. After trying a baker’s dozen of mop-
maids in a fortnight, she grew desperate and did
her own cooking, dusting, swearing, and janitress
work. One day she answered the ’phone ring
twenty-five times and the door-bell as many again,
and grew so hoarse explaining to patients her
position that she is now laid up for repairs.
The nervous system has been unstrung and the
temper so badly dislocated that there’s no hope of
a speedy recovery. Now that lady knows some-
thing of the case from Mary Ann’s standpoint.
They tell a droll story of a recent bride evincing
a violent interest in her wedding-gifts, and doing
her unblushing best to prevent duplicates, as well
as to inspire suggestions for stylish novelties.
The jewellers found it a new sensation to have a
Toorak siren urging them over the bar—that is, the
counter—to suggest the pretties and to murmur
the vetoing word when a duplicate threatened. I
was taken round the tables by a bride-chum the
other day, where her souvenir silver was laid out,
and was spell-bound to hear her dilate on the
solid silver article and pass over the electro-plate
of the economical with a sort of elocutionary shrug
in her tones. Fancy picking out the stamps and
looking the gift through with a trader’s air of
discrimination !
Miss Kathleen Watson (Mrs. Dearden) has
accepted a tempting offer from Brown, Langham
and Co., for the publication of her second book,
“ The Gaiety of Fatima,” which will probably be
on the market m London before October next.
The same firm pnolished last year, a third edition
of Miss Watson’s “Litanies of Life,” and their
offer of royalty terms for the new book indicates
that the “Litanies” have created a value
for the authoress’s name on another title-page.
She writes for women—women of a higher order
of sentimentality than the Corellites. If she can
hit them again with “ The Gaiety of Fatima ” this
unaffected prose-poetess will be the most para-
graphed person in Australia, and the dames of the
Austral Salon will doubtless rush to discover her.
She lives at South Yarra.
Two charming sisters of squatting wealth made
a sensation at an expensive hotel by their grand
array of gems—an array which starts at the
porridge-meal, and swells to a first-class show-case
display by the hour of coffee and chestnuts. A
wag suggests that the pair of charmers pile on the
glittering treasures in the morning for safety.
After all, it does appear a reasonable precaution.
One of the quaintest old characters in this poli-
tically-bored State is a veteraness of 74 who takes
a Turkish steam-and-scrub with clock-like regu-
larity once a week. She has been testing the slab
for more years than most of us have known, and is
an institution at the local wastery. She talks to
the old frequenters of the hot slabs, and coaxes on
the fainting novices. She inquires into all ail-
ments, or, failing any, into domestic minutiae.
You can’t resist her honest curiosity. The har-
dened She looks into her cheerful old eye and lies
to her with as much cool, enjoyable abandon as
the temperature permits. The shy spinster and
the youthful marm shirk inquiries, and get riddled
with quips and jests before the moist mul-
titude. But some indulgence must be allowed
an old grannie in the seventies, who can
stand more steam and longer roasting with a
crackled smile than any strenuous young miss
going.
Madame Masseran steams Nor th to the Rand wick
flutterers with the latest regulation size of hip and
waist. (The skin-tight garb with the creaseless
coat to the knees requires extra special whale-
boning). She lands on Monday the 10th and
anchors for a short period at the Metropole.
The rose-wirers are spilling more salt pearls over
the gradual passing of the funeral wreath. The
funeral wreath is a source of fat revenue. The
genuine griever has no thought of expense. He
orders a broken harp in immortelles and asks not
the price. The pinnacle of woe is tall and steep,
and one can’t climb down to bargaining over a
bouquet of everlastings. On the other hand, the
man who orders wedding flowers does so a month
before the event, and stipulates a price. These
days Romeo is thrifty, and Orlando considers
both sides of a sixpence.
A plump little widow has a passion for dancing.
She boasts of never having to sit out a polka or a
two-step. Her three boys save the situation.
They each take their little mommer in turn and
whirl her round. That’s how she trains the
young idea.
An Adelaide correspondent writes me :
Norman Brookes, staying on in Adelaide for the local
tennis championship, won it easily, Rodney Heath, nomi-
nal champion of Australia, going down as badly as every-
body else in the final. Parker, the spectacled Maori-
lander, should have defended the E. T. Smith challenge
cup, which one more victory would make his own ; but
he was not there. S.A. tried hard to “dare” him into
coming from Sydney—where he has just started a busi-
ness—but he replied that he could not get away, and had
not even played in the late Sydney tournament. Tatchell,
the Vic. almost-veteran, had a great week. With Hack,
he beat the Brookes pair in the doubles, brother Harold
being not quite up to champion form. Tatchell also beat
Norman B. in the mixed pairs, played from start to finish
in pouring rain ; the drought that has afflicted Adelaide
for four whole months broke up just in time to ruin the
closing 1 stages of the week’s play. But the biggest local
sensation was the defeat of Miss Payne by a casual Vic-
torian visitor, Miss Addison. As long as Adelaide can
remember, Miss Payne and her cousin, Miss Parr, have
been unbeaten, except by each other. Whenever Victoria
has wiped the floor with S.A., the Adelaide ladies have
done something to balance matters. So this was a heavy
blow, which even the discovery that Miss Addison is her-
self a native of Adelaide could not alleviate.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
THE OLD LADY.
GEORGE: “Look here, doctor, I’ve got a recur-
rence of that beastly Deakinitis in my Ballarat,
and I’m afraid it’s going to become chronic.
Do you know of anything?" &c., &c.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEGRGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
GrO TO HEELL-
I6OLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free, by post throughout
A ustrolia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
This Elastic Truss
sn
Elastic
Truss-
l5/-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Svvanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
“I am in favor of the abolition of the
Upper House.” — Premier Kidston, of Queensland.
Anti-Reidite Freetraders whisper names
of possible substitutes for rotund George, chiefly
Joe Cook and Bruce Smith. But they think
Cook too narrow, and they feel that Bruce looks
down on them from too great a height for their
own comfort.
A generous man turned up at the Vic.
Coal Commission one day last week. He has a
coal proposition on the South Coast, and he
offered, if the State would build a railway and a
jetty, to sell it 50,000 tons of coal every year for
five years, “on terms to be arranged.” By the
time the Commission had finished gasping at his
munificence, the mine-owner had gone.
Queensland Supreme Court has awarded
damages against the Typographical Association
for having “conspired together” to_ prevent a
Brisbane paper employing a non-unionist and has
“injuncted” the Association to withdraw its
opposition to the employment of the man m
question. The decision strikes at the very founda-
ions of unionism. If trade-unionists cannot
refuse to work side by side with non-unionists
most of them might as well cease to exist; if they
do refuse, it is, according to the Queensland Court,
“conspiracy.” The Kidston Government should
act promptly to put the State’s trade-union law
on a satisfactory basis.
A COMPENSATING LAND-TAX.
He had always been in favor of a land-tax. If the
revenue were devoted to relievin’? the landowners of
some of the railway freights and certain forms of taxa-
tion, no additional burden would he placed upon them.”
—Minister Swinburne, of Victoria.
F ATMAN : “ Oh, certainly; you can take it cut of
one pocket as long as you put it back in
the other.”
Among the 61 candidates who want to be
nominated to carry the Labor banner at the S.
Australian Federai elections next December are
Allerdale Grainger, late Agent-General, and
Paris Nesbit, K.C. Grainger has had long experi-
ence in the State Parliament, but Nesbit, although
he has tried several times, has not yet succeeded
in getting even that far. It is said that Grainger
intends, if selected, to buck up against Speaker-
Holder in the Wakefield district in the Protec-
tionist and-Labor interest.
Brisbane
Telegraph
reports:—
A special
Telegraph cor-
respondent in
Natal sends
word that Al-
fred Cowley,
Speaker of
Queensland
Parliament, re-
ceived a warm
welcome in
Natal, where he
spent so many
years of his
earlier life. It
seems that a
wholesale ex-
odus from the
country is tak-
ing- place ; and
Mr. Cowley has
been passing
through quite
a busy time in
being inter-
viewed by indi-
viduals who are
looking abroad
to Australia for
a sphere of ex-
istence more
peaceful than
that promised
by existing con.
ditions in Na-
tal. Mr. Cowley, of course, is not losing the opportunity of
extolling Queensland's attractiveness for intending emi-
grants from South Africa ; and the hint might be taken
by the Minister for Lands. Information concerning
Queensland, properly distributed just at this juncture
throughout South Africa, would be almost sure to result
in valuable additions to our immigrant population.
Natal, overrun by black labor imported from
India to make it great and rich and prosperous
according to the doctrine of Cowley, is suffering
from a great exodus of population, and Cowley,
the great nigger advocate, is pointing out that
Queensland, under the White Labor policy which
he so bitterly denounces as ruinous to the country,
is a splendid place for these people to make for.
Queensland sugar-growers are beginning
to recognise that the black worker must go. At
Townsville on March 16 a Burdekin sugar-grower
met a gathering of white workers, and announced
that 400 men would be required for the cane
fields from June next, and that they could earn
from £3 to £3 10s. a week.
The remarkable Thomas Bent adopted
another good idea the other day at Croajinga-
long:—
He would favor the employment of prison labor in
the work of opening up land, and by that means much
good would be done in two ways. Prison life should not
be too comfortable. Every prisoner should be compelled
to work for his keep, and if he would not work he should
be allowed to starve. It was not right that honest, law-
abiding people should be taxed to keep convicts in idle-
ness in clubsi which were what the prisons here really
were.
A sensible civilisation would see that its robust
criminals got a double allowance of the curse of
Adam, instead of being allowed to demoralise in
idleness, or in useless labor.
Tasmania is a curiously mixed speck of
Toryism and Radicalism—Tory in State politics ;
Radical (in patches) in municipal politics. Laun-
ceston municipality has, for its size, more
Socialistic undertakings in hand than any other
town in the Commonwealth; and Devonport,
which is supposed to moon its life away at the
yawning mouth of the Mersey, and to regard
Launceston as a devil of a place—even Devonport
has its municipal electric light and power supply.
And the business pays, too ; last year it supplied
power to this dot of a township for less than 3d.
and lighting for 7|d. per unit, and even then made
a profit of £236, or per cent, on capital.
No wonder the Stout Person in Victoria
is angry at the prospect of a Federal graduated
land-tax, and is making a fearful struggle to
explain that there was a “tacit understand-
ing ” that direct taxation should be left to
the State Governments, and that there
will be a “breach of faith ” if it isn’t.
The Chirnside estate has just been
acquired by Bent for closer settle-
ment. For tax purposes the whole
lot was valued under State law at
£25,235; for repurchase purposes it
cost £304,000, and even then the
great mansion and 1600 acres were
not included. And it must be re-
membered that the State law ex-
pressly provides that there shall be
this gross and shameful under-valua-
tion. Another estate belonging to
Fairbairn, M.L.A., pays tax on
£8750, and it is under offer to the
Closer Settlement Board for £45,650.
Yet Fairbairn is an actiye member
of the Stinking Fish brigade, and
speaks bitterly of the country that
lets him off four-fifths of his fair land-
tax. There are only two things more
urgent than the Federal land-tax ; one is
a first-class Protectionist tariff, and it would
be uncivil to mention what the other is.
The interference which Lord Elgin, Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, attempted to exer-
cise with regard to the recent wholesale death
sentences in Natal was held to be legal in self-
governing N.S.W. up to the year 1866. Australian
lawyers, almost in a body, held that where the
death penalty was involved an appeal always lay
to England. But when the case of Louis Ber-
trand, sentenced to death for the murder of bank-
clerk Kinder, was referred to the English authori-
ties, the reply, while recommending a commutation
of the sentence, affirmed the competence of
N.S.W. to finally decide in capital cases, and thus
put a stop to all such appeals in the future. Still
the Natal case, being a 12-barrelled slaughter by
court-martial, looked something extra.
Premier Kidston, suffering from the sins
of his bursted predecessors in office, sees some
trouble in getting the 8000 Kanakas away from
Bananaland within a reasonable period. There is
also the cost of replacing them on their islands.
“ Has any such attempt been made in a few
months since Moses led Israel out of Egypt ? ” he
said the other day. Why, certainly. There was
the march of Judah into Babylon, the return, the
shifting of the Ten Tribes after the downfall of
Hoshea, the Mormon pilgrimage, the removal of
the Turks from Tartary into Asia Minor and
Europe, and all manner of other instances.
Kidston’s job is a mere drop in the bucket of
pilgrimage.
IN TOPHET. —AN ARGUMENT ABOUT A DOG.
This is in no way connected with the Holman-Reid debate.
Bent’s insistence that municipalities shall
find £1 for £l, or 30s. for £l, or 10s. for every £1
of the State subsidy (his requirements vary with
the rating) has led to strange results in the Fern-
tree Gully shire. That Council wants £lOOO from
the State to make or repair roads, but all that it
possesses is a £950 overdraft. Consequently it
lias decided to borrow £950 to wipe out its over-
draft, and £lOOO to ensure receipt of the State
grant. Interest will be 4 per cent. It seems a
pretty mixed financial scheme.
Melbourne shopkeepers who are in doubt
as to whether they should join the Victorian
Shopkeepers’ Association, and make frenzied pro-
tests against early closing, should study Sydney
facts. Here, in the time when Lyne was Premier,
W. M. Hughes, now a Federal representative,
drove through an Early Closing Bill. At first
the shopkeepers cried out that they would be
ruined —that they were ruined, in fact. Now,
after a few years’ experience, you’d hardly find a
shopkeeper complain of the Act. It is never
mentioned. It just exists as a matter of course,
like the revolutions of the earth.
Defence Minister Playford, defend-
ing the shipment of Captain Collins to
London to act as buyer of military stores,
mentions that the War Office has not yet
sent out the cordite ammunition, ordered
over a year ago, for the recently imported
18-pounder guns ; and he adds that there
was a similar delay in sending out modern
guns for the Warrnambool battery. This
sort of thing ought to make Australia
feel very comfortable. If in time of peace
it takes the War Office 12 months to send
out a couple of thousand rounds of cor-
dite ammunition, how many centuries
would it need to fill fighting requirements
for all Australia in time of war? If
there is going to be even a week’s supply
of ammunition in Australia when the
enemy does come, the sooner ammunition
and arms factories are established the
better.
There is a Deform party in the
Brisbane City Council, and it is giving
about the usual results of self-labelled
Deform parties. Its main idea is to
knife the salaries of higher-paid officials,
although at present these are lower than
in any other city of the size in Australia.
At least one Mayor, who led the crusade,
drew his half year’s allowance of £250
before he had been in office a fortnight.
The only redeeming feature about the
project is that some wretchedly-paid
underlings are marked for small increases.
But when the whole thing is columned
up, the saving is a mere fleabite. What
is principally the matter with Brisbane
municipality is that the revenue is far too
small. The hopeless drift can only be
arrested by higher taxation, and as long as the
franchise is on the property basis, there never
will be any serious change.
Sydney Telegkaph, which described the
Reid land-tax in N.S.W. as a magnificent reform,
now speaks of any land-tax as “necessarily a
handicap to production.” Also, the same paper,
in the same article, insists that the Upper
Houses of the Australian State Parliaments are
all easily amenable to the popular will; and, but
a few years ago, what were its opinions on mend
ing or ending the N.S.W. Upper House ?
Australian O. C. Beale on conditions in
Freetrade England:—
Protection is growing fast, and, in my opinion, will
carry the day within 10 years. Meantime, the poverty is
appalling, and every philanthropist is trying to get the
people out of the country—a strange doctrine. Half of
the Irish are gone, and yet Ireland is neither prosperous
nor contented.
Truly a strange means to prosperity—to import
goods and to export men !
“F.C.” : In selecting Trades Hall sec.
Stephen Barker, Solly, M.L.A., and Tom Tunne-
cliffe (who represented Melbourne for a brief
space) as Labor candidates for the Senate next
December, Vic. Laborites may have made the
best choice open to them, but it is a poor best.
Tunnecliffe is clever and well read, and stands a
good show ; Solly will hardly care to resign his
seat to battle for his rather poor chance as
Senator (and, anyhow, why should the Laborites
throw 7 away a bird in the hand ?); while the
weariful, stodgy Barker has the memories of
many defeats to hamper him. He is the. man
who, before coming into Labor prominence, used
to roll frequent epistles into the papers, and
signed them “Stephen Barker, J.P.”
According to Prime Minister Deakin,
his Government hasn’t yet considered the
question of an Australian graduated land-tax ; it
hasn’t formed any opinion about a Federal tobacco
monopoly ; and it hasn’t decided yet whether to
try to pass a new tariff next session or not. What
has it decided —except to be affable ?
Mr. Bruce Smith, abusing the Labor party,
and incidentally “ chucking off ” at that vague,
shapeless mass, G. H. Reid, suggests this as
a genuine anti-Socialist and Freetrade pro-
gramme :
Non-interference with the economic conditions of com-
merce ; non-interference with the economic conditions of
industries ; freedom of trade except for revenue purposes.
Out of office the Spruce Myth is a very ardent
Freetrader and anti-Socialist indeed. But in
office in N.S.W. lie never stirred a finger to re-
move the huge Protection which daily newspapers,
sugar, beer, wine, tobacco and two score of other
articles received. And when the tottering banks
wanted lots of State interference to keep them
from ruin, Smith was more than willing.
The cable sends news of a heavy increase
in the Japanese duties on leather and flour.
Queensland Commissioner Jones asserted before
the Tariff Commission: “I have a bare chance
under the present tariff to sell leather and flour in
Japan, but it will not last. We shall never obtain
a permanent market there. The Japanese Govern-
ment watches carefully over its people’s interests.
I anticipate a virtually prohibitive tariff.” But
fancy sending a commercial agent to Japan to
sell leather while Australia imports leather and
leather goods from Europe ! Let us have a tariff
that will secure us our own market, and there
will be work enough in Australia within a few
years to support 20,000,000 people, and we won’t
need to struggle expensively to sell an odd bale of
this or a bag of that to Japan or Abyssinia.
Digby Denham, Queensland Minister for
Agriculture, throws a brick and a scowl at the
Australian Government’s immigration proposals.
According to Digby D., Queensland doesn’t want
artisans ; it wants agricultural immigrants,
and it wants to be left alone to attend to its own
affairs, and to bray by itself in its own paddock.
Somebody ought to tell Digby Denham that he is
an ass. Queensland badly wants artisans—
thousands and thousands of them—enough to
make all the goods the country requires for its
own use. And it is the Australian Government’s
business to supply the artisans by an immigration
scheme, and to find work for those artisans by
imposing a tariff that will shut out imports. It
is also its business to tell Digby Denham to hoe
his own little parochial row and remain civil.
ALMOST INVISIBLE.
George Reid says it isn’t true to say he has no programme.
Watson (as affable stranger): “ It’s a very little one.”
GEOBGINA : “ Yes, sir, but it’s me own.”
The poll among Laborites for three Vic-
torian candidates for the Senate, which was taken
on the preferential system with an exhaustive
ballot, tended to throw further contumely on that
abstruse method of choosing’ candidates. There
were 23 nominations, and it took half-a-dozen men
nearly a fortnight to go through the blessed
papers ; yet the first nine candidates maintained
their positions in the same order right through 19
counts, finishing—R. Solly, Ist; T. Tunnecliffe,
2nd ; S. Barker, 3rd,
Bits of parochialism uttered by Joey
Carruthers when questioned at Lismore (N.S.W.)
on the construction of the 17 miles of railway
from Murwillumbah to Tweed Heads, to connect
the Grafton-Tweed line with the Queensland
South Coast railway : “New South Wales is not
going to be run for the benefit of Queensland.”
A voice : “ But we are federated now.” Joseph :
“ I don’t care about that.” So the N.S.W. people
of the north must do without their railway lest,
in benefiting them, it should also benefit Queens-
land. Why doesn’t Joey break up the through
lines to Brisbane and Melbourne ? He refuses to
fill the little railway gap between Berrigan and
the Murray lest trade should go to Melbourne,
and to fill the Murwillumbah-Tweed Heads gap
lest trade should go to Brisbane ; and it would be
only consistent to tear up 10 miles of line just
north of Albury and another 10 about Tenterfield,
and cut N.S.W. right off from the nefarious
characters north and south.
THE TOURIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am surprised at the ever-growing and far-reaching
power of , the Australian Labor parties and the Socialistic
tendencies so noticeable in even the liberal sections of
Federal politics. These tendencies must naturally have
the effect of keeping speculative capital out of the
country and depreciating Australia’s foreign credit.—
The sort of remark the English tourist is always expected
to make.
“ I am shocked and flabbergasted, I am pained,” the
tourist cried ;
“ I am filled with shuddersome despair, and more than
horrified ;
I cannot comprehend it, I am genuinely scared.”
(Australia went about her biz as tho’ she’d never heard).
“ I have fifty thousand golden quid I’m longing to invest,
But now I’m off to Naples, Timbuctoo, or Buda Pest;
I’ll leave this dreadful Labah land—I will, for evermore.”
(Australia passed unheeding—she had heard of him
before!)
He left the coin he hadn’t in the trunk he didn’t own,
And said: “ I never would have come had I but only
known.”
He sailed away to England where the land is always green
(Australia paid no heed; she didn’t know that he had
been).
sr.s.w.
GILROONEY.


W./I>R4ling C? U?, §5B George SX \Svdney.
Importers of Pianos, Organs ®. Musical Instruments, Brisbane N ewcastle
Piano
Notes
for
Piano
Buyers.
Buy
Ktur
Piano
at
Pa/injs.
You'//
Get
Va/ue
/oryour
Money, ;
And
A//tAe
/.attest
Patents
As we//.
Tine
Tone
and
Good
Touc/i .
TTiey
Stand
in Tune
in any
C/imate.
So/c/
on
Very
/Tasy
Terms.
O/d
P/'anos
Ta&en
in
PrcAa/ige
Send
Aor
our
free
Ca/a/ofue
L
N 6
CATANACH’S
£.l to
£lOO
Engagement Ring's
Bring Happy Days.
2149.
10 Fine Diamonds, .1
Sapphire or Tormaline,
£lO.
1(579.
8 Fine Diamonds, 1
Sapphire or Tormaline,
£6 ICs.
2152.
2 Fine Diamonds, 1
Kuby or Sapphire,
£l5.
1685.
12 Fine Diamonds, 3
Sapphires or Olivines,
£7 10s.
1678.
2 Fine Diamonds, 1
Sapphire or Ruby,
£l5.
mmm
3926.
5 Fine Diamonds,
5 Fine Sapphires,
£l2.
2145.
14 Fine Diamonds, 1
Sapphire or Ruby,
£l5.
mill 'rai Pa
1680.
6 Fine Diamonds, 1
Sapphire, 1 Ruby,
£6 10s.
2169.
5 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2153.
12 Fine Diamonds, 1
Sapphire, Ruby or
Emerald, £l2.
Iti77.
10 Fine Diamonds, 1
Sapphire, 1 Tormaline,
£lO.
3936. .
5 Fine Diamonds, £lO.
2149.
16 Fine Diamonds,
1 Sapphire, £lO 10s
•gmws.
sasiiijfe
o
1675. •
Fine Diamond, £lO.
ml
3960.
3 Fine Diamonds, 2
Sapphires, £3 10s.
2158.
17 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10s.
1081.
Fine Diamond, £l2.
3969.
5 Fine Diamonds,
£4 10s.
With all Diamonds, or with Sapphires, Rubies, Emeralds, Tormalines, Olivines, Turquoises, Opals, or Pearls,
at Proportionate Prices. Every Gem Guaranteed Genuine and Finest Quality, and set in 18ct. Gold.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE of all that Is New anil Fashionable in High-Class Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, &c., to
Catanach’s Jewellery Facflory,
Corner Royal Arcade (Sl Little Collins St., Melbourne


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Mr C. H. Tonkin, District Representative T.
and G-. Mutual Life, Arrnidale, sing's the praises
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and writes as
follows“Gentlemen, —Your valuable little book
on Horne Nursing to hand. It is a publication
that no household should be without; the informa-
tion contained therein is worth pounds. Like Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, it is a boom to the
general public. I cannot speak of any wonderful
cure being accomplished, for the simple reason
that I believe in the old adage, ‘prevention is
better than cure,’ and during the last three and
a-half years I have had the best of health through
using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. If ever I
feel out of sorts I go to Dr. Morse and take two or
three of his little pills on going to bed and get to
business next morning as right as rain. My wife
used to be a martyr to headache until recommended
by a friend to try the above remedy, which has
proved a boon to her, and we can both sing loudly
the praises of this household medicine. It has
saved doctors’ bills for years.” Throughout
Australasia Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
household remedy, and the antidote for all general
ailments. In thousands of homes the little amber
bottle is the sole medicine chest, for there are few
complaints in which Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills cannot be administered without beneficial
results. Whatever the ailment, it is imperative
that the bowels shall be cleansed and kept free,
and that the process by which the blood is purified
shall be stimulated to drive the foreign humors
from the system, which are the cause of all
disease.*
18
H ■ i \
yr*U-. :
wm
m
mm
m
tint:
ill
Cable Addkess —
PASTIME, SYDNEY .
M. J- MOLONEY,
Tattersall’s Club,
SYDNEY.
♦
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST HARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.==^-^
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Pries Lists forwarded on Application.
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEYTattersaii’s,
SYDNEY.
RESCN’S $
STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
DOWLING
Bkewehy and Offices:
ST., REDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
The securing of this season’s big Rugby fixtures
was smart work on the part of the Trustees of the New
Sports Ground (Sydney). Their ground is not too well-
known, and nothing could popularise it more than to
season of first grade Rugby matches played there,
i.he Rugby Union, in its own interests, decided that it
would oniy piay one first grade match each Saturday in
the Moore Park district, but it should be the best match
of the day; and the Sports Ground people gently
insinuated such favorable terms as to knock the Sydney
Cricket and Agricultural Ground people right out.
Immediately the Trustees had secured the matches they
called for tenders for roofing and seating the present
stand, and by the time the competition starts it will be
presentable and eapableiof'‘accommodating 600 people*
which is the most the Trustees can do with the funds
available.
* * * *
When Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union
reconsidered the question of admitting St. George
and Manly clubs to honors the ayes had it
again, and it was found that the majority had puffed up
u o 4.ui tWo ' t * I * rds mark * S° the motion was carried, and
k i - s wil . l P la .y grade the current season. But
the bye is still vvith us. The news was received with
howls of delight in the St. George and Manly districts.
North Sydney, which has hitherto had the services of the
crack Manly players, is not jubilant. Truth of the
matter is that the Metropolitan Union is either unable or
unwilling to do anything serious in the way of fostering
the junior game, and the consequence is that a district
containing 40,000 people finds it hard to raise 15 first-class
footballers, and has to draw on a suburb about seven
miles away, which is disgraceful.
* * * *
The Rugby Football Union has been chopping
at its rules again. In future the ball has to be downed
once it. is held, whether fairly or not; a goal from a mark
will count three points only, just as though it were a
penalty goal; and once a fair catch has been made the
ball can be handed over to anyone to place or kick. Pre-
liminary matches start this coming Saturday, when a
number of teams will play three 60-minute matches at
the Sydney Sports Ground. A few matches were played
last Saturday, and there was no unusual increase in the
number of funerals on Monday.
* * * •
This is the season when football secretaries
explain at great length to interested subscribers that the
wear-and-tear on players’ boots is something enormous.
Carlton (Melb.), a club that has steadily advanced these
last few years, published its balance-sheet last week
showing receipts £1324, and £8 in hand. What may be
called legitimate expenses (materials, practice matches,
V.F. Leasrue, donations, special to Geelong, printing,
payments to secretary and coach, and incidentals) absorbed
£331 ; the other £lOOO mostly went in uniforms £3B,
boots £32, “ training” £lB7, “ travelling expenses” £l7l,
insurance and assistance to injured players £76 ; cabs’
trains, trams £5O ; refreshments £66, theatre parties £9s*
Gippsland trip £244. These things, coupled wdth the
admiration of the girls and the easy billet that is usually
found for him, would seem to make the crack footballer’s
life a fairly good one.
Another week has passed without bringing any
change in the attitude of Melbourne Cricket Club towards
the Board of Control. The club is apparently flapping
its wings while it brings financial pressure to bear on the
clubs which elect the Vic. Cricket Association. That is
the only explanation of the V.C.A.’s fool attitude of
approaching the S.A. body to see what it really wants
The strength of the M.C.C.’s attitude is the
appalling weakness of the V.C.A., which has not
yet learned to stand on two legs and go alone—
the habit of leaning on the upstart M.C.C. has got
into its bones. The kernel of the nut is the fact that a
large number of the clubs which elect the Association are
hopelessly in debt to the M.C.C., and a man can never be
offensively independent as to the fellow who holds his
paper. After all, the best solution might be for the M.C.C.
to buy out the V.C.A., and thus put itself in a position to
speak for Victorian cricket, which it can’t do at the present
time. Then the M.C.C., backed up by S.A., could fight it
out to a finish with the N.S.W. and Queensland bodies.
The V.C.A. is too weak to fight, yet it gets in the way. If
it really does want to do something, it should make a
start by issuing an ultimatum to S.A. that unless it joins
the Board within a certain time all inter-State matches
will be discontinued. N.S.W. could be relied upon to do
the same. As for the M.C.C., it could be ignored once
S.A. was brought into line—or, if necessary, it could be
d.squalified.
* * » ,
Sydney saw sensational cricket on Saturday,
when Burwood fell upon Middle Harbor at Manly and
smote it like seven devils. It was not a downfall—it was
an annihilation ; and Middle Harbor’s right to appear in
the first-grade arena is seriously jeopardised. Six of its
wickets disappeared, leaving only the sign of the duck to
mark their flight, and, with a top score of 32, the w'hole
side disappeared for 88. Burwood let loose two bowlers
only. Garnsey sent along 14 overs, of which three were
maidens, and his six wickets cost only 39 runs ; O’Connor
rocked in 13 overs, of which no less than six were
maidens, and his four wickets cost 35 runs. When Middle
Harbor had left, “Sunny Jim” Mackay and A. Diamond
went to the wickets, and although no less than six Middle
Harbor men practised on them, they slogged and slashed
the score up to 309 at close of play, and both wickets
were still standing. Outside this startling performance
the only century was that of H. Cranney, who made 109
for Central Cumberland against University. A brief but
exceedingly attractive exhibition was that of Blaxland
and Jansen for Balmain against Waverley. It only lasted
23 minutes, but in that brief period they piled up 77 (37
and 40). Some bowling figures that raised a dust during
the afternoon were those of Black of Gordon, Buckle of
Glebe, and Collins of Paddington. Black took three of
Redfern’s wickets for 27 runs, Buckle bowled tw'o of Syd-
ney’s for 14, and Collins downed a pair of North Sydney’s
timber-stacks for 18.
* * * *
The clubs that are still in the running for
Sydney cricket premiership are Waverley and Burwood ;
Glebe and University ; and Redfern and North Sydney.
These matches will transpire on April 21 and 28. "North
Sydney and Paddington, champions in their day, are now
out hopelessly.
* • * *
S.A. cricket season ended with Adelaide club
first; it has not much batting, but the bowling of Wright,
Travers, and Cowan pulled it through. Port Adelaide
was second, chiefly by the help of Gehrs. Stuart, who
did not get into the State eleven, heads the batting
averages with a nominal 134 (six innings, three not-out).
Following him are Hack, Pellew, and Jennings (last
finished the season with three consecutive hundreds).
Hanson is top of the bowling averages, and ties with
Wright for most wickets taken ; it is the first time for six
years that Travers failed to win this last distinction. S.A.
cricket ought to be much strengthened by the inclusion
of a “ B grade,” which has meant that 170 players have
had regular practice on turf.
* * * *
Rosehill meeting on Saturday would have been
a very dull show but for the steeple, which the jumping
of Auriculum brightened up considerably. He flew his
obstacles like a bird.
• • • *
Running of short-priced Sydney Cup favorites,
Lord Ullin’s Daughter and Marvel Loch, at Rosehill,
Saturday, wasn’t encouraging to backers of either. Of
10 starters in Rosehill Handicap, Lord Ullin’s Daughter
was a hot first favorite at 7 to 4 on, but she never
threatened to win. Outsider Fitzroy scored after a bitter
struggle with Nahpro. Appearances indicate that Mel-
bourne, more than Sydney, Cup is Lord Ullin’s Daughter’s
mission—she isn’t forward enough for the latter. Marvel
Loch was 6 to 1 on for Rawson Stakes. Rounding the
home turn Fitz Grafton had two lengths the better of the
Caulfield Cup winner, and though Marvel Loch drew up
opposite the Leger, she couldn’t come away. The
Queenslander finished only a head to the bad. There
was certainly no “ bit in hand,” as alleged by one or two
Sydney scribes, about the win.
* < * *
Maniapoto and Airloch, heavily supported first
and second favorites for Doncaster Handicap at coming
A.J C. meeting, shaped badly at Rosehill on Saturday.
Lach started warm at 2 to 1 against in the Railway
Stakes. Maniapoto got away badly, and the race had
very nearly ended when he showed out. He just missed
third place, which Airloch secured, three lengths behind
J. C. Williamson’s Zythos, which started 20 to 1 against.
As Airloch couldn’t run 6J furlongs strongly with every-
thing in her favor, it is hardly likely she will see the end
of the Doncaster mile. Maniapoto’s position was different.
He was unlucky, and altogether is such a creature of
moods that nobody really fit to be at large would dream
of backing him for anything.
General entries for A.J.C. Autumn meeting
total 533 59 less than last year's total. W.f.a. conditions
show a falling off, and Victoria hasn’t come along as
numerously as in previous years.
* * * •
A lot of sporting interest attaches to Great
Scot just now. The ex-Australian horse, a somewhat
brilliant performer in this country before he went to
India and w r on the Viceroy’s Cup in two successive years,
has been nominated for the Manchester Cup (handicap)
and the Ascot Gold Cup (w.f.a.) in England. Great Scot
seemingly is on the down-grade, but he is not yet too old
to be restored to his best “ form ” by a second change of
climate. If he fulfils these English engagements he will
be the first racehorse to figure as a performer on the Turf
of three countries.
* * * •
The Bulletin doesn’t pretend to speak by the
book, but as near as it can sort things out the rumpus in
Sydney pony racing circles, which has resulted in the
formation of the new Ascot Club, is simply the revolt of
a considerable number of pony owners against what they
term the “rapacity” of the proprietary clubs. Ken-
sington, Rosebery Park and Epping Clubs have joined
forces to down the new institution, and are trying to
break the ranks of the recalcitrant owners by offering
larger stakes with one hand and waving the mailed fist of
eternal disqualification with the other. The Kensington
course is much more accessible tlian that of the new club,
which is situated somewhere out Botany way ; and the
triumvirate has shown that it recognises that fact by
arranging to hold all fixtures at Kensington. On the
other hand, it remains to be seen how the owners stand
If the bulk of them hold to the new club, the most
accessible course will not draw the public ; there will be
only a few ponies to race, and it will be like a bar
ivitbout liquor. Anyhow, it doesn’t matter which gang
wins—this ball of mud will go on revolving if the whole
four come to the fate of the Kilkenny cats.
* * * *
Judge Johnson, in confirming the conviction of
a Melbourne betting “ club ” proprietary, laid stress upon
the objectionable nature of shop-betting in one of its
phases. “This form,” said he, “is infinitely worse than
the form under which a man goes out into the open air
and bets. The people sit in the room whilst the races
are going on, and spend the afternoon in betting on re-
sults, relying upon the information as it arrives from the
course.” But there are stronger objections to the betting
shop in the fact that it offers the same unhealthy ac-
commodation for parasites and wasters as the back parlor
of a pub. What the blue-ribbon moralists urge in favor of
reducing the number of hotels can be urged with
greater force for the suppression of plages where
the public drop in casually and inflame their thirst
for injurious gambling. If the town bookmakers were to
go around the streets with a hand-cart pushing the odds
under the same breezy conditions that a hawker pushes
his bananas, it would be the worst possible form of
betting. The purpose of restrictive legislation should be
to confine all bookmaking on current events to the actual
racecourse, where, on five days of the week, neither shop-
boy nor clerk can get corrupted, and working-men don’t
drop in and lose their wages. If it is good to deprive the
weaker citizens of their facilities for getting drinks, it is
better to rob them of the facilities for getting bets.
A Westrahan bookmaker recently erected a
chain alongside the roadway, and hung himself up on it
while he yelled the odds. The police ran him in, and
Moses flabbergasted the Court by pleading that a piece of
chain, used to sit upon, could not be a “ place ” within
the meaning of the Act. The Court reserved its decision,
and is still struggling with the problem.
* * * V
Martini’s buckjumping show has resumed the
even tenor of its way ; and on Saturday night the orator
felt about as much at home as a schnapper in a stubble
field—he had no one to talk at. Spite of the fact that
Skuthorp rode him, Bobs does not seem to have developed
any undue respect for the boss of creation, and on Satur-
day night shot his attempted rider over his head with
great suddenness. On Monday night the proprietor in-
vited 700 newsboys to come and see the show, and if they
felt that way, take a hand at riding the donkeys and
ponies.
* * « *
When the just-ended sailing season started, it
was firmly believed by many admirers of the white wings
that their days on the waters of Port Jackson were num-
bered, and doleful writers prophesied that the open boat
and gracefulyacht would bothgi ve way to thepetrol launch.
But, as a matter of fact, the two sports appeal to totally
different minds. The man who goes in for the petrol
launch would but very rarely go in fer yachting, and
never, under any circumstances, for open-boat sailing.
The only result of the appearance of the auto-launch has
been to increase the number of people who spend plea-
sant Saturday and Sunday afternoons on the water.
Wherefore its name is blessed.
* » • *
Sydney Motor-Boat Club’s regatta comes off on
April 7 (this Saturday). If only half the new boats that
have been announced turn up at the starting line there
should be some excellent racing. It is to be sincerely
hoped that some arrangement will be made by w'hich the
public can be kept posted up as to the number of the
event, the scratchings, and the winners, etc. There is a
future before motor-boat racing if the sport is properly
handled at the start. So far it has not been. Apropos,
it is whispered that a syndicate is trying to make
arrangements to run motor-boat carnivals every Sunday
through the winter. The idea is to hold the carnivals
outside the territorial limit, and the spectators will be
conveyed out in ocean-going steamers in which a totalisa-
tor and refreshment, solid and liquid, will be laid on in
considerable force. The only thing that remains to be
fixed up is an agreement with the owners of motor-boats.
Of course, the syndicate will, if it ever gets going, offer
substantial prizes, ending with a reliability race between
two given points, followed by the excursion steamer, for
a prize of somewhere in the neighborhood of £lOOO. It
all sounds very attractive, but, at present, like the girl’s
back tresses when the villain pursues her in the melo-
drama, it is all in the air.
* * * *
W. J. C. Elliot, whose five-mile record Doherty
beat by 6sec. on Friday night, week before last, after one
of the narrowest escapes ever seen on the Sydney C.G.
track, has announced his intention of lowering Doherty’s
colors. If he can get a motor-bike capable of doing the
speed, he says, he will drive it. This means, in all proba-
bility, unless Sydney Cricket Ground people bank their
track another 4ft. higher, that either Elliot or Doherty
will break his neck, for both men are curious combina-
tions of caution and dare-devilism. Doherty rides his
own machine, which he has altered considerably, cutting
down the frame and shortening various intricate parts, so
as to be able to take greater risks in the way of riding on
the edge of his rim. They take all possible precautions
before they get.on the machines, but, once going, nothing
seems too risky for either of them. And when a rivalry
starts between two men of that nature on an unsuitable
track—well, the devil waits with a smile on his lips and a
cheerful flick about his tail.
* « * *
Maoriland has now discovered that it has a
speedway suitable for motor-racing- on the hard sand of
New Brighton beach, about five miles from Christchurch.
The local Cycling and Motor Club held a 100-miles contest
thereon recently over a six-lap course, with sharp
turnings at both ends, and in a motor-bike handicap the
winner of the fastest time prize covered the distance in ?hr.
34min. 21sec., or at the rate of 40 miles an hour. The speed
would, no doubt, have been much better but for the
sharp turn at each end of the course. Victoria ought to
be able to find a suitable spot for this sort of racing on
its Ninety Mile beach.
* * * •
Now authoritatively stated that there will be a
1907 Sydney Thousand. Come to think of it, the men
who race for these big prizes do a tremendous lot of
riding for nothing. When Billy Flier entered for the Syd-
ney Million he first raced for a heat, and qualified for a
start in the semi-final. In the semi-final he got a place,
but failing to win had to compete in a special semi-final,
which means that he had to get placed in three
gruelling races before he bad a chance of competing- in
the race for the big money. Then, if he finished any-
where behind the third, lie rode four times in the
richest bike race on earth—for nothing. And yet during
the season the professional bikist has to devote his whole
time to the sport, but there isn’t enough in it to make a
living cleanly. So the bikist is driven to devious ex-
pedients, and then, when the bookmaker comes along and
shows him how he can make money all the time, win or
lose—well, he falls in with the bookie. The cyclist is no
better than other men, and no worse. Most likely he
would prefer to win all the time, if he could, and the
chances are that he would prefer to run straight every
time—but it doesn’t pay.
* » * •
N.S. W. League of Wheelmen is getting tired of
its press mentors. Nearly every paper in the metropolis
that makes comments on bike racing has been holding its
nose and assuming an expression of shocked virtue. So
during the Sydney Thousand meeting the League fell
tooth and nail on riders whom it suspected of running
stiff, or who were obviously guilty of neglecting to take
their share of pacing-, or against whom there were suspi-
cions of collusion, and dealt out disqualifications galore.
Now the Same press has taken its fingers from its nose
and talked of “undue severity.” The league is quite
right. Its only chance against Moses is to make crooked
practices so unprofitable that the men who stay in the
game wjll have to run straight. If it weeds out half the
riders, so much the better ; there are too many at present
for the amount of money there is to go round, and quite
a little army of them are being supported either by the
trade or the bookmakers—or both. The threat of the
disqualified to start a rival league of their own is sheer
bluff—fancy a league of riders disqualified for downright
roguery 1 The League of N.S.W. Swindlers !
* * » W
This year’s world’s championship bicycle meeting
takes place in Geneva, Switzerland, probably in the month
of August. Ellegaai'd will make another attempt to recap-
ture the championship he held so long.
* * * *
There is a mild flutter of excitement in aquatic
circles over the forthcoming sculling race between John
Searle and John Mitchell, for a stake of £lOO a side,
on the Parramatta River this Saturday. Both men
are quite unknown, but the fact that Searle is the brother
of the dead-and-gone Harry of that ilk invests him with a
certain amount of sanctity among boating folk.
* * * *
The scraping up of sufficient funds to send the
N.S. W. eight-oar team to V\ estralia has been laborious
work ; but the Rowing Association has decided to send
the teain and cadge for the balance afterwards. While
the crew was training on Saturday a steamer cut its boat
in halves. So there will have to be another cadge for a
new boat.
* * * *
Canadian oarsman Durnan is coming to Aus-
tralia to try to pluck the sculling championship from
Stanbury. The Canadian isn’t taken seriously as a cham-
pion sculler; but, at the same time, Stanbury will
be a very easy man to defeat unless he plugs along in
heavy training. If the championship gets to Rat
Portage, it will take a long time to bring it back
again.
* * * *
“If the woman doctor, lawyer and most other
things, why not the woman jockey ?” argued Miss Hyland,
of Hyland’s Circus, when she applied for registration in
Westralia, with the object of riding the Circus cracks at
Coolgardie meeting. But the stew ards were an ungallant
crowd, and threw out the application with emphasis.
Erst forefront English jockey, Ben Barlow (now
60 years of age), is “riding work” at Randwick in a
manner that makes most of the young’uns look very
cheap. “ Benny ”is fond of telling how, on one occasion,
he went within a nostril or so of pipping the late Fred
Archer on the post— this was when Archer was at the
height of his fame. Barlow has been in this section
close upon 20 years.
* * » *
Citizen John Wren is poking that aggressive
nose of his into foot-racing, and proposes to offer a stake
of £5OO for a 120yds. handicap. The Citizen is doing this
for the pure love of sport, and will go to the expense of
laying down a special crack for the occasion at the Rich-
mond racecourse, where the contest is to eventuate during
Cup week in November next.
* * * *
The Montague Andrews-Robert Whitelaw
scrap at Sydney National Sporting Club last week was
not of the order to set the soul boiling. From the first it
was evident that Andrews was the more skilful
fighter, and the fact that two strong individuals
managed to fight 20 rounds without seriously
hurting one another is the worst thing that can be
said about the business. Whitelaw rushed and banged, An-
drews evaded and tapped back, and if Whitelaw' did
occasionally score a few points, Andrews immediately
tapped him all over his upper works in a neat, artistic,
don’t-want-to-hurt-you-old-fellow style. At the end of
the affair, which could hardly be called a disturbance,
Andrews was proclaimed winner.
* * * *
Citizen John Wren is understood to be threaten-
ing an abnormal amount of assault and battery. He has
fixed up a disturbance between Tim Murphy and William
Squires, and if Squires kills the champion it is understood
that the citizen will bring- Mike Williams, the bandv-
armed miner, from Jewhannesburg to make cold meat of
Squires. In the meantime M'Coll, late champion, is
travelling round with a bashing show, lying low and sav-
ing nothing. In such an alarming atmosphere there is
profound wisdom in the policy of saying nothing.
Saturday night, Sydney saw another full time
scrap, this occasion between Casey and Mitchie at the
Gaiety Club. For a while it looked as though Casey would
win on points, but Mitchie banged him to the floor
where he stayed six seconds, and thereby wiped off his
lead. At the end of the 20th round the referee declared
the thing a draw.
* * * *
Three Sydney swimming clubs closed their
season on Saturday, but “ Continental ” or mixed swim-
ming continues in full blast at the baths where it is
allowed. A number of the bath proprietors are patting
themselves on the back because they have not allowed their
waterholes to be used for such Babylonish practices, but
all the same, they are out of pocket by reason of their
Puritanism. Writer has made close inquiries among a
large circle of swimming acquaintances, and has onlv
found two ladies who admit that they have been pinched
in the water. And, hang it all, writer must plead guilty
to having pinched more than two girls at every Sunday
School picnic he has ever attended. In fact, there is a
dark suspicion that mixed bathing is a ghastly disap-
pointment. There’s nothing—ahem !—spicy about it, and
quite a number of men have been suddenly cured of
violent attachments when they have seen the ladies who
roused their emotions in hired bathing costumes.
* * » *
Maoriland is discussing the advisability of hold-
ing an international Trotting Match at its Christchurch
Exhibition, or rather, its Maoriland Exhibition at Christ-
church. It is proposed to offer a stake of £lOOO, divided
into £750 first prize, £l5O second, and £lOO third. The
first prize is to be further subsidised with a gold or silver
trophy worth about £2OO. If permission could be ob-
tained to run a totalisator in connection with the meeting
it is thought it would be a good investment, and it is
hoped that such valuable stakes would draw horses from
America—-a country in which trotting is even more popu-
lar than it is in Maoriland, which is saying volumes. So
far the matter is still in the air.
Adelaide, which has 200 privately-owned motor
cars (and quite a batch standing on hire at the corners),
proposes to make a “ speedway ” somewhere on the city’s
Park Lands, which are dead level and almost unlimited
in extent. There the road-hog can do his two miles a
minute or bust, without damage to anything but himself
and a little cheap scenery.
* * * *
Everyone who has a bicycle should make a
point of securing a copy of the fine illustrated booklet,
“All About Dunlop Tyres for 1906.” Same can be bad
free from any of the Dunlop Company’s depots.*
An Armidale Man
Sings Loudly the Praises op Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.


The demand of Manly for overland com-
munication with Sydney by train or tramway
rouses again a flicker of interest in the North
Shore bridge question. With a bridge over
Sydney Harbor and another crossing Middle
Harbor, Sydney would start spreading in
quite a new direction, and would become a city
planted on both sides of two harbors—a city with
four water frontages so to speak. Hasn’t anyone
got a bridge or two concealed about his clothes ?
Premier Carruthers has achieved an
economy by appointing ex-Under-Secretary for
Justice Miller to act as N.S.W. Public Service
Commissioner for the six months that Pa Delohery
is away. The stopgap Commissioner will draw
at the rate of £lOOO a year, but as he receives
£6OO a year pension, the State will only pay £2OO
for the half-year. But it is an anomaly for a man,
who some time back was adjudged unable to run
one Department, to be placed in a position to rule
the lot.
Brunswick (Vic.) possesses a remarkable
citizen named David Ross. David has discovered
two comets within the last 20 months, beating all
previous records at comet catching. Whenever
Ross feels inclined, he goes out on a dark night
and discovers a few comets, just as kiddies go
mushrooming. He is a strong man and quite
fearless, and is ready to tackle the most ferocious
and hairy comet that ever defied the municipal
regulations by furious driving on the roof of the
atmosphere.
When the Pure Food Bill was going
through the Victorian Parliament the Champions
of Bad Yittles yapped themselves hoarse about
the measure’s alleged radical departure from all
English ideas on the subject. “Look at Eng-
land,” said they, or words to that effect. “ Mean
to say the English Health authorities don’t know
what’s right?” And, just by way of showing
what the English Health authorities do think on
the subject, comes a letter to Dr. Norris, of Mel-
bourne Board of Health, from Dr. Power, of
London Health Department and principal Go vern-
ment expert, acknowledging receipt of copies of
the Victorian Act: —
The Act is of extreme interest to me, seeing that you
have already effected much of what I am trying to get
carried out here. In fact, you have altogether got the
start of us in this matter, as I shall not fail to point out
here to those in authority.
That’s what they think of us in England.
That eminently useful piece of legislation,
the Commonwealth Commerce Act, to come into
operation on June 8, is being unscrupulously mis-
interpreted by the barrackers of the importing
interests. S.M. Herald says:—
Further, if anyone knows anything about anybody else
doing anything in contravention to this Act, he, too,
shall be punishable, for does not the Act set forth that
“ whosoever aids, abets, counsels, or procures, or by act
or omission, is in any way, directly or indirectly, con-
cerned in the commission of any offence against this Act,
shall be deemed to have committed that offence, and shall
be punishable accordingly ” ?
The words of the Act cited clearly enough indi-
cate that this is utterly false, The Herald pro-
prietors tnay know something about someone doing
something which the Act makes unlawful, but
unless they are concerned in the commission of the
offence (the Act distinctly says “concerned in”)
nothing will happen to them. Whether the
Herald’s misrepresentation arises out of malice
or ignorance, it is about equally disgraceful to the
Herald.
The Victorian J.P. horror again! At Haw-
thorn a man charged with inflicting grievous
bodily harm ran against these amazing incom-
petents. He had struck his wife so ferociously
with a billy that her ear was cut from her head,
and left hanging by a shred of skin ; and it was
alleged that this was merely the last stroke in a
long course of ill-treatment. The presiding P.M.
told the accused that he was a blackguard, and
badly wanted to gaol him for the full term
allowed ; but he had five dishonoraries on the
bench with him, and they over-ruled his decision
and tenderly fined the ruffian £3—even going to
the length of giving him 14 days in which to find
the money. Also, they recommended the wife to
go back and live with her fiend on the ground
that he had signed the pledge—this regardless of
her statement that he had signed the pledge
before, and it hadn’t enabled her to keep her ear
on.
The prospectus of the “ Malay Straits Tin
Mining Company” appears elsewhere. The property
consists of a lease of 50 acres and 100 additional acres
adjoining have been applied for, thus making a total area
of 150 acres. The property is well reported on by Mr.
W. H. Williams, it having been thoroughly prospected
by means of shafts sunk. Mr. Williams is well known in
the mining world, he having been underground manager
at the Associated Mines at Kalgoorlie (W. A.), also inspec-
tor of mines in W. A. He was also mine manager at the
Victoria and Queen at Charters Towers, and engineer and
manager of the Ravenswood Smelting Company in
Queensland, and previous to above was managing mines
at Bendigo, where he resided for upwards of 20 years.
The manager pro tem. is G. E. Robinson, 317 Collins-
street, Melbourne, to whom applications for shares should
be sent.*
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURCIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia.
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public.
All subjects instructive and entertaining.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat. Each artist a star.
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmony
and finish.
This week FORBES, CONDOBOLIN, PARKES, PEAK HILL.
Note this column for next week’s route.
R. COLLINS, Manager.
To be Obtained from —
SAML. McCARDLE, 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
J. R. BROWN, Box 494, Wellington, N.Z.
(SILLETTE RAZOR
YOU CAN
o>xt
SHAve
LJ Hors isac
l* A
V HO'
W«2
S/tif
ST ~<1
n' v
t>V
S »4lr.
* / cV
«</v
s
*"*2
t> *«
■2. a .fV
O-V^w:
ro
0
me
o
Bend for Descriptive Circular. 80 Days* Trial tfveo.
Honey refunded if not satisfactory.
152 Margaret Street, Sydney•
[ P.O. Box US, Melbourne Box 404. Wiling ton. N.Z.
ANDREW McGEE, 5 & 7 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ED. H. LINDSAY, Charters Towers.
HEAD OFFICE:
FRANK COFFEE, 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, sy dji ey.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS of the SYDNEY SEASON.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by the Talented Australian
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN,
in the Intensely Interesting and Absorbing Drama,
LADY AUDLEY’S SECRET.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
RITE R I O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
EVERY EVENING,
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company
in a Comedy in Four Acts,
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s.
Wednesday.
Matinees every
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manatrer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, Mr. J. 0. Williamson presents for SEVEN
NIGHTS ONLY, a Grand Revival of
Planquette’s Most Celebrated & Melodious Comic Opera,
PAUL JONES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. l&~ PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
“Theatre Packed to the Door Nightly ” to witness
WEST’S PICTURES..
They are Absolutely Incomparable. In conjunction with
THE BRESCIANS,
From the Royal Albert Hall, London.
LIVING LONDON, WEST’S PICTURES, and THE
BRESCIANS, Three World-Famed Successes.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
REAL ROYAL RECEPTION
OP
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THE ONE UNANIMOUS VERDICT ENTHUSIAS-
TICALLY GIVEN—THE BEST AND GRANDEST
EVER SEEN.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY
(EXHIBITION GROUNDS).
Passengers by George and Pitt Street trams leave trams
at Railway Station, and go through Subway. Leave
Elizabeth-street trams at end of penny section.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. Private Boxes to Seat 5, £1
Plan at Paling’s.
SECOND GRAND MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 3 p.m.
CHILDREN HALF-PRICE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP.
HARRY CLARK’S RADIUM GIRLS.
THE THREE LEES, THE GILBERT SISTERS.
Unique Performances of MARTINETTI and GROSSI.
BERT DANSON, Comedian and Character Vocalist.
MDLLE. NAD A MORET, Character Vocalist & Raconteuse.
Mr. LES. WARTON. MADAME LEON CARON.
HARRY SADLER, BABY WATSON, LILY* COLE.
BARNARD’S MARVELLOUS MARIONETTES.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
MAUD PANING, Coon Artiste.
ARTHUR ELLIOTT, Endman Comedian.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
TAMBO and TAMBO, Tambourine Spinners and
Comedy Artists.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Corned v Glee Singers.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
Plan at Allan’s. US' PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
New theatre
Lessee
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.. BLAND HOLT.
ABSOLUTELY LAST SEVEN NIGHTS of
Messrs. MEYNELL and GUNN’S
Sensational Transatlantic Musical Dramatic Success,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
THURSDAY, APRIL 5, and FRIDAY, APRIL 6,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in ROMEO AND JULIET.
SATURDAY, APRIL 7,
CAMILLE.
Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 7,
Grand Complimentary Operatic Performance to
Miss Beatrice Miranda,
prior to her departure for Europe.
Excerpts from Grand Opera—
“ RIGOLETTO,” “ LUCIA,” «• MARTHA.”
Artists assisting: Misses Emily Rifford, Hynda
Maurice; Messrs. Jas. Wade, A. C. Bottoms, D. J.
Dunlop, W. E. Lewis, &c. ~
Grand Opera Chorus and Orchestra Conductor, Mr.
Alberto Zelman, Junior.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Mrs. W. J. TURNER, Hon. Sec.
Music, & *
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc.
o
EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS. Cash.
GEMS £2 10 0
STANDARDS.. £5 0 0
HOMES £7 10 0
VIOLINS £2 10 0
ACCORDEONS £2 0 0
ANGLOS £2 10 0
ORGANETTES £3 0 0
AUTOHARPS.. 12 6
Packing Free
Weekly
Pay-
Terms. Deposit, ments.
£3 0 0 10s 2s 6d
£6 15 0 20s 6s Od
£8 10 0 30s 5s Od
£2 15 0 10s 2s 6d
£2 6 0 10s 2s
£2 15 0 15s 2s
£3 10 0 20s 6s
15 0 3s Is
> any address.
Edison Gold-Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT - & SON,
137 King Street , Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANB.
CO CO o o
£5O in FOUR PRIZES.
Immigration League Competition.
NOW OPEN.
TICKETS and Full Particulars may be obtained from
League’s office or from any Newsagent.
IMMIGRATION LEAGUE OF AUSTRALIA,
11 Terry’s Chambers,
Tel. 4505. Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting: vermin dead {
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer —P. KLEESA.TTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
mm
“best *'
RAZOR GUARD
MEN who shave with a “BEST RAZOR GUARD ”
attached to their own blade, experience the
delightful sensation of being quickly, safel ; v, and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary razor blade, no matter
what size or shape. Instantly converts your blade into
a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe to use under
any conditions —travelling on a train, or even in the
dark —without fear of cutting yourself. Makes your
razor shave as smooth as velvet, as close as desired, in
half the time you ordinarily take. Just as useful to
the expert as to the novice. Thousands now in use :
each one sold gains us a friend. We positively guar-
antee it not to injure your razor’s edge, as the Guard
does not come in contact with the edge of blade. Price
only 1/6 post free to any address in Australia, Tas-
mania, or New Zealand. Send postal note for 1/6 and
we will send Guard : or, if 7/6 be sent for our Genuine
Bengali Razor, we will send you the Guard free.
Address : STAR NOVELTY CO., Premier Building:,
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne (or Box 466 C.P.0.,
Melbourne).
ÜBLIC
NOTICE.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP and CO., Limited, desire to
THANK their friends for the great kindness, considera-
tion and help they have shown toward them at this
time of disaster and anxiety. It is impossible to reply
to all the telegrams, letters, and messages of sympathy
thev have received, but until a better opportunity offers
they will ask their numerous friends to accept this
acknowledgment.
March 31, 1906.
ÜBLIC
NOTICE.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP and COMPANY, Limited, de-
sire to intimate to their Customers and the Trade gener-
ally that thev are Conducting their Business as usual
at No. 439 Kent-street, opposite the firms own Bulls:
Having large Reserve Stocks of moSteOf their leading
lines, they feel confident that the dislocation of their
business through the disastrous Are will not debar them
from Executing Orders in a satisfactory manner. Ocoas
that may happen not to be in stock will be purchased
locally, as the Wholesale Houses in the Trade have been
kind enough to place their stocks at the disposal of
tviwards. Dunlop and Co., Ltd. ,
A Yery Remarkable and Yaluable Book.
Practical Hypnotism
MESMERIC THEORIES
Biological Experiments
Thirty Illustrations#
How to become an
Expert Hypnotistand
Exercise Wonderful
Influence over Other
Persons.
Br a ear.fui stuiy of this book anyone may b«eo«» *
skilled hvp lotiat, an i. either for practical put poses or
for a-nine men?may le In, to exsrcise this strange and won-
derful power over others. Toe possessed of this faeuity u
of inestimable value to persons in ail ™nks of .ucce.Vfu!
emnlovel o mscio isiy or nnoonsoiously, by every successlul
business man, po.itician. actor, preacher orator and
teacher Without its influence the most accomplished speaker
fans to arouse the interest of his audtenoe, while by it#
power every argument bscomes effective, every appeal M
responded to, and the entire assemblage is sway-d and con-
trolle lat the will of th. orator. Similarly in husinessmat-
ters, on I nan snoeeeds where another fails simply beoanst the
one beo imss en rap|i >rt with the person with whom he deals,
while the other cannot. The first charter of the Instructions
explains ihit eviry>ne may hypnotise, the second chapter
the method, of hypnot.sm, and so on
264 pages, coinorisins c-»e latest, and most authentic ex ) o 1
tion of the theory and pnctice °£ tn»a most wonderful
and mysterious powsr, ny the Comte de Saint G ,rinain i.. 8.
rr \i \‘h ‘ volume also contains pa’diculars of the manner
of curing diseases by th i employment of hypnotic influence
Th ire aro thirty interesting engravings. Works on this
subject are usually very costly, but wi have secured a larga
number of these valuable books, and bars resolved to sell
them at only Us. 3d. each, including postage to any •‘Oress,
so as to place them within the reach of everyone. If yoa
mention this paper when ordering and send au additional six-
pence for packing and postage, we will forward with each
Eook a Burnished M tallie Hypnotic Disc, as shown in tho
above illustration, and referred to on pages 93, 189
wbere in the book. The price of the Disc when purchased
alone is 2s. 6d. carriage paid. Obtainable only from
UNION MFG. Sc AGENCY CO.
2Q9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
General Manager Thornley, of Eskbank
Ironworks (N.S.W.), to the Tariff Commission
There is more iron and steel imported into Australia
every year than would keep two or three modern mills
g-oin'g full time if the trade were only secured to the firms
who invested their capital in the enterprise ; but with a
free port we never know when the manufacturers of Bel-
gium, Germany, England and America will dump their
surplus stock into this country.
Reporting on N.S.W. marble at Minister
Lyne’s instance, Federal expert Summers gives
this comprehensive blessing :
I am back again in Bathurst after visiting the Oaloola,
Borenore, and Molong deposits of marble. All I can say,
so far, is that I only wish I had these deposits in Italy, and
if Australia had been nearer Italy I would believe I had
found the deposits that the old Greek and Roman artists
used in the decoration of their temples and palaces.
N.S.W. has a practically exhaustless supply of
marble, ranging from flawless white to all the
colors of the rainbow, and unsurpassed for texture
and hardness; but the world got the habit of
looking to Italy for its marble before Australia
was born, and some people would sooner fall down
dead than change an old habit.
What’s to be judged from the bald state-
ment in the daily press that Mr. W. W. Davis,
ex-M.L.A., is to be employed by the N.S.W.
Government “to report on” the Pilliga scrub
lands? Probably the country knows all it cares
to know about these Pilliga areas; they are bad
lots, and may be left at that for a century. If
any further knowledge is wanted of them, surely
there are enough experts in the Lands Depart-
ment to “ report.” What is Mr. Davis to get for
the little job ?
The farmers around Maldon (Vic.), who
for years returned that reliable old Tory, the late
Jock MTntyre, to Parliament, and are all strict
anti-Socialists, are shrieking with great violence
at the “Governmenc interference ” which led to
an audit of the council’s books. The State officer
has just issued 400 summonses for overdue rates (in
some of the cases the arrears date back over 30
years), and “the notices have been received with
great indignation.” Also, the remarks of Mr. W.
Sykes, found by night at the safe, are frequently
quite unfit for publication. Yet somehow Mr.
Sykes’ indignation isn’t treated as a matter of
much consequence.
is
ads «*%.
tr£“ ,v - th ctt 0j V sAf |S '
lid 11
A“ s r
*^|o"
F&o
a s
V
X
SP
d.n«
« P'
cP
eciW^N^'^sse
t n° n %
°
o p’S W
th
pa*..* cH"®
wP'
tp' s
>lfp°
3S*
pS>*-
n 1


GIFT SUGGESTIONS.
A FEW SELECTIONS FROM
OUR IMMENSE STOCK.
Order early, and avoid delays and dis-
appointment. All goods sent POST FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver
MATCH BOXES, 8s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Smaller, 5s Gd, 6s Gd,
7s Cd, Ss Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
DRESS RING.
Ruby and Pearls,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
3 Set. Gold RING.
Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pear] Set
Bird BROOCH. 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal or Turquoise,
PADLOCK BRACELET, £3 ss.
i loot. Gold, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold RING,
Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 12s 6d.
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, 265.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds and
Rubies or
Sapphires,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone BAR BROOCH,
Gold Mounted, 12s 6d. A Neat Design.
A. SVUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
HEART, Gold Mounted, 15s.
Smaller, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
RIBBON BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Turquoise,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half-I-loop
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, 40s.
Very Effective.
11
ss«i
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO LEATHER PURSE, Extra Heavy Silver
Lock and Mounts, Lss.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s Gd, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
12s Gd. 17s Gd.
Gold Mounted, 30s, 355, 40s, £2.
YOU’LL
BE
SATISFIED
WHEN YOU OOME
TO US TO BUY.
Our Enormous Stock
affords such an
Excellent Assortment
to choose from,
and the quality
of our goods
is such that you
have confidence
in them.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Diamond
Half-Hoop RING, £5.
Larger, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £lO.
NICKEL,
15s.
NICKEL,
20 s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Our “Unrivalled,” 20s„ London Lever, 255.
All Guaranteed.
SHOPPERS.
OUR
CATALOGUE
will be sent FREE
for the asking.
To the Country
Resident
we assure
satisfactory
Mail service.
It brings our
Large Stock
to your own home,
at City Prices.
All goods sent to
any address.
TRANSIT FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP, 255.
15et. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones, £3 10g,
£4 10s, £5, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and
Heart CHARM, 7s Cd.
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Scroll BROOCH, Set Fine Pur
White Pearls, £3 5s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Bird and Spray
Scroll BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat
Long White Bristles, 5s
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s
BRUSH,
6d.
6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold
BREAST PIN.
White Pearls,
20s.
m wSStaacaSwa
mmm
•SiejMsW
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent, s POCKET BOOK, Crocodile Leather
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 20s.
Other Styles, 5s Gd, 7s gd, 10s, 12s 6d.
15s. 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mounted
Bloodstone Seal
PENDANT. 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING SET,
on Wooden Base, 10s, 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s Cd,
10s, 14s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2s 6d. Chased, 3s 6d.
Solid Cold, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Pure Double-Out
Diamonds. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
Friendship
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Star
BREAST PIN,
Pure Wiiiie
Pearls, Diamond
Centre, 30s.
LADY’S,
15s.
IADY’S,
205.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face Keyless
WATCHES, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurse’s” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Amethyst
or Garnet, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
18et. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart
and Dumbbell LINKS
12s Aid.
UMfiglWTO^B
m
Elf
I
fmmmUm
■i
FI.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s TRAVELLING ROLL, fitted with every
convenience, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s 6d.
Other Styles. His fid. 18s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255,
80s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
ISct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Opal Set
LIKES, 355.
15et. Gold, £2 10s.
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
K.-yless WATCHES, 255, 30s, £2, £2- 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 4s, £4 10s, £o 10s, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN
and Greenstone
Heart, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s Cd, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Photo. Heart
LOCKET, 15s.
imiinHtttiffimmiUiiiniinniHiiiiunf!
W
is
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising Five Pieces, 255.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2/10.
GOLD
CASED,
£4/4.
A. SAUNDERS. . ..
Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
£2. £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s.
•Solid Gold,. £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, to £4().
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphire, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s (id,
12s 6d, los. -
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Set
PENDANT. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN CHAIN and
CHARM. 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN
809,811,813, 815.817 GEORGE-ST.
Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.


Ill*
J
# *
obacco comci from Virginia
V. ' . /
ran
/*»<*
in
an
iS y/rd/mm.
i 1
VC
<
L
<gj>
lIS
4 ,S' lx' >
X \
•pi| V^V i 'jy ... ■>jli^ ; '
■ !■•
,
0
a#-
S'.'fi
£A
ns
1M
’.! •
'O
*
■v. ~.
r
Si
IPS !
s&£il "'
W-S3&H
f
V/!Li.
1111
/
a
/ ,-■
5
...
rn
a
If
99 *>
■
*
W- D 6* H-C)
■i ;>


’ r
m
y
(=3
0
J
j*:
■rim
mmm
2 -if
y
2 J=^lis
O •- w -*
= « fl. --
X
fe
\»
2
II
21
iVJT.
Ei Ml
*3
z?
or
«£
'*
v-Jfflj »/)
•>i'
&
x:
< <
£
4Sas»sslsl£
lilll
>^'-
W
/
Iv
fc*-*
h
!¥t
)
s
-Y
V
>
KS
Jr
i>
So
\?
"SSf?
mnmimm
o
l\r
OMATO
J Kould be Kept in every Komer


EVERYTHING-
in the World Has a cause. THe
immediate cause of BACKACHE
and INDIGESTION and CONSTI-
PATION and HEADACHE is a
deranged state of tHe LIVER and
KIDNEYS. Now ...
*
will put these organs rig'ht more
quicßly than any other medicine.
WHY HAVE: HALL’S PILLS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME? Because
they are composed of Herbs, and therefore never cause any pain by
forcing'. They assist Nature.
HALLOS PILLS are small anc[ easily taken they
are specially good for Children and People of a Delicate
Constitution, being purely vegetable.
DO YOU SUFFER FROM BACKACHE? HAUL’S LIVER PILLS will
cure you more quicßly than any other remedy, because they remove
the cause of the bacKache.
HEAR WHAT A FEW SUFFERERS SAY .
Mr. Hall, Emerald Hill, 46 Napier-street, May 20, 1875.
Sir, —I have great pleasure in bearing testimony to the efficiency of
your remedies for Liver Complaints, having derived more permanent bene-
fit from them than anything else. I can also with confidence recommend
them to others suffering from the same disease.—l am, dear sir,
Yours very sincerely, E. RICHARDSON.
‘ l l was a martyr to Liver Complaint for years when I heard of Hall’s
Liver Pills. I tried them, and they completely cured me.”—WILLIAM
OLIYE, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
“Having used your Hall’s Pills for several years, and my family also,
I feel a pleasure in recommending them. I have derived more benefit
from them than any other medicine I have ever taken.”—A. H.
O’DONAHOO, Bendigo.
“The Rev. H. P. RAIKES has much pleasure in bearing testimony to
the excellent results obtained from the use of Hall’s Liver Pills. After
taking them regularly for a month, as directed, the distressed feelings
caused by Liver and Kidney troubles have been removed, and all the
faculties of body and mind restored.’”
117 North-road, Newport,-3rd February, 1903.
Mr. HALL, 176 George-street, Fitzroy, sth October, 1900.
Hear Sir, —I wish to bear testimony to the efficacy of your Liver Pills
in the following testimonial, viz. : —About three months ago my wife was
under Dr. , of Fitzroy, for treatment for Asthma and general
breaking up of the system, and I must say he did a wonderful amount of
good ; and I also wish to inform you that on leaving he recommended her
to keep a box of your Liver Pills by her, and occasionally take them as
directed. I beg to state that she has done so with the very best of results,
—I am, yours very truly, J. H. LOWMAN.
If your Grocer or Chemist can’t supply you,
send Is. to us and we will mail a box direct
to any address in the States.
HALL BROS
St. HILDA ROAD.
<sr MELBOURNE.


m
wmM
&
m
mi
m
ne
,/LC..
ts)l|tg is' fa (Tear totfafaß tljat
Jfai
o
r j/cl // 'm/
, "/?■ jy
SO%
£/)C
v<:/?s r/?Y/,
c
o&tC#lc6€/sfUIVC/yeMsifM&(/SC; c.S£€£€■:.,
fe &J2e*>6b&V€/
/?
vut/s/st/c
(ilertxfiratea bg ffrejlnatifatte of j|ggim l]ulb grot) ruitil Untlibra'tßn. Imf theg arc not
qrantefr for a longerrtericli ffrau rue gear, mb arc unit anb nxrtb faxiebe mantra from bair of iasne,
tahen farther examination or teat mnat he mafre aa tn the Btaubarh being mamtanich.
QZ*224£&.
// Direct Jr <* Hen. Sccrcinrr/.
Devonshire St., Harley Street, London, W.
MedicalDirectorAldyistrar.
U LHfrt.
CLU ,


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melro'JßNß Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Aluany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisisank Agents ; WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
THE
Qieensiand jjational Bank,
LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending- to 30th June, 192 t.
. £BOO,OOO 0 0
. 413,240 15 0
. 48,000 0 0
.3,110,621 5 0
Subscribed Capital ..
Capital Paid Up .. ..
Reserve(inGovt. Stoolc, £43,435)
Interminable Deposit Stock
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
QTY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
11 ‘Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
At 9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461—Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. .J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of New South Wales •
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ....
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ..
.. 2,000,000 0 o
.. 1,425,000 0 0
.. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.G.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Norm and MacLauriN, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office —Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,100,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
6. J. Cohen, Esq. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: G-eorge Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. .Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ;
Hon. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
shipriug.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA~and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
*FRINZ SIGISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUBTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (Under cover) to any part
of Australasia or New Zealand.
SOLE Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIQ *ncl AITKEN,
N. 8. W. Barber’* Supply House,
654 Qdorgo Street, SYDNEY
TH€ AB€RP€€H LIN€.
Natali Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
SOPHOCLES
•MILTIADES
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
R. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding’ ..
Noon, April 21
Noon, May 10
Noon, June 2
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O, Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THlrfD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
l)alyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
mm.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about
12th APRIL,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AERIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Datyety and Company , Ltd
Agents in Australia.
Co. A. &s A.
T.TTVTFi (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 9.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
noRNF.R. PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ?
ISLAND
_ CRUISES
Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies:. Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
ss>
&
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ZKT-S.'W.
fflont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £1,996,490.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
ODAIITC nDACTQ
linAN I O UnHr I 9
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
April 16, May 14, June 11.
The Turbine Steamer,
MAHEIMO,
SAILS 16th APRIL.
A Luxuriously Appointed Vessel.
Spacious Promenade Decks.
Roomy Cabins. Up-to-Date Baths.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Kail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheea of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the r amous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Ca,rds (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
•ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
BRISBANE,
MACK AY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, April 6.
■ S.S. Yongala, April 14.
S.S. VVollowra, April 20.
S.S. Eunniyong, April 7.
S.S. Marloo, April 14.
lie.st ami Cheapest lloate to Gohlllehts.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port Of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimeis
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date'
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding; Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at —
MRS>- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon ]field Parada
Sl\ KILDA.
r I'HE Largest and Besr-Appoiuted Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda. Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Canicing, Public Companies, Sec.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised . .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f
£370,000
" THE
1111 ITER insurance
wl« I ■ KbU CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS* SYDNEY,
CAPITAL “ <£500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.


There being no visible reason why Maori-
land shouldn’t build as good locomotives as any
other country, the Seddon Government is inviting
tenders for 20 engines and tenders to be made
within the State. In order to give small men a
chance, tenders are called for five, ten or fifteen,
or for the whole lot.
It is nearly a year ago since Sydney Tele-
graph published an article “Exodus to Chili,”
which was duly cabled to the English papers,
much to the delight of the Stinking Fish party.
Inquiries proved that the exodus consisted mostly
of one N.S.W. citizen, and he has now written
announcing that he is starting back to good old
Australia. But no doubt the exodus lie is still
going round the English press.
Launceston celebrated its centenary last
week, and of its first municipal council, created
in 1852, there is but one survivor — Adye
Douglas, who was born in 1815, and went to live
in Launceston in 1839. But Adye, who has been
living at Hobart for some years past, didn’t take
part in the centenary shivoo. A few years ago
Launceston refused to send Douglas back to the
Legislative Council, and the ex-alderman no longer
speaks to the northern city. He didn’t send even
a sevenpenny wire of congratulation. Yet Laun-
ceston stood him as its member for nearly 50
years.
Australia’s old friend, the Girl of Yar-
m r.itli, has turned up again in New York, as the
witness of an immigration incident which would
have set the wo?ld cursing had it occurred in Aus-
tralia. Yarmouth and his wife were members of
a party including one Fownes, crack four-in-hand
driver of London and a tremendous fellah in his
way. When they were lined up for medical
inspection at Sandy Hook (the indignity and
humiliation of it !) Fownes, in reply to questions,
said that he was a “ boss jobmaster,” jobmaster
being the Hinglish term for a man who keeps
horses and vehicles for hire. “A what?” said
the uninstructed Yankee doctor. “ Oh,” giggled
Fownes, glancing at the rest of his party to show
what a humorist he was, “any sort of an
old job lot.” The Yarmouth Bloater and the
rest of the party laughed loud at Fownes’s pretty
wit; but it had another significance to the doctor,
and, marking Fownes’ papers, “Detain for 24
hours for mental observation,” he turned
England’s champion whip over to a coarse official
who removed him to a padded room where he
oouldn’t hurt himself, and where he was watched
through a hole in the roof by a diligent assistant,
while Yarmouth and the rest were rushing round
New York trying to persuade the British Consul
to have war declared. The unkindest cut of all
was when Fownes was released and described the
enormities of his treatment to a nice, sympathetic
reporter, and next day found in The World the
headline, “ British Joke takes 24 Hours to Under-
stand, ” and his own protest in the shape of a long
interview consisting mostly of misplaced aitches.
What is the Six Hatters jest compared to this ?
Jl
w
mm
m
Denton Hats
Made in Australia for Australians.
Smartest Shapes Best Values.
DENTON HAT MILLS,
Makers of All Kinds of Men’s,
Women’b and Children’s
FELT HATS.
MELBOURNE-
QUALITY and COLOR GUARANTEED.
%
DANDRUFF MEANS BALDNESS
95 per cent, of men who are bald owe their
present deplorable state to the neglect of
ridding the scalp of Scurf or Dandruff,
Dandruff clogs the scalp pores, strangling
the growing hairs and eventually causing
complete baldness. CAPILLA Hair* Tonic
cleanses the scalp of all impurities such as—
Dandruff,: Scurf, Itchiness, Eczema, and all
scalp eruptions by its medicinal antiseptic,
curative and healing properties. It revives
and stimulates the starved hair roots, giving
them food and renewed life.
£lOOO Given Away
£lOOO will be paid to charities by the Inventor, W. Oliver Richards, if Capilla fails to grow
hair on head—no matter how bald —providing a slight down still exists on the scalp.
Sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6 per bottle. Posted, free from observation, direct from the
Capilla Proprietary, 166 Pitt Street, Sydney, on receipt of 1/9 or 3/-. Advice
on all hair troubles free of charge. Correspondence invited.
For “THAT BALD SPOT” use
Hair
Tonic
“A Necessity for every Toilet Table.**
E. T. Drake, Victoria’s new Government
Statist, has got out his first part of the “ Vic-
torian Year Book ” —the principal statistical work
he has to handle. Drake ought to be a solid man
on the financial side of his business, anyhow. For
years he has been auditing accounts for the
Government, and laying bare the awful conduct
of the cocky shire-councillor and the still more
awful conduct of the water trust; yet when some
poor wretch of a secretary has got into trouble,
Drake has shown how mercifully a man can do
his duty.
The loss of the mail steamer Quetta, with
great sacrifice of life, off Thursday Island
(28/2/’91), is recalled in the death at Petersham,
Sydney, of Captain E. P. Keatinge, the well-
known Torres Straits pilot, who had charge of the
vessel when she struck. The captain was for
many years special pilot for the B.I.S.N. Co.
No blame was cast on him for the wreck, the rock
being marked on no chart at that time. The soli-
tary boulder in the sea is generally located by a
luckless vessel striking it, and it was the Quetta’s
lucklessness.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE .. '.. .. .. .. 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE.. .. .. .. .. 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE .. .. .. .. .. 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE .. 6,330
Steamer. Tons-
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,330
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,303
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
MALAY STRAITS TIN MINING COMPANY
(To be registered as a No-Liability Company under Part 2 of the Companies Act, 1890.)
BUKIT DINDING ; MUAR,
STRAITS SETTLEiTENTS.
CAPITAL - - £BOOO in 8000 Shares of £1 each
ALL FULLY PAID UP.
3000 Shares, fully paid up, to be allotted to the Vendor in full payment for the property.
3000 Shares, fully paid up, are offered to the public at £1 each, payable 10s. per Share on application, and 10s.
per Share within two months. The whole of the proceeds to he placed to the credit of the Company, less Brokerage
and Flotation Expenses.
2000 Shares to be held in reserve for the Company.
.DIRECTORS —Mr. W. H. Williams,
LEGAL MANAGER (pro tem.)—G.
to be Local Managing' Director. Other Directors to be appointed at First
Meeting of Shareholders.
E. Robinson, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne, to whom applications for
Shares should be sent.
THIS COMPANY is being formed for the purpose of acquiring a lease of 50 acres and the right to an adjoining lease
of 100 acres already applied for, MAKING a TOTAL AREA of 150 ACRES. The property has been thoroughly
tested by sinking Shafts. A paddock, 30 x3O x 6 feet deep, was taken out near the centre of the property for
a yield of llcwt. of tin (equal to about 61bs. per cubic yard). Although rich, it is impossible to work without
machinery.
Mr. W. H. WILLIAMS reports :—The property has been tested by sinking Shafts, which vary from 6 to 15 feet.
It is composed of a drift from the surface down, the bottom being a decomposed granite. The upper drift, for the
first 6 feet, averages ljlb. per cubic yard, and the lower drift, from 6 feet to the bottom, averages 41bs. per cubic
yard. Taking the general average at 2£lbs. per cubic yard with an output of 9360 yards, which is the capacity of one
plant, will, after paying all expenses, give a profit of £620 per month, equivalent to 2s. per Share per month of
the 6000 Shares to be issued. These results are put down at the lowest returns obtained.
There is also a strong Tin lode running right through the property, and from samples treated very promising
results have been obtained. Where cut on the surface the lode is about 10 feet wide.
The adjacent properties between the last 6 and 10 years have been and still are returning splendid results by
hand labor, but with Dredging Machinery much better results could be obtained.
Buildings have been erected, and dams and water races for sluice boxes have also been built, and all are in
thorough good order.
Having gone as far as my Capital will allow of me, and after thoroughly testing the property throughout, I am
of opinion that with the introduction of a little Capital to obtain Pumps and Dredging Plant ihe work will repay the
outlay handsomely. So far I have only been able to open up a portion of the property, and the richest part has yet
to be worked, viz.—a low-lying swampy patch of ground, from which splendid samples of Tin have already been
obtained, and I am satisfied that, given proper machinery to enable me to open up this ground, the results will be
quite up to expectations.
As a proof of my belief in the property, I may say that I have already expended upwards of 10,000 dollars in
bringing the property to its present state, and without hesitation I repeat that an excellent property is here, and
only requires developing to yield exceptionally good returns. So convinced am lof this that lam satisfied to accept
full payment for the property in shares.
Copy of Prospectus and Plan obtainable from
G. E. ROBINSON, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
fcnobgSAUciq
\
%
%
w
V/A
'2
7*u
4k
yon can of anything
with “argus”sauce


Apropos recent escapes from custody in
Victoria and the weakness of Melbourne lock-ups
(B. 8/3/’O6). The pioneer escapee of the Bent
State, William Buckley (possibly the original
Buckley, of the historic chance), one of the 400
convicts with whom Collins attempted to colonise
the Port Phillip district, remained at large for 32
years. When he was recaptured, the Law had
vague ideas of giving him three months for gaol-
breaking, but thought better of it. The first lock-
up in Melbourne was so flimsy that when a bull,
owned by John Batman, ran foul of it one night,
it collapsed badly, allowing some imprisoned
aborigines to escape. Apparently the oppressor
of N.S.W. is trying to live up to its early tradi-
tions. Even in the days when it had no lock-ups,
and tied William Buckley to a log, it didn’t select
a heavy enough log.
“ Shoo ” in a burst of patriotic frenzy :
I seen that a bloke callin’ hisself “ Adelaide ” in your
paper, March 15, says that they ’ave got a patteriotic
song of Australia. Yes, an’ ’e wants the other states to
join in an’ use it. Wasn’t it in Adelaide where they got
the job to make all them stamps what we oughter had
in the Mother State? Didn’t they do us outer that job?
An’ now they want us to be some more guys an’ take up
with a bloomin’ national song made in South Oss. Not
we—not Noo South won’t ; we’d sooner ’ave it made in
Germany any day. Victoria might; they’re just as bad
agin us as the Souths. Queensland an’ West Oss. might,
an’ the Plyspeck very likely. All them don’t matter
much ; but Noo Souths WON’T. You let me tell yer, as
knows. They got at us over all our other rights ; they’ve
robbed us of our capital, an’ lots of things I forget, what
Joe told us about, but we will be firm agin any old South
Oss. national song. We’ll sooner send to Japan for the
blessed anthem.
the name
WOOD-MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOB DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia —
D. and W. MUKRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgcorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
ff'i'3'aH
H'Hsarra
'aN.aiw
-a 00/a
w
T
F
W 27 S*
p PRIZE
r'vMEDALS
SI,COCK
, 11111 <l 4T y '*
That is your CUE
When ordering Billiard
„ requisites or
Athletic goods
OF RNY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “ Alcock"
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
MELBODRNE.SYDNEY.PERTH.
Wellington,N.Z.&L9ndon.
For Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
MAKES the SKIN
SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
At
0
■&
fits
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
tnd entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
rsiEIVEIR FAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
WILL ANDRADE - BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald heads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
&
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3 —French Novels In
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwivks’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc Diseases-their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
r
L
" Is superior even t
Inestimable value a
meat and Of
a food."
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PH Y3l CAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
r °f n
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and 1
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
At.t. Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 68 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPyXE
Caution-— IGenuine* 1 Genuine* Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS»
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before riding this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
LIQUOR HABIT
DRUG HABIT
\YE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR,
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure . I have no desire for drink ,
in fact , have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. yours faithfully , ■—
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Di. Langston institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at J a "* ‘U=£ V ™tn
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-COBB, Will
forward the same, tree o» charge, to any-
“l ddraS! MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.


For Fifteen Years Face and Body Mass
of Itching Sores Could Not Ex-
press Suffering Doctors Did No
Good. _
CURED BY CUTICURA
WHEN HOPE HAD GONE
“ My head was one mass of scabs, my
forehead was covered down almost to my
eyebrows, and I had to wear my hat all
the time. My body was covered with
spots in size from a pinhead to as large
as a silver dollar. A white, crusty scab
would form and itch, and Avords cannot
express the torture and humiliation I
suiiered for fifteen years. I tried many
doctors, and all kinds of treatments, but
could get no help, and I thought there
was no hope for me. A friend told me to
get Cuticura. I did, and in three days my
head Avas as clear as ever. I applied
Cuticura Ointment night and morning,
also taking a hot bath with Cuticura Soap
three times a week, and using the Oint-
ment freely after the bath. After using
one cake of Cuticura Soap and ttvo boxes
of Cuticura Ointment I was completely
cured, without mark or blemish. I was
so pleased I felt like running down the
street to tell every one I met what Cuti-
cura had done for me. If any one is in
doubt about this they may write to me.
(signed) H. B. Franklin, 717 Washington
St., Allegheny, Pa.”
COMPLETE TREATMENT
For Every Humour from
Pimples to Eczema
Complete external and internal treat-
ment for every humour, consisting of
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills, may
now .be had of all chemists. A single set
is often sufficient to cure the most tortur-
ing, disfiguring, itching, burning, and
scaly humours, eczemas, rashes, and ir-
ritations, from infancy to age, when
physicians and all else have failed.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills, are sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de
la Paix; Australia, K. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug to
Cheni. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
ttUr Mailed Free, “ Skin and Blood Purification."
WL
j.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas. —
NORMAN' BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOVVS BROS.,
A;M.P. Building-, Perth.
fOf course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
lias it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
TIIINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Ladies who wish to
- shine
will not neglect to use
for their boots and shoes
HAVTHAWAY’S
Peerless
Gloss JZ7
which puts such a beautiful shine upon
shoe-leather that it makes it dazzlingly
bright. There is no mistake about it.
The instant it is applied the brilliance comes
and nothing but mud or ill-usage can drive
it away. It softens and preserves the
leather, presents an elegantly smooth
surface, and sets a foot off to the very best
advantage. If you have not already tried it
do so at once and be agreeably surprised.
Sold at all Shoe Stores
and by dealers everywhere.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress Street,
'Boston, Mass. U.S.A.
A POLICY FOURTHS COMMONWEALTH,
Price, wJ”.; Bd
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
w
©
•s
■S
r
'i
m
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
cSb
m
OF
%
KIDNEYS, LIVEN AND BOWELS.
52 SNOW Hill LONDON 11
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
B
£
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
THE CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch—7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WELSBACH
MANTLES *
Made in Australia by Australians lor Australians.
“The House that
Jack built.”
-No. 3,
050
/4
X
M
t.;u
z *j:'M
WM
...
6 ‘ This Is Jack’s wife, so trim
and neat*,
Her happiness is quite complete ;
She thinks the Welshach Light*,
‘Just Sweet,*
Inside the house that Jack built.”
Look for the Trade Hark
on every article.
WELSBACH Mantles
and Fittings can be
had of all Ironmongers
and Plumbers.
ejx
W
ct
G
The UJelsbach tight Company
Have Showkooms at . . .
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co*, Adelaide
Perry Bros*, Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth, W.A.
The Man Who Kicked.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
at Duddewarra wool-shed, out upon
the Warrego,
That the soul of Buck O’Donnell rose in
anger and revolt
Against the many worries of this weary world of
woe,
So he kicked, in angry protest, like a newly-
tackled colt;
And the language that he used,
As his fortune he abused,
Was the kind that gets admittance to the Pearly
Gate refused.
He was tired of shearing leather-necks at pound-
a-hundred rates,
And he looked on timber-ringing with a satiated
eye;
So, in stern and bitter accents, B. O’Donnell
cursed the Fates
That had planted his existence in a desert drear
and dry.
And he swore, by Hogan’s ghost,
He’d no longer stay and roast
In the droughty Never-Never, but he’d hie him to
the coast.
In one picturesque expression he condemned the
buzzing flies,
And the heat and drought and tucker and the
never-ending plain
To the nether depths of Sheol, where the boiling
brimstone lies
And the souls of long-lost sinners pay for sinful-
ness with pain.
Oh, that comprehensive curse,
Which O’Donnell did rehearse,
Was, in point of phraseology, both adequate and
terse !
In the eye of Buck O’Donnell shone determina-
tion’s light,
As he drew his scanty earnings at the shearing’s
welcome end ;
And he vowed that when the morrow’s sun should;
veil itself in night,
He would pass, with purse unlightened, by the
shanty at the bend.
Nor would resolution shrink
At the glasses’ tempting clink
Or the jovial voice of Hogan shouting “ Come an’
have a dhrink ! ”
When the dusky sky was freckled by a powdering
of stars,
Buck O’Donnell came a-striding down the wind-
ing river road,
And he scoffed at drink’s temptation, and he jeered
at shanty bars,
As he turned his back to westward, where the
sun’s reflection glowed;
For he felt that he was done
With old Duddewarra run,
And the city to the eastward cried a greeting to
its son.
Brightly shone the lighted windows in the shanty
at the bend,
As their gleaming faces twinkled from the curving
timber-line,
Audit seemed to Buck O’Donnell just as though
it were a friend
That was crying him a welcome with his jolly
face a-shine.
But he set his teeth and strode
Straight along the dusty road —
Past the entrance to the shanty, where the friendly
lamp-light glowed.
With a sense of gratulation lighting up his inner
mind,
Buck O’Donnell hastened onward, with the shanty
at his back,
When the slighted Fates, recalling his anathema
unkind,
Brought him face to face with Hogan, strolling
home along the track.
With a bottle in his hand
Of his special lightning brand,
He accosted Buck O’Donnell in a manner kind
and bland.
When O’Donnell intimated that he had to catch
the coach,
And was ill-disposed to tarry at the shanty at the
bend,
Hogan gazed upon him sadly, and in terms of
mild reproach,
Inquired of him the reason why he thus should
slight a friend,
By starting for the East
Without a word, at least.
Hogan asked, in broken accents, had their ancient
friendship ceased.
Then he proffered Buck the bottle, for a farewell
pledge, he said,
Just to show that they were parting in a spirit of
goodwill ;
And, before the potent nectar, stern determina-
tion fled,'
And O’Donnell’s resolution, that had once been
hot, grew chill ;
For he drifted from a sip
To an able-bodied nip—
And the charms of Hogan’s shanty held him firmly
in their grip.
Slowly plodding up the river, on the Duddewarra
track, ' V '
Went the form of Buck O’Donnell in the light of
early morn,
And his carriage was dejected, and his swag upon
his back,
And he cursed, with force and fluency, the day
that he was born.
He was going back again,
In poverty and pain,
'To the flies and heat and grafting out on Dudde-
warra plain.
N.S.W.
JASON.
It is hard, sometimes, to understand
Britain’s dull gripping of Freetrade, in spite of the
fact that the thing is slowly ruining the country ;
but, after all, that sort of spirit isn’t uncommon.
America, for instance, has just been chuckling
over a sample. Four years ago the British ship
Sil verhorn arrived at Saucelito, near San F rancisco,
to load grain, but, rather than accept the then
ruling rate of 325. 6d. per ton, John Bull laid up
his ship and sat down to wait. He has waited
ever since, for freights steadily dropped to as low
as 12s. Three grain crops were sown and
harvested, and the Silverhorn still lay on the mud
bank near the bar. Yet',\ in the end, obstinate
John had to give in; he ordered the ship into
dock, and now she is on her way to Puget Sound
for a cargo.
“ P.” : Spasmodically there appear in the
press paragraphs concerning small boys who,
while playing beside creeks and rivers with other
youngsters, have fallen in and been drowned. I
always notice (from reports of the inquests) great
confusion of mind and much reticence on the part
of the surviving infants, and the Coroner’s ver-
dict seldom reveals how the nipper got into the
water. Occasionally, when the mystery is solved,
it turns out that the drowned boy was pushed
into the water during the progress of a fight for
a fishing-rod, or a wooden boat, or the last worm,
or something of that sort. Am inclined to think
this the solution of most of the problems, and that
there are a large number of infant man-slayers
playing tops or chewing toffee throughout Aus-
tralia.


Missing: Friends.
DROUDLOCK. —Wanted the present adores.-., n inn ft
» (or place of interment, if dead), of THOMAS
PROUDLOCK, who left Gateshead-on-Tyne in 1886 for
Australia, and was at Maryborough, Victoria, in Septem-
ber of that year. Write DAGGETT & GREY, Solicitors,
Neweastle-on-Tvne, England.
OODROFFE (ROBERT), left Horneastle,
Lincolnshire, for New Zealand, in
October, 1870 ; last heard of at Dunedin, Otago,
1877 (or children, if dead). Inquirers, Executors
of Ann Seymour (aunt), c/o ANDREW and
THOMPSON, Solicitors, Lincoln, England.
TT'EWISH, GEORGE, formerly of Post Office, Mel-
-*»- bourne, write to R. KEWISH, Leongatha, Victoria.
To your advantage.
Servants Wanted. __
MINE MANAGER.
APPLICATIONS will be received by the
undersigned up to 12 noon on Tuesday, the
first day of May, from persons competent to fill
the position of GENERAL MANAGER of THE
H AMPDEN CLONCURRY COPPER MINES
LTD., at Cloncurry, Queensland.
Applicants must submit testimonials and state
age, experience and salary required.
A full knowledge of mining engineering essen-
tial. A liberal salary to a competent man.
By order of the Board,
EDWARD. H. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Henry Skinner,
Olareiidon-st., South Melbourne
Telephone No. 10hS. w^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Oatered (or
on Moafc
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
r
ORDER A
FAMOUS
Everright
Serge Suit
BY MAIL!
“ EVERRIGHT ” is the name of a Serge
that is the finest that ever came to Australia.
We have the sole right to sell it in Austra-
lasia. It is the hardest wearing and best
looking Serge in the world. Never fades—
never goes green.
Murdoch's “Everright"
Serge Suits to Order - -
455.
We put high-grade workmanship into these
garments, and turn them out equal in style
and finish; to any “merchant tailors’” G3/-
suits.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES
OF EVERRIGHT SERGE
and we will send you full particulars.
Fill in this form and post to us. We will send
the Patterns next mail.
Name
Address ,
MURDOCH'S
. . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
Head
Piece
? Wrong
when one forgets. Suppose
you stop that by feed ng the
Brain properly on . . .
Nuts
10 days’ trial will demonstrate
the truth.
“Tfocrc’s a Rcasoij.”
[l2.
COLUMBIA
eC Gold-Moulded Records
Are BEST for Phonographs*
LOUDEST—CLEAREST-SWEETEST
Price Is 3d each.
WRITE FOR LATEST LISTS AND NAME OF
NEAREST AGENT.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Geni.),
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash StSydney, N.S.W.
Tl)€S€ TEA POTS n)ak« a
SPLENDID CUP OF TEA!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now,
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value—every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s 6d
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 15s
No. E 3763. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
83
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £1” 10s.
1
eljl
No. E 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s
No. F 6136. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot, Full size,
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £2 10s.
No. F 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
Richly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6d
m
No. E 7134. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
32s 6d
No. 367. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£2 5s
S 3
No. F 4357. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s
No. 303. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £3 3s
No. E7G9O. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£4 10s.
mm
No. F 6137. “ Louis Quatorze ” Tea, Pot, Vsry
Massive Solid Silver, £22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.
South Brisbane municipal council (Q.)
hatches some great notions. This year it esti-
mates a deficit of £700; nevertheless it has
decided to allow 5 per cent, discount off rates paid
promptly. The idea of dropping a fine of 10 or 20
per cent, on to persons who don’t pay promptly
doesn’t seem to have occurred to this shiftless
collection of nagging incompetents. It was the
same council which bumped against Hr. Ham,
Queensland’s medical officer, a couple of years ago.
Bubonic plague was about, and South Brisbane,
which, having this sort of council, is, of course, a
very dirty speck, refused to clean itself. So Ham
took the matter in hand, and then sent in the bill,
which Treasurer Kidston collected with a club.
“ Puck ” writes :
A weird tale from Japan : Osaburo Noguchi, an adven-
turer, fell in love with a damsel named Soye, resident m
Tokio. Her brother Neisai, a poet and a leper, dis-
approved of the match. An ancient Japanese prescrip-
tion for the cure of leprosy appears to be soup made ot
human flesh, and Osaburo, hoping thereby to secure the
poet’s consent to his marriage, captured and cooked
an errand boy. The remedy, however, whether from
want of skill in the cook, or obstinacy in the disease,
proved ineffectual ; and Osaburo, who had in the mean-
time married Soye, eventually suffocated his unfortunate
brother-in-law iii disgust, and so effectually removed the
evidence of his failure as a physician. This domestic
tragedy came out in court during the trial of Osaburo for
the less romantic murder of a druggist, whom he robbed
of a few dollars, and whose disappearance caused more
comment than that of a poet (and leper).
“Hamer ” ; I have been to a Sydney “two-
up ” school only once, and don’t intend going
again. A friend who shared my room in a city
boarding-house induced me to get up out of bed,
and slip on my trousers and coat, and go round to
help him look after the money he intended to win,
but didn’t. The school was raided, and my friend
rushed me through devious ways, including a small
window. I got out, but my unbraced pants
didn’t, and I suddenly missed my friend. There
were people about, and, being of a retiring dis-
position, I made for cover. For some time I
lurked in a deep doorway, and then a heavy tread
that betokened a policeman put me to flight.
I picked up a providential paper as I ran,
and, making a skirt of it, gained York-street
with comparative decency. Beyond scaring
a few drunks and arousing the derision of a trio of
Graces, I negotiated that street also with safety
till within coo-ee of home. Then I met a police-
man. He wanted me to stop, but I didn’t. In
the excitement of the chase I lost my petticoat,
and sailing away behind me it rose suddenly and
embraced the Law. I gained the doorstep, but
found that my key was gone with my trousers ;
so I got in through an adjacent window, smashing
it to make a passage. I heard my landlady
scream, and, being a heroic lady, she rushed to
meet the invader. “ It’s only me,” I assured her,
but she insisted on having a look at me, and
fumbled with matches. I a cloth and
covered my trouserless portion. Then the light
came, and I started to explain. "Why didn’t
you knock at the door, if you forgot your key ? ’
she said, severely. “Ma’am,” I said, “I’ve lost
my trousers ! ” She fled with a scream, and I
went up to bed.
The accepted guide of the Commonwealth
in the matter of Papuan administration seems to
be Mr. Atlee Hunt. And it is difficult to imagine
a worse one. He sadly lacks discretion and judg-
ment, and on his recent visit to Papua he fell
completely under the spell of the British Johnny
administration. To follow Mr. Hunt’s advice in
Papuan matters is to court disaster.


DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
'S
eaf
&
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guarantee'et3'Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3 —Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 lOs, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Servloeable
Racing: Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cyde bought of us. Your
Honey in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, Warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Eim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes,
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
taking orders irom sample
machine. Active Agents
wan' ed in each district. Large profitß easily m ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. halt prices.
MEAD CYCLE COm Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
i£2aiO to 6
200
£1 to £2.10
EARM A CYCLE
Visitors to Melbourne
S.”
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREb.y that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROD hi.ES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYZDjDsTEY-
L:
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
It non-7ieating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 caps of
any ordinary cocoa.
VfHil
Beaf
By using: the Wilson Coni'
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. .If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
I tressin" head noises writ!
I for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co s
219-231 CoUius-sfc., Mel\,
(210)
This is /he Team // /ahes /o tfratv c 7 /ro/t~
, To//er 9 Bear/stg //ar/es/er. c7/u/ /he{/ are \
| tf/jftiys Hoy -/ire// “ /the// i/ie/r e/ays siorh is e/os/eX
Ift
nt
77ris 7eam efcan? a Deerr/tg or ‘Wc. Cornt/c/c"- •
/cc>//e/~ /Sear/sty //ari/esfer c/7 any /and •
cto /r easy. cto m // a// e/ay, and /{jeep o/v •
ZJo/a/g /r n/ff/tf* //rroi/y/r /-/te /farres/l • -
Do you want an easy running, easy handled Harvester that will
make the best sample you ever saw?
One that has a practically indestructible steel frame, that will be
just In its prime when a wood frame of the same age has gone to
the scrap heap.
If so, get our 1906 Harvester Pamphlet (free for the asking), and
have the above statements proved to you by photographs and the
testimony of hundreds of pleased purchasers.
International Harvester Company of America
Agents throughout Australasia*
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON and
CHRISTCHURCH
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOLUV” FLOOR STAIISS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOIAIV” Al.rillXl'Jt 15 YAM El. gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnisliable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPASESE <iOl.lt I’AIiVT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used iu this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “FAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
m
*52
& DIGESTIVE TABi
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES HOT BLACKER SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA
Wholesale Agents—
WEST AUSTRALIA—
WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
VICTORIA—
ROBERT NELSON &. CO., Melbourne
NEW SOUTH WALES-
W. H. ARIELL &. CO., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND-
J. d. VERNEY & Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS &. MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—JAMES ROBIN & CO., Adelaide.
SK FOR!
&
f AND
✓ REFUSE ,
Substitutes
$
%
%
WUhG
<h
%
#
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
M THOUSANDS OF ■
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Tbeatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Belief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Befer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1 1 and 2/9 per box
Proprietors— Pß.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Pr : ce 6d. Post Prjie.
When the Queensland Police Commis-
sioner lately took over control of Brisbane traffic
from the Sleepy Transit Commission Brisbane
awoke with a start to find itself mostly in gaol, or
fined 6s. A happy-go-lucky system was the old
one. The only vehicle which seemed to keep its
right side of the road was the tram ; and most of
the time the tram was breaking the speed-limit.
Western Queensland has always been
noted for its keen interest in politics, and it has
probably burnt more Premiers in effigy than any
other district of Australia. Griffith was one of
the incinerated. Once when Dickson was Pre-
mier he went out to Cunnamulla to placate the
men of the setting sun. But they resented his
appearance with astorm which never subsided until
after the meeting terminated. A favorite diversion
was to pass through the windows stuffed figures
which horribly misrepresented Dickson, and often
a dozen of these were circulating at once. As fast
as half-a-dozen police arrested these intruders and
passed them out, the crowd outside would seize i
them, or manufacture new ones, and set them on
the rounds of the hall again. It is reckoned that
Dickson saw his stuffed self come through the
window 198 times that night.


To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration.
CALVERT'S
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other* irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent JEtotary. Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage' to any Address
in Australia, 2/ 6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
BEST
V
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
R f .
<s%
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE),
"fTUfs'lArei'tS PROTECTED By REGISTR^IdH 1 UliottnUE rPAPE MMK PROTECTtOH ACTof
mmmmuM
Refuse
Imitations
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
gj Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
BY
SIR ROBERT!
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new' 1905 edition,
2s6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr,. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußE.lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, ill us., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is fid. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post.; How to Flay Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Eepairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
OF PLEASURE, Is 6d. LUNG COMPLAINTS, Is 6d. FRENCH
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled inco paying- more.
Compare my pr.ces with others and
save your cash. Established HO 1 ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my „...„
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6ct.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, bs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is Od posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
MELBA ACCORDEONS
:V :
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They arc
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
to.
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sots of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of n
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books arid Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade ELECTHIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al' cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will aloe Free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after fnany failures. I will send the cure free t >
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address ;
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’S
,tSS^ c£of uX F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Fauiding & Go., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
Lager
Superior
to
AH Others .
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Alcdical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has .
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’’
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, end the AGED.
BENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Ac., EVERYWHERE.
Bender’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Goldsbrough, Mort and Company are again
to the fore with their Annual Review of the
Australian Wool Trade, and an interesting pub-
lication it is. It is good to note that Australian
wool-growers are mostly loyal to their own
markets, the proportion of Australian wool sold
in the States having reached 82 per cent, of the
total production. Over 1,100,000 bales out of a
total of 1,400,000 have been disposed of at different
Australian sales, and it should not be long before
whole production is marketed locally.
Goldsbrough, Mort are the founders.of the trade,
and its present enormous dimensions are largely
due to the efforts of that company. After the
long years of drought, the man on the land seems
to have had a rather good time in 1905, and on
present appearances he has a favorable season
ahead, and is also pretty well certain of good
prices for next clip. Certainly he deserves some
luck, and it is to be hoped the years of prosperity
will be of even longer duration than the lean years,
which we are fortunately looking back upon.
“ Lil ” : I always think that scene in “ Ma
Mie Rosette, 1 ’ where the heroine flits about a
darkened stage in something like a bed-robe,
might have been located at a suburban post-pillar.
Most people seem to imagine any sort of scanty
costume good enough to wear when posting a
letter towards midnight. As I neared the pillar
at 11.58 p.m, I was passed by two weird, running
figures—a lady in curl-rags, ancient shawl,
and underskirt, with one foot bare and only
a floppy slipe on the other ; after her a cavalier
whose frock-coat hardly seemed to fit in with
pyjamas and a Panama hat, Alter the first shock
the explanation was simple, Cinderella had
dropped her shoe, but when she realised that the
polite Prince (also out posting letters) had picked
it up, she fled—for how could she say her thanks
in that state ! So Cinderella popped inside a door
and slammed it, and the Prince had to leave the
shoe on the mat. Then I sprinted for the pillar,
losing both slippers, and cutting my big toe on a
bit of blue metal.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
NOW OPEN
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 16
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 9
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday ...
50,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d . on each
ss* Ticket, and 4dm on each 10Sm Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booicing Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
t
§
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. * Bridge Loftus Sts., Sydney
This
Trade
Mark
CjyxRCLOTfo/
AERTEX
tONDOI^
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &0., <&c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’~and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S. W.:
DAVID BRAHAIYI & CO.
REMOVING TO
94 King Street, Sydney,
BETWEEN GEORGE & PITT STREETS.
Hearne’s
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known t-o exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION JS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labisa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure. —Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE,
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing- of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS C4$E,
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
{PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883 —fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states“ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has' been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended bj' a friend , to' try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first hotfle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
BRANCH DEPOT
-
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on. each Bottle.
S.._
Your Age
makes no differ-
ence whatever
Young, old or middle-
aged, Scott's Emul-
sion of cod liver oil
and hypophosphites of
lime and soda will
cure your cold and stop
your cough with the
same promptitude and
certainty. <£<£<£*£<£
Here is a case of a grown man:
Fern View, Nundle, N.S.W., Oct. 19th,
1905. “ For a very long time I had a
bad cold which settled on my chest, and
I was also a sufferer from indigestion.
I took Scott’s Emulsion. My cold has
entirely disappeared. lam better and
stronger in every way.” W. A. Wooley.
And here is a case of a child:
Arcadia Street, Merry lands, N.S.W.,
Nov. 2nd, 1905. “My son Alexander
suffered with colds every winter, and
was attacked by croup. After taking a
few doses of Scott’s Emulsion he was
completely cured, and he has not had
the slightest return of the trouble since.
He has gained in weight, and feels and
looks thoroughly well.”. Mrs. C. E. Reid.
Why does Scott's always relieve?
Because it is the finest food medi-
cine in the world, acting especially
on the organs of the throat and
chest, Building up sound flesh all
over the body, and helping the
vitality as nothing else can,
Always get the Emul-
sion with this mark—the
Eishman—the mark of
the “Scott''process I ,
Always secure Scott's.
No other emulsion can
touch Scott's for the
chest. If you would
care to try it free, send
for a trial bottle gratis
(enclosing 4d- for post-
age and mentioning this
paper). Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483, Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
SUnlichT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
HEALTHY
ODOUR
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
6000.
The Army of the Mind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rolled a rumor round about the
world,
And as it rolled, stormlike, its import
gained,
Foretelling bloody tales of flags unluribd;
Of battle-Wihds, and Clouds that redly rained.
The sleepless spirits Of the MtidnS stood
lipoil the Outer walls tb wAtob the foe :
*■ How brbahs the dhwd ? ” u ln smoke arid steam
bf blbod.”
,k What hbpe for man ? ” “No hope, but endless
woe.”
The black disease of fear ranged tower and town,
And hope took sick and languished where it
spread ;
Souls lost their faith-holds and went tumbling
down
To godless depths ; for even God seemed dead.
The builders building up the glowing dome—
The dome it took ten thousand years to make—
Ceased work, and waited for the shock to come,
The battle-thunder and the chaos-quake.
Men dreamt old self had risen from the dust,
Re donned his skins, and clutched his club and
knife,
And brought again the reign of blood and lust—
The ancient code of midnight stealth and strife.
The hearts of men grew startled at a word,
And sane eyes filled with maniacal light $
For foot to foot and gleaming sword to sWord
The Nations stood for one world-rending fight.
The rumor grew ; men cursed the evil star
That wrought malicious influence at their birth.
Their fear-assaulted minds were gripped by war,
War, war, and nought but war upon the earth.
Desire lay slain ; lost ardors left the heart
A place of ashes, dreary and agloom ;
Farewells were said, and lovers drew apart,
And swayed by terror, fixed their eyes on doom.
The Painter’s work was done, the Poet’s song
At end ; the hour’s eclipse made all things dim,
A cloud of doom, a fear of future Wrong
Dulled ear and eye, and palsied brain and limb.
Long time the rumor gnawed the hearts of men ;
Long time they stooped abjectly ’neath its power;
When hark ! What breaks upon the listener’s
ken?
What say the watchefs on the Eastern tower ?
’Tig smoke, ’tis dust, ’tis glory, it is mbrd !
Morn’s arnly hither come, a golden host;
Thbir rise and fall the rise and fall of corn.
Wind-swept, or as the sea-toll on a Coast,
Yon’s dot the light of cadnOn in the sky,
’Tis but a mirror-flash that tells afar
All Time’s achievement cannot, shall not die—
We march from peace to peace, not peace to war.
These are the glowing army of the mind,
Long sought for by war-weary souls and wise ;
With lifted swords and bugles on the wind
They march to battle With battalioiied lieg.
They seek the sated Dragon of the Smoke,
The black hearth-wrecker from fell regions brought
A splendor not of steel marks each sword stroke,
For every sword is but a lifted thought !
Thus march they on, and thus their numbers grow,
Just here and there set back by fire and blood;
But time is theirs, and where their legions flow
They stay and flourish, and their work is good.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Biddable Selina.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Selina’s afternoon out. Washing
day and baking day were over, and she had
this whole afternoon to herself. Just as
she reached the gate Mrs. Johnson called her
back,
“ You might take this basket for eggs, Selina,”
she said. “ Leave it at Daly’s as you go out, and
fetch it along on your way home.”
Selina stepped out into the broad grass-bordered
road. To her left lay the little township. To
her right the great wooden bridge, painted black
and white, like a peewit, stretched across the
creek where it widened out to the bay. She
went over the bridge to Daly’s.
Selina was of a thankful spirit. She thought it
very kind of Mrs. Johnson to take her on as servant
at Bs. a week. Mrs. Johnson lived at the post-office,
which was also a bakery, and dressmakery, and
general store, and she took boarders. Certainly
Selina had to do the work of three, but then Mrs.
Johnson did the work of six, and was as kind as
she had time to be, which made it quite fair. Then
there was Charlie Stanfield. He was asloping-shoul-
dered youth, with a tremendously long upper lip.
She thought it most condescending of him to keep
company with her and offer, in the course of time,
to marry her. She was not surprised, though a
good deal distressed, when Mr. Stanfield and the
Misses Stanfield cried aloud that he was lowering
himself and throwing himself away by taking up
with her, and she took it as it was meant when
Charlie explained to her that he wasn’t one to look
for beauty or style. What he wanted was a
workish sort of girl who kept to herself and didn’t
expect too much.
“ Of course,” he said, “ I might do very different
for myself, but you’ll suit niy book, Selina; and no
One won’t turd me off a thing I’ve made up my
hiind about.”
The boarders, some of them, gave a (rood deal
of trouble to Selina, but she didn’t mind that sO
long as they were pleased—that filled tier with
thankfulness —though some did Complain a lot;
not, as she always allowed, Without Cause; fdr she
was by iio means a pdlistiCd handhiaidbn. Mr:
Calthorjd, with dne lung, who Was there how; Was
one df the kindest people she had ever fiiet. Hb
said “ Thadk yb,ii ”,fdr the least thing, arid smiled
Whenever he lddked at her. He even Came intb
the scullery ana showed her just how he wanted
his brown shoes done, and praised her for the way
she did them afterwards. She often thought of
him. Charlie was away up the country on a job,
so she had to take her afternoon out alone; he
did not care for her to mix with all sorts, he told
her.
It was a heavy, close day, hardly a breath of
wind, and the sea was like oil. The leaves hung still,
the grass was burnt brown, the track was worn
smooth and slippery wherever the rock crept
through the herbage. She left the basket at
Daly’s, a tumbledown, wooden house set in a
small gully leading down to a crazy jetty, and
followed on to reach the near point of the next
cove where the water shone cool and inviting to
the eye. She had some notion of taking off her
shoes and stockings and sitting with her feet in
a pool. When she reached the point, who should
she see but Mr. Calthorp just stamping out the
last of his fire preparatory to getting into his sail-
ing boat.
“Hullo, Selina!” he called cheerfully, “come
along for a-sail.”
Selina gasped. Then she thought the sugges-
tion lovely, It Was amazingly hot on land.
Mr. Calthorp was dressed in loose flannels, and
even he looked Warm, while Selina, who for
economy’s sake (Charley strongly advised her
saving as much money as possible) wore a dark
gown, felt a horrid certainty that her forehead
and nose were all over little beads of perspiration.
She stepped into the boat, and they pushed off.
“ Hooray ! Here comes the breeze at last,” cried
Mr. Calthorp, and, after a catspaw or two on the
water, the breeze came with a vengeance. The
dinghy had a little foresail, and a big mainsail, and
a centreboard. There was very little room for
Selina, but she made herself as small as she could
and tried not to be frightened when the little
craft went racing along almost gunwale
under. After the wind came the sea, and in a
short time the boat was going smack ! crunch !
splutter ! across a lot of hurry-skurry waves.
“Isn’t it fine?” shouted Mr. Calthorp, and
Selina, her sun-bonnet in her hand, her hair blow-
ing wildly, her eyes shining, the quick color
whipped into her cheeks by the salt wind, shouted
back breathlessly, “Splendid ! ”
They tacked across and across the baj toward
the -Open sea, when suddenly the sun went behind
a cloud, taking all the world’s color with it.
“ Hullo, here’s a squall coming !” shouted Cal-
thorp through the ever-increasing noise of wind
and water. “ We must put in, and no mistake.”
After a few veering puffs, round went the wind,
and round Went the dinghy after it. the boom
clearing Selina’s unaccustomed head by the eighth
of an inch. With a screech the wind caught the
sails, and in a moment they were racing for shore
through a tumbling sea all grey and chill. The
great blue thunder-cloud climbed up the day by
Vast strides, blotting out sky, sea, horizon, even
the near land, and down cattle the rain with the
hail on its heels. Selina crouched still as a mouse
while they went bouncing and crashing along, the
mad wind shrieking overhead. She looked out
ahead for a moment at the tossing grey waters
whipped to a smother with the hail. Then she
took a glance at her companion. He was gripping
sheet and tiller, alert, tense, his eyes on every-
thing at once, it seemed to her. He found time
to shout: “Hi! Selina, here’s sport!” Their
clothes were wet through ; water was washing
about in the bottom of the boat.
“Bail!” he shouted, and Selina grabbed the
tin dipper rolling about beside her, and bailed for
dear life. They were nearly at the end of the
long tack. “ If we can make the point” he
roared, and she saw, like a bleared sketch through
the sheet of rain, a little sandy cove with the
waves running mad races Up it. Over went the
tiller, the boat shivered, leaned, leaned, in came
the water all over them, Selina clutched his knee,
they shot round the rocky spit of land into shelter,
he let go the sheet and put his free arm round
her.
“ Plucky little woman,” he said.
Her wet, rosy face and shining eyes were close
to his. He caught a kiss, all the time keeping an
eye on the landing place, and as he let her go they
slid round another point, sandy this time, into a
cove' within a cove—a tiny place, deep water
going close in, and a steep shore. Down came the
sail and out came the painter.
“Here we are; jump out, Selina.” And out
she went, standing to watch while he made the
boat fast. While she watched the rain still stung
her face, and the wind threshed her wet skirts
about her. But as he came to where she stood
the rain stopped, the great cloud was sucked
away down the horizon, out came the sun, and in
a moment all the shining, washed air was one
dazzling blaze of brightness.
The dripping man looked at the dripping maid.
“ See here,” he said, “you take your frock right
off and lay it on the beach. It will be dry in ten
minutes.”
Selina had done other people’s bidding all her
days, so she whipped off her frock as commanded,
and they fetched stones to spread that and his
coat to dry.
“Now, come into the cave or you’ll get a sun-
stroke,” lie said. It was a dear little cave, floored
with the whitest of sand, ceiled with ruddy,
shining rock, filled with a shimmer of cool wavy
light. They sat down side by side, Selina in her
excitement forgetting to be shy. In her pink
petticoat find white bodice, hSr hair tumbling
about her Oars; she looked the Child she was for all
her 18 years;
Calthorp put his arm round her;
“ Darling little girl,” he said. Selina turned a
happy, stailiiig fabfc towards hi ill, ,
“ Here’S a pretty little White shbuldef,” hie said,
And liid A bhfeek On it. No onb Had bvbr balled
Selina pretty befote; .. , •
“ ytiii ffighlbbbd; little pbt ?” he asked;
ydu;” Sdid Selina; arid hestled inhiS
arirl; H'e hbld her close;
“ Isn’t this perfect ?” he whispered, and Selma
shut her eyes and leaned her head on his shoulder.
“Oh, you are kind!” she said, softly, and
sighed for happiness.
* * * *
The sun was throwing a strange rosy light over
land and sea when the dinghy put out again from
the little cove. Selina’s dress was dry and double
dry, her hair was pinned into its customary
restraint, her sun-bonnet drawn well forward.
She sat silent at his knee in the boat.
“ Please put me out at Daly’s,” she said under
her breath. The wind had fallen to the lightest
of sea-breezes, and they ran gently before it past
headland and bay. He ran the boat in to the
black, weed-grown jetty and held by the crazy
ladder to let her climb ashore. As she passed him
he put his arm about her.
“ Not angry, little pet ? ” he asked.
The afterglow lit her face.
“Not with you,” she breathed.
Mrs. Johnson, who acted the motherly hen to
all her young men boarders, was full of apprehen-
sion at Mr. Calthorp having been caught in the
storm. He laughed at her in his usual pleasant
way. All the same he coughed most of the night,
and next morning had a temperature. About
mid-afternoon a familiar toot broke the silence.
“ There, there’s the doctor,” cried Mrs. John-
son. “Now, isn’t that lucky? Selina, run round
to Mr. Griffin’s and ask him to come along here
after he’s finished there, and then you can go on
to Tracey’s and fetch three pound of butter.
Now don’t be long, there’s a good girl.”
No need to tell Selina that. She flew like a
bird, but they kept her waiting at Tracey’s, and
she did not get back till nearly tea-time. The
doctor’s motor was gone. She went upstairs to
take off her hat. Mr. Calthorp’s door was wide
open ;he was gone too. Mrs. Johnson explained.
“ Doctor took him right off to the hospital, and I
must say I’m relieved. He said he was sickening
for the pneumonia, and ’twas better so.”
That night Selina worsted some of her well-
earned hours of sleep in tears. A couple of
months later news came that Mr. Calthorp was
sufficiently recovered from a severe attack of
pneumonia to go on a sea voyage.
“ His best chance, ” said the doctor.
Selina stayed awake again, but this time not to
cry. She lay staring into the dark.
A few weeks later matters were brought to a
crisis by the very rare event of a letter from
Charlie. He told Selina that his job up the coun-
try was coming to an end and he had heard of
work near “ the Pay.” He ended up, didactically
as usual
Now, my dear Selina, this is hoping you have been
careful over your money, and lived respectably, not
mixing with all sorts, but ever with the thought to be
ere long Mrs. C. Stanfield, which I trust may be so when
I return, and you prove worthy. Your attached O.S.
Selina took her courage in both hands, and
asked Mr 3. Johnson for a fortnight’s holiday.
Not Balaam himself could have been more sur-
prised.
“It will be most ill-convenient, Selina,” she
said, when Selina, with tears of desperation in her
eyes, still stuck to her request, “and I can’t
think what you want it for ; but, of course, if you
must, you must, though what the girls are coming
to nowadays, I’m sure I don’t know.”
Selina sobbed, “Oh, I’m so sorry to give you
trouble, but I must go,” and ran away to hide her
distress. Next day she went off to town by the
coach.
“You coming, S’lina?” said the red-faced
driver. “ Sit up here long o’ me, my dear.” He
fed her with very thick fat sandwiches, and plied
her with cups of tea when they stopped to change
horses, but Selina could hardly smile.
“ Hope yer holiday ’ll do ee good, my dear,”
he said at parting.
“ Oh, yes, I’m sure it will, and thank you so
much for all your kindness, Mr. Casey,” said
Selina.
First she went to the bank and drew out all her
savings—£2B 10s. After dark she called at the
house of a doctor whose advertisement she had
seen in the paper, and of whom she had heard tell.
She did not like the look of him much—he was tall
and fat, not too clean, smelling of spirits, and with
a shaky hand, but this was no time to stick at
trifles. She told him as much of her trouble as she
could, ending up with “ Oh sir, will you please to
put me right in a fortnight?” He looked her
over.
“The first question is” he said, “liow much
money have you got ? This is an expensive busi-
ness you know.”
“ How much will it be, please ? ” faltered Selina
breathlessly. The doctor eyed her again.
“Twenty pounds, my dear,” he said at a
venture.
Selina breathed deeply. “I can pay that,”
she said.
The doctor looked annoyed. He wished he had
put it higher, “ but you can never tell with these
girls.” He told her to go to a Nurse Black in
whose house she might stay. Selina went out
tingling. He was not a nice man, but there was
no going back now.
Nurse Black was of an unpleasant color, and had
a shifty eye—a voluble women dressed in correct
uniform, rather past its first freshness. She
questioned Selina closely, but the girl’s one care
was to be well in a fortnight, and, having once
received assurance of that, she spoke no more.
Next day when she came, very sick and dazed,
out of the anaesthetic her first coherent words
formed the same question : “Shall I be well in a
fortnight?”
“Bless you, yes,” said Nurse Black, “and
sooner too. You just go to sleep like a good
girl,” which Selina tried her best to do, but it was
not a great success.
The great deed being accomplished, and she
once more “respectable,” another aspect of the
future troubled her. What would Charlie say
when he found her money all gone? In her
weakness this matter grew ever more insistent.
She lay hour after hour shedding quiet tears, too
weak to restrain them, almost too weary to wipe
them away. The doctor looked in on her.
'< “ Come, come, you must rouse up, my girl,” he
said, in his fine fat voice, holding her wrist with
his moist fingers.
“ Thank you, sir; I’ll try,” said Selina.
The third day her head ached, and her empty
pass-book took to dancing before her hot eyes.
Then sliebegan to talk, at first whenever the nurse
came into the room; later, to herself. No reti-
cence now. Nurse Black heard all about every-
thing, except names. Selina’s sub-conscious self
held on to that last fragment of secrecy.
“ What will he say about the money ? ” she kept
asking* distressfully;
“Don’t you worry, now,” said Nurse Black,
“ He’ll bay it fdr you, nbver feat* and so he Ought
if he’s the gentleman he pretends to be. ”
Selina came to her full senses for the rrtdmbnfc.
kt Oh, I don’t tneah him," shls said* itnd fell
Silent awhile* her eyes Very bright and alert* hhr
fade flushed. Sdon the talk begitil again, but lUss
Coherently*
The hurSe rahg up the doctor*
“ I don’t like the looks Of her*” slid said*
Next day he balled, aiid when his eyes fell Oh
Selina he gave a low whistle. She paid no atten-
tion to him.
“ I advise you to get a second opinion,” he said
to the nurse. As he left the house he said to him-
self : “Another of those d—d cases gone wrong.
About time I had a change of air.”
By the time the “second opinion” arrived
Selina lay quiet, knowing nobody. Nurse Black,
in annexing her few possessions, found Charlie’s
last letter to “the Bay.” Selina died before any
answer came to the telegram sent to that address.
At the subsequent inquiry the doctor did not
appear. He had been “called away on urgent
private business.” Nurse Black, immaculate in
starched uniform and spotless collar, professed ig-
norance as to the cause of death, but vouched for
the care she had lavished upon the patient. The
Bench winked at her, so to speak, and in the face
of much medical testimony discharged her with-
out a stain upon her character, only she had better
not do it again.
Mrs. Johnson, who knew human nature, said, in
spite of everything, Selina was the best girl she’d
ever had, and immediately engaged another in
her place. Charlie’s womenfolk forebore to
triumph over him, whereby in time he was
brought to confess he had been mercifully de-
livered from “that miserable girl.” Mr. Cal-
thorp wintered at Saranak Lake, where he met a
charming widow, whom he married.
Selina’s unimportant life had gone under, leav-
ing hardly a ripple.
A.W.


HUMORS OF
THE SKIN.
SUCH symptoms as boils, pimples, blotches, sores, eruptions, rashes, tetter,
and nearly all skin diseases, are proof that the blood is impure, and if not
cleansed these troubles may be followed by severer symptoms such as
ULCERS, TUMOURS, ABSCESSES, OLD SORES, SCROFULA, and
y
OA
cancerous affections. In Bile Beans for
Biliousness we have a remedy that has cured
the severest forms of bad blood—from a
common pimple to the worst scrofulous sore
—and that is purely vegetable, so that the
user, while certain of benefit, has no fear of
any harm resulting through the presence of
any deleterious substances in their composi-
tion, which, unfortunately, are only too fre-
quently found in many other so-called blood
purifiers. How effectively Bile Beans act,
in such cases, is illustrated in the following :
Mr. C. Dickson, of Pulsford Road, Prospect,
Adelaide, says : u For Some considerable
time I was afflicted with pimples and blotches
all over my face, which, besides being a dis-
figurement, were decidedly irritating. Seeing in a
pamphlet book that Bile Beans were a proved cure for
skin eruptions, I started on a course. An improvement
was soon noticeable, the pimples gradually
until at the present time my face is quite clear of
them.”
BILE BEANS have a
world-wide reputation as a
proved cure for BILIOUS-
NESS, HEADACHE, IN-
DIGESTION, STOMACH
TROUBLES, CONSTIPA-
TION, PILES, DEBILITY
FEMALE WEAKNESSES,
NERVOUSNESS, BAD
BLOOD, BAD BREATH,
ANAEMIA, DISTURBED
SLEEP, LOSS OF APPE-
TITE, RHEUMATISM,
and in fact, all ailments that
owe their origin to defective
bile flow, assimilation, or
digestion. Obtainable gener-
ally at Is. lid., or 2s. 9d.
LARGE BOX (contains three
times the Is. ljd. size).
C 3?
5
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
The Eldest Son.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOT thet fence mended, Brad ? ”
“Uh.”
“An’ thet dead bullock outer th’ dam ?”
“Uh-h!”
“ Did ye bring them skins up from the corner
paddick ? ”
“No. Nell wanted the hoss ter go over ter
Clark’s, an’ I couldn’t hump ’em.”
Old Man Bailey come out of the shanty.
“• Wot yer doin’ then ? ” he demanded.
Brad was splitting a green hide into plough-
reins. It was strung between the wire fence
and the broken hitching-post, and the red of sun-
set was on it and on the strong young face stooped
above it. Beyond the fence were ridges, gullies,
plains—barren, limitless —with dust blowing in
the paddock, and bush of the same greyness
stretching to shut out the distance. A handful of
sheep crawled athwart the dust, seeking night
quarters in the she-oak patch; and Old Man
Bailey grunted, rubbing up his straggling beard.
He had put youth and hope and manhood into that
selection—and had lost them all. The unbreakable
law of Australia’s Out-back commanded that this
eldest son should do the same.
“Gittin’ a good stink round about ere, these
days, Brad.”
Brad straightened to his lean lithe height,
scratched his nose, spat, and fell to work again.
“ Ther ain’t no water ter clean ther drain er the
CoW-nddsh;” He stud; ‘‘.Ari’ th’ dawgs Hosed tip
thet calf L'emi buried: I can’t ’elp it.”
It had been Brad’s business to help it since h'e put
his sixbyear-old shoulder under the cornet of Old
Man Bailey’s burden. At twenty he carried three-
quarters of it, and the memory of the overdraft,
the mortgage, the drought and a few things more
had put the tragedy of too-early manhood to his
eye& add the line of anxiety to his mouth. Once
he had Accepted this as part of existence. Now,
the sldvT, dawiiirlg of a soul put him in revolt
agdiiisi the yard With its littered tins and broken
crockery ; against the low flodrless shanty, where
children fell over each other always, and the
iriothqr Slaved, weafy and unresting, and the cob-
webs held dirt under the eaves ; against the sterile
earth that crumbled before the plough, and the
livid .monotony of gum-scrUb and salt-bush and
heat-faded sky.
“ I Ain’t paid yer could.”, Old Man Bailey
dropped ori the bench bv the door, and picked at
the threads of a hole in his breeches-knee. “Ef
on’y ther blamed.drought’d lif’ a bit—er ef you’d
had ther thought ter sell then! ship afore prices
got like they is ”
“ Where’d I got ther chanst to sell ’em ? ”
“Yer mout o’ fund it! But you young fellers
is all the same. ’Spect ther old man ter think o’
everythin’ an’ do everythin’ ”
Brad moved impatiently.
“ Oh, go on ! Sling it in ! Per’aps the drought’s
my fault, too ! ”
“Now, ther ain’t no need ter git in a temper,
are ther? I ain’t blamin’ nobody.” His eyes
wandered past the tall young son to the bent
mother, carrying a pail of milk to the lean-to.
“No; I ain't blamin’. But, wi’ yer mother an’
me gettin’ old, an’ all ther kids, an’ Charlie
Charlie was Brad’s next brother. Men spoke of
him with a lift of the eyebrows, and women
fluttered when they saw him. He belonged to
Brad’s burden, with the rest of the things.
“I know all that, don’t I?” Then, suddenly
remorseful, “Anythin’ bitin’ ye special ter-night,
Dad ? ”
‘ ‘ O —ah, well; ther’s the Hewsons’ dance, you
know, an’ Nell rightin’ fur a noo frock, an’ yer
mother says—d’yer think as per’aps she mout git
a noo frock, Brad ? ”
The pale, anxious eyes searched the stern young
face. Brad jerked his knife out of the last slit,
loosed the hide, and rolled it.
“ She’s etarnally wantin’ sumthin’,” he said,
shortly.
“O —ah, well; I s’pose it’s nat’ral. She’s
young, ye see.”
The eldest son on an Outback selection has
never any right to be young. Brad had left his
youth behind when he was strong enough to
stagger round with Charlie in his arms.
“ Ef you’d selled them ship began Old Man
Bailey.
Brad shut his teeth on an oath; wheeled,
tossed the hide into the lean-to, snatched his coat
from the ground, and swung rapidly down the
track to the slip-rails. A shrill voice came after
him.
“ Brad, it’s jes’ on supper-time ! ”
“ Don’t want none, mother,” he shouted, vaulted
the rails, and struck into the scrub with his head
low, and his hands deep in his ragged pockets.
The scrub was Brad’s heart-break. He and the
Old Man slaved at it year by year. But, corner
and corner, it grew back on them—gidya and
mallee and coolibah, with twisted honeysuckle in
between. He beat through it to the bank of a dry
creek, flung himself down, and cut a pipeful of
coarse, black shag. Then he began to make slow
and painful figures on the torn back of an en-
velope.
Above, a low crackle in the scrub suggested a
bandicoot or a wallaby. Brad’s q uick ears pricked.
Then a gleam of print frock set the color burning
his neck. He knocked out his pipe and went for-
ward, trampling down the scrub.
“Was yer per’aps come ter git some lilies, Miss
Kitty?” he said awkwardly. “There’s a few in
ther crik yet.”
Kitty was barmaid down at the township. She
knew men in all moods; but the inborn chivalry
which put out Brad’s pipe was rare behind
Bourke.
“Yes, directly. Were you writin’ a love-letter,
Brad?”
“ I was try in’ ter figger what it costs ter git a
gel’s dress.”
“Oh, a dress! What sort of a dress ? Silk or
cotton ? ”
“A ball-dress,” said Brad, the blood yet ting-
ling in his finger nails, and his greedy eyes wan-
dering over the slim, round shape of her.
“ A ball-dress? Oh, well, you’d get a fair one—
ready made —for ten pounds !”
“ Ten !” said Brad, with a quick line down his
forehead. “ Tenl”
“And that’s little enough, as you'll know when
you’re married. Or perhaps you’re thinkin’ of
gettin’ married, Brad ? Is that it ? ”
The side tilt of her pretty head, the demure
dimple by her mouth maddened him, for the great
desire of man-heart for woman-heart was on him,
shaking him, stinging him into full life with the
intensity of it. He gripped her hands, dragging
them up against his breast.
“Married ! How’m I ter think o’ marryin’ wi’
the s’lection, an’ the kids, an’ the old ’uns?
Kitty, how’m I ter do it ? How’m I ter git er life
fur meself —an’ love ? ”
The soul-hunger of the young was in his lean
face, and beneath her hands she felt his heart
thumping with only the blue shirt between. His
passion caught her, sweeping her down on its
tide.
“ Brad ! Brad 1 Leave ’em. Go an’ make your
o\Vn life, dear. You with your pluck and all
the young heart in you ! Brad, you’ve all
the world to go out into. Leave ’em, Brad.”
“With you, Kitty—wi’ you, darliu’.”
His arms were clipped round her, and his hot
kisses were on her hair, her eyelids. b>he wrenched
free in sudden realization.
“Don’t! I never gave you leave for that.
You’re too big to be silly, Brad. How can you
marry when you’ve not got a penny to strike a
match on ? How can you ?”
In the quick dusk she saw Ids big-boned face
white. The overdraft, and the m n’tgage, and the
kids were bowing his shoulders again.
“I—fergot,” he said, slowly. “ ’Tain’t no use,
o’ course. Reckon as I wuz planted ’ere.”
She looked away at a soldier-bird dipping, half-
seen, among the branches. A woman Out-Back
knows the value of love, with poverty and dearth,
and many children to sap it. But Brad, in his
clean, loyal manhood, had shaken her beliefs.
“ I saw Charlie over at She-oak Flat last
night,” she said. “ Can’t he come home an’ look
after things a bit ? He’s goin’ too far, Brad. I
don’t like them Johnsons.”
Brad’s forehead contracted.
“Who does? But Charlie ain’t a kid now.
He’s eighteen, an’ he won’t stan’ bein’ nagged.”
“ You’re twenty, but I’ve seen you stand it.”
Brad reddened.
“I’m used ter ’t,” he said, briefly. “Did
Charlie say when he’d be home?”
“ To-night, perhaps. I thought I heard a horse
just now.”
“ Then I’d best be goin’.” The memory of
■fierce quarrels that flared, and smouldered, and
flared agalin- between Charlie and the Old Man wad
quick in Brad’s brain. “Will yer—per’aps be
down this way ter-morrer ? ”
The shake in his voice unsteadied her ; so did
the nearness of his strong virile manhood and the
knowledge of his narrow, unlovely life.
“ Perhaps—if you care to come and see.’’
Then she called herself a fool, but Brad went
home with his head up and a spring to his step
that faded only when he walked into the shanty
and saw Charlie sitting on the table-corner.
Charlie was booted and spurred, and there was a
horse hitched to the post without. His good-look-
ing coarse face was sullen, and the smell of fight
was in the air. He glared at Brad.
“Where you bin loafin’ter, Brad ? Fine fur
you, moochin’ roun’ at home, an’ feed in’, when I
got ter fill nie own mouth, an’ git sworn at ef I
ask fur a penny o’ what berlongs ter me.”
“It’s the rope’s end what orter berlong ter
you ! ” said Old Man Bailey, his light eyes shining
from the cask-chair across the room. ‘ ‘ Gaddin’
roun’ an’ leavin’ me ter do the graft. Why ain’t
yer never ter home ? ”
“Yer goin' a good way ter kip him ter home,”
said Brad, dryly. “ Allers nag-naggin’.”
“ Oh, tie it up ! ” Charlie sprang to his feet
with an oath. “ I come fur money, an’ yer’ll give
it to me, slick, ef you got any sense in the lot o’
yer.”
“By ! I’ll give ye .”
“ Dad Charlie ! ”
“All right, mother.” Brad caught the little
faded woman aside and jumped between the raei’.
But words died on his tongue, and the Old Man’s
fist dropped. For the roar of hoofs came down
the dusty paddock ; and the jangle of wire by the
fence and a sharply barked-out command that set
feet running to the house.
Charlie’s body seemed to shrink in a deadly
fear. He sprang for the window, trampling the
frightened children down. But hands without
caught his wrists; the door burst open, and the
flurry of a struggle among booted men was in the
room.
It was Brad who had his arms round Old Man
Bailey when Trooper Ripley stood up, panting,
to face him. Charlie was on the floor, hand-
cuffed, in the grasp of two troopers more, and the
Old Man’s speech was torn through with curses.
“ Let go ! Let go, you young 1 Ain’t yer
got no pride ter yer that yer’ll let them put
shame on yer brother ! By——!”
The agony of shame was scorching Brad’s very
soul. But it was Charlie’s face that put it there.
“What’s he done?” screamed Old Man Bailey.
“Brad, take yer hands off ! Would yer see yer
own blood-brother shamed ?”
Trooper Ripley looked at the little, faded
woman sitting bolt upright, with her hands
clenched on the bare table, and Nell’s bright hair
and hidden face crushed to her shoulder.
“Reckon I needn’t tell that—here,” he said.
“ You’ll hear soon enough.”
The men swung up Charlie where he sobbed and
kicked, and bore him out to the night. Brad
sprang after.
“What is it?” he gasped. But Old Man
Bailey shouldered him aside.
“ What’s my son been doin’ ? ” he demanded.
The moonlight was full on his spare, sunken
face that was old before its time. But the pride
of an unsmirched manhood held it yet. Ripley
swung to the saddle.
“ Don’t you fret,” he said. “ ’Twon’t be more’n
a month hard, I reckon—and perhaps a taste of
the cat. You’ll have him back ’fore you know it.”
Came the clatter of boots thrust in the stirrups ;
the snarl of the wire from the loosed reins, and
the snort of horses as they took the ground at a
gallop. Brad went into the shanty.
“ They ain’t goin’ to hurt him, mother,” he said.
“ He’ll be back in er month, Ripley reckons.”
Then he shut the door, and walked down
through the darkness to his father at the slip-
rails.
“It’s only a month, Dad,” he said.
Old Man Bailey straightened; but his rough
hands shook on the rails.
“Damn him!” he said levelly. “Damn him
what’s brought shame onter us. We what’s
grafted all these years an’ years, an’ kep’ clean.”
Brad’s heart was torn open in him.
“He’s yer own son,” he said. “An if”
His voice failed with the very shame of it, and
the creak of a dead branch in the bush beyond the
rails filled up the silence. It brought remem-
brance of Kitty like a scorching flame, and almost
Brad cried out under it. For the name that
Charlie had dragged in the mud was his also. Old
Man Bailey spoke.
“ I’ll never hev him back agin. I’ll never set
eyes on him agin. Let him go ter the devil his
own way. We’ve had drought, an’ we’ve had ther
tick ; but we ain’t never had Brad— !”
“Yes, Dad.”
In the dark two man-hands groped and found
each other.
“ It’s a ter’ble thing ter hev childer,” said Old
Man Bailey., “ Yer’ll hev ter do yer possible ter
make up. Brad, ter yer mother an’ me. It’s hard
on us, an’ we gittin’ old, Brad.”
“Yes, Dad.”
“Yer’ll do yer possible—fur it’s mighty hard
on yer mother an’ me.”
It was only the darkness of a warm Australian
night about them ; but to Brad it was. the very
darkness of death.
“Yes, Dad,” he said again, out of the midst of
G. B. LANCASTER.


Lost flesh rapidly, was greatly weakened,
quantities of medicine, failed all the time. Was
quickly cured by ‘ “
m
“Some time ago I had a very
severe attack of influenza which
left me greatly weakened. I lost
flesh rapidly, and was in a very
bad way. I took quantities of
medicine, but grew constantly
worse. Finally, I tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and began to im-
prove from the start.
“I took about six bottles and
was perfectly cured. I have used
this remedy in my family a great
deal and I know it to be a thor-
oughly reliable, health-giving
compound and family medi-
cine.”
Mr. John Murrell, railway
station master, of Sunnybank,
Queensland, sends us this letter, together with his photograph, which
we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. You
ought to profit by it greatly; for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are
without appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and
certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood, and you are suffering from
headache, boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, or rheumatism. If
you are suffering from weakness of any kind, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will
restore to you strength and energy, and will make life the better
worth living. Be sure you get
AYER’S S arsapariila
There are a great many substitute Sarsaparillas on the market that will disap'
point you. Avoid imitations.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEE & CO., LoweU, Maas., U. S. A.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sairsaparilla. One aids the other.
if®
as
*»ii
ii ii H
We have
the Cure for
WEAK MEN!
As a man suffering from an exasperating Weak-
ness, you absolutely misinterpret the facts if you
I imagine you cannot be cured simply because all
the methods you have adopted have failed. Their failure is due first to the
fact that internal remedies were never really intended for complaints such
as yours; secondly, to your lack of foresight in not discovering this before
you wasted your money. ... A weak organ, a weak system, a weak const!
tution, all result from one single condition, which may have been produced
by one or several of a dozen different causes. These causes sapped your nerve
life, drained away your vitality, weakened your tissues, stagnated your circu-
lation, and until you renew your vitality by replacing the lost nerve life you
can never be cured. . . , Nerve Life is Electricity, and nothing but Elec-
tricity will cure you. Follow our advice, wear Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric
Belt, and you will speedily recover your strength and vigor. We have seen
it cure thousands, and it is guaranteed in every case undertaken.
Drop us a post-card,, and we will send you our most excellent Book,
which will inspire you with the courage to help yourself. It is full of facts
and suggestions that make a man feel a desire to be a whole man, and it tells
of many men who were just as badly off once as you are now, but who,
through following our advice, are now in the prime of manly strength and
vigor. . . . Call at our office any day between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m., or Monday,
Wednesday, or Saturday Evening, and you can obtain a Free Test and Free
Consultation. Do not delay, but write or call at once now that you have had
the way to health pointed out to you.
OUR TESTIMONIALS PROVE OUR MERIT .
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. 1 COONPOOR CREEK, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —Having tried a so-called Electric Belt, which I sent to you some months ago, and some
quack Herbalists, without obtaining any relief, I decided to try your Belt, and am thankful that I did so,
for it has entirely cured me of Indigestion, and I can eat any food now, some of which I dare not touch
before using your Belt. I consider it has also greatly relieved the serious bladder trouble I was afflicted
with. I would not be without my Belt for double the cost. I can and will recommend it to all sufferers,
hoping by so doing to help suffering humanity.—l remain,
Your very grateful patient, T. ELPHICK.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. PALMWOODS, QUEENSLAND.
Dear Sirs, —It is a great pleasure for me to tell you that the Belt I got from you some five months ago
has completely cured me. I have not worn it now for two months, and there is no sign whatever of my
trouble coming back again. My Back, which used to be so bad, never troubles me now, and my general
health could not possibly be better. I must say that you have done all, in fact more than you promised
to do for me. Your High-Grade Belt is a wonderful appliance, and lam quite willing to believe that you
have effected some wonderful cures with it. Thanking you for all you have done for me, I remain, Dear
Sirs, yours very truly, A. E. KRISTENSEN.
The Dr.
lOOW. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
90 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
167 E. SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
WttUAM CHARICt CRAWfORC
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z
5/4/6 B.
Consider Your Health!
When you consider how much depends upon it, what can be more important
to you than the state of your health ? If you are troubled with bad or
indifferent health your capacities for work or pleasure are affected—even
your life is threatened. Thousands of people know by old experience that
BEECHAM’S
PILES
are a blessing in the household and in every country of tae world. !No
other medicine exercises a more marked control over
Biliousness, Sick Headache, indigestion,
Nervous Prostration, Constipation,
and Other Painful Forms Of Stomachic Trouble.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are good alike for man, woman and child, if taken
according to directions. They are pre-eminently a family medicine a
remedy to have by one in readiness for every occasion where need arises.
There is yet another point in this connection that you should mark on the
tablet of your memory. BEECHAM’S PILLS, in addition to their acknow-
ledged value in Kidney, Liver and Stomach disorders, have a specially
beneficial effect in such aliments as are peculiar to women, many of whom
endure endless pain and ill-health through ignorance of this important fact.
—*
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price (56 Pills) and 2/9 (16S Pills).
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a lew hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free tf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ' ng. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also ldclude a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydney-
I
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 4.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name fO~
ASTH MA CURE
I BUT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GEIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB.
| ETTES. Sold bv all Chemuts.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dels. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melboom*.
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medicine Practising as a Specialist
in Australasia, and holding the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If vou have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being cured, CONSULT
DR MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronic and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR MARTIN'S long experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible on Private, Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Cure
any Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Fhysician-in-Ordinary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
“ DR. MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgery, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms and in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK:
THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE.”
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all on application.
l_: unn mo, finn nmsnrint.inna 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook
The Book
general
Specimen pages oi m mAKiJux » ramous meumai »ui* ~
contains 700 pages, over 600 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for -
use and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely different to the many s °' c^ le A
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day, or
send for specimen copy—FREE.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STSYDNEY .


Asbestos ...
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165.,
18s. cwt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Co/ering Bcilers & Steam Pipes.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
G«ST.
SolcT
by
all first-
claw stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle f/6
Buffalo Handle -
Stas Handle - -
2h
- 216
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE
application to
on
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
CoHf
WOLF
0?
'§AO
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“ TUB BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
9
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne} and Adelaide.
■THE COCOA OF
THE ‘OLD COUNTRY.
r
Absolutely Fare
It is the purest aad raost ecoiYonvical
cocoa iause. It’s ivicest too.
'T/if JUNCfT sa/s :-"Cctdbur/s /is of highest punt/.
KNOWLES
STEAM PUMPS
of all kinds.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills
and Air Compressors *
Morris Centrifugal Pumps ,
ENGINES AND BOILERS,
Horizontal and Derttcal
Engineers Fittings.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd„
60 CLARENCE STREET ’
SYDNEY.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
“UTOPIA”
. SAVES .
MONEY, TIME, LABOR.
It is the name of an
AUTOMATIC VYCE
that no joiner or fitter should
be without.
Descriptive Catalogue on
APPLICATION TO
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, .
SYDNEY.
ft
“ Independence,
IS THE BRAND OF
PERFECTLY BALANCED
Wood Split Pulleys.
SOLD BY
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
All sizes In stock. Write for Prices.
IN OTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Rented#.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by PoiNgdkstuk <fc Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all'Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IK two sizks, 9d. <fe Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
13
■ m
ill
i
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD GFFSCES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Randle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT
)
ON receipt P.O 0.
forward to anv
of our ..HANDSOME
BOIS N Q WIRE
or M.(). for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
Set. SOS.B-FiI.LED
BROOCHES, with any
Heart, Anchor or Cross
brooch : and
Name or Three Initials; Bel!
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality
without pendant, 3/6. In loot. C.F Twisted- Wire,
8/6 : without Pendant, 6/6. Illustra ed Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to !?, SIMS, Gold
Wire King, Coie’s Book Arcade, Meifcot ne, Vic.
JOHH BSUSI,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SY 3CS W 3E3''ST.
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Eructations, .Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperien
for
Regular Use.
1
r
DiRNETORDS
MAGNESIA
