

WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
107 Kenx street, Sydney,
Milling and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
t
BtOBART.
*——
[jadleys Orient tjotel.
Pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowlcl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—
HELICAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS, TURBINE BUMPS, RAM PUMPS,
DUPLEX STEAM PUMPS, SPIRAL RIVETED PIPES, IRRIGATION PLANTS.
Send for Illustrated Lists and Particulars to Gibson, Battle & CO 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W^
\
Take it back,
1 must have -
HUTTj
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON;
CHUBB’S
SAFES
RESIST THIEVES
AS WELL AS FIRE!
J. Stedman, Practical Watchmaker & Jeweller,
65 Queen St., opposite Town Hall, Brisbane, March 20th, 1906.
Messrs. P. Frankel & Coy., 114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,—l have to advise you that the Chubb’s Safe purchased from
you has been attempted by burg-lars, and although they made a deter-
mined effort, I have pleasure in informing you that they were defeated
by the hardened steel plate which protects the lock from their drills. I
am very pleased with the Safe and shall be glad to show it to anyone who
cares to call and see it. Yours faithfully, (Signed) J. STEDMAN,
Watchmaker and Jeweller, 65 Queen Street, Brisbane.
>HaticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branchs
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jf A 0188, Manager.
Active Agents end Qanvassere Wanted.
oM , 10 X (IIJ(pLS u fife
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
&
f*
<r
TEA!
BtNSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
mm
is the Queen of all Cocoas ;
# I
Arom^strei\gtf\£'Purit)C
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVA T-T.T.lgn IN QUALITY* ''«S
.... .1
X •.
:
• '
«<
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
LICI in AN SPA Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
n & fag B Bay IVi 01 -■ ""
The Bulletin
Vo]. 27.—N0. 1373. j
[Thursday, June 7, 1906.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A NOVEL WITH A ClotH 3/6, postage 6d extra.
THE JUNGLE, <» UPTON SINCLAIR.
Read the Press Opinions :
“It is impossible that such a power should not be felt—it is so true, so tragic, and so human.”
“ A monumental novel. The most darjrig and Strongly realistic work ot fiction America has produced.”
“ 1 The Jungle ’is a great book, a genuine work of genius, and it is a very great glory to have written it. There
is no power on earth that can prevent it being read. „ c , .. ..
“ The book is powerful. At times it sweeps the reader along through a perfect labyrinth of revelations that
shock and almost paralyse one’s reason.”
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
0C&!
m
mm
m,
m
m
wmm
the Great
toAMTISEPTICREMEDy
V^ToS
HeoistZredC '//.
* ~ cc .- c
for Influenza , Bronchitis, Asfbma,&all Mfechons or
the throat & lunqs,* for prevention of Consumption
Queensland. DWPOT Pasmore> Chemist, 320 Regent Street W
THE BED PAGE.
AN INTERKOPTED ARTICLE
TO-DAY we are to talk high pnnosopny.
What is philosophy ? Call it the
science of wisdom. What wisdom ?
Human wisdom ? Who is human ?
With the grand refusal of grammar—Me,
and You. Five lines bring us to the middle
battle.
There is Me—what am I going to do about
You ? There is You —what are you going to
do about Me ? Two sides of one problem—a
problem old as humanity—the only pro-
blem. There are no others.
Let’s fight it out, with the irrelevant
Cosmos for arena. I have foothold there,
and You : we are creatures of that Cosmos ;
yet it does not not regard us, goes im-
partially about its business, permits free
play within our limitations, claims no part
in our controversy (so convenient of the
Cosmos !).
I, I assume, am I. You, I presume, are
You. You may be my mental I
may be your illusion of the senses. Tar-
water may be a divine principle, ichor in the
veins of Jove. Not knowing, can’t say.
Where was Moses when the light blew out ?
Where was the light when Berkeley blew
out 1
Whether I am,
Or whether I seem ,
What does it matter
If I ’to my dream ?
Poetry—and observed that it leaves You out:
one can’t get everything into a quatrain ex-
tempore. The point is : should n’t You be
omitted from Me altogether, unless by grace
and favour I use you as a cockshy ?
You being You, I notice You are legion :
there are unnecessary lots of You : You
hustle Me in the market-place. I am legion
too, but “the name of this legion is Me.”
I do my sums in my head with a single
Roman numeral. You repeat i i i i i inde-
finitely, and never get an answer. Have
You an answer ? If You have, can You tell
Me why I should help You to find it ?
I see that You profess to answer by segre-
gating your i i i i as I, I, I, I. This infringes
my prerogative, and is distasteful to Me.
Besides, it is not an answer —for Me. True :
from your point of view, I am You, and You
are I. But from my point of view, I am I,
sole and indivisible, and You continue iiiii
to weariness. Why do You ? Things would
be so much simpler if You were eliminated.
I admit the retort, and hasten to say I
have no intention of eliminating You. In
fact., I cannot—as a Queensland poet ob-
served to a Woman of the Night. Like him,
I find it is no use crying “Get hence ! ” if
You won’t go. Since, then, You are there,
and your odours offend me, am I to spend
time and money with disinfectants, or
quickly to pass with nose averted ? Am I
to reckon with You, or without You ?
O Cosmos ! Still in the middle battle, still
asking questions with treacherous words !
But there are answers, a whole worldful.
Hedonism’s, for example —Ego Sol, with a
select troop of moons of both sexes, accom-
panying and adoring. (Compositor will
please exhibit graphically, indicating moons
of both sexes.)
i 11 i i 11 i 1111 I I I I
Anarchism’s :
/, I, I, /, I, I, I, I, I. I,
Socialism’s :
Anti-Socialism’s ? '(Compositor will kindly
construct “ a necklace of negatives.”)
o o
( 0 G R 0 }
°
0 0
T
0
And so on. But, as a distinguished writer
has remarked, there are some answers that
are no responsesj and I rather think these
answers of yours take my consent for
granted. 1 rather suspect that my answer,
if I have one, will take your consent for
granted. The moment I overstep Me, I am
on the foreign territory of You, who own
other allegiance, speak another lauguage.
Nor is there refuge in a parallel of
identities. Beyond all agreements remains
the difference between Me and You. No
metaphysical arbitrator can justify a common
rule of conduct for You to
at which point Hubert Church came in. He
is on a health-furlough ; and, as he is another
man who thinks that books are the next-best
thing in the world, and can write a line like
j Break as all vows of Love that unabides,
he seemed better worth entertaining than high
philosophy. That will wait until tlieie is oppor-
tunity to resume Ibsen, who died recently after
striving hard—and fruitlessly—to find a moral
clue to the relationship between Me and You.
Moralist: —and such a dramatist ! Hasta ruanana !
Church says that the only two poets in the Mono-
wai library are Burns and Scott. These Scottish
shipowners are the D.
WANTED, A SOLOMON
H. MCO.
HALF-A-DOZEN words borrowed from Sir
Thomas Browne, and half-a-dozen added
plus one, when placed brickwise thus in
two lines and a bittock—
The silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that
made (on 26 April) a pedestal for another in a
universe of “ splendid offers.” Was desired “the
most poetical continuation, in not more than 12
lines ” —and continue :
H. McC. ; Mars ; Alf B. ; F.B. ; E.W.D. ; J.C.A. ; D. 8.;
E.V.K. ; W.H. ; Platman ; Llewellyn.
Whence appears that the offer was obscurely
phrased—for some send 12 lines in all, some 16.
“ ... 12 lines (ample to turn the theme and. close
on the keynote) ” proceeded the dark oracle ; and
certain illuminati-ae understood that the meaning
was four lines to come in, four to linger in, and
four Napoleonically to...decamp in : total 12, in-
cluding fragment given.
However, “what ’e meant isn’t hevidence” ;
and, being bound by the wording of the Act ac-
cording to the rule adopted (when convenient) by
the High Court, we point out that the word “con-
tinuation ” excludes the 13 words of theme, and
is governed by the clause “in not more than 12
lines.” Consequently friends who have sent in
more than 12 original lines have placed themselves
beyond the competitive pale. Fiat lex, ruat jus-
titia !
J*
8ut...0n re-examination, it appears that every
Jim, and every Gladys, is safe inside the paling.
Consider this deludhering piece (marked “Ex-
hibit H. McC.”):
Those look like 16 lines, hein ? But has the com-
petitor added more than 12 ? Observe (his first
plea) that four are a refrain. Now, passing the
point whether a competitor who is eventually dis-
qualified (the question at issue) ever enters into
competition at all, or is really disqualified in
se before he competes (though the disqualification
lie perdu, like a sore toe, until discovered by his
guilty limping): passing that point (like the wise
Judge who decides as little as he can help, to
give appeal the slightest fulcrum to overturn
him : passing that point (but reiterating it
oratorically, for fear this wild sentence will bolt
with us): If a postulant-competitor is asked for a
“continuation in not more than 12 lines,” and
composes not more than 12, and writes four of
them a second time, Does he in fact offer “not
more than 12,” or does he offer “ not more than
12 ” plus four ?
What do the books say ? “ The boobs are
silent, your Honour a piece of information
that his Honour receives always with peculiar
regret ; for it means that he will have to do some
independent thinking in order to create a prece-
dent that will stand the assault administered by
(in the phrase attributed, not fondly, toaN.S.W.
Supreme Court judge) “ Those d—d Welshmen !”
(There is only one Welshman, but our poor
human tendency is to multiply calamity.)
Priina facie, there are four extravagant lines;
but how deceitful are appearances ! What lines
were desiderated ? Original lines, clearly. But
these lines are not original : they are copied by
the postulant from his own writing (vide
stanza 1). Is he then to be disqualified for
fraud ? Which, in that case, is the original
stanza? He may have composed the last first:
wary poets do. Is he then in dilemma—guilty on
either the first count or the last ? But the law
rightly demands precise information. If you steal
my Webster’s-dictibnary-with-Australasian-sup-
plement, and are found with two copies, and I am
positive one is mine, but cannot swear which
one : there is no case for your conviction.
Not even if you were seen walking out of
my office with a copy—for it may have been your
own copy. (On analogous lines a poultrv-pur-
loiner-related-to-literature continues his dastardly
but consoling depredations. At each township he
buys two chickens and gets a receipt for money
paid. When you see him prowling, miss your
chicken, and find—what you know, but cannot
swear, is—lt in his pot: he flourishes the receipt.
Tableau ! Villainy triumphant ! Virtue flabber-
gasted !)
After humble and fervent prayer before a set of
Queensland’s Consolidated Statutes, the Court de-
cides—to hear the next plea. Deft, thereupon
urges that he has added to the theme only 10 lines
and two three-eighths of a line: total 10£ lines ;
whereas he was permitted to add 12.—Barton, J.,
thinks this is a very specious plea.—Deft,
replies that Law is a specious science.—Griffith,
C.J., points out that Deft, has forgotten to count
his second use of the theme, which makes his
apparent total of competitive lines 13jf.—Deft,
answers that those lines, being given originally,
cannot be regarded as part of his continuation. It
is for the continuation that the prize is offered,
and since he certainly would not be credited with
the theme in the award, it is unjust that it should
be cited against him.
After further argument, it appears that
Barton, a judge of known literary leanings, says
he favours Deft. Griffith says Deft, is clearly
disqualified. The new point is, What does O’Con-
nor say ?
10. s. fad', will be paid for O’Connor’s judgment,
with reasons; in not more than 200 words,
strictly counted, delivered before July 4. The
prize will be given for the most convincing utter-
ance, combining wit, weight, “the best traditions
of the English bench,” the discrimination needed
in applying those traditions to a young country,
and as many more things as can be crammed into
200 words.—Award in the previous competition is
deferred till the qualification or disqualification of
postulant-competitor H. McC. is decided by a
majority of judgments delivered before July 4.
The silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that Venus likes
When heralding- her singing swains.
The eager touch of hand on hand
Conveys a dumb sweet serenade
Between two hearts who understand
The reason why the world was made.
Who has not heard the thin white song
Of some fair virgin at her lute,
Aware of one amid the throng
Whose eyes could make her music mute ?
The silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that Venus likes
When heralding her sighing swains.
MEANTIME
MEANTIME we call end some miseries and
blow a peal of Fame. Alf. B., then, is
ordinary ; E.B. wants science with his
temperament; J.C.A. (whose courtesy
is appreciated) is too “tight” and intellectual:
since he’ll never write lyrics, the sonnet's his
mode; Llew. rhymes “strains"’ and “flame ;
E.V.K. is too merely sentimental. The fol-
lowing have been looked at twice: we shall look
at them a third time after July 4.
One thing striking is the paucity of rhymes
offered for strikes. Nobody thought of ‘‘ harmony
that bursts the dykes of grosser clay,” etc. No-
body volunteered a “ harmony that fills the Mikes
and Sandies with unwonted pains.” Nobody is
quite ingenious enough to please us.
♦
Francois Coppee, one of the versatile French-
men, has published another book of poetry. And
he has been forty years in the wilderness of
beauty, for his first of the same appeared in 1806,
In those forty years what wanderings! what
labours ! what modest triumphs, not unholy ! At
his 05th year he writes : “ May I be pardoned my
innocent' pride in cultivating in the evening of
life an art which has been continually my study,
and which has given me the best of all my joys.”
A tale of Skinner’s notorious Sydney book-
shop—where the second-hand (or third-hand, or
possibly fourth-hand, or [it is likely enough]
fortieth-hand) books come from. The genial pro-
prietor (everybody is genial nowadays, so there
isn’t any merit in it) formerly hung out the
antient London sign of his calling, Food fob
Worms. Which one day a petticoated mystery
seeing, and pausing to read again, and pondering,
and hesitating, and finally making up its mind
to enter, quoth it, it quoth (all in one
breathless burst of contidence) : “Oh I see you
have food for worms my little boy has been so bad
with them such a long time and I can’t get any-
thing to do him good and perhaps your food might
would you give me sixpenn’orth please.” But
the proprietor, alert to a situation, prompt to a
customer, most urbanely: “Madam, I’m very
sorry, but I sold the last of it yesterday.” “Oh
dear me what a pity when will you be having
some more.” “ Madam,’ that I cannot say; I
hear last year’s crop was a failure, and no more is
being imported.” “Oh thank you I’m so sorry I
hoped” “Good-night, Madam ’’—sotto voce
to the nearest customer —“now, isn’t that a
woman all over ? ” As indeed it probably was.
mHE silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that thrills the veins,
As hearts attune their loves and likes.
For underneath Life’s surface show
There’s many a secret streamlet veers,
Till merged in Love’s wide ocean flow
Venus Pandemia thence appears.
The pulse beats flutter, wax and wane,
Then fondly fed with mutual fire,
Flame into Hymen’s torch, full fain,
And crowns each neophyte’s wild desire.
L.W.D.
mHE silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that aye dislikes
The bondage of Life’s loveless chains.
When from such chafing bondage free
Those hidden strains take golden wings,
Then over land and over sea
Love’s glorious Oratorio sings.
Then Beauty comes drest as a bride,
All joys are near that seemed remote
And all the world is sanctified—
When Oupid strikes the silent note.
W.H.
mHE silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that in young hearts
Assuages Love’s severest pains.
For youth in haste to gain its goal.
Will torture heart and mind and soul.
It is the keynote of the theme
The stars sang at Creation’s birth ;
It fires the poet’s brightest dream,
It runs through all that’S best on earth.
But sweetest, clearest in the life
Of loved and loving man and wife.
PLAYMAN.
mHE silent note that Oupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that spreads afar
To thrill in Friendship’s blest domains,
Whose lute, in concord to the tune,
Adds rich harmonics to the sound,
Till in that witching lure of love
Refrains that picture peace abound ;
And Cupid feels the subtle thrill
That adds completeness to his song,
And, joining hands in Friendship’s own,
Both singing, wend their way along.
MARS.
LOVE’S CHORDS.
mHE silent note t hat, Oupid strikes
Reverberates i 1 hidden strains
Of harmony that Nature likes
To blend in all the sweet refrains.
We hear it in the long waves’ croon,
Whe. blushing dawn first greets die sea,
And in tne mve of so.ig when Noon
Has set the flowers’ fragrance free :
And when Night’s unseen choir sings
Its vespers to the stars above,
It floats on wandering wild-winds' wings
Till all the World’s attune to Love.
F. BELL[?]AS.
SAID THE ADSMITH
niHE world lias goods to sell, and it pays the
B advertising man to sell them. The old
1 stvle made much money by being ‘a good
fellow,” but to-day the man who gets the
most contracts is the man who gets the advertiser
returns from his contracts. Australia is just
beginning to wake up to the possibilities of adver-
tising. But it’s wasting a terrible lot of money.
Life insurance used to be the refuge of the failure.
Now he sets up an office, and writes “ads.
In Melbourne and Sydney there are many
“ad.” writers, and only two who know their
business. The favourite plan is to cut out
the “ads.” from American magas. and papers and
classify. If your client is a tailor, you sort out all
the tailoring “ads.” ; make a sort of hash; and
your tailor, knowing nothing, thinks you are
smart. That’s why there are so many tailoring
“ads.” that don’t appeal to Australian
wearers. The best way to become an ad.
writer is to study all the American correspondence
courses, advertising books, and rnaga. ads.
Then burn ’em, forget all about them, and begm
afresh. Have a talk with a practical tailor’s
cutter, and if you can’t write a practical, business-
bringing “ad.”, which is original, bright, snappy,
and “fresh,” chuck ad.-writing for starting a new
religion.
The most successful ad.-men in Australia are
those whose “ads.” are most condemned by the
ad.-expert. He will tell you that they are not
constructed on the lines laid down by the great
American authorities on advertising. But, the
real truth is that the most successful “ad. in
Australia is the one that does n’t go over the heads
of the people, but just gets there. To catch your
public, a plain tale makes the best telling.
Tho last two years have seen a big advance in
advertising in Australia. The pictorial ad.
has come to stay. The picture that illustrates,
that tells the tale, sells the goods. One ( does n t
see so many pictures of Blank’s “shop. He 13
beginning to realise he is not selling his s u°P*
The S.M. Herald now publishes illustrated “ ads.,
and the Melbourne dailies will have to follow.
The poster is beginning to have a vogue in
Australia, but the “cheap and nasty ’ is tending
much to disgust the public. For one go<?d
poster there are a hundred that can’t be dis-
tinguished at fifteen yards. The advertiser
forgets that the money he spends on space is
wasted if the poster doesn’t “carry.” Pity that
there is n’t some oensor to wipe out theabortions
that disfigure what should be a people’s picture
gallery !
If only there were some method of educating
the advertiser! [Can’t the “adsmith” educate
him ?] The Aust. manufacturer specially needs
enlightenment. Advertising can and does sell
anything from life insurance to railway transport,
but the average Australian manufacturer will tell
you he doesn’t need to advertise : “We have our
travellers.” In other countries that theory has
exploded long ago. It has long been recognised
by the world’s greatest manufacturers that adver-
tising establishes the “goodwill” of a brand with
the public.
How do I get “ contracts ” ? Do I prefer to do
business with a mug or a clever business man ?
First, I don’t <jet contracts ; they are given to me.
If you show a man how he can enlarge his busi-
ness sphere, and you can interest him, he gives
you a contract. The mug is no good ; because his
advertising will be a failure like his business.
From the clever business man you will learn
much to enable you to do his advertising in the
best possible way. Personally I don’t believe
there is such a thing as an advertising expert,
because a day never dawns when a man in adver-
tising cannot learn something fresh. No man can
become expert in that which we can never
know sufficiently. The most successful advertising
is that which is always unlike the other fellow s,
providing it is aimed at selling goods or making
their character or name distinctive in the public
mind.
W. ■
“ Hogarth,” says an Athenceum writer, “ repre-
sents the English ideal of coarse frankness resist-
ing in vain that foreign invasion of elegant make-
believe which ultimately, by alliance with British
puritanism, gave birth to modern respectability.”
Richard Garnett died recently : a useful author,
and a commentator of wide learning who servec
his lifetime in the British Museum. He inventec
the maxim that “In the religion of Love the
courtesan is a heretic ; but the nun is an atheist
—which wants a Biblical word to set it shining.
Nora Hopper (Mrs. W. H. Chesson), dead at
five-and-thirty, was the curious authoress whc
never lived in Ireland, and (at least until a year
or two ago) had never been there ; yet wrote prose
ballads and stray verses which seemed as Irish as
the Irish themselves. Her “atmosphere” anc
“colour” were absorbed from books, and those
books translations ; for she knew no Gaelic.
Instead of (like the rest of us) talking about
Australian drama, Fred J. Forrest, of Brisbane,
does the sensible thing—he writes it. His “ I irst
}} 00 ] c ’’—Wanted a Husband— is a one-act farce
(Brisb., R. G. Gillies ; 2s.) The scene is a matri-
monial office in Sydney ; the date is 1840; the
characters are the matrimonial agent, a female
client addressed usually as “Lady,” a pickpocket,
a dustman, a bigamist, the bigamist’s three wives,
and two detectives and the action is naturally
exciting. “Other Dramas by the same author
will soon be issued. The second Drama being an
Australian Historical Comedy in Four Acts (about
48 p.p.) ’’—which we anticipate thoughtfully.
C.P. : You can get five of D’Annunzio’s novels
(including The Triumph of Death) from the George
Robertson Proprietary; paper 2s. (id., cloth os. id.;
postage 6 d.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
A/so KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to ; —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports Depot.
C 0
I*-.
-c36fc£
GOLF.
(Postage on one Golf Iron, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Drivers and Brassies cannot be Posted (too long).
Auchterionie’s international Clubs
s. d.
Bulger Drivers 6 9
Cleeks, Mid Irons 6 9
Driving Irons, Mashies 6 9
Bulger Brassies .. .. .. .. .. .. ..76
Straight or Bent Neck Patent Putters 8 0
“8.C.1.” Celebrated Clubs.
“ 8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Drivers and Brassies .. .. 4 6
“ 8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Cleeks, Jiggers, Mashies, Mid
Irons, Putters.. .. .. .. .. ..4 6
‘8.G.1.” Drivers and Brassies .. .. .. .. ..8 0
‘8.G.1.” Irons (all stj'les) 5 0
Spalding’s Golf Clubs.
‘••MORRISTOWN,” Cleeks, Mid Irons, Mashies, Putters,
Niblicks 4 6
‘ MORRISTOWN,” Drivers and Brassies 4 6
‘CRESCENT,” Cleeks, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons, Loiters,
Drivers ..69
GOLF BALLS.
Mick
Simmons
s. d.
“BRAMBLE” Floaters .. ..8 6 doz.
HENLEY’S “Ocobo” .. .. 16 0 „
HENLEY’S “ Melford ” .. .. 15 0 „
s. d.
‘Silvertown" 15 6 doz.
‘ Haskell ” (American) .. ..30 0 „
‘ Wizard ” SO 0 „
‘ Springfvale ” “ Eaffle ” .. .. 30 0 „
(Postage on 1 dozen, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Interstate).
CADDY BAGS .
Postage on Bag, N.S.NV. 9d., Interstate Is. 2d.
s. d.
Oaddy Bags, Canvas, outside Pocket, leather bottom and sling .. ..4 0 each.
Brown Waterproof Canvas, outside pocket, leather bottom and sling ..5 0 ~
Same as above, better quality 6 0 ~
Same as No. 2, superior quality .. .. .. .. .. .. ..7 6 ~
Same as No. 2, extra special quality .. .. .. .. .. .. 10 6 ~
Solid Hide Caddy Bags, best quality, outside pocket 15 0 ~
Same as above, extra quality 25 0 ~
Young: America Revolvers, 22 R.F.,
7 chambered, doable action, nickel,
2in. barrel, SJoz., 10s 6d (Postage 6d)
Young: America Revolvers, 32 C.F.,
safety hammer, 5 chambered, 2in.
barrel, Bjoz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Post-
age 6d)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320C.F.,
nickel or blued, automatic ejector,
3Jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, 13Joz.
(Post. 9d. N.S. W\ ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s 6d
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 31in.
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State),
15s 6d
Hopkins’ “ Forehand ” S.& W. Pattern Automatic Revol-
vers, 32 cal. 0.F., 3in. barrel, weight lib., a limited
quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-State), 17s 6d
■* •
(
Young -
America.
LAWN TENNIS.
ill
3/6
Hanoicap
51-
a
Standard
7/3
9/Z
JLOOS V
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d incer-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandovvn .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s Cd
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. .
doz.
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg\ 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S. W. ; Is Sd inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, Gs, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Pin-htina
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set: 6oz
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s Gd set
MICK SIMMONS
The Great
Monte Carlo
Came*
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality Gun
Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert). Price—
-10/6 Tfi.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
/
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging- Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s Gd,
11s (id, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s Od, 16s Od, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/8 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
' -
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb.
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
THE MAINE
Pifle
-r 3
£heu//ng Pif/c j A parr
fitted with Sporting lteai- Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Shoes’ J f U r d Steel Barrel » Walnut Stock.
Weight 2 %s\b 0lt ’ L ° ngr ’ ° r Exfcm L ° nB ' Cartrid &es.
ţ
PRBCE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.YV., 1/3; INTER.
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
\ V#;
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2}lb -J O- £>*4
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d . . . lOS OG
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb. 40. riirfl
Remineton S S w „„ Postage . N.S.W., is dd ; Inter-State, 2s 2d I«SS UU
N.S.W., is 6d ; 22 ° alibre ’ KF ‘> 20in - balTeI > weight 3Jlb. Postage- -| gg
Postage—2s 6d N.S.W. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
>•
SL_
ri'
Zn
Ml
ae
M&,
Harrington & Richardson's 5.8.8. L Gun,
top action, automatic self-ejecting de-
carbonised steel barrel 30in., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding locks, pistol
«np, walnut stock, weight T«e» Hrl
about CJlb. 7S DO
MICK
SIMMONS
ť
THE GLOBE
un > 12 ° r Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent M **
v. & tore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2. fl-OS
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
1 US
mm
71
my i
I '
;
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding- bar locks, Greener cross bolf
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12Gaug6, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Ileal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt’
Left Choke, Rebounding- Locks, Snap Fore-end,’
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
x
Sxsk
ssi H
IBS
Mick Simmons
. .
Hi
mb
mm
, a
M
E
v',' s
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib'
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatlv ensrravpd
2|in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALE SMOKELESS POWDERS and’
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State
chambered for
absolutely the
12s
.A- ivi ivx XTisrx 'X' x a axr ,
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can new be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
S E ™ f \«. M ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
bHOI No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s
Rifle Cartridges.
F E IVI l"5 TAR CE
AIVD FREIGHT MUST ACCOft/JPAWY ORDER.'^g
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


The Cable Advices received from
America of the ABSOLUTE
CURE of THREE CASES of
LEPROSY suggest the query :
IS THERE AN INCURABLE DISEASE?
From prehistoric ages Leprosy has been considered a disease that would not yield to treatment, and has been recognised as
Incurable. Medical Science has, however, been quietly at work, and to-day we have the welcome news that it has conquer ec le
most obstinate of all diseases. No complaint, therefore, should now be considered incurable, and in this knowledge many pool
sufferers will find relief, and HOPE for a return of the health they had considered lost to them forever. “While there s ie
there’s Hope,” yet how often do we read of persons committing suicide rather than face years of misery as the slave of what t iey
considered an incurable disease. Perhaps the cure was at hand, but they would not put forth the energy to reach it.
FREEMAN AND WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE HAS CURED MANY SO-CALLED
INCURABLE CASES, proved in the grateful testimonies of the patients themselves. The Institute has kept pace
with the times. It is up-to-date in every detail. It has kept in touch with modern scientific research in Electro-
Therapeutics, and is founded on scientific lines. It has four Medical Specialists on its staff, who are Diplomaed from
some of the greatest and most scientific Colleges and Schools of Science in Great Britain, America, and the Continent,
and who are Experts in the Correct and Speedy Treatment and Cure of Grave Diseases or Disorders of Men. J hey will
give to any man who may be in doubt as to his physical condition, and who may be suffering from any disease which
threatens his health permanently, Advice Free, and counsel him how to act to recover the Strength which is at all times
necessary for the faithful performance of all social and domestic duties.
; ./ ' ■> *.t
i/ML
if*
<3
'A ' V
*«'/" "!;
f / * t • 1
u u
> •
r
Our Treatment is Scientific and Reliable.
We will be pleased
to give all particulars and ADVICE FREE to bona-fide sufferer* concerning our new and special tr ®^ tmen *’ snirite*lJL!of Strength!
YOUNG, MIDDLE-AGED and OLD MEN from chronic Nervousness, Blood and Skin Diseases, Loss of Memory, P » .
in CUrinEtTHOUSANDS OFYOUNG, MIUULE-AbBU ana Uku mcnTrum vnru..iv..v.wu»»..v««, ■ . . - rnmnlaints
Bodily -rooty,Affections otKldooy. ,nd Blodd.r, Roptoro. Piles, Vdr.coce.o,
Muscular Weakness, and
Men whose eyes are dulled, whose brains are muddled and weary, whose nervous energy is - . in oerfect manhood;
h,.0 sloop,os. nights, d 0.,, gloomy ddys, who h,ve lost courogo, omh.t.on, end ,h. grff whloh ,s «
sprightly enjoyment of life, who have sieepiess mgms, uun, gmumy uuyo, —.w ■»*’* •=»-’ ’ T . wasted both
men who have Blood and Skin Troubles, and other complaints. If you have failed to derive any benefit f rom other treatments, „ ut this asit ie, and say I will see
money, we offer you a complete and permanent cure, which will not cost you a penny for correct diagnosis. If you suffer do p ... Rooms are open
to it later on, but at once take advantage of our system of Home Treatment, and, if possible, have a personal , interview, OurC J 1 0 a r ’ S B U^ n t^^t °^^ re ° Pe
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 10 am.to 9 p.m.; Saturday, from 10 a. m. to 1 p.m., and 7to 9 p m.; Sunday by spec al appointment only.
If you are living too far away to visit, write at once, in strict confidence, giving full particulars of your trouble, and yo
statement of what we can do for you. ... __ . .. i ~+r
We have cured so many thousands of cases of the above complaints, that if there is a cure for your disease you * soecial treatment, where they
We will explain how and why we can cure you. There are certainly very grave reasons why certain diseases demand special treatment,
involve delicate parts. A Specialist only should undertake to cure.
THE STRICTEST CONFIDENCE MAY BE RELIED UPON.
We have References from every district in the Colonies. ... , L.,:rf«»PßAfnup«ucc6as
Read the Testimonials we publish-they are selected from hundreds received. Almost every post brings us fresh evidence of our success.
.. ~ a c mrTTjTjviTi rpiiTwna STAND TO TTS THROUGH OUR PRACTICE. Reliability in keeping faith with our patients, Honesty in our busi-
which entails the most accurate professional diagnosis and effectual Medical treatment. addressed vou and we are with you again this year, and once more will point
Our Sydney Institute has now been established some years. We were with you last year, and addressed you, ana we are other words we Doint out to you the road to
out to you the good work that we have done in saving Men’s lives, and giving them back the health and strength they had lost, m other words, we point out to you
r „m, because a cured tuan is our best advert™!. This fact » well as our natural desire to treat everybody fairly, assists us to deal honestly
with the public. TEST OUR CREDENTIALS, and realise our Bona-Eides WE INVITE INQUIRY.
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE solicits the most obstinate of cases, and challenges the world.
WE NEVER SUPPLY OUR REMEDIES FOR CASES WE CANNOT CURE.
We have made so thoroughly and complete a study of Diseases and Troubles of Men, that failure is almost impossible,
do claim is that our Remedies Cure Most Cases when all other means fail.
We do not claim to perform miracles, but what we
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
nrahca Sf =
your treatment at once, and let us add your name to our long list of cures. %
Parcel Post System.
OUR CURES ARE ALWAYS SURE AND RELIABLE.
s
It is the ambition of all men to be success-
ful in life. Success is possible to all men,
provided they are healthy. A man who is
not healthy is shackled by disease. We do
not expect strong efforts from weak men.
Therefore, healthy man is necessary to suc-
cess in life.
There is Hope for you if you place your
case in the hands of the Specialists of The
Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical Insti-
tute. Write or call at once while there is
yet Hope. They give you a special invita-
tion if you have tried other sources of relief
without avail.
Consultation and Advice
Absolutely Free.
Our 700-page Medical Book, profusely illus-
trated, post free to sufferers on application.
One testimony alone from the hundreds we possess should be sufficient to quote here, as
showing how high is our skill and how successful is our mode of treatment where others have
failed
Mr. H. CUMMINS, of Hobart, Tasmania, who suffered from Nervous Prostration, wrote
to us as follows :
“ j wish to thank yon, to convey to yon my heartfelt gratitude for yonr skilful assist-
ance rendered to me in my afflictions. I had been for years a great sufferer, and at
times nearly despondent. I had been treated by the most able and skilful doctors that
could he found in this colony. I expended large sums of money with several doctors,
and was coolly told that there was no hope for a cure. One of
your pamphlets fell into my hands, which treated upon my
case. You so fully described and explained all my symptoms
that I felt satisfied you understood my complaint thoroughly,
so I determined to pay you a visit. Immediately on my arri-
val in Sydney I made my way to your Institution, where I was
thoroughly examined by you, and pronounced curable. I placed
myself under your care, as you guaranteed to cure me pro-
vided I would follow out your instructions fully. Within a
week of commencing the remedies you prescribed, I felt better.
To-day I can conscientiously say I am permanently cured. I
can cheerfully say to all sufferers that he or she need have no
hesitancy in placing themselves entirely in your hands, as you
ŧ
t
will treat them honestly and faithfully as you did me.’
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL
AND SURGICAL
INSTITUTED
227 a Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney,
OPPOSITE
HYDE PARK,
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes. _ _ .
Dr. Bichard Wallace, M.D., L.8.G.P.„1i., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialist in Diseases of \\ omen ar.d Ghildien.
And at MELBOURNE.
IMPORTANT. —Our dispute with the Federal Postal authorities having Been amicably
direct their letters to the above address without fear of delay.
settled. Patients may


Do not envy j
the beautiful I
hair of others,
but possess it
yourself. Some
are born with
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none
have it thrust
upon them.
Those who ac-
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the
discovery that
V
'\
/%
m
A
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
remedy is
yiiier’s
%air Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
Do not he deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
For Sunburn
or Sore Byes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for euro of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
51(1
a
Is Penetrated
From a small beginning in the sim-
plest form, Cuticura Remedies have
become the greatest curatives of their
time, and, in fact, of all time, for
nowhere in the history of medicine is
to be found another approaching them
in popularity and sale.
In every clime and with every peo
pie Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills
have met with the same reception.
They have conquered the world. By
rail and sail, by caravan, by saddle,
and on the backs of human beings,
they have made their way to the far-
thermost parts of the earth.
There seems to be something about
Cuticura Remedies which invites the
confidence of mankind. National
peculiarities, European, Eastern, and
Asiatic teachings and traditions seem
to have no adverse influence upon
them. Hence they are to be found in
every part of the world, and the sight
of them in the bazaars and native
shops of foreign lands has inspired
the American traveller with patriotic
emotions second only to those pro-
duced by the contemplation of his
country’s flag.
■IN hr
$
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
&aHMz
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
s
WALTHAM
Watches
s
’
“IVEL” AGRICULTURAL
MOTOR
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904,5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—■
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
Better than ever—
the best watches in
the world. Behind
them are half a
century of high
reputation and a
strong guarantee,
good for all time.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ţ
His Majesty I
The King and I
Royal Family. I
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
ť
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says :—“ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round."
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Missing Friends.
OODROFFE (ROBERT), left Horncastle’
Lincolnshire, for New Zealand, in
October, 1876 ; last heard of at Dunedin, Otago,
1877 (or children, if dead). Inquirers, Executors
of Ann Seymour (aunt),, c/o ANDREW and
THOMPSON, Solicitors, Lincoln, England.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ M.C.” gives his idea :
I’m puzzled both by the Sosh and anti-Sosh parties.
Holman, as a representative Sosh, wants to nationalise
the production of wealth and its exchange with borrowed
money, and seems anxious to disown the “ visionary”
German Socialism, which, in its turn, is just as anxious to
disown the borrowing idea. A people owning monopolies
is one thing, an enormous increase of Cohen’s grip on
Australia is another. The level-headed German Socialists
say—tax the rich monopolist, for a tax is the annexation
of a part of national production, and limits monopoly.
Socialistic government based on borrowed money is a
hopeless policy to beat the air about, because any
Socialism with Cohen in it leaves Cohen on top. The Labor
party does not renounce the idea of borrowing, or it would
have a reply to Reid’s imaginary balance-sheet. There is
nothing lucid or definite about either the Sosh or the
anti-Sosh party; both deal only in generalities and
theories. But Australia is urgently in want of more work
and more pay. It has the practical requirements of a
fresh lot of kids to meet every day. It wants to make
more of the things it uses. It wants large estates cut up
to orovide agricultural land. The Labor party believes
in these things, but it ties up its ideas on Sosh based
on Cohen. And Sosh based on Cohen is a house built on
the sands. The interest will blow on it and it will fall.
In 1900, when Queensland was still under
the influence of the old State tariff, which gave
most industries a fair amount of real Protection,
there were 3931 ironworkers along the coast.
After four years of the mongrel tariff which
Queensland helped G. H. Reid to fasten upon
itself—partly by returning Foreign-traders and
more by returning fiscal-sinkers—the number of
ironworkers was 2311. Every third man and a
few over had meantime been sacked. And they
were not sacked because Queensland wasn t buy-
ing any iron goods. On the contrary, between
1899 and 1903 the foreign imports of machinery
alone amounted to £1,152,231. Yet up North they
still “ sink the fiscal issue.” Why not be merci-
ful, and at the same time sink the ironfounder,
etc., whose job is taken from him? He is the
fiscal issue, after all.
Wanted, that progressive land-tax for a
start. The Vic. Government has £BO,OOO sunk in
a beet-sugar factory ; and, after being idle for six
years, simply for want of beets, the waste got on
to Minister Swinburne’s nerves. So, being at
Maffra, he looked round, saw one estate of 4500
acres, capable of supplying all the vegetables the
£BO,OOO mill could handle, and decided that that
was the very thing needed to make the £BO,OOO
State asset hum. Promptly he got a price for the
land for close settlement—£2o an acre! Then
Swinburne’s jaw dropped ; and he knew what it
was that clogged the Maffra beet-sugar mill’s
wheels and made the £BO,OOO State asset a bur-
den. It was the fat landlord.
The N.S.W. legal trades-union is alarmed
at the rapid increase in its ranks, and is petition-
ing for the removal of the regulation which per-
mits a managing clerk, who has served a term of
years with a registered solicitor, to seek admission
by examination. Henceforth, the petitioners pray,
only articled clerks who can pay a heavy premium
for their articles are to be eligible for examination
as prospective solicitors. Apart from argument
on the merits of the question, it is interesting to
remember the holy horror of Pencil and Bar when
the Coal-lumpers' Union objected to all and sundry
demanding the right of admission into its over-
crowded ranks by paying one shilling, or some-
thing like that.
The efforts of N.S.W. Government to put
people “on the land” generally seem to be half-
baked. The Department has just published an
elaborate pamphlet concerning Dorrigo—littered
with gold paint and photo, blocks, and plans, and
the Department’s crest; chock-full of information
about nitrogen and potash, and The best way to
use the land, and how to get there, but not one
blessed word about how to acquire a farm, except
that the tenure is to be “ conditional-purchase
lease.” And, a 3 “conditional-purchase lease”
conveys no fixed ideas, and is a new and unknown
tenure, anyway, the information on this most
vital point is just nil.
The Golden Rule.
It has been the theme of sages
Down thro’ all the misty ages,
I must wearily aver 1
It’s a stocked-to-order sermon
For the wicked folk to squirm on
In Sin’s amphitheatre !
What if Epictetus wrote it ?
Why should every smatt’rer quote it
To long-suffering me and you ? .
What if gay old Omar said it ?
It was little to his credit—
He had nothing else to do !
What if Julius Caesar told it ?
Or if Pliny stole and sold it —
Is it cause for such a fuss ?
What if Keats and Byron sang it,
And Bill Shakspeare, too ? Why, hang it!
Does it matter much to us ?
What if Buddha vaguely guessed it ?
Or Confucius impressed it
On the minds of Chinamen ?
If it came from old Mahomet—
If he shaped a doctrine from it—
Does it matter now or then ?
It is wanted—l don’t doubt it,
And we’d suffer much without it—
It is first amongst our needs ;
Far too plain to misconstrue it,
It’s our duty—let us do it;
Yea, and prove our faith with deeds !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Heloise.
I never pass the little road when the quince trees
are in bloom,
With its straight grey paling fences and its foot-
path patched with grass,
But I seem to see the swaying hearse, the funeral
pall and plume,
As, decked in hideous panoply, the great black
horses pass.
By the Tweediana creeper, bright with yellow
blossoms glowing,
There stands a trembling woman, framed in shin-
ing bud and leaf ;
Her slender limbs blaek-draperied, and her little
white hand showing ;
Her little face, behind her veil, an agony of grief.
Heloise, fair Heloise ! You had no right to love
him !
Who was wedded to your rival for half a score
of years.
The nodding plumes that waved there so for-
biddingly above him,
Of surety were a just rebuke to your unlawful
tears.
His wife sobs in the carriage with the tears that
heal a sorrow,
And for comfort has his last born son to hold upon
her knees ;
For her the memory of his kiss shall help the lone
to-morrow,
But there was no kiss of parting for forgotten
Heloise !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Sleeplessness.
Night of unrest, of sorrow, and of pain,
Will ye not go, and let the day again
Come kindly back ?
Art thou so halt, so rusted in thy points,
So blind, so deaf, so crowded on thy joints,
So on the rack ?
Make not of me just such another ghost
As ye, to clutch and hold at every post
The road upon.
Thou art a rag, set up to fill with fear
The very trade which thou didst practise here
In years agone !
The sweet, sweet trade of deep and poppied sleep—
Alas, the fustian stuff to-day you keep
Is worthless all.
Ye cannot cozen me, old addle-pate;
Go by. For I’ll e’en slumber at the gate
Of Phoebus’ wall.
N.S.W.
HUGH M‘CRAE.
Pilgrims.
Regaling on the tavern’s store,
I smiled upon the Pilgrim worn,
Who paused a moment at the door
In garments stained and travel torn ;
But he returned my smile with scorn.
When I besought his company,
“ I have no time to waste,” he said ;
“ My aim’s my food—but give to me,
If so you will, a crust of bread :
The Road to Future Things I tread ! ”
“I take my ease upon the way,”
I answered, “but my path’s the same.
You have an aim ? To that I say,
’Tis a poor life that lacks an aim,
But none is worth while walking lame.
“ At every tavern door I sit,
And ask the best it has in store ;
Then, satisfied, I seek for it—
This land we both are searching for,
With hopes and strength renewed once more.
“ We cannot tell how far it lies.
But are content to take as true
The wonders of its mysteries—
I take the joys of journey, too,
And will get there as soon as you.
He shot at me a glance of scorn,
And passed upon his eager quest.
Beside the roadside, travel-worn,
I passed, with broken hopes oppressed,
The man too wise to be my guest.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


m*
r
* Tri
Wj
A.
■ '
M
J. Rennon&iSons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw iSkins in Victoria £? £?
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
O
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sales sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address —
J. Kennon & »Sons
TANNERS O. EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
The Australian Widows' Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(iliriAL) CHIEMJFFI'cE N.S.W.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
THE-
OLDSMOBILX
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
m
m
it
%
sag
5
ill-jr
ETtTT
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can he had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABQUT* than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line ; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 1G H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Car. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS, MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Midi*
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd*, 253 Elizabeth St„ Sydney*
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
RmncFPnuT rniviw it « a
jCTBSII
" r— ~
I
M3©Sfc§lS
■ ■ ;
HI
p
§
Ills®
m
$
‘ s
..
m
mm
ms- ! i>'
■ -■' -<■ '•- > ■-=■.?„ '-
wmm
t
m
mm
mmgmm
gj 1 g§
SM** v :
tBSSfI
:
'-
Cv: I
V- :
. . ■.*•' V.-Sml'hM
FOR
HOME
FOR
THE Factory
Whether it be
ROOFING,
DAMPCOURSE,
nvimx-mv- a
or
FLOORCLOTH,
every building has a
place for RUBEROID,
and RUBEROBQ has its
place in every building.
OOFING —DAMPGOURSE —FLOORCLOTH.
TO BE OBTAINED FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS AND BUILDERS’ IRONMONGERS.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH &. CO., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1373.
THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 1906.
Priob 6d.
ANARCHY’S NEW WEAPON —IF ANARCHY DID BUT KNOW IT!


Account*.
NotC4L
Coin.
ToUi
W. N\ Wiu.is ..
£
20,067
£ t» d
261 6 7
£ a d
20,311 a 7
WlIAiS, Catuik,
»21
60 0 7
871 10 2
Mart Willis ..
2,8*6
22 17 0
371 10 2
V. O. Oiimr ..
6.S10
2 0 0
0,812 0 0
w, r. cities ..
27,<i!U
651 18 2
£3,245 18 2
66,737
8S2 1 6
57,010 1 5
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A u steal in for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every xoeek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, ivhether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is foncarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in JtlaoTe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgdte Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. —lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Horn Kona.—Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A (tents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x Hein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 1906.
SOME NEW FEDERAL CAPITAL SITES-
Joseph Carruthers, Premier of N.S.W., has
broken out again with his painfully wooden joke
about the Australian capital. The new develop-
ment of Joseph’s peculiar brand of mirth lies in
sending round an official to report on a lot of new
sites selected by himself, whereby he apparently
endeavors to imply two things: (1) that the
capital site has not yet been selected, and is still
an open question, and (2) that it is a matter which
in some way concerns Joseph, the State Insect,
and about which he has a right to buzz as a fly
having authority. As the State Assembly is
entering upon its third (and presumably its last)
session, and the Government has apparently very
little in the way of a definite programme in hand,
the sudden uprising of solicitor Joseph Carru-
thers at this juncture, with three or four new
Federal capital sites in his salary-hook, seems to
imply that the alleged wrongs of the Ma State are
again to be his chief political stand-by. Car-
ruthers’ latest investigation has revealed, it is
alleged, a number of inferior spots, and one
“ ideal site ” at a place described as Mahkoolma.
Mahkoolma is down near the Murrumbidgee, in
the same region as Dalgety, but a little closer to
Sydney. It has no railway, just like Dalgety, but
it is proposed that it should be approached by a
branch line from Yass, or by a sub-branch from
the existing branch line to Cooma. It doesn’t
lie on a permanent river, as Dalgety does ; it is
proposed that a capital at Mahkoolma should
depend for its water supply on such allowance as
the N.S.W. State Government might choose to
make it out of the Barren Jack reservoir,
if the State Government ever builds the
Barren Jack reservoir; and the State official
who has just found the “ideal site” adds
that in a drought like that of 1902-3 the
Barren Jack reservoir might easily become
an empty orifice and a mere dry hollow,
decorated with dead fish. Even if it didn’t
become quite dry it must be remembered that
Barren Jack is intended, first and foremost, as a
State work for the irrigation of State lands, and
that, if supplies ran low, the State which owned
the reservoir would probably consider its own
State population first —it certainly would if CAR-
RUTHERS was in office—and the Federal city
second or not at all. As regards the area of the
ideal capital site there is some obscure allusion to
87,000 acres, equal to about 136 square miles,
which means a patch of soil about 11 miles by 12.
This is 4000 acres less than the area which Sydney
and its immediate suburbs require for mere
standing room, and only a fraction of the area
which they require for water catchment, reser-
voirs, drainage outlets, and the other essentials of
a decent modern city. Of course, there is no
evidence that Joey Carruthers would surrender
the Mahkoolma site even if the Australian Parlia-
ment were willing to accept it. He offered the
Dalgety site and withdrew it with the loud laugh
which shows the vacant mind as soon as it was
accepted, and so long as his chief political stock-
in-trade consists in posing as the wild and hairy
avenger of imaginary wrongs done to the Ma
State he will probably continue to find in every
proposed capital site a bitter wrong and a reason
for secession.
It is to be hoped that the Australian Parlia-
ment, when it meets, will make it clear to Car-
ruthers that it wants no more suggestions about
sites, and that the matter is settled beyond recall.
If it doesn’t, Joseph may go on for years dis-
covering new sites, offering tnem, refusing to
grant them when accepted, weeping about
“Federal delay” and the obvious intention to
deprive N.S.W. of the capital, and wildly defend-
ing the Ma State with his sixpenny axe against
imaginary enemies. Apart from the original
fact that the capital was fixed in N.S.W. by
fraud and lying—that the people of N.S.W.
accepted by a solid majority the original Consti-
tution, which left the capital an open question;
that they accepted it by a majority vastly larger
than the one which, byN.S.W.’s solemn agree-
ment with the other States, was required to
ensure acceptance ; and that the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, by an infamous breach of faith, annulled
this acceptance, and then demanded possession of
the capital before it would get out of the road—
apart from this preliminary infamy, the capital
question has already been more than sufficient of
a curse. The Australian Government spent the
best part of a year in making courteous proposals
to the effect that the N.S.W. State Government
should suggest a site, and in receiving uncouth
and bear-like answers, or in waiting without any
answer at all. Finally, at long last, it in-
duced N.S.W. Government to appoint a
purely State Commissioner to deal with the
matter. He chose what were supposed to be the
best and most suitable positions in N.S.W., and
reported on them. They were formally put under
offer in the sense that the State lands in the
vicinity were reserved from sale, that being the
most definite kind of offer that N.S.W. would
make. The Australian Parliament selected a
location in the district which the N.S.W. State
Commissioner reported on as the very best avail-
able. And when it had thus done everything
that N.S.W. suggested, and conformed strictly to
the letter of the Federal Constitution as well,
Joseph Carruthers howled at it as if he were a
dog, and refused to grant the proposed site on any
terms whatever.
* * •» *
Now that Joseph Carruthers has commenced,
at the eleventh hour, to dig up new sites, with the
apparent idea of starting all over again a matter
which seemed just approaching settlement after
five years’ disturbance, it is time for the Aus-
tralian Parliament to remember that it isn’t
Joseph’s horse nor his ass nor his ox, and that it
owes something to its own dignity and the
dignity of the people it represents. The fact that
Joseph is, politically, an uncivil lout, and an
individual who picks quarrels for no other visible
purpose save that of self-advertisement, gives him
no claim to special consideration. His imaginary
grievance may be a valuable asset to him in State
politics, and he may find it convenient to divert
attention from unpleasant local episodes by abuse
of Federal politicians, and by wild outcry about
imaginary State wrongs, and by posing as the
heroic solicitor who is saving N.S.W. from some
awful invisible injury; but the country’s business
can’t stand over indefinitely to provide Joe
Carruthers with a convenient grievance and
a discordant battle-shriek. The clear duty
of the Australian Parliament is to put
any new suggestions about capital sites at
the back of the stove, to intimate that the matter
is already settled, and to take the promptest
measures it can to get possession of the selected
area at Dalgety. If it re-opened the question,
and finally accepted the new site which Joseph
has just disinterred, it would do no earthly good
to Australia, nor to N.S.W.; and it would
sacrifice its own rights and dignity in order
that Joseph might pose before the electors
as the great man who wantonly kicked the
Parliament of all Australia just to show his im-
portance, and was not kicked as he deserved in
return. Probably the humiliation of the Aus-
tralian Parliament would be accentuated, if it
were foolish enough to climb down and accept
some new offer, by another howl of derisive
laughter from Joseph, and his refusal to surrender
the new site, just as he refused to surrender
the old one; and by his offer to dig up some
more possible Federal capitals, and to commence
the whole discussion afresh for the third time.
After the offer of Dalgety, and its withdrawal as
soon as it was accepted, Joseph Carruthers is
outside the pale of negotiation, or he ought to be.
* * * *
Australia is not Palestine, and Joseph Car-
ruthers is not the Palestine Exploration Society,
with a life-long digging contract. There must be
finality somewhere. Against the selection the
Australian Parliament has already made there is
no possible objection, except the political exist-
ence of Joseph Carruthers and his capacity for
objecting to everything. Carruthers first de-
nounced the proposal to build a capital on Monaro
because it would deprive N.S.W. of a rich,
splendid, and thickly-populated area, yielding
an immense revenue. When his figures and
alleged facts were shown to be blankly untrue, he
next denounced it because the locality was such a
poor, barren, empty, beggarly region that
the necessary railway to the Federal city wouldn’t
pay for axle-grease. Between these two utter-
ances of Joseph’s it may be fairly assumed that
the district is just a good ordinary sample. It is
in N.S.W., as required by the Constitution. It is
not less than 100 miles from Sydnev as provided
by the Constitution. The area asked for is not
less than 100 square miles as set forth in the Con-
stitution. The proposed site is nearer Sydney
than Melbourne, therefore the remnants of the
old Cabbage Tree Mob, to whom Sydney is the
middle of the universe and the only place of im-
portance, have no reason to complain. It is in a
region of which N.S.W. is making less use than it
is of any other permanently habitable part of its
area; therefore the bit of territory asked for is all
the less loss to N.S.W. And because it is an
almost uninhabited area the proposal to put
a city there, instead of putting it at the back
door of Sydney, is all the more commendable,
in view of the fact that everybody—even the
people who are howling most bitterly about
the necessity of putting the city at the back door
of Sydney—profess to believe that what Aus-
tralia wants is to attract population to its empty
spaces (like Monaro), and not to congest it further
in its two big and already over-bloated cities (one
of which is Sydney). Further, the Dalgety scheme
will place the capital in the healthiest part of
N.S.W. and on the banks of an ever-flowing river
—not a precarious unbuilt tank like Barren Jack ;
and the man who would put a city anywhere else
when the bank of a pure, swift, ever-flowing river
is available is a fool.
* * * •
As for the area asked for (900 square miles) it
can only be said that it is a pathetically small
area, and not one-fifth of what should have been
demanded. It is barely sufficient for a city, a
water supply area with necessary reservoirs, and
an outlet for drainage. After the experience the
Australian Government and Parliament have had
of Joey Carruthers, the cantankerous and un-
speakable public worm of Australian politics,
there are certain things the Commonwealth cannot
afford to risk : It cannot afford to risk having the
sources of its city’s w'ater supply anywhere except
in its own territory and under its own control,
lest the Joey Government cuts off the supply. It
cannot risk having a Federal territory which
borders on N.S.W. only, and has no other outlet
either by the sea or overland through another
State, lest the Joey Ministry cuts off its railway
communication. And it cannot take the chance
of having such a small territory that it must de-
pend on the adjacent State of N.S.W. for an
outlet for the sewage of the Federal city, lest
a Joey Government refuses it that outlet,
and makes it a city of typhoid and other
diseases. Long and painful experience has taught
it, or should have taught it, to regard its Joey as
an individual who will do the Australian Govern-
ment any and every kind of injury he can, even
when he gains by it no shred or semblance of
advantage, merely for the same perverted kind of
advertisement which came, in a larger way, to the
man who burned the temple of Ephesus. There-
fore, if Carruthers invites it to stultify itself by
going back on its selection of Monaro as the place
for its capital city, and to follow him humbly
round the country like his dog to look at new
capital sites; and if he tries to beguile it with the
tentative offer of a scrap of land where the
Australian capital will depend on his charity for
its water supply and its communication with the
outer world, it should decline without thanks.
Thanks are wholly uncalled for in such a case.
THE MADNESS OF THE LABOR
EXTREMISTS.
If it were possible for the mad-headed section of
the Labor party (which is just now engaged in
rushing the good work of years down a steep place
into the sea) to think coolly—perhaps it is, but
The Bulletin rather thinks it isn’t—the members
of that section would be at present seeing a danger
signal in the cordial approval they are winning
from Mr. G. H. Reid and from the Tory press.
Said Reid in a Sydney suburb the other night:—
He was glad that the Labor parties were not prepared
to take on Mr. Deakin in his coming battle. They were
prepared to fight their own battle. That was a fair posi-
tion to take up, and would haveja good effect on the fight
And the Sydney Daily Telegraph reprints with
chuckling approval the articles in which Brisbane
Worker urges the Labor party to play the Reid
game, and come into the field for the forthcoming
fight in a hopeless position, armed with hopeless
weapons. “The Lord hath delivered them into
our hands,” said Cromwell at Dunbar; and
foolish fanatics are working all they can to make
it possible for Reid to say that with the same
confidence next November.
* •* * •
George Reid proclaims that such actions as
that of the Victorian Political Labor Conference
in perfidiously breaking the pact made between
the Labor party in Parliament and the Lyne-
Isaacs wing of the Protectionist party re-
present a “fair position,” and “will have a
good effect on the fight.” A good effect !
Now, what precisely does Reid mean by a
food effect ? Does he mean that it will help the
labor party to greater strength, and thus make
the Reid chance of getting to office on an anti-
Australian, anti-democratic policy more hopeless ?
The question is absurd. Mr. Reid means that an
intransigeant attitude on the part of a section of
the Labor party will have a good effect in helping
him to climb into power on a platform of colorless
Conservatism, plus sectarianism, which he calls
anti-Socialism. He hopes that it will take thou-
sands of votes from the Labor party. He hopes
also that it will take even more votes from
the Deakin party, which (differing from the
Labor party only in its fidelity to the root
reform of High Protection in its immediate pro-
gramme of legislation) has elected to stand out at
the next elections as ready to work sympatheti-
cally with the great reasonable body that is the
true Labor party, and will accordingly be
punished by the electors for all the madnesses
with which the name of Labor can be associated.
That is why faith-breaking on the part of the
section of the Labor party outside Parliament—
which wants to get into Parliament and is there-
fore “agin ” the sitting members—and wild extra-
vagance on the part of a section of the Labor
press has a “ good effect ” in Reid’s eyes.
The votes that are frightened from Watson
will also be frightened from Deakin, and, having
no other place to go, will be recorded for Reid—
or else they will not be recorded at all, which will
also help Reid.
• * • •
It is not possible, as the political situation
shows now, for Deakin to score at the ex-
pense of Watson, or Watson at the expense
of Deakin. There is a section of voters which
regards Protection —better and more complete
Protection than the present tariff affords—as of
paramount importance. That section will vote
Deakin. There is another section which, whilst
Protectionist in conviction, is also strongly
Laborite, and will vote Watson on the ground
that Watson is a democrat and a Protec-
tionist. A very small section is Freetrade
and Labor (most of the old Freetrade Laborites
are now in their proper camp, screeching
with renegade Joseph Cook for anti-Socialism),
and will vote Watson because it “ sinks the fiscal
issue.” There is yet another section, Tory and
retrogressive in its ideas of social legislation, nar-
row and bigoted in its religious intolerance, anti-
Australian in its sentiment, which will vote Reid.
But after subtracting all these definitely resolved
elements there remains a great mass of undeter-
mined voters whose ballots will really decide the
issue. They are Protectionists of a sort, or
Freetraders of a sort, or inclined to be
Laborites, but more than all inclined to
be lazy and to dodge the trouble of enter-
taining definite political convictions until a
general election nearly approaches. As a class of
supporters they are not admirable. They are
liable, like a mercenary army, to swing over at
the last moment to what they imagine to be the
winning side. They always come to a decision
which is rather emotional than reasoned. But
such as they are, these fluctuating voters are the
real arbiters of the fight. A few months ago, when
Watson resigned office and wished to appeal to
the country, they would have voted on the
Watson side almost to a man, and the Labor
party, allied with the radical wing of the Protec-
tionists, would have swept the polls. After the
brief and inglorious career of the Reid
Government, the fluctuating vote was left
in very much the same position, except
that it showed some tendency to divide itself be-
tween Deakin and Watson. Since then, that ten-
dency has strengthened, until, three months ago,
the vote in almost every Australian constituency
not guided by religious bigotry or mere Tory
horror of progress would have voted for a Deakin
candidate or a Watson candidate almost indiffer-
ently. The two parties were thought to be en-
gaged in pursuing the same ideal—the advance-
ment of Australia —by. courses divergent a little,
but ultimately converging.
♦ * * ft
Now there is a very great difference. A section
of the Labor party has put its aims and its methods
in the worst possible light before the public. It
has shown itself possessed neither of common-
sense nor of honorable recognition of solemn
obligations. The effect on the voters has been
enormous. Since the decision of the Victorian
Political Labor Council to condemn the Labor
party to be always a sort of mercenary party—and
a faithless mercenary party at that—the Reid
campaign has begun to be taken seriously. Before
that, it was matter only for laughter—the des-
perate efforts of a very fat man to save himself
from drowning with such a poor straw as anti-
Socialism. Now it gets strength, real strength.
If the fluctuating voters would think, they
would recognise that the Labor party in Parlia-
ment does not sympathise with the follies of
the extremists, and has the practical power
to nullify them when it really chooses. If again,
they would only think, the allegiance they are
disavowing would be more reasonably transferred
to Deakin from Watson, or to Watson from
Deakin, than from either to Reid. But this
class of voter does not think as deeply as that.
It sees representative bodies of Labor men adopt-
ing an attitude and a policy which is intolerable
to public opinion; it has been for some months
associating Deakin with Watson as some sort of
allied forces ; and it reckons it must punish both
for the madness or the treachery of the Victorian
extremists and the Brisbane Worker, by swing-
ing over to Reid. The more mad-lieaded of
the Labor organisations insist that the issue is
between them and their folly and Reid and his
folly. The public takes them at their word, and
prepares to stampede to Reid as the fatter and
more comfortable folly of the two.
* * * *
If the position of Australia at the present time
were not so anxious—almost the word desperate
is warranted—there would be no cause for great
uneasiness in the follies of the Labor extremists.
They mean, at the worst, that at the next elections
the Labor party may suffer severe losses; that for
the life of next Parliament the chance of any of
the able administrators who made up the Watson
Cabinet assisting in the government of the country
will be lost; that either Reid will hold office flaunt-
ing his “ necklace of negatives” or (almost equally
bad) Deakin will have office but not power.
Under ordinary circumstances, undesirable as all
this would be, there would be nothing utterly
disastrous in it. The 1908 or 1909 elections would
put things right again, the Labor extremists
having been taught a lesson and the voters a
lesson. But, as things are, Australia cannot
afford to have another chaotic Parliament. It is
almost a matter of now or never. If the present
opportunity is not seized to begin the really essen-
tial work of nation-building—the work to which
Prime Minister Deakin solemnly pledged himself
at his last Sydney meeting —there is no certainty
that that work can ever be undertaken under
conditions of peace and security. We may build
our walls now with both hands. In the near
future it may be necessary to have in one hand a
sword, in the other a trowel.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N.S.W. Lands Inquiry—the Findings.
The Royal Commission appointed to inquire into
the administration of N.S.W. Lands Department
presented its report last week. Justice Owen has
not quite completed his work. He still leaves the
way open for evidence from W. N. Willis ; and
in regard to McNair and Hoskins, against whom
a charge is pending, he preserves silence as to
matters affecting that charge. But, otherwise, a
great task comes to its conclusion. The gist of
Mr. Justice Owen’s findings are :
The Personalities.
W. P. Crick, ex-Minister for Lands, accepted one-half
the sums received by Peter Close, as land agent. No
officer of the Lands Department received money from
Close.
Premier Carruthers was in no way implicated by the
evidence. He submitted his accounts for examination,
and nothing in any way suspicious was discovered.
Land agents generally did not charge exorbitant fees.
The three exceptions were Close, Willis and Bath.
W. N. Willis’ departure from Australia was not sanc-
tioned by the Commissioner. At the time of that depar-
ture there was, in Justice Owen’s opinion, no legal means
of stopping it. Mr. Owen cannot see that the N.S.W.
Government could well have done more than it did in
applying for the extradition of Willis.
Under-Secretary'for Lands MacFarlane was “ too eager
to carry out the wishes of the Minister ” in regard to
granting improvement leases, “ even when he must have
known that the lease was not within the Act.”
Monet.
The land agents who charged exorbitantly scored as
follows in the matter of fees: —
W. N. Willis .. .. £44,913
P. C. Close 15,649
C. Bath 2,675
Re the examination of accounts, the Commission quotes
this from the accountant’s report
“ His (Mr. Crick’s) and other banking accounts ex-
amined by me really afford very little information having
a direct bearing upon the inquiry now being held ; but
they are nearly all remarkable for the large proportion of
cheques drawn that have been cashed for notes, and
especially for the large amount deposited in notes as com-
pared with cheques.
“ Excluding amounts under £5O, the notes and com
shown as deposited amount, I find, to no less a sum than
£66,619 Is. 5d., as follows :
“ This amount is practically the same as that shown
by the evidence to have been paid t;o land agents, but
this would appear to be a mere coincidence.
“ According to the evidence furnished to me,
would appear to have received in all £57,844 13s. 3d.—
but the Myall Creek and some other payments would


appear to have beeti made by cheque, and, allowing for
these, and for the sums received by agents whose accounts
are not dealt with, the amount shown as paid in notes
and coin would probably be £BOOO or £9OOO more
than the amounts paid to Messrs. Willis, Closb, and
Crick in respect of the matters disclosed.”
Improvement Leases.
Of 50 expired pastoral holdings coming before the
notice of the Commission, only four were subdivided for
settlement, though of the 50, 23 had been previously set
apart as suitable for settlement.
In some cases the land was allowed on improvement
lease, not to the old Crown tenant, but to some new man
who had no right to benefit under the policy of allowing
the tenant of a lapsed leasehold an extension under
improvement lease.
In 39 cases improvement leases were granted in spite of
adverse reports ; one of these occurred during Carru-
thers’ administration (but was subsequently cancelled by
him): three in the administration of Thomas Hassall, 35
in the administration of W. P. Crick.
Improvement lease lands were liable to revocation for
public purposes, but the sinking of an artesian well on
any block made that block safe from revocation. In some
cases improvement leases were granted with the condi-
tion of an artesian well being sunk (which supplied a
safeguard against revocation), though the land affected
was outside the known artesian area. Thus “the lessees,
by sinking bores to the limited depth which, under the
circumstances, the conditions allowed, obtained at a very
small cost the waiver on the part of the Crown of the
right of withdrawal, and thus secured for themselves the
land for the full term of the lease.”
Extensions of improvement leases were granted in
cases when, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the
Minister had not the power to make any such grant.
Two Typical Land Agency Cases.
The Windagee leases, taken up in the names of Hayes
and Rae and Mrs. Willis, were really for the benefit of
W. N. Willis. The names mentioned were used only to
enable W. N. Willis to get the lands for himself.
The Mungery West improvement leases were got by
W. N. Willis for Mr. Strahorn through dummies; the
land —at any rate the greater portion of it —was suitable
for settlement, and should not have been let on improve-
ment lease.
The Policy ok the Past.
The Myall Creek land purchase was justifiable and not
corrupt.
There was nothing illegal shown in regard to land
exchange transactions.
The granting of improvement leases was carried too
far by Lands Minister Crick, in that some land suitable
for settlement was locked up in such leases ; but the im-
provement lease “ policy ” was in itself justifiable.
Tiie Policy op the Future.
The Lands Department should be vested in three com-
missioners—not present officers of the Lands Department.
To encourage closer settlement all unnecessary reserves
should be cancelled ; illegal leases should be revoked ;
light railways and irrigation works should be pushed on ;
re-purchases of private estates should be made.
Land agents should be registered by the Land Appeal
Court, and their charges made liable to taxation.
Jt is not open for The Bulletin to comment
with any freedom on these findings, on
account of various pending proceedings. But
Premier Carruthers is to Vie congratulated
on a verdict which clears him of all sus-
picion. The Government generally has been
acquitted by Justice Owen of any wish to hamper
him in his work. The duty now remains with
Parliament and the courts to carry the unhappy
business to an end.
♦
Protection First.
On Prime Minister De akin’s “ Australia for the
Australians, and Protection before everything”
pronouncement, Labor leader Watson expounded
his party’s policy as follows :
We say that the conditions under which, in the national
interest, industries may be carried on should be first laid
down—how the industries should be run, and whether it
is necessary by tariff enactment to encourage the crea-
tion of industries. Important as I consider Protection to
be, industrial and social legislation is more important
still. . . .
The Labor party’s desire to ensure decent living
and wage conditions is proper ; but, so long as
there are no industries worth mentioning, the fix-
ing of such conditions is to a great extent wasted
effort. The Labor party may regulate wages,
hours, etc., till everything is as beautiful as a rose-
bud ; but all the time it is doing this pretty busi-
ness, the foreigner is dumping his surplus pro-
ducts into this country and rendering it harder
and more hopeless for the Australian manufacturer
to establish an industry, and daily driving the
Australian worker either out of the Common-
wealth or to one of the poorly-paid, drudging
“great natural industries” in which labor and
hours are not regulated. Through Melbourne
streets, the day the visiting brown contingent
marched from Port Melbourne to the Zoo, there
passed another procession—eight two-horse lorries
packed with foreign-made motor cars. The Aus-
tralian mechanic has proved that he can do what
the American can do—has shown him the way at
times—and, given efficient Protection, every
ounce of material and every particle of the labor
on those eight loaded lorries could have been
supplied in the Commonwealth. But the Labor
party says, “ No ; we must first fix fair industrial
conditions; afterwards we may decide that the
building of motor-cars is necessary, or perhaps we
may make it a State monopoly. In the meantime,
instead of training and employing hundreds of
clever, cultivated mechanics, who would be of the
first service in defending their country and would
all the while constitute the finest and best citizens,
we are satisfied for our people to milk cows under
conditions of gross sweating.” In theory the
Labor party’s fiscal policy is as attractive as a
house on fire. In practice it is not much more
useful than the same house after the fire has been
there. »
A Second Ballot.
The report goes that a short Bill will be rushed
through this coming session of the Australian
Parliament to provide for a second ballot at
Federal elections in cases where the top candidate
has not got an absolute majority, and it can only
be hoped that the report is true. In the present
House of Reps, there are 12 members who repre-
sent each a minority vote— Culpin (Q.), Quick
(Vic.), Hume Cook (Vic.), G. Wilson (Vic.),
Crouch (Vic.), Gibb (Vic.), Skene (Vic.),
Ronald (Vic.), Robinson (Vic.), Phillips (Vic.),
Fysh (Tas.), and McWilliams (Tas.). This is a
pretty large proportion out of 75 politicians,
but bad as things are now, they are likely
to become much worse. According to present
appearances, next election is to be run on
purely triangular principles, as far as the bulk
of constituencies is concerned, with small, casual,
irresponsible angles thrown in. They will almost
certainly be worse in Victoria, the State in which
minority representation is already at its worst.
There it seems likely that almost every election
will be a three, or four, or five-cornered fight, the
parties being
(1) The Labor Protectionist.
(2) The other Protectionist.
(3) The Foreign-trade Tory.
(4) Anybody else —perhaps several of him.
As a rule, the Freetrade Tory vote will go pretty
solidly to one man while the Protectionist vote
will be split—in many cases it would appear that
it will be very evenly split. And the probable
results will be something like the following :
Tory Foreign-trader .. .. • • • • 4106
Protectionist No, 1 (Labor or otherwise) .. 4050
„ No. 2( „ ) 3998
Smith
Jones -
If there is a second ballot between the two leading
men, Foreign-trade and Toryism will, of course,
go down with a memorable smite. The Protec-
tionist vote that went at first to the third man
will go to the second when the third man is dis-
qualified, and the Foreign-trader will be beaten—
especially with Smith, Jones and Brown out of
the way —by two to one. Without the second
ballot he will probably get in very largely, and it
seems that the Protectionists will only have a fair
chance of winning where they represent nearly a
two to one majority. The Protectionists of the
Deakin party must needs nominate a candidate
in every constituency, unless such a high and
complete tariff is carried this session that the
fiscal question will lose some of its urgency. The
Labor party also threatens to nominate a candi-
date in every constituency, and as the Labor can-
didate in Victoria will be a Protectionist every
time at the polls (though he may be a fiscal-sinker
in the House), it will be exclusively the Demo-
cratic party that will be split. The Labor Pro-
tectionist won’t capture a vote from the Foreign-
trade Tory gang,- but will rather consolidate it.
The position matters less in N.S.W., for there the
Labor man is a Freetrader or a Protectionist in-
discriminately ; he will capture votes from both
sides, and in the end things may be just about as
broad are long. Certainly at last election
N.S.W. put up the most honorable record of elect-
ing every one of its 20 members by a clear
and definite majority. But in Victoria the
splitting of votes between Labor Protectionists
and plain Protectionists, and the multiplicity of
candidates generally, influenced the result greatly
in 1903, and out of 23 Victorian members no less
than nine represent minorities. The coming
election will see a better-defined split; there will
be three parties everywhere, and the irrepressible
Smith, Jones, and Brown as well; and it is quite
possible that, without provision for a second
ballot, something like 17 out of 22 seats may be
captured for the Reid party by miserable Tory
and Foreign-trade minorities. And if three
tickets are nominated for the Senate the same
sort of thing may happen there. The second
ballot is urgently wanted as regards both Houses,
therefore the hint that a Second Ballot Bill may
come to light this session sounds like an indefinite
promise of good news.
*
Maoriland’s Freak Railways.
The Maoriland idea of building a railroad is the
British idea of taking the Tugela position—climb-
ing over obstacles regardless of cost or of the
possibility of finding a way round. Maoriland
has been making freak railways for forty years.
The first ever constructed—it was in the old pro-
vincial days—was bored cheerfully through the
Port Hills from Christchurch to Lyttelton, and
freight carried on that line still pays a tunnel
impost. Then a track was laid on a steep
gradient round the sea-washed cliffs at Blueskin
(Otago). It afterwards had to be ripped up
and carried through a tunnel for safety. The
next thing that happened amazes every engineer
and stupefies every tourist who looks at it to this
day. This is the Rimutaka incline on the Wel-
lington-Napier railway. The line is carried oyer
a summit 1000 ft. high for the sheer joy of going
down on a grip rail through the dirtiest tunnels in
the country. There is a drop of over 1000 ft. in
three miles to the Wairarapa plain, and every
train has to be pulled up by three Fell engines
on a special three-rail track that gives the
most unpleasant ride money can buy in Aus-
tralasia. It is only within the last few years that
the Rimutaka has been made a decently safe line at
all, and it takes an hour and a half for the express to
travel eighteen miles. After this, the Palmerston-
Wanganui line was constructed through the
country of fat squatters—Rangitikei. To be
quite sure of properly serving one run-holder, the
line was carried up a hillside rising 440 ft. in five
miles, while there was a flat route with a short
tunnel running alongside. This is the spot where,
a few years ago, an army of caterpillars crawled
across the line and brought the express to a stand-
still. Of course, all these things were done in the
bad old days of the capitalists, but the present
Liberal Government had been in office ten
years, and had fairly lived down all suspicion
of helping the squatter—besides which there were
no squatters thereabouts to help—before the
route of the North Island main trunk railway was
definitely settled. And this is what it did. The
railway is now bang up against the edge of a
plateau at each end, and has somehow or other to
make a rise of 2000 ft. to get on the plateau. This
is achieved by a steady grade, not unworkable,
at the southern end, but at the northern ex-
tremity there is a regular tangle of tunnels and
cuttings, in the throes of which the line crosses
itself, and performs four curves of the smallest
possible radius. And when the line reaches the
top cf the plateau it has to travel for fifty miles
through God-forsaken pumice country, which will
never be worth the breath spent in cursing it.
When engineers look at the Pukerimu spiral they
will laugh and cry at so much folly. The thing is
a sheer and absolute blunder, committed for fear
Auckland would be jealous if the line passed
through the rich country of Taranaki. The bad
old days are not yet over.
*
The “Star’s” Stinking Fish Yarn.
Last week the Australian Star (Sydney) broke
out into a huge scare-heading about “Four
Britishers Gaoled” and the “ Indifference of Re-
sponsible Ministers,” and it burst into a smaller
sub-heading about what the four British subjects
in question “think of Sydney.” And it seems
that Sydney is crushed by their disapproval—at
least, this is the only verdict that can be reason-
ably arrived at after a careful reading of
four columns of slush, and an indignant ietter
signed “A Britisher,” in which the Britisher
said that the treatment of the four British subjects
in question was a “rotten sham,” and that his
heart bled over the business. After all this
screaming and riot it might be reasonably sup-
posed that something dreadful had happened to
the four, but the case seems a very ordinary one.
They reached Australia first as stowaways on the
British steamer Runic. They got on board at
Liverpool, their reason being that England was
so cold and brutal to four British subjects that
they wanted to get away at any price. The
British captain, they allege, made them work hard
all the way out without any pay—the Star
says nothing about his callous treatment of four
Britishers—and perpetually threatened these four
British subjects that he would take them back
with him to England (presumably working them
hard without pay all the time), and then get a
callous English magistrate to give them six weeks
in gaol to finish with. This habit of giving British
subjects six weeks’ gaol in cold, unfeeling London
aroused no comments on the part of the Star.
At Albany the British captain is charged with a
further outrage on four free British subjects by
locking them up lest they should escape. At
Adelaide, however, they did escape, and there
they stole a passage on an Australian steamer
bound for Sydney. The Australian captain
naturally wanted to collect fares from his passen-
gers, and when they scornfully offered id. for the
crowd he seems to have become a Fenian or a
pro-Boer or something; at all events he gave them
into the custody of a Sydney policeman. They
were handcuffed —which gave them a bad opinion
of the country—and the magistrate ordered them
to pay a small fine or do seven days for diddling
the Australian captain out of £8 in fares.
And, though this was much easier than the
six weeks they had expected to get in England,
the episode brought their opinion of the country
down to zero. They simply crushed it with their
disapproval. However the fines were paid by an
enthusiastic admirer named Gosche, and they
were let out of gaol, and money was given them,
and a billet was found for one of them, and the
other three became a temporary charge on the
State, and the Star stated in columns of feeble
rage that Australia was a degraded, low-down
place for not carrying cheeky Englishmen free on
its boats, and that the business was a Horror.
Yet it is pretty certain that the Star would
violently prosecute any British subject resident in
Australia who did it out of £2, let alone £8 ; and
if he got three months, instead of seven days, it
would regard the matter as quite natural. The
Star tries hard to be a real Stinking Fish at
times, but a prawn is about its natural size.
An Early-Closing Fiction.
The Melbourne shopkeepers who howled to Bent
for the repeal of the Early Closing Act, rashly
got down to particulars, and gave a list of 16 per-
sons who are being “ ruined ” by Early Closing.
Inquiries were ordered, and this was the re-
sult :
A. —lt was alleged that receipts in three months had
fallen £3O, but it was found that during March there was
an increase of £l2.
B. No books were kept, and the shop is one that re-
mains open till 8 o’clock. The complaint is that there
are less people about owing to other shops closing.
C. —Receipts were about the same as before the Act
came into force, and this month have been very good.
Refused to show the books.
D. Takings decreased £3O in 10 weeks on a fairly large
turnover. The trader strongly favors closing at 6 o clock,
but thinks all others should close at the same tinie.
E. —Keeps no books, and favors closing at 7 o’clock.
P. —Keeps no books. Complains of losing trade to
repair shops.
G. —Not required to close at all, but has closed volun-
tarilv, and trade showed a decrease in three months of
£9.
H. —Said she had lost trade, but refused to show her
books. This shop, as to a large portion of the goods, is
kept open to a late hour.
I. —Books showed a decrease of £lO in three months,
but the takings of three weeks of May were greater than
for the whole of May, 1905.
J. —ls not required to close at all, but considers she is
hurt because other shops are shut.
K. —Says he has lost one-third of his trade. Keeps
open late for the sale of a large portion of his stock.
L. —Has a very small stock, and keeps no books.
M. —Would not allow her books to be seen. “Could”
tell her losses, but would not do so.
N. —No shopkeeper of the name at the address.
O. —Refused to produce books, but said his takings had
fallen off £3 a week.
P. Said to have lost trade in repairs, but no books
were produced.
So the only persons who can prove any decrease
in trade either voluntarily close or want to be
closed. Melbourne Argus says: “The results
did not assist the Cabinet very much.” In the
way of creating an impression that the Tory is an
unblushing liar they should have helped consider-
ably.
The Cannibal in “God’s Country.”
The amazing and almost incredible things which
the United States has lately been finding in its
canned meat and sausages at Chicago have made
the world look on American provender,
moment at least, with a bitterly hostile eye. r lhe
contents are varied, and are alleged to include
ordinary plain meat, horse, rat, rat-bait, soap-
suds, entrails, old rags, old sausage meat that had
been freshened and revived by various artifices,
cancerous and tuberculous carcases, unborn calf,
and man, or at least bits of him. It doesn t seem
to be distinctly alleged, though it is distinctly
hinted, that whole men have ever been tinned
or sausaged at Chicago. But it is sworn to that
workmen have often been mutilated in the
machinery, and that the mechanism wasn’t stopped
merely for the purpose of rescuing a severed leg or
arm or finger out of the mass that was to become
part of the public victuals. Solongasit was only the
arm that went in the sausage while the rest of the
man remained outside, instead of the arm remain-
ing outside while the rest of the man went into
sausage, the meat purveyors of “ God’s country ”
seem to have been satisfied, and perhaps they
wouldn’t have drawn the line even there but for
the fact that a hat and a whole suit of clothes in
the meat would have been hard to account for.
For a time, at least, there should be a big slump
in U.S. meat all over the world, though the
matter cannot directly affect Australia to any
great extent; this country has for years been
tinning better meat than the U.S. produces, and
is, or should be, a stranger to the products of the
curiously mixed industry at Chicago. Still the
knowledge that such an industry exists, and the
probability that there are many dozens equally
horrible, should make Australia realise the wisdom
of the Federal statesmen who drafted the Com-
merce Act, and the wisdom of the Parliament
which passed it. The object of that Act is to
prevent the cannibal variety of tinned meat, and
other alarming things of the kind, being imported
into this country to ruin its stomach, or sent out of
this country to ruin its good name and someone
else’s stomach. So far the loudest section of the
Australian daily press has been very busy trying to
prove that it was Protection that caused the man
and the horse to get into the tinned meat, and
the dog into the lard at Chicago, and they have
quite omitted to notice that the Chicago case
shows the great need for a measure like the Aus-
tralian Commerce Act to prevent unrestricted
Private Enterprise producing similar sensations
here. In a general way the Foreign-trade press
seems to hold that but for Protection the United
States would have been fed on imported tinned
meat grown in Belgium or England, and, being
imported, that meat would necessarily have been
clean and wholesome. As a matter of fact, the
tinned meat with the man in it supplies
Australia with three lessons—on the need for
high Protection, the need for some such measure
as the Commerce Act, and the need to hang on
for all we are worth to the system of keeping our
railways national property. Australia requires
high Protection to build up national industries as
great as those of Chicago, so that it won’t need to
rely too much on unclean foreign products in
the meat line or in any line. It requires
a rigidly - administered Commerce Act to
E revent its industries, when they are built, from
eing run on dirty Chicago principles. And it
wants to carefully preserve its system of national
railways to prevent its industries, when they are
built, degenerating into monopolies, like the one
at Chicago. Every great U.S. monopoly, without
exception, has been built on private railway
ownership and on nothing else. The Beef I rust,
like the rest, grew up by getting private rail-
ways to carry its sausage at rates so much below
those charged on everybody else’s sausage that
there was nothing left for everybody else to do
save close up or become part of the great Trust.
All the Freetrade in the world would make little
difference to a Trust which can prevent the rail-
ways carrying any meat but its own, and which
can bring a dozen other influences to bear to pre-
vent any meat but its own being sold even in
places which can be reached without railway car-
riage. It was when the private enterprise railway
system had put the Beef Trust beyond competi-
tion that it began to get utterly reckless about
what animal went into its tinned meats and its
sausage. It reckoned that it was the only sausage,
and so could use any ingredients it pleased.
The Men of the Melville Island.
What time Frank Bullen was talking to Sydney
audiences of the urgent need for reform in Britain’s
mercantile marine service, telling them how hardly
the crews of sailing vessels are treated and how
little is known of their grievances by the lands-
men who sing so many songs about them, it
happened that nine sailors of the Melville Island,
from Peru, were charged at the Queenscliff (Vic.)
court with the crime of refusing to do any further
duty on the vessel in question. They said that
the food was insufficient and putrid, that the. ship
had not been carrying proper protective side-lights
according to regulations, and that they had
other reasons for being “fuirup” of their job.
The captain said his say in opposition to these
complaints, but the Bench sided with the men,
and they were discharged. The captain then sent
them to Melbourne with a note to the superin-
tendent of the Sailors’ Home, instructing him
that they were to be paid off. Nevertheless, the
captain did not pay them off. He decided to pay
them out, if possible, to which end he ordered
them to return to the ship, threatening to prose-
cute them for desertion if they refused.
Banzai.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a speck to be ignored, a weak and worthless
thing;
I kiss the dust before a lord, and scrape before a
king.
I have no independence worth a counterfeited
cent —
To all the craven cults on earth I am a monument!
With blood grown weak and cold and thin, and
spirit mean and small,
I bend, and creep, and toady in a Land of Smoodge
and Crawl!
To vanished deeds of bygone days and kings of
other lands
I turn my sham-adoring gaze and clasp my pallid
hands;
I halt, salute, I turn aside, I shamble, and I bow
Before old glories dead and gone that cannot
matter now.
Let others risk a man’s disgrace when Freedom’s
voice shall call—
But I won’t dare to show my face—l’ll merely
cringe and crawl !
My prided crest shall be a worm—a symbol of the
way
That I must creep, and twist, and squirm, and
toady day by day !
For I must bow to High Degrees, and condescend
to Fat—
Must fall upon my humble knees, and meekly
lift my hat.
Across the sheets of history I’ll leave my languid
scrawl—
A fearsome thing for folk to see when men no
longer crawl.
No great and noble dreams have I no hope, nor
strong man’s wish
Save but to shout “Gorsave !—Banzai! ” and
“ Ho, for Stinking Fish ! ”
I see the striving people trudge upon their
thriving way ;
I see them—and I slouch in sludge, I slobber, and
I pray !
Through all the land I glibly rant, and most
abjectly sprawl,
Expounding well the creed of Cant, of Cringe,
and Cadge, and Crawl.
We’ve heroes here who one by one have done the
grandest things
That I have dreamed were only done by God’s
Titanic kings.
We’ve men I never dote upon who put the Fates
to rout,
Whose creed was ever “ On and On ” —and always
“ Further Out!”
The daring men of plain address who swung the
axe and maul.
Who cleared the howling wilderness—and gave us
room to crawl!
I know that I should make sublime this land of
brighter scenes
In place of wasting golden time with idle kings
and queens;
I know that I should lift my voice in praise of
this, my land.
And teach our children to rejoice in patriotism
grand;
But then I have no time to think, but only time to
bawl —
To croak and cavil, sneer and slink—to kneel, and
smoodge, and crawl!
I am a speck to be ignored, a base and servile
thing;
I pay my homage to a lord, and fawn before a
king.
I have no independence worth a fraction of the
name—
/ harp upon my humble birth, and glory in my
shame !
With blood long grown a sickly hue and spirit mean
and small,
I crouch, and creep, and whimper thro ’ a Land of
Smoodge and Crawl!
N.S.W.
GILROONED.


On
er
i
So
LET HER GO, GALLAHER!
Mr. Photog : “ Now, if my Madame will look pleasant”
Miss Physog : “How can I if I have no Gold Plate Cigarettes!”
Meanwhile Senator Guthrie, of the Federated
(Australian) Seamen’s Union, had instructed a
lawyer (Mr. J. Woolf) to act for the unhappy
seamen in their legal fight for liberty, and
for the next few days Woolf was compelled
to fight tooth and nail. The captain brought the
crew before Magistrate Panton at Melbourne
City Court, on the charge of being absent without
leave, and the men repeated the story which had
been declared a good and true story by the
Queenscliff bench. But Panton, P.M., chose to
treat it as “a trumped-up farce,” and, after lec-
turing the defendants on the beauties of discipline
and the virtues of obedience, asked them if they
would return to the hated vessel, like good, bid-
dable tars. One and all refused. A sum total of
£2OO was owing to them, yet they were prepared
to sacrifice their pay rather than go back to earn
some more under the same conditions. Then the
wrathful Panton, in his astounding eccentricity,
divided the men into two classes of culprits, sen-
tencing three of them to 10 weeks’ imprisonment
each, and six others to a month only in gaol. The
tenth culprit was a stewardess, and because she
was a woman, bound by the same agreement as
the men, the autocrat ordered her to be discharged ;
she had done the same as the men, but Panton
hadn’t the courage and the logic to put her in
gaol. Woolf applied for a stay of proceedings.
The application was refused. Next day the captain
of the Melville Island instructed his solicitors to
apply to the same old Panton for an order direct-
ing the imprisoned seamen to be transferred from
their dungeons to the deck of the vessel—at
Queenscliff. Panton, with a fine disregard for
the fact that he had awarded 10 weeks’ imprison-
ment to some of them, and four weeks to the rest,
promptly ordered the lot of them back to duty.
Lawyer Woolf protested that the men were
now" claiming their absolute right of appeal
against the imprisonment decision oi the pre-
vious day, and were bound to win on the
appeal if it were heard, but it couldn’t be
heard if they were forcibly put back on
the ship, and carried away to sea. To this
objection Panton had practically nothing to say
except that he was going to grant the order for
the men’s removal, as “it would give the porta
bad name if the captain could not get the vessel
away as he desired.” In short, Panton desired
just what the captain desired—to get the men
away to sea ere the appeal could be heard. The
men were hustled off to Queenscliff on the precious
magisterial order, and there was no time to be lost
if they were to be saved from exportation. In the
District Court next morning Mr. Woolf applied
to Mr Dwyer, P.M., for an order to release the
unwilling crew of the Melville Island from cus-
tody, on the ground that notice of appeal had
been lodged, and that under the Justices Act of
1890 a Court of Petty Sessions must release from
custody any appellant who can give sureties.
The Act is explicit on this point, but Dwyer,
P.M., ranged himself on the side of Panton,
P.M., and refused to do the thing he ought
to have done in opposition to the thing
that brother Panton ought not to have
done. Finally the persistent WoOLF rushed
round to the Supreme Court, and instructed
counsel to tackle Justice a’Beckett on the burn-
ing question as to whether nine men could be
sentenced to terms of imprisonment one day,
ordered off to the custody of a ship’s captain
next day, and deported from Australia the fol-
lowing day, notwithstanding that the first sen-
tence was subject to review by a higher court.
Justice a’ Beckett granted an order to review the
Panton proceedings, which means that the
Supreme Court ordered the seamen to be released
from captivity on the boat until the peculiarities
of Panton and the Merchant Shipping Act have
been judicially considered.
A Sydney daily paper recently published an
interview with Labor-leader Watson, and if the
interview is correct (as Watson hasn’t made any
denials, it seems to be), it is a most dispiriting
document. It sets forth that Watson has got the
fiscal peace idea so badly that he doesn’t want
anything serious done to the tariff this session ;
and that he has got some other lingering com-
plaint in such an aggravated form that he doesn’t
want to do anything with the Federal graduated
land-tax this session either. At that rate what
is to be done this session ? Australia’s biggest
want is men —good, prosperous white men, and lots
of them. It wants them to make the country
strong for defence ; it wants them also because it
requires lots more taxpayers, and heaps more
revenue, so that it can build its two transconti-
nental railways, and open up the Northern Terri-
tory for settlement, and pay off the public debt,
and Federalise the railways and make them of
one uniform gauge, and build new railways ; and
it needs them so that it can have the money with
which to establish old age pensions, and create
a serviceable navy, and do heaps of other things.
For all these, the first essential is more people-
more prosperous taxpayers. The only way to get
them is to find work for artisans by means of a
Protective tariff that will create industries, and to
find land for agriculturists by breaking up the big
estates. And J. C. Watson, it seems, wants to
postpone both these things for at least a year —
possibly longer. The other day, little Motor-car
Kelly cackled foolishly on a public platform that
by reason of the Brito-Jap treaty Australia
was safe for the next ten years. Well, even if
that were true, which it probably isn’t, ten years is
not long ; and after the election we shall only be
safe for nine years ; and by the time next Parlia-
ment meets, and has a good look at the tariff and
the proposed land-tax, we shall only be safe for
about eight years, and still everything will be wait-
ing to be done. It is time Australian leaders
left off having these lingering political diseases.
«
Melbourne Age lately dug out an amazing stench
in the Victorian Lands Department. When the
north-west country was opened up it was under-
stood that there at least the small farmer was to
get a chance. All the rich south-west was in the
hands of the big grabber, but in the dry north-
west the small man was to get his bit of
desert undisturbed. And the Age discovers
that the Murray frontages—2,39l,3l7 acres
of them have been let out to 12 people
or institutions for a total rent of £1655 a
year, or about half-a-farthingper acre per annum.
The 12 holders quoted are not all large men;
there are six enormous grabbers with from 227,000
to 686,000 acres each ; three moderate grabbers
with from 28,800 to 95,180 acres each ; and three
small men. And there is a marvellous difference
in the rents charged to the big men and
the small ones. The smallest man has 1900
acres, and pays the comparatively steep rent of
£47 10s. per annum. The biggest man has about
350 times this area for just about ten times the
rent. For a Government which simply yearns to
settle the people on the land the letting of 686,000
acres to one man for £502 10s. per annum is a
auaint proceeding, and smells like a whole avenue
of dead whales.
Socialism in Victoria is being dragged into a
malodorous association with Wren, the tote-
shopkeeper. Wren poses as the true friend of
the working man all the time that he is spreading
snares for the working man’s wages. He talks of
giving Hope to his tote investors and club punters,
although his business is founded on the fact that
the less hope they have the better for Wren. And,
now that the police are again making some show of
an endeavor to suppress When’s pestilent silver
hells, it appears in evidence that his “City Tat-
tersall’s Club” was on one occasion only devoted
to some other purpose than the laying of
wagers. On December 23 a lecture on Socialism
was delivered at the club bv Senator Dawson.
The cause of Socialism cries to Heaven for
protection against friends so undesirable as
Wren. Admitting that a moral right to gamble
on horse races is claimed by the needy in common
with the punters who can afford to lose—a claim
which is not admitted by many of the most
liberal reasoners —it must also be admitted that
Wren and his ilk are sweaters of the poor and
rich alike. They live by making the mass of their
customers poorer. As parasites, they are the
natural enemies of Socialism. Wren's donations
to the funds of Labor organisations are merely
small refunds of money ho has drawn from
the workers, and a lecture on Socialism, delivered
by an unwary Senator, is as utterly out of place
in Wren’s club as a temperance sermon in a
brewery.
+
State Premier Carruthers alleges that things
were so good last year in N.S.W. that less than
£500,000 of the interest bill had to be made good
out of taxation, the revenue from public works
covering the rest, and this despite the fact that
the railway freights charged to farmers are not
one quarter so high as in England. In regard to
which The Bulletin only desires to say three
things :
(L) Even £500,000 is a pretty big deficit.
(2) It, is a disgrace that the people in general should be
taxed to the extent of £500,000 a year to keep the fanner
afloat, and that the manufacturer, in addition to paying
his share of the £500,000, should pay most exorbitant
railway charges to prevent the deficit being larger even
than it is, and then that they should have the farmer
thrown up at them as the line, upstanding, independent
“backbone of the country,” the noble “primary pro-
ducer,” and the embodiment of the “ magnificent natural
resources” of Australia.
(3) if things have improved so much as Joe Carrutiiers
says they have—if the deficit on public works has gone
down so much while the general revenue has increased
so largely—then Joe’s continued borrowing is a public
infamy.
• —♦
Not long ago, when the Labor party formed a
Federal Ministry it took in Higgins, M.H.R. —
—though he was not a pledged Laborist —as its
Attorney-General. Higgins was a good enough
Democrat to rank with Watson, Hughes, and
Batchelor, and he is just as good to-day. Yet
Higgins is to be opposed by a Labor candidate
next Federal election. The Collingwood branch
of the P.L.C., in trying to justify the attempt to
drive this most conscientious Democrat out of
politics, used some curious logic: “Mr. Higgins
is said to be a cultured man, so also are some of
the biggest rascals. ’ Furthermore: “No reliance
or security can be found in educational ability.”
This reads like supreme foolishness. No accusa-
tion can be brought against Higgins in his capa-
city as a representative ; he has been absolutely
true to the Democratic ideal, and does not ask for
trust because of his “educational ability,” but on
the strength of past service and present assur-
ances. Ignorant laborers have been rascals
as well as men of culture, and no re-
liance or security can be found in illiteracy.
Yet the reasons put forth for trying to unseat
Higgins would seem to imply that the only
objection to him is that he isn’t ignorant enough.
He has done nothing to arouse suspicion, but he
“ is said to be a cultured man,” and that in itself
is suspicious. A little of Higgins’ “educational
ability,” or a little more ability of some kind,
might do the P.L.C. no harm. It might at least
teach that body that it is sheer foolishness to
sacrifice seats to its enemies by wantonly fighting
its friends. If Labor can’t associate with Higgins
it should have remembered the fact before taking
him into its Ministry when it was desperately
hard-up for an Attorney-General.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Boyal. “ For England.”
Criterion “The Man from Mexico.”
Her Majesty’s “The Little Michus.”
Tivoli ' Rickards’ Co.
Palace Theatre Madame I’itus-Les.lie Harris En-
tertainment.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Little Mary.”
Her Majesty's “The Dictator.”
Theatre Royal “ Death or Glory Boys.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenjjum Hall West’s Pictures & the Breseians.
FRANCES ALDA, Australian, now accepted in
the front rank of the world's singers.
Photo. Talma, Sydney.
Messager’s. new comic opera, produced
for the first time this end of the world at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night, has a good
deal of “ Girofle-Girofia ” about the story. As for
the music, with those quaint orchestral effects
which made “ Veronique ” so conspicuous a suc-
cess, we have the former level pretty well sus-
tained though certainly not bettered, and it leaves
one doubting whether Messager has any great
stores to draw upon. The beginning is excellent;
but the value tapers off, especially in the last
of the three acts. The lyrics are bright—better
and richer in quip than they were in the piece
which whetted public appetite for this one; the
il atmosphere ” is almost as varied as could be got
into three acts, and the stage-dressing is entirely
satisfactory. ...
The story of “The Little Michus” is
placed in the days of the Revolution, some 100
years ao-o, when, it appears, fathers were just as
forgetful as they are to-day. Anyhow, having
handed over his motherless daughter to farmer
Michu, where she got mixed with Michu’s
own daughter, Marquis Des Ifs overlooked her for
the next 16 or 18 years, and then (the two girls
believing they were twin daughters of Michu), he
suddenly remembered her and promised her in
marriage to Gaptain Rigaud, his aide-de-camp
and saviour at the taking of Saragossa. Such a
peppery old person is General Des Ifs, the Mar-
auis of the old days, that Michu pere concludes
that, whatever he took Saragossa for, it hadn t
cured him. Meantime Michu moves up to town
and goes into the produce line; and Marie
Blanche, who isn’t the real Des Ifs, but nearly has
to marry the aide-de-camp all the same, is left
in the end happier in serving out pounds (more or
less) of butter, and waiting for Aristide, the shop-
assistant, to marry her and consolidate the business.
The dress circle will note with great outward
manifestations of joy (and, mostly, with anguish
in secret) that blood will tell. How could the
daughter of the old nobility, even if she had got
mixed up with somebody else in a baby s bath-
how could she take a subsequent interest in butter
and bacon ? And how could the real farmer’s
daughter sit squarely in the seat of the jnighty ?
The makers of ‘ ‘ The Little Michus' ’ did.
not know, perhaps, that Australia has its Lauri,
and asks for him early and often ; and so, as they
made no part to fit him, he has to take the nearest,
and make of it something of the sort of thing
that is always understood to be expected of
its first comedian. Des Ifs, therefore, be-
comes an ultra-comic-opera general, attended
by one Bagnolet (Fred. _ Leslie) who is
even more ultra. But much is forgiven for the
excellence of some of Leslie’s eccentric by-play,
and his singing (he has more than usual to do) is
much more tolerable than it is sometimes. Add
W. S. Percy, as the assistant who is dying of love
for one Michu, though he can’t tell which, and
there remains only one among the men, Reginald
Roberts, who had on Saturday a most enthusi-
astic welcome back after two years spent in the
land where sausages have become unpopular. His
acting hasn’t lost its stiffness; and, though his
songs are among the successes of the performance,
he doesn’t improve the best of them by an in-
artistic high show note, which it is pretty certain
Messager never wrote. Miss Florence Young and
Miss Margaret Thomas are the little Michus who
got mixed in the morning tub; and well, you
can hardly believe it now. A striking contrast
these two; and yet, duetting, their voices blend
as they have never blended before. Miss Young
is in rare spirit; nothing she has done since her
return to Australia has been so good.
** * *
Though “The Man from Mexico ” looks as
if it could put in an indefinite time in Sydney, the
run must soon cease, as the co. has arranged to
move on to Melbourne. A fresh song and dance,
“Tammanee,” in which Grace Palotta, Ward and
Willoughby take part, is just now giving a reason-
able excuse for many people to attend again, and,
take lessons in artistic domestic lying. “ Ihe Man
from Mexico ” is as daring aground and lofty liar
as farce has ever seen, and Mrs. Man from Mexico
has a credulity that makes the mouth water.
* *- #
Sydney Palace Theatre still cherishes the
Harris- Yeaiuaiis-Titus laugh-makers. Madame,
who seems to have a repertory of some 6000 songs
and imitations of songs as others sing them,
changed her tunes and gowns during the week,
and Mr. Harris’ sketch “All in the Day’s Work
shows what may happen to man born of woman.
The latter is born to trouble as the sparks fly up-
wards (and on to the roof of our neighbors fowl-
house), but it takes Harris to let the man know
how amusing are his worries and Ins work-
amusing, that is, to the other fellow. Jhe
H-Y-T combine will ripple along with fresh pro-
grammes every night until further orders.
** * *
“For England,” revived by Bland Holt
at Sydney Royal, on Saturday night, as a drama
falls something below the usually fiigti
standard of Holt productions. It deals
with the first Boer war, and its inci-
dents and characters are mostly ob-
viously unreal, and wholly wooden
the Boers, for instance, being repre-
sented as carrying on warfare on lines
which would make even Lord Kit-
chener blush. But it has some com-
pensating features, of which the chief
is Bland Holt as Manasses Marks, a
Jew bill-discounter, who is as soft-
hearted as he is hard-headed. Iliis
Hebrew, allowing for the broad touches
needed for melodrama, is a very human
character, and Bland Holt gives him a
really humorous aspect. His appear-
ance in the first place on a low-comedy
frame-work of a horse which is unjustly
keeping the Botany Bay ducks or an
American sausage factory out of meat,
gives Manasses a good start, and from
that on he is the strongest feature of
the play. The rest of its score, “For
England’’ must make out of an ex-
citing story and well-staged situations.
Miss Ross and Walter Baker rather
overdo the boy-and-girl love business
in the first act, and Albert Norman
fails to give any individuality to his
villain. It’s a failure that excites sym-
pathy. In the course of a year Norman
has to be about 20 villains;and in most
cases the villains have been machine-
made by the dramatist, and one couldn’t
be recognised from the other unless by
the name label. It is not easy to gi ve;a
fresh smile to one’s seduction and a new
frown to one’s threat under such condi-
tions. Several minor members of the
company give good pictures of a group
of Boer generals, including Kruger
and Joubert.
Miss Zaida Ben-Yusuf gave an eye-
rivetting entertainment, “Japan Through My
Camera,” at St. James’ Hall, Sydney, on
Thursday night. The color views thrown
on the screen pleased even those of the
audience who had travelled through the
country. And every fourth person one meets has
some personal (and nasal) acquaintance with the
land of card-board houses and its desperately poor
inhabitants. As foi?- the quality of Miss Ben-
Yusuf’s accompaniment of comment on the pic-
tures, her manager, Mr. Southwell, disarmed
criticism by saying (after the entertainment), It
wasn’t a lecture ; it was a conversational yarn.
** * #
W. J. MacDermott has a number of
amusing subjects for a new Bio. show now run-
ning at the Centenary Hall, Sydney. Most
of them are of a comic element, and others are of
a melo-dramatic tone of mind The Biograph
flickers less than most, and with W. E. Scott, who
is a clever ventriloquist and entertainer, the show
does something to dispel the air of gloom and Cold
Tea at the Centenary Hall.
* * *
Queen’s Hall, Sydney, now shelters a
company which styles itself vaudeville, and the
principal feature of which is Miss Cora Vane,
who sees weird things, and has second sight.
Second wind is a good thing in vaudeville, if you
have a dance turn, but second sight doesn t seem
very entertaining. Two lean girls, with very long
legs and very short socks, who sing and dance,
and a deaf and dumb man with curly hair who
does lightning sketches, are the other features of
the show, which attracted a splendid audience on
Saturday.
** * #
A streak of the variety that began to be
rather conspicuous by its absence has been painted
on the Tivoli programme by the return of the
Miles-Stavordale quintette, which gives a chance
in a dull season to revive all over again the heated
arguments as to whether they really and truly get
all their choral effects out of their unassisted
banjos.
THE LITTLE MICHUS.
The tale of a tub in the early morn,
With the sun aglint on the ripening- corn,
In the summering fields of the land of France—
The tale of a tub and a sad mischance :
She had served her lord had Madame Micliu
As ladies of France still sometimes do ;
And Des Ifs’ queen, having proved her worth,
Surprised, had died at her daughter’s birth.
Des Ifs, hard pressed by the cares of State,
Carried the child to the Michus’ gate.
Madame Michu she lay in bed,
Sleeping the sleep of the Fat and Fed ;
And the well-trained Michu, to he of use,
Gave the babies their morning sluice.
Hut alas land likewise alack-a-day !)
When Michu had taken their nighties away,
And they squirmed in the tub with never a stitch,
There wasn’t a soul knew t’other from which.
So Marie Blanche and Blanche Marie
Blossomed as twins on one family tree.
Now, it’s all very well when Spring begins
For blossoms to bloom like Siamese twins ;
Hut the petals will heed and, answering, fall
When they hear the warm noteof youngSummer’scatl.
Then hastens the season of fruitage apace,
And a lover awaits for one Blossom’s embrace.
Des Ifs, his medals all girded on,
To the war with the castles in Spain had gone ;
And we shouldn’t be writing this fugitive song
If he hadn’t been saved by his bold aidy-kong.
For he puzzled his head for a fit reward
For a tenor knight with a flashing sword ;
And being a pa with a frugal mind,
lie gave him the daughter he’d left behind,
lie, of course, didn’t know as you and we do
That they couldn’t tell one from the other Michu.
So they sent Marie Blanche,and there they chose wrong;
And to make matters worse for the bold aidy-kong,
Already in secret he loved Blanche Marie —
And she was the child of the old Mar-kee.
It looked for awhile as a matter of course
That later there’d be a small case in Divorce ;
But the playwright who gives good lovers their dues
Straightened all things for the little Michus.


Small boy,—little pool,
Oh joy,—no school,
Felt wet, —bad cold,
Home get,—mother scold.
Boy sick,—nearly dead,
Cure quick, doctor said,
Don’t wait, but secure
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
[kolalkola kola! KOLAIKOLOI
cup|cup|cuplcup|cupl
a| kolal kola kola kola kola
p]cuplcup|cupicup|cup
KOLA
CUP
(kolalkola kola kola kola kola
Icup CUP CUP cuplcupicup
OLAI KOLa|k°LA jO vV o KOL
iid cuplcup CI U
KOLA
CUP
£
©
A GREAT BUSINESS. KOLA=CUP going to the Railway Station
INFLUENZA.
©6e Great
WINTER
TONIC.
KOLA-CUP warms up the whole system, repelling INFLUENZA, COLDS, and
COUGHS. , .
Unlike strong spirits, KOLA CUP nourishes, and the effects are lasting.
An excellent DRINK for Dyspeptics and Invalids.
All Hotels, 6d. per glass. All Chemists, 3s. and 4s. 6dl. per bottle.
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George St., SYDNEY (opp. G.P. Office).
“ The Dictator,” in its second week at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), is being played rather less
rapidly and with afore regard for local conditions
than on the first night. Allowances have been
made for the vastness of the theatre and the un-
familiar character of the subject matter. The
points that were brought out by William Collier
and co. in the quietest possible way, as though
the audience were sitting in wait to seize them as
they came along, are now being emphasised some-
what for the enlightenment of people to whom the
idea of a San Marana Republic in Central America
is new and extraordinary. The slower the tempo of
the playing the better it will be appreciated in a
general way, provided that Brooke Travers’ revo-
lution is duly purchased by ten minutes to eleven.
There are immense possibilities of probability in
B.T.’s revolution. He landed at Porto Banos
with 25,000 dollars (the result of backing a double)
and a false name. The military forces of the
country are willing to upset any local Govern-
ment for half the money, and the young man
in charge of the wireless telegraph operations
is clearly the right sort of casual insurrectionist
to lead the disaffected soldiery to the nearest
drinking saloon and bid them charge their glasses
with the deadly cocktail in honor of the Dictator,
from New York. But the young man in question
(Barrymore) is too casual in his utterances. The
original fact of his being a wireless telegraphist is
the key-note to the climacteric episode, and he
doesn’t strike it with sufficient force. He needs to
prepare the audience for the joke which is looming
in the distance, so that everybody may see it the
moment it arrives. Brooke Travers’s bogus
message to Admiral Dewey is the quaintest
farcical comedy conceit this country has laughed
at, but the laughter thusfar has not been loud
enough for the occasion. All the same, _ “ The
Dictator ” is beginning to be quoted at its full
value on the public market, and the work of
Collier in particular is greatly admired.
** * *
“Dr. Wake’s Patient” has doted on the
doctor for four weeks, and the two or three
remaining weeks of the Brough-Fleinming Co. at
the Princess’s are to be devoted to changes of bill.
“Little Mary,” for six nights only, will be
introduced on Saturday. The visit of the Patient
was in no way due to Little Mary, but it happens
that J. M. Barrie’s comedy is about to be treated,
and a certain medical significance attaches to the
event.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal there will be only
two more flutters of “The Night Birds of
London.” On Saturday, for the first time in
Melbourne, a large drumful melodrama, entitled
“Death or Glory Boys,” is to stir the feelings of
the Andersonian public.
« ik -:k Hc-
West’s Pictures and the Breseians had a
day out at Melbourne Town Hall last Monday,
on account of the Prince of Wales, after which
they were to return to the Athenaeum Hall. The
films this week are mostly of a Bonnie Scottish
character, and the Breseians sing and play the
favorite melodies of braw M‘Lavish and wee
Macgregor.
ik * * *
On Saturday morning (9bh) Melbourne will
take unto itself a new show place, where anyone
may burst into the Poetry of Motion on payment of
two shillings. The Glaciarium, by Princes Bridge,
is the place referred to, and the rink is now being
iced in readiness for what the advt. terms “the
winged heel ” of the poetic emotionist.
TWO OF THEM.-“ The Wreck, Sir!"
Somewhere under the floor of Westminster
Abbey the body of a famous deceased actor must
be turning in its grave at the thought of how
“ the students of the Irving Dramatic College”
are playing up at Melbourne Bijou. The con-
spirators aforesaid, supported by Mr. Howard
Edie (in large type), began their terrible cam-
paign with the “Two Orphans,” and were to
follow the inaugural atrocity with two nights of
“ The Bells,” in which Edie undertook to display
himself “to the best advantage.” To-night
( L’hursdav) he can be witnessed as a suffering hero
in “ Proof,” after which he will lapse into comedy
and produce “School” for two final nights.
Edie and the Irving Dramatic Collegians
are dealing with unsuitable pieces in the
worst possible way, but at any other place
their mania for making objects of themselves
might be charitably ignored. Seeing that they
are doing it at the Bijou this commentator would
like to know whether the dilapidated theatre has
been provided with new exits, or in any way
altered since the Melbourne Board of Health
declared that certain changes were essential to
public safety. And if not, why not ? A panic
could easily happen at the Bijou whilst the pre-
sent co. is careering there. The performance
last Saturday night nearly incited the present
writer to shriek “Fire” in the tone of a captain
commanding his minions to shoot.
«# * *
Yasco, the Mad Musician, whose insanity
is expressed in the blowing of 20 different wind
instruments, blew into the Opera House last
Saturday. Vasco works hard. The quality of
his music is pretty good in some cases, but the
“turn” is long, and the toiler’s ideas of humor
are very crude, and if he didn’t roll on the floor
at the finish he would not get a hearty recall.
A short, stout person can always command liberal
applause for rolling on the floor. Mdlle. Alexandra
and Master Bertie are also fresh arrivals from
Europe. Their turn is aerial, gymnastic, and grace-
ful. In the course of the performance they shed a
number of superfluous garments, being ultimately
revealed as a beautiful figure of an Alexandra and
a fine lump of a boy. Master Bertie in fact
is an 18-year-old child with sufficient muscular
development to furnish a large family. Larola,
the Three Lees, and other people assist to keep
the Rickards ball rolling from 7.40 until 11 p.m.
The policy of starting the show earlier than
usual when it is going to last longer than usual is
a wise concession to the crowd that pays an extra
fee for an early seat.
ik * ik *
Miss Titfcell Brune has d—d the indenture
and thrown the dinner out of the window for the
last time at Adelaide Royal, somewhat to the dis-
appointment of the public, who loved the improb-
able Haddon Hall play and rushed its every
performance. Matinee audiences particularly
revelled in it, and thrilled with apprehension
when the mistress and maid got hurriedly out of
all their upper garments in full view of the public.
Kingston was not too well suited to the part of the
hero, but Susie Vaughan, as the queenly spinster
of a coming-on disposition, was at her best.
After a brief excursion into “ Romeo and
Juliet,” the co. is now presenting “Leah
Kleschna,” beginning with crime and ending with
cabbages. It is a stirring if uncomfortable play,
and is finely acted. The real ice rink has
started football, which is far more dangerous
on skates than hockey, and is therefore much
more popular with spectators. But it is hard to
■believe that frozen football will ever become a
national game.
AT POVERTY POINT.
It looks as though the Leila Doubleday fund will reach
the £lOOO required for giving that interesting damsel five
years’ tuition in Europe. Prime Minister Dealiin, who
has musical daughters of his own, took the chair at a
Melb. Town Hall meeting, last week, when it was
announced that the recent concert and subsequent sub-
scriptions had put £4OO into the fund. Persons at the
meeting promised another £l3O in annual instalments,
and asub-committee undertook the job of shaking up local
public interest on the child’s behalf. Then comes the
question of taking Leila Doubleday to Sydney and Ade-
laide, for a concert in each city, where, of course, she
would need to be boomed ; and a combination of circum-
stances, quite apart from the merit of the entertainment,
is necessary to a boom.
A suburban manageress recently produced a drama
billed as “ The Fatal Wedding, or the Flower of the
Forest.” A crowd of bellowdrama-lovers turned up,
expecting to see a replica of the, Me.vnell and Gunn pro-
duction, but the only resemblance was in the title. The.
same lady announced once that Miss Eileen Castles
would sing at one of her entertainments. Strange
to say, when a good audience had been attracted by the
name, Miss Eileen’s indisposition had to be apologised
for. She had been struck with a severe pain in the front
waistband or something.
Melbourne Argus remarks that stage realism has never
been studied with greater effect than in the mystery
plays, which combined the religion and the amusement
of the early Christian. The chief actor in the Crucifixion
scene wore a leather wine-bag under his robe. The
Roman soldier’s lance was run into it, and “blood”
spurted out with thrilling results. The audience was not
satisfied with being told of marvels that had taken
place off the stage. Balaam’s ass had to speak its
lines within full view and hearing, of the gallery'.
St, Paul was decapitated on the stage, and bis head then
took three leaps, with a stream of blood at each. Adam
and Eve were brought upon the stage “ strictly in their
state of innocende ”in one scene, and left it to return
with the legendary fig-leaves in the following one. Also;
“ whenever the seventh commandment was to be broken
the actors disappeared behind a curtain which was hung
across a part of the stage.”
“Mr. Joseph Blascheck, Humorist” is an occasional
advt. in London Referee. This must be Joe Blascheck,
the lame young man, who left Melbourne many years ago
to try his luck as a reciter and comic songster.
He was a very fine old ac-tor —one of those splendidly-
matured actors of the vintage of 1870 —with a rich, rolling
voice and a majestic gait. Even after crossing a bar after
the longest 3d. beer known in the trade, his.carriage was
that of a Shakspearean king. Everybody round the
vicinity of the “ Point ” knew him as an ac-tor (with the
accent on the “tor”), but few had seen him act; and
now it was made known that he had been offered, and
had been graciously pleased to accept, an engagement in
a metropolitan theatre. There was to be a performance
of “ Hamlet,” and the good old ac-tor was placed as
second gravedigger. He was a bit swelled up about it in
the bar, and the billiard-marker said: “Yes; but why
do you noo play the part of Hamlet?” The veteran
regarded him gravely for a moment, and then in rich,
fruity tones he replied : “ That point was considered, my
man. That point received profound consideration. But,
sir, if I were to play Hamlet who would play the second
gravedigger—that is the problem ; who would play the
second gravedigger ? ”
A Maorilander in London, who went over
with the football team, wrote a long yarn
to the dramatic critic of one of the local
weekly papers, complaining that the popu-
lar actresses thereabouts can’t act (except
on picture postcards); and that “ anj
piffle is good enough ” for a Cockney audi-
ence. The critic’s comments are naturally
scornful.
“ Num ” : Somebody writing to Tiie Bulletin (26/4/’O6)
denounces the Vic. competition-mongers for their lack of
patriotism in sending to Hingland for judges. There are
two sides to the question. It is permissible to send away
for anything that cannot be obtained in Australia, and
there is a widespread opinion among competition people
that judges cannot. 1 know a little about the competi-
tions and their morals, though I have never recited
“ Curfew shall not ” before a mixed audience, or started
for the baritone solo. The truth —the great unpublished
truth—is that the morals of “ literary and musical
competitions” are about ten shades lower than
those of the pony course and the cycle track.
One of these days I’m going to send you along a column
on the inner workings of competitions, that will make
your hair rise. How many of the outside public ever
dream of accompanists running “ dead” for certain com-
petitors and cruelling the songs of others? Who ever
heard of hocussing a piano in order to knock a dangerous
rival out of the piano solo? These are things which have
been done, though they occur on rare occasions. What
is always there, is the suspicion of unfair judging. Mind,
I think that, in the majority of instances, the
judges are as square as could be wished, and
would give fair play to the pupils of all teachers
irrespectively. But there are one or two against
whom suspicion appears well-founded, and this leaven
leads to every unsuccessful competitor swearing that the
judges run crooked and that Tremolo gives Andante’s
pupils the prizes at Wung Wung conditionally on Andante
giving Tremolo’s pupils the prizes at Slimy Flat. The
imported judge knows nobody and the competitor,
assured of his fairness, has to fall back on attacking his
competence, which is a small thing seeing that every-
body is more or less incompetent except the competitor.
[The imported judge from England probably “knows
nobody ” when he arrives, which would be the same with
a judge imported from N.S.W., Maoriland or S.A. But
how long will it be before he knows somebody? And how
long will it be before he knows everybody?—Ed. B.]
THE UNBEARABLE FEATURE.
GANLET: “I could never understand, Blobb, my
friend, why so few Hebrews are in the hotel
business .”
BLOBB : “ There cos blcnty at Von dime, but seeing
the actors at the counter lunch proke der
hearts! ”
“Melb.”: Musing over Coppin, I strolled last night up
to the Queen’s Theatre, opened 1845. Faithfully built,
There it stands intact. Fires have swept others, but did
not touch this. The front remains the same, and the
rear part has no support from any other edifice. Here,
in front, are the same old doors—a big one in the centre
for the pit, a smaller one on each side of it respectively
for drtss circle and gallery. There were only those places,
and no stalls. How players nowadays would relish it if
thev bad a pit right up to the footlights. The sight of
the Queen’s makes vou think of all vou have read about
Coppin, Brooke, Jacky Tommy Smith, Nesbitt, Morton
King, the Heirs, Charley Young, Rogers, and so on. And
then you go round to the old stage door.
It was during the Maoriland tour of a popular co. that
the glorified leading man, in a burst of righteous indigna-
tion, laid the stage manager low at his feet with a straight
stoush from the shoulder. The blow was administered in
the interests of Art. On several previous occasions the
actor had merely protested against the manager’s neglect
of duty as regards stage fixings, but on this occasion the
setting of the first scene was so incomplete that the actor,
having inspected the state of affairs before the curtain
rose, sent for the supercilious delinquent and knocked
him dowm. The fallen one took his punishment like a
sheep, and the co., with one exception, rejoiced ex-
ceediindy
At Melbourne Rojal, the other Saturday night, an
excited gallery boy marked Ms respect for-the Ander-
soriian melodrama by shouting notes of warning to the
hero when Bert Bailey was sneaking his purse. This sort
of thing, which rarely happens in an Australian theatre,
is common enough at the Cockney houses where “ blood
and thunder” drama is associated with bread and cheese
and beer between the acts. Some.of the intensely robus-
tious actors, playing year after year on the same stage,
become endeared to a large number of persistent visitors,
No manager would venture to let one of these old-estab-
lished heroes be murdered by his mortal foe, the tradi-
tional villain. The gallery wouldn’t stand that. A
heroiiie, who never gets so strong a hold on the affections
of the gods, may be killed occasionally, but the lead-
ing “glory” man must always make a happy
recovery from his worst wounds. When he fights for his
life, he is bombarded with hints and exhortations. The
boys know him only by his professional name of Belvidere,
or what not, and they address him accordingly. “ Take
care, Belvy, there’s a bloke hidin’ behind the tree!”
“ Look out for the cove in the brown’at, Belvy.” “Mind
his legs, Belvy, or he’ll put you on your back,” and so
forth. And when Belvy comes before the curtain to re-
ceive the audience’s congratulations on bis narrow escape
he puts his hand to his heart and smiles gratefully. When
his annual benefit arrives, he makes a speech, thanking-
his friends for their invariable sympathy, as though he had
needed all the advice they could give him in his desperate
for the tabernacular effect of the interior. It is as though
the people who go to skate were intended to remain to
pray. The shape of the doorways, the stained glass, the
square vestibule leading to the inner doors—these things
inspire a feeling of holy calm, which will probably dis-
appear when the rink is iced, and the skating begins,
On entering the Glaciarium one is struck by the
churchy' scheme of seating accommodation. The gallery
to the left and benches on the raised floor to the right
suggest that the place could be easily converted
to Salvation purposes. In the meantime it brings ice-
skating into vogue in Melbourne. The rink will accom-
modateabigerow-d, and unless the casual novices are
“frozen off’* by the action of select cliques who want to
run the show and give performances on their own, the
Glaciarium will be a fairly democratic exercise ground,
like the frozen waters at the “ Welsh Harp,” a cockney
resort where a charge is made for admission.
According to American mummer Lawrence Barrett,
“ the actor is a sculptor who carves his image in snow.’
But so many carve with a jagged meat-axe that, on the
whole, it is fortunate the material is not more lasting. In
some cases snow is too durable. Why not try soup?
The absurd, not to say cheeky,
way in which the Anglican
bishop appropriates the name
of the city in which he lives
leads to trouble sometimes.
There is, for instance, a
Bishopof Waiapu inMaori-
land ; and,though nobody
ever thinks of him as
Waiapu, some benighted
ignoramus, who had
occasion to send him
a wire, addressed it,
“ William Waiapu, ” in
accordance with the
signature on the letter
he was answering.
Telegrams for the fat
Hawkes Bay natives
are of everv day occur-
rence, and the tele-
graph delivery-clerk
reckoned W. Waiapu
was some unknown
§reasy brown person.
o the despatch found
a resting-place in the
letter-rack of a little
frowsy pub., fre-
quented largely by “te
Maori.” That bishop
happened to wear
something extra in the
way of Hinglish frill;
and when someone
spread it round that
his lordship frequented
the frowsy little pub.
and had his correspon-
dence left in the rack
in the bar, there was
battle, murder and sud-
den death, or premature
birth, or something.
Rich ird Seddon was
Cl on June 2. By way of
d, sort of birthday present, a new Minis-
terial residence is to be erected by the M.L.
Government in Moleswortli-street, Wellington,
near the place at present occupied by the Pre-
mier. It is to be a very toney structure, in keep-
ing with King Dick’s dignity.
Grant Hervey writes :
The Victorian P.L.C. will make a blunder if it nomi-
nates Stephen Barker for the Senate. Barker is an im-
possible old woman, who, if elected, would be on a par
with the ridiculous Simian Phraser. It is a tragedy and
a joke to see S. B. gyrating around himself at meetings in
the Trades Hall. If information is wanted about any
official matter, Stephen falls over fifteen large volumes in
pursuit of the necessary data. The delegates sit back
with a tired expression, whilst Barker remarks that he
thought it was in the BXI book, but that it isn’t there.
He then grabs the Q2K opus, and makes a frenzied
journey through its pages. Irreverent young dele-
gates 'make rude suggestions about fetching their
blanket, but Steve continues to bound over the office
literature with great velocity. Having traversed the
DSP, Zsi, and SG47 volumes without success, Mr. Barker
mops his face and makes a rush at another pile of
ledgers. About this point the chairman announces that
the meeting w ill struggle through without the desired
figures. This sort of thing occurs continually ; and writer
opines that the chief reason for the selection of Stephen
Barker, J.P., arises out of an intense and general desire to
get him out of the road. Which would he all very well
for the Trades Hall, but a mighty poor sort of bargain
for the Commonwealth.
The other candidates selected, Solly (if he stands) and
Tunnecliffe, are men of larger calibre. But Solly, who
does excellent work in Richmond Council, has done
nothing in the Victorian Assembly to justify lifting him
into the Senate. There is an immense difference between
municipal and legislative work ; and Solly, earnest and
indefatigable as he is, is better suited for the former.
The Vic. Assembly itself is only a glorified Shire Council,
and if Solly is wise he will sit tight. Tunnecliffe is the
best of the bunch. His pamphlet, “ The Problem of
Poverty,” published by the Tocsin, is the W'ork of a man
of brains. Unlike the other two, he has that capacity
for getting to the root of things which distinguishes the
serious reformer from the mere tub-thumper. In the
appendix of his booklet Tunnecliffe demonstrates how a
loan of £4,600,000 entailed, in interest, &c., a final repay-
ment of £11,180,537, or nearly 2j times the amount re-
ceived. Men with such scientific minds are very valu-
able ; and —on the question of finance alone—Tunnecliffe
deserves the vote of every Victorian Radical. The whole
question anent the Trades Hall selections boils down to
this : Are the three men chosen the very best Democrats
who can be found in Victoria? Tunnecliffe passes, but
the others don’t. If the P.L.C. has any diplomacy it will
play its cards so as to get the Age support behind it.
Senator Styles has done good work for Democracy ; and,
if the Labor executive supports him and picks another
solid, brainy man besides Tunnecliffe, the Syme influence
ought to be strong enough to return the three. Splitting
of parties will, as usual, result in victory for the invoice-
faking, butter-rebating push.
But deliver us from the futility of Stephen Barker, O
Lord, no matter what happens.
,Willie-motor Kelly, M.H.R., recently
perorated in the Stinking Fish interest
Plow could we keep Australia for the Australians if we
could not keep the empire for Australia, and how could
we keep the empire for Australia if we deliberately set
ourselves to shut out our kindred from oversea from all
participation in our progress ? (Applause.)
The next time Willie pirouettes on the platform,
will he kindly explain what in thunder “ we keep
the empire for Australia” means ? And he might
explain who have “ deliberately set themselves to
shut out our kindred from oversea.” Considering
that Australia has deliberately set itself to spend
money on bringing in its kindred from oversea,
Willie seems in this case even a worse Fish than
usual. The Bulletin often wonders if it ever
occurs to Willie that it is a low-down thing to
utter gratuitous, baseless and wanton slanders on
a country which has at least supplied him with the
means of living without toil, as an affluent and
unproductive person in a motor-car.


Wtetck\
- by Posi -^%& A
Send now for “ Home Study,” post free.
Stott & Hoare’s Business College,
MOOAE ST., SYDNEY. [lO
Brave men have tried times over again
To reach the ice-bound poles in vain ;
There needs yet more acute device
To storm those battlements of ice ;
Perchance, by flying- ships to be,
They’ll gain triumphant victory,
Provided they, for colds, secure
A store of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Furred vSRms
Rabbit tSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNiIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
Society
AND THE CASE FOR THE PROSECUTION
WAS DECLARED CLOSED.
HIM : “ Why do you doubt ray statemen?”
HER : “Because.”
HIM : “ That's no answer. Because what?”
HER : “ Because I don't believe you.”
Yarious correspondents of Melbourne Age
are running a sort of unintentional competition as
to which locality can boast the slowest train under
Tait’s management. Wangaratta to Beechworth
offers 2G miles in 2hrs. 14min.; Korumburra to
Alberton gives G3£ miles in shrs, ; Fish Creek to
Foster, 7|f miles in 55 minutes. These are all
schedule times, but the travelling record seems to
be held by the Melbourne to Lilydale goods, mail
and paper train, which leaves town at 4.20 a.m.,
and seldom arrives before 8.45—24 miles in 4hrs.
25 minutes ! By the way, Tait’s amazing time-
table gives the distance between Gelliondale and
Alberton as 2f miles on the “down” line, and
3£ miles on the “up.” Heaven and Tait only
know how the figures are arrived at.
An old Bulletin contributor looks in upon
Zion—located for the moment in the Hibernian
Hall, Melbourne:—
On the platform was Elder McCullagh, a good-looking
young man with a square jaw and a thin, lipless mouth.
His present business was to denounce the erstwhile Profit
and heave his whiskers out of Zion. The purple Prophet
was denounced, derided and demolished. But not in the
eyes of all. One stood faithful to the Beard—a mild little
man, Deacon Smith, who reckoned it would be a fair
thing to learn what defence the Beard of Dowie had to
offer. McCullagh turned on him fiercely. But such of
the public as had wandered in insisted on Smith getting
fair play, so McCullagh postponed the deacon until the
following night.
There was a crowded house on the Monday. McCullagh
had studied in a good school, and put in a long hour cas-
tigating Dowie some more, and getting his followers
worked up. Then he asked Deacon Smith up on to the
platform. Deacon Smith went. The elder pleasantly
asked if anybody wanted to hear Smith. One
rash individual stood up, but had hardly got straight
before McCullagh fell on him. Zion was warm and willing,
and after upsetting a dozen chairs, tearing a few collars,
and assaulting some of Zion’s countenances, Smith’s par-
tisan was robustly hustled down the steps into Swanston-
street. Then mild little Deacon Smith commenced to
defend his character from a charge of advocating poly-
gamy, whereupon M’Cullagh ruled that that was a mere
secondary matter. While these two argued at one
another, Zion and the cynical spectators were either
praying or jerking texts and offering irrelevant re-
marks. One politically-inclined youth who wished to
know, “What about a'larid-tax?” was promptly rushed
out in a dismantled state. Just here Smith was heard
observing through the din that “ Voliva was a true
Christian.” A man at the back of the hall ventured on a
pious “ Hear, hear ; God bless Voliva ” ; whereupon
M’Cullagh pointed an accusing finger at him, saying,
“That man is living with another man’s wife.” That
touched the powder. The whole hall rose to its feet,
while through the moving mass, past shrieking women and
tossing chairs, the interjector strove to force his way to
where McCullagh was vainly mouthing objurgations, and
little Deacon Smith was assuring the atmosphere that Moses
was a bigamist but not a polygamist. Zion at length
prevailed, and another dismantled but intensely angry
Christian was bundled down the steps to join the previous
two. After that episode M’Cullagh was boss, and little
Smith was deposed and heaved out. Then Zion sang a
hymn, and went home.
Next night the public turned up in force, but McCullagh
followed his deposed boss’s old tactics, and admitted
nobody except by ticket, and inside all was peace. Even
little Deacon Smith stayed away. Nobody assaulted any-
body, and the only suggestive remark was an intimation
by McCullagh that “ there was a general desire ” that he
should take charge of “ the work ” in the Commonwealth,
and that he proposed sending a power of attorney to
America to recover at law the £l2,ooosent from Australia
to Zion City. This writer remembers Voliva, and his
remarks when he gets that power of attorney should be
interesting.
• • • •
The most humorous thing in the general
denunciation of Dowie, the Flying Elijah with
the purple wings vvho lately struck the earth very
hard, is that he is charged, not only with the
smash of the ten Commandments, but with mak-
ing “ blasphemous claims to Divine authority,”
and is found guilty on all counts. Now the whole
fabric of the Cursing Church was built oh Dowie’s
divine authority—the authority which God was
supposed to have handed down to the Boss Curser.
If there is no such authority, then Zion hasn’t a
leg to stand on, and might as well dissolve. But
Zion, after not only rejecting, but denouncing,
the only reason for its existence, proposes to go
on just as before. It doesn’t seem to know that
it has found itself lying dead on the clerical high-
way, and that the only thing for it now is burial.
It is a roof which has repudiated the walls and
the foundation, and still reckons it can go on being
a roof in the old position. The dullness of Zion
in failing to notice the point is something beyond
the average.
* # • *
From Melb. Age (19/5/’O6): —
■pERSON, in trouble or otherwise, house work, good
home, small wages. .
The wages of sin is—sweat.
• • • *
“Stony” : It was nine o’clock at night,
and Melbourne was quiet. In one place there
was a small crowd which overflowed the sidewalk
opposite a cloth-
ing store and
spread out over
the road-blocks.
It was a pecu-
liar crowd. The
people stood
stock still as
though stricken
stiff in their
tracks. They all
stood and stared.
Others came up
and stopped,
stricken, and
stared also. And
still more. Then
I went to find
out what the
matter was, and
under the arc-
lights of the
store I saw two
men gazing into a
window. The win-
I dow contained a Jap-
anese window - curtain
and a feather-duster, also
a placard in Japanese. The
two men were Japs—one with
a little tin sword sticking out at his hip, and the
other with no little tin sword at all. They pondered
silently at the placard and at the window-curtain
and the feather-duster ; and the crowd pondered
at the two men and at the placard and the
window-curtain and the feather-duster I passed
on when I had had a good, hungry look, but as I
turned the corner I glanced back, and the two Japs
were still standing there staring, and the crowd,
with its jaw hanging loose, still stood, staring at
the Japs and the other things. I went by the
place next morning, but the crowd had melted
away in the night, and all that remained was the
placard and the duster and widow-curtain.
* * * *
A remittance man in Maoriland put in a
busy week recently. In the morning lie got
drunk. In the afternoon he got drunker. In the
evening he took a large quantity of poison. He
was pumped out during the night and spent the
next three days in hospital. Case was set down
as one of accident. On leaving hospital he had
some drinks and went to dine with the doctor.
Produced two razors and said lie was going to cut
his throat, and asked for a lordly dish to spill the
blood into. Was hustled off to police station.
Hustled thence to lunatic asylum. Discharged
after two days. Home again and having more
drinks. Time six days, four hours.
CLEANING UP.
REMITTANOR MAN : “ Ah, if you would only marry me, my past would all be wiped out."
AUSTRALIAN GORL: “ Very likely; only I object to being made a mop of."
An Echuca (Vic.) butter-factory employee
was charged, the other day, with stealing 21b. of
cow-fat. The prosecutor admitted that, though
accused had been 15 years in his employment and
toiled from 15 to 17 hours a day for six days a
week and often on Sundays, he only paid him 245.
a week. He explained that he didn’t pay him
more because “ he felt that if he gave the man a
higher wage he would waste it.” The bench of
dishonoraries said “the evidence clearly showed
that defendant was not getting a living wage ”
—and fined him £l, on the principle, no doubt,
that, not having enough to live on, lie will be able
to thrive on £1 less. The butter-factory wasn’t
fined anything. On the contrary, it will no doubt
be made president of a Deform and Anti-Socialist
League. Perhaps it may even be made a J.P.
* * * »
Sydney dentist profession has been rent
asunder by a recent trial before the Dental Board
of a toothsmith who, having just graduated with
the local degree of B.D.S. (Bachelor of Dental
Surgery), burst on the world with a big brass
plate labelled Dr. Dragger, or whatever the name
was. Dragger found himself charged with “in-
famous professional conduct,” but was held not
guilty. Still, the Board warned Dragger to take
down the sign with “Dr.” on it. The defence
was that Bachelors of Medicine are styled “Dr.,”
and a Bachelor of Teeth has as good a claim, but
the Board of Molars refused to listen. A more
serious argument is that the recently-formed
School of Dentistry at Sydney University makes
no provision for the granting of the degree
D.D.S., while the American Dental Schools, with
a similar curriculum and identical methods of
examination, turn out graduates with a doctor’s
degree. So the Yankee dentist comes here and
calls himself “Dr. Hauler,” while the equally
qualified Australian is just “ Mr. Dragger.” This
is to the detriment of the locally-trained man,
and if the Tooth Board insists on the profession
dropping the “ Dr.” until it graduates as D.D.S.,
the sooner the University gives it a chance to
become D.D.S. the better.
* * * *
N.S.W. Full Court is being taught to take
a clearer view of the law by the High Court, and
the other day (14/5/’0(i) squashed with indignation
a police court point that a conviction was illegal
because there was no evidence before the Glen
Innes Court that it was the nearest court to a
Glen Innes pub. Now an unkind critic digs out
from the musty tomes of the past these decisions
of N.S.W. Full Court:—
1888. (Chief Justice Darley and Justice Stephen.)
We cannot take judicial cognisance of the limits of the
Petty Sessions districts. There is nothing in the affidavit
to show that George-street, Sydney, is not within Cooma
district.
1899. (Justice Stephen, Justice Owen, and Justice
Cohen.)
The Court will not take judicial cognisance of the fact
that Bourke is more than 150 miles from Sydney.
Justice Stephen : The Court does not know that
Bourke is 150 miles from Sydney. I will not take judicial
notice of the fact that Bourke is more than 150 miles
from Sydney. I know, of course, it is ; everybody knows
it.
1904. (Justice Stephen, Justice Simpson, and Justice
Pring.)
It is necessary to prove that the tenements in question
are within the" Petty Sessions district of the court in
which the case is heard. Jurisdiction is not to be in-
ferred or implied with respect to inferior courts.
It is well that wisdom comes to Judges, even if it
comes late in life and is only forced on them by
the Federal High Court.
* * * *
There is a “ Royal Society of St. George ”
at Launceston (Tas.), but most of the members
are Australian natives. At the recent annual
meeting the society had a credit balance of 2s. 5d.,
and a bank manager moved that a certain mining
potentate be treasurer. The president (born in
Launceston) said he didn’t know how the dickens
the Scotch and Irish worked up enthusiasm for
their societies, and the secretary (an Anglo-
Yankee) said he had worn the boots off his feet
searching for half-crown subscriptions and not
finding them.
This advertisement appeared in a recent
issue of the S. M. Hebald
TTfEALTHY White will Adopt and Educate Colored
’’ Child. Send parties., , Herald Office.
There are plenty of white children, both here and
in England, who want badly enough to be
adopted and educated, but the person who
gets the nigger craving must have his nigger.
There is a sort of satisfaction, however, in
knowing that the craving is one that goes
back on its degenerate owner in after years.
The white adopted son or daughter can be
a consolation in its adopted parents’ old age.
The coon child may be a qauint curiosity when
young, but when it grows up to be a hulking
black apparition like a coal-heaver or a sweep it
isn’t a graceful prop for anybody’s later years.
LOST.
BEGEAR: “ Kind lady, I've lost my leg."
KIND LADY: “ You didn't lose it here?" (Door
slams.)
Bishop Clarke, of Melbourne, who lately
added an arch to his title, is now bestirring him-
self in the matter of amicably settling points of
difference between “High” and “Low” church
in the Anglican denomination. His gaitered Nibs
seems to have the support of all cynical critics,
Church of England “ religion, ” such as it is, has
been aptly styled the religion of a gentleman, in its
distinction from the vulgah “ isms. ” Andagentle-
man wishes to preserve his soul from worry and
excitement. Points of difference are doosid bad
form, and if the Bishop can make things not too
high and not too low, you know, and just broad
enough, he will be doing a personal favor to some
of the Very Best People.
THE RULE OF THREE.
[For The Bulletin.]
It is rumored that, as a result of the inquiry into the
inharmonious relations of the N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners, one will retire shortly, another later on, a new
junior will be appointed from the service, and a new Chief
Commissioner will be imported.— Daily paper allegation.
The country’s mad ! It’s fairly mad !
Or so it seems to me 1
For everything we’ve got, begad,
Is run by Rule o’ Three !
It’s plainly clear it’s overdone ;
It vexes lots and pleases none ;
IVhat formerly was done by one
Must now be done by three 1
Though one, we know,
Could run the show,
And maybe two’d agree,
We think it bliss
To wink at this
Ridiculous Rule o’ Three !
In every sort of trade and sport
This kind of thing we see !
And in the Arbitration Court,
We have the Rule o’ Three 1
It seems to me that this is fudge—
A Labor man, a boss, a Judge 1
The good intent we can’t begrudge,
But how can they agree?
We must admire
The j ust desire
For peace and liarmonee ;
But all we get
Is small as yet—
And likely so to be !
The Harbor Trust is strict and just,
From rows it’s fairly free.
But harbor steamers seem to “ bust ’’
As oft as formerlee 1
And then the Public Service Board
(A luxury we can’t afford)
Is causing men who fear the Lord
To murmur “ B ! ” and “ D ! ”
They do ! My word !
As you have heard,
And must agree with me 1
It’s hot 1 It’s bad !
It’s rot 1 It’s sad !
This random Rule o’ Three 1
Though Doctor Wattsthis may protest
That little birds agree,
You put three cock birds in a nest —
The row will shake the tree !
It’s just the same in household life,
The same for husband and for wife,
With more than two there’s always strife—
And war there’s bound to be 1
A man and wife
May plan a life
Of calm felicitee ;
But Ma-ln-law
With Pa will jaw—
So bless the Rule of Three 1
x.s.w.
W. T. GJODGE.
AN APHORISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is mostly tall and bony,
And her chest and hips are Hat,
And her gaze comes cold and stony,
From beneath her husband’s hat.
Tramps and hawkers shun the lady,
For they know this proverb true,
She who wears the Old Man’s cady
Wears his other garments, too.
vie.
AENKAS.


N
TAILOR MADE
VERSUS
SLOP MADE.
Why wear slop made clothes of doubtful
material and shocking misfit ?
MY WINTER SUIT
3 Guineas
TO MEASURE
BEST MATERIALS
HAND MADE
EXPERT TAILORING
FIT GUARANTEED
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KINO ST., SYDNEY
A Melbourne carpenter who got drunk and
died from apoplexy a few weeks ago, created more
sensation after his death than when he was alive.
The trouble arose through the arrival at the
morgue of two irate ladies armed with brollies,
each laying claim to the empty honor of being the
carpenter’s widow. There was quite a rush on
the carpenter. One claimant explained that she
married him in the dim, misty past, but had not
spoken to him for 13 years. The other seemed
more recent. Coroner Candler thought he had
got at the root of the matter when he asked each
lady to produce her marriage certificate, but
neither of them could show one. The more recent
relict didn’t seem to know what a certificate
meant, and conducted the following remarkable
dialogue with the coroner, who was in danger of
apoplexy himself most of the time: —
The Goroner asked, “Do you produce your marriage
certificate?”
The Claimant. —No.
Why not ?—You can see from a copy of Sands and
M'Dougall’s Directory that I am his wife.
I don’t want to do anything of the sort.—He used to
sign our names every seven years.
If you cannot produce your certificate and the other
lady can, that is enough for me.—Well, it is not enough
for me. My husband signed in Sands and M’Dougall’s
Yes ; but Sands and M'Dougall are not registrars. They
are printers.
Mrs. Jane Black. —I am not going to be stopped. I
intend to prove what I say.
Well, why not do so?—I went to see Captain Black
last night .
That is enough. Can you get a copy of your certificate I
—I don’t know what my husband did with it. It might
be amongst his papers.
Well, have you looked?—No.
Then why not ?—I am not in a fit state to look. It will
not bring my husband back to life or pay me for the
money I spent on his burial.
But you are in a fit state to come here ? —No, I am not.
I should he in bed. About two months ago to-day my
husband tried to hang himself on a bed-post.
The Coroner. —Oh !
The Claimant.—Yes. It was at 9 o’clock at night. My
husband was calling out, “Jane ! Dear Jane 1
The Coroner.—What husband do you mean? The
deceased ? . >
The Claimant.—Yes. He called out, “Jane, dear
good-bye.”
It is a sad evidence of the brutality of man that
even the fact of the deceased having called out
“Jane” while hanging from the bedpost wasn’t
regarded as sufficient evidence, and the lady was
sent back to hunt for her certificate.
• * * •
Queensland was a torn and divided State
over the Empire Day foolery. The Government
fixed the date, according to the Bank Holiday Act,
for the Monday following the 24th. A section
of the people hung on to the actual 24th just for
sheer cussedness. Their programme consisted of
banners and gay rags in the streets, and dull
speeches at night, all about the flag flag flag.
Then the 28th happened along, when the shops
shut up, and more flags were hung out and talked
about. The only remark of interest was made by
Crown Prosecutor Kingsbury, who said, amid the
flag oratory, that it was not well to look too closely
into the means by which some territory had been
secured.
TASTE.
STOUT LADY: “I don't like them there motor-
cars: they’re dirty things, and looks ’ orrilde.”
“Flag-Locker”: Be over-pubbed towns.
“ G.M.” (B. 24/5/’OG) says he lias been all over
Australia, and that the only place he knows of
with a four-pub corner is Niagara (W.A.). He
needn’t go so far away as that; he can buy all the
drinks he wants at the four-pubbed corner where
King and Castlereagh streets (Sydney) intersect.
There the “Britannia,” the “Commercial,”
“Metropolitan” and “Surrey” do biz. This
spot has long been known to almost all '.Syd-
neyites as a four-pub corner. Moreover, next
door to the “Britannia” is the “Theatre Royal”
hotel in Castlereagh-street, making five pubs
practically on the one spot. The three-pub
corners are > very common in Sydney. [The
Bulletin regrets having allowed “G.M.” to lead
the public astray with liis Niagara story, but
owing to the intense sobriety of the staff it has no
pub. authority on and is consequently
liable to be taken in by the narratives of hardened
and unscrupulous drinkers.]
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
IN PASSING.
FIEST OLD PERSON : “ Yes, Travers, there goes
the Chief Justice. I sold rag summer resi-
dence, at Darling Point, to him in ’76.”
The State Attorney-General, one K.C. and
eight dimmer legal lights (some of them mere
glimmers) all recently had a chew at a very small
legal bone in N.S.W. Equity Court. A testatrix
had bequeathed £2OO to trustees for the purpose
of keeping her grave green, and the trustees
appealed to the court for an instruction as to what
the corpse meant. By a convenient legal rule, all
legatees under the will were considered parties to
the suit, and each had to produce a separate lawyer
to listen to his Honor. His Honor decided that
the law re perpetuities made the bequest illegal,
no one being able to order that certain things be
done for ever and ever. So the green grave must
take its chance of being brown, and the legal
array retreated in good order to collect its fees.
• * * *
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade has
spoken with just severity to a needless and
bumptious character in Maoriland. Goloiiel
Home, M.L. Inspector of Prisons, who was the
superfluous and bumptious person, lately went
out of his way to say that, in proportion to popu-
lation, N.S.W. had about twice as many prisoners
as Maoriland. Thereupon Wade smote the un-
necessary and bumptious person pretty hard, by
replying that he had got at his figures by the
simple process of multiplying the N.S.W. gaol
population by ten.
* * * *
Sydney’s fish supply again vexes the
public mind. There is plenty of good fish in the
sea. There are hundreds of thousands of mouths
eager to eat fish. But, except to the rich,
0 no supply of fish is available. It is the
f same muddle—only to a greater degree—
as affects the supply and sale of fiuit
Sydney, of all civilised cities on earth,
has the smallest idea of community
organisation. Its 41 municipal institu-
tions are a weird joke. Its “public
spirit” is practically non-existent.
Nothing is done that depends for the
doing on the citizens acting in com-
mon-sensible unison to secure a mutual
benefit. The fault lies with the poli-
ticians who have wrangled for half a
century over Free trade and the “ Con-
stitooshun,” the “rights of the mother
State,” and one another’s characters,
to the neglect of real public business.
Sydney should be the home of a stal-
wart tribe of fishermen and the city of
cheap, abundant fish-food, just as it should be
the ever-hungry market of 10,000 flourishing
orchardists and the mother of children happy
with unlimited jam and fresh fruit. But it
isn’t. Nature is kind. But authority, or the
want of authority, or too many authorities (41
sets of them in a single city) muddle every
blessing.
The queerest theological occurrence this
year is the act of the Bishop of Southwark
(England) in inhibiting the Rev. Dr. Thackeray
M A., of Trinity College, Cambridge, for becoming
the landlord of an hotel “ The Fish and Eels,” at
Hoddesdon, on Thames. The Itev. publican
obtained a transfer of the license in February this
year, and lives on the premises. Rev. V\ . Garble,
head of the Church Army, warmly approves
Thackeray’s action in running the “Fish and
Eels ” pub.
> * » *
A few weeks ago The Bulletin printed
this from a Perth (W.A.) correspondent
Westralian Civil Service Commissioner recently toured
the eastern States in search of a Government Printer, the
screw for which person is £5OO a year. Out of 40 appli-
cants he could not find one up to the mark—his mark.
Whoever drew up the conditions must have known as
much about the printing business as a myall knows about
the Ten Commandments. Among’ other things, the sue-
cessful candidate is required to know all about bookbind-
ing and stereotyping, the chemical properties of printers
inks, the mechanical details of printing presses of ail sorts
and sizes, and the various branches of the stationery and
paper trades. Also, he must possess a practical knowledge
of type-setting in every form. In addition to these and
other qualifications, the successful candidate must hate
successfully conducted a printing business of his own. All
tins for £5OO a year ! The Public Service Commissioner of
the Sandy State occupied six weeks over his trip, which
was fruitless, but apparently the conditions will be modi-
fied in the interests of some good old Groper, whose know-
ledge of tiie printing trade lias been gamed in some Perth
jobbing office.
And the billet has just been given to a job printer
from the office of Perth Morning Herald. That
Berth correspondent knew the ways of Groper-
dom.
A Maorilander who was at ’Frisco when
things happened, relates that a man got hold of a
cask of water, and was retailing it at 25 cents a
drink. Large numbers were only too glad to do
business even at that price, and Private Enter-
prise was booming. A poor woman came along
with a child and pleaded for a drink, as she and
the infant were dying of thirst. As she hadn’t
the shilling, she was told to go and shift for her-
self. The discussion attracted an officer and a
squad of soldiers, and after the case had been
heard, Private Enterprise was ordered to part
with one drink gratis. He laughed at the idea,
and in the middle of the smile the soldiers fired,
and the discussion was ended. It is one of the
few good things The Bulletin has heard about
martial law.
■ * * *
The other day a Melbourne policeman,
who was the principal witness to procure a con-
viction against a publican charged with using his
premises for betting purposes, was cross-examined
thusly :
Mr. Duffy : You look smart in your uniform. How
long have you been a constable ? .
Witness: Since March last. I have done about six
weeks’ beat duty in the city. .
You were appointed as a reward for being a spy i— No,
I’m a constable pure and simple.
Are you living with your wife? —No, not for about two
years.
Are you living with another woman ? —I have a house-
keeper. . ... , t
Have you assaulted this woman in a public street l— l
didn’t strike her. I gave her a push.
Were you and this woman drunk together in the
street?—l was drunk. I wouldn’t be capable of telling
what state she was in.
Did your mother have to make good moneys which you
embezzled ?—lt was not embezzlement. There were a
few discrepancies.
Surely Melbourne must be a comic-opera city if
this is a hair sample of the agent employed there
to exterminate tote-shops, two-up schools, Sun-
day drinking, and the Social Evil, and generally to
purify the moral atmosphere.
* * * *
In Maoriland the Englishman has at last
rebelled. As a rule, Bull doesn’t take much stock
in saints or their days, but in Maoriland the
racket kicked up when St. Patrick’s day comes in
the morning, and the row when St. Andrew gets
drunk in the evening, and Scotchmen dressed in
kilts and whisky gibber up and down the streets,
has roused him into raising some dust on St.
George’s Day. So far he has only broken out in
Blenheim, where he holds sports and makes
quotations from the works of Billy Shakspeare,
whose natal day also falls (allegedly) on April 23rd.
But a number of papers are urging the rest of the
volcanic isles to start St. George’s societies, and
make more pandemonium. The end of all this
will be that the country will have to get a saint of
its own and suppress the imported article. The
Bulletin hasn’t thought out a Maoriland saint
yet, but for Australia St. Boomerang should fill
the bill—or else St. Wallaby,
SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have but to close my eyes,
And I see again
Town and port and quay arise
On the smiling main.
Ferry boat and sailing ship ;
Sapphire sea and sky ;
Dancing sails that dive and dip ;
Buildings grey and high.
Gardens on the water’s brink ;
Roofs and spires a-gltam—
All so plain, I cannot think
It is but a dream 1
VIC.
DORDTHY FRANUES McCRAE.
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“I, Charles E. Williams, Mining Operator m
the state of South Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that Dr. Williams 1 ink Dills for
Pale People, cured me permanently and pos.tively
of Locomotor Ataxia. I am one of the oldest
citizens in South Australia. I was born in Corn-
wall on July 6, 1830, and came to the colonies in
1848. The next year I moved to Kapunda, and I
have lived here in Beck St., in this very house
ever since. . ,
“ In the Kapunda Copper mines I had to work
very hard, and was often exposed to cold and wet.
One day, when off color, 1 caught a chill and
went down with Influenza. Another chill brought
on a relapse and started my disease, llay by day,
I got steadily worse. My ankles grew stiff and
useless. My back was lame and every bone in my
body ached. Rheumatic pains stiffened up all my
muscles and pretty well crippled me. In my
joints a constant, gnawing ache ate right into my
marrow. And then Locomotor Ataxia began to
come on. At first the attacks were gradual, but
they quickly grew more frequent and agonising.
Lightning pains shot through my legs. I hey
lasted only a few seconds, but were like sharp
stabs of a knife ripping through my nerves and
muscles. Soon these pains spread all over me,
and I felt as if my body were squeezed in a great
vice. For two years I did not do a tap of work
and drew sick pay from my lodge. I thought it
was Rheumatism —but soon my sight became
affected, and that is the surest sign of Locomotor
Ataxia. „ _ , , , „
“When I could get about at all I had to walk
with two sticks. It took me an hour to hobble
from the Post Office to my house, only 300 yards
away. I knew if I took one false step and fell 1
could never get up again. I lost all power to
direct my legs. I had to resort to all sorts oi
devices to dress myself. I could not stoop to put
on my boots to save my life. If I closed my eyes
and tried to put my heels together, I would have
fallen headlong. These little things showed me
clearly that I was becoming gradually paralysed
with Locomotor Ataxia.
“At last I had to give up my bed and take a
couch by the fire. I spent nearly all my time
there—and was just able to hobble across to an
easy chair. When I wanted to move I had to use
a rope to lift myself. All this time I was
suffering the most acute torture from the sharp
lightning stabs of pain that pierced every nerve
muscle, and joint in my body. My whole health
failed as the Locomotor Ataxia advanced. My
stomach went back on me. The lightest meal
left a heavy lump on my chest as if my food had
turned to lead. My spirits sank, and I gave my-
self up to die a miserable death. Certainly I had
not much hope, for doctors say that Locomotor
Ataxia is incurable. , . .
“I had the best medical attendance—but
nothing did me the least good. I was as helpless
as if I had been stricken with Paralysis. And,
worse than that, I was torn every hour with tne
cruel pains. Some people said I had acute Rheu-
matism, but I honestly think that I preferred the
Locomotor Ataxia because it promised an early
Death and release from my pain. I was m this
helpless, hopeless state when I saw a book telling
how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale 1 eople
cured all blood and nerve diseases. On page 1J I
read, in big type, the words Locomotor Ataxia /
It explained that it was a kind of Paralysis caused
by disease of the spine. The symptoms were just
my own —and, best of all, on the same page, Mr.
Thomas Jarvis, of Sydney, told how Dr. Williams
Pink Pills had cured him after he had suffered for
months from the same disease. Every word
showed that his case was the same as mine. 1
bought some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and they cured my Locomotor Ataxia,
absolutely and completely.
“ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did not cure me in a
week or a month, but I can honestly say that I
was a bit better after the very first box. lhey
loosened the muscles of my back and gave me
control over my nerves, so that I could stoop to
lace my boots—a thing that had been beyond me
for months. My appetite picked up, and a hearty
meal caused no pain. After that every dose put
new life into me, and I started to put on weight.
The muscles of my legs and arms grew stout and
strong again. My eyesight became good, and the
lightning pains became fewer and duller, 1 kept
on taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills till I used
sixteen boxes. At last every atom of pam and
weakness vanished. I threw away my sticks and
stood a cured man. Instead of lying at home a
helpless invalid, I joined my mates in the mines.
As long as I live i’ll praise Dr. William Pink
Pills, for curing me of Locomotor Ataxia.
“This is the plain, honest statement—and
every leading citizen of Kapunda can testify to its
truth. I consider that Dr. Williams Pink Puls
for Pale People worked a positive miracle when
thev cured my Locomotor Ataxia.
“My cure is permanent, for I have enjoyed the
very best of health for the last six years. To-day
I ain as energetic as any man in Kapunda—and all
the credit belongs to Dr. Williams Pink I ills for
Pale People. .
“And I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth.’
(Signed) C. E. WILLIAxMS.
Declared at Kapunda, this twenty-first day of
Sept., A.D., 1903, beforejne^
DAVID JAMES. J.P.
Mayor of Kapunda.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY Portab,e Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
■ ■ Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTOH’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &c.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER,
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
With only one month more to go in this financial
year, it ought now to be possible to tell how every State
stands in the matter of making or faking a surplus ; but
it isn’t possible to any great extent. As far as the pub-
lished figures run, here is the situation :
State Revenues for May.
May, 1905.' May, 1906.
N.S. Wales.. ..£988,476 £1,071,518 Inc. £83,042
Victoria .. .. 716,844 723,544 Inc. 6,700
Queensland .. 304,705 335,857 Inc. 31,152
Westralia .. .. 292,569 279,056 Dec. 13,513
Tasmania .. .. 56,611 80,758 Inc. 24,147
State Revenues for Year so far.
1905. 1906.
£ £
N.S. Wales (llmos.) 10,243,153 11,151,397 Inc. £908,214
Victoria (llmos.) 6,836,479 7,062,204 Inc. 225,725
Queensland (llmos.) 3,136,815 3,444,132 Inc. 307,317
Westralia (llmos.) 3,193,281 3,163,566 Dec. 29,715
Tasmania (llmos.) 773,804 826,498 Inc. 52,694
S. Australia (9mos.) 1,966,621 1,990,001 Inc. 23,380
State Expenditure for Year, so far.
1905. 1906.
£ £
N.S. Wales (llmos.) 10,609,447 10,640,215 Inc. £30,768
Queensland(llmos.) 2,628,519 2,731,734 Inc. 103,215
Westralia (Minos.) 3,346,839 3,219,328 Dec. 127,511
S. Australia (9mos.) 1,930,164 1,972,059 Inc. 41,895
Mctoria (6mos.) 3,80i,235 3,725,805 Dec. 75,430
From the foregoing and some other data, the
position may be summed up as follows :
N.S. Walk*.—According to the Treasury returns, the
1 1 months’revenue was £11,151,397 anil the expenditure
£10,640,215, so there was a surplus of £511,182. Of the
so-called revenue, however, an at present unknown
amount, but, judging by past experience, about £BOO,OOO,
is; not revenue at all; it is simply that assets have been
sold and the proceeds improperly seized and used as
revenue. These assets consist of public lands ; and as
public lands can’t be sold twice (unless the State buys
back the land from the first purchaser and sells it over
again), the figures that are swollen by including this item
are no good for measuring future prospects by. And,
while something like £BOO,OOO must come off the revenue,
thus turning the alleged surplus of £511,182 into a
deficit of £288,818, there has to be added £1,379,265 to
the expenditure, this amount having been provided out
of loans. Instead of having a surplus of £511,182, N.S.
Wales has therefore not paid its way during
the year so far by £1,668,083. Put in another way,
it has mopped up all of its revenue, sold and spent over
£BOO,OOO of its assets, and then gone into debt £1,379,205.
It must leave off borrowing some time, and it won’t have
any more land to sell soon ; and when that happens, it
will either have to raise £1,668,083 more revenue in 11
months, or spend £1,668,083 less, in order to come out
square in its books. Even then it will not do what every
well-managed private concern does—it will be providing-
nothing either for a sinking fund or for the renewal of
works which have been paid for out of capital. Inside a
month J. Carruthers will get on the highest branch avail-
able and screech about a surplus and the magnificent
results of Reform. And all the real surplus there is and
all the Reform there has been are pictured in the fore-
going.
Victoria.—How Victoria is going to wind up the year
there is as yet no way of telling, it not only doesn’t pub-
lish current loan figures, it doesn’t even publish current
figures as to expenditure on revenue aocount. These
are the only facts to go on with : For 11 months, revenue
this year is £225,725 more than it was for the 11 months
last year ; and for the first six months the expenditure
was £75,439 less than it was in 1905. And for all 1905 the
surplus was £526,984. By rule of three the surplus this
year should therefore be £923,000. In this, of course, is
included the usual steal of land-sales money, amounting
in Victoria to an average of £250,000 a yeai- about one-
fourth the size of the N.S. Wales steal. In fact, for all
Australia the land-sales steal amounts to about £1,700,000
a year, and of that the boss manipulator, N. S. Wales is
responsible for £1,000,000.
Queensland.—This time last year the Northern State
had £503,296 available towards the half-year’s interest ;
now if has £712,398. Last year the surplus was £13,996
and the present position is £204,102 ahead of last year’s.
Further, though Queensland’s land-sales money amounts
to between £250,000 and £300,000 a year,' Premier
Kids ton is pledged to use it only to provide public works
which, under the old gang, would have been paid for with
loans ; and the old gang would have sold the land just
the same. Queensland’s interest and charges amount to
about £1,530,000 a year. Even in this extra-good vear
that means 41 per cent, of the entire Queensland revenue.
Westralia.—This State’s current position :
Deficit brought forward .. £46,521
Expenditure this year .. 3,219,328
Total .. .. £3,265,849
Revenue this year .. .. 3,163,566
Present deficit .. £102,283
Loan expenditure figures are not published ; and, with-
out them, the others are not honestly worth much. The
position can't look better with those figures : the chances
are it will look a great deal worse.
S. Australia and Tasmania.—They are tired States, and
are mostly content to take things for granted till the end
of each financial year. And then they see that the figures
are old, and, therefore, don’t worry about them. So
S. Australia has, per head of population, the Greatest
Debt on Earth, and Tasmania has, per head, the Greatest
Unproductive Debt on Earth.
* * * *
There are 1,505,000 people in N.S.W., and
1,504,997 J of them or thereabouts have been busv thank-
ing Heaven during the last few days that they are not as
other men are, and have never played tricks in connec-
tion with N.S.W. lands. But, as a matter of fact, the
whole 1,505,000 have been playing a most disgraceful
trick—and Justice Owen didn’t say a word about it. For
N.S.W. for years past has been selling public lands—the
assets of the State, on the security of which Cohen has
lent £83,662,432—and, instead of putting other assets in
the place of those it has collared, it has coollv used
the proceeds as revenue and applied them in
payment of the policeman and the interest
bill. For years past the average amount of the State’s
assets which have been sold and the proceeds thus mis-
applied has been £1,000,000 a year ; and alongside that
swindle the swindles of the men whose names have been
lately much talked of are small potatoes. Yet hardly a
politician can raise a blush over it, and there isn’t any
demand for a Commission to report that, in this matter
the State has been a reckless financier who, if he were a
private person and had his affairs before a Judge in Bank-
ruptcy, would certainly have his certificate refused and
most likely would get about 12 months’ gaol as well.
i • * * *
In spite of the reduction in rates for deposits
Australian bank earnings have shrunk during the past
twelve months. Advances have been fairly well sus-
tained; but many old ones at high rates‘have been
reduced and new ones at lower rates have taken their
place. Fortunately there has been a keen demand for
money at short call in London, so that the Australian
banks’ large accumulation of deposits has had a fairly
profitable outlet not generally open to it—or only open
to it at such low rates as not to make it worth while con-
sidering'. The position, so far as it can be presented in a
table, is shown hereunder. The figures are for the last
twelve months for which accounts have been published,
in a few cases ending with March, 1900, in others endin<«-
with December, 1905
I)ivi- To Re- Re-
Banks. Profits. dends. serves. senes.
Australasia .. £273,604 £192,000 £60,604 £1,267,555
New Zealand .. 256,990 47,618 1 77,945 295,364
N. S. Wales .. 256,348 200,000 56,348 1,472 618
Union .. .. 201,141 150,000 31,141 1,098,276
Com. of Sydney 130,467 100,000 30,467 1,121,856
Com. ofAus. .. 82,000 63,520 13,480 220,939
National (Melb.) 77,248 62,986 14,262 136,149
Victoria .. .. 68,784 63,288 5,496 176,824
National (M.L.) 49,907 30,000 19,907 238,310
E.,8. and A. r.. 49,875 21,578 145,709
Adelaide.. .. 48,286 32,000 14,286 283,239
Q; N ; 44,316 6,000 48,000
Westralia .. 41,925 25,000 16,925 379,508
Colonial.. .. 37,719 21,859 15,860 94,196
London .. .. 23,194 18,649 4,545 16,107
Com. of Tas. .. 22,830 18,364 3,495 145,017
Royal (Q.) .. 19,569 16,931 2,638 67,420
Royal (Melb.) .. 18,310 9,750 8,560 52,698
City of Sydney.. 12,128 10,000 2,128 7,939
National (Tas.).. 11,043 9,578 1,465 34,333
Ballarat .. .. 8,068 5,950 2,11 S 68,976
Dep. and Mortg. 7,031 6,704 327 1,175
North Q’land .. 4,572 2,651 1,921 21,084
A - J - s 3,565 3,565 8,988
Out of profits the Bank of New Zealand wrote off
£21,427, the Australasia wrote its premises down £21,000,
and the Adelaide £2OOO, the Union wrote off £20,000, the
Commercial of Australia £5OOO, the English, Scottish,
and Australian £85,991 (mostly reserve built up by buying 1
depreciated deposit receipts), the Q.N. £20,316
(besides vvhich it provided £lB,OOO for the repayment of
old depositors), and Commercial of Tasmania £971.
The next table shows approximately the pro-
portion of total disclosed profits which the various banks
paid away in dividends
£ s.
New Zealand .. 18 10 p.c.
E., S. and A. .. 43 0 ~
Royal (Melb.) .. 53 4 „
Colonial .. 57 18 ~
N. Queensland. 58 0 „
Westralia .. 59 12 „
National (M.L.). 60 2 „
Adelaide .. 66 8 „
Australasia .. 70 4 ~
Ballarat .. 73 16 „
Union .. .. 74 12 „
£ s.
Coni, of Sydney 76 12 p.c.
Com. of Aus. .. 77 8 ~
N.S. Wales .. 78 0,,
London.. .. 80 8
Com. of Tas. .. 80 10 ,
National (Melb.) 81 10 ,
City of Sydney. 82 4 „
National (Tas.) . 86 14 ~
Royal (Q.) .. 86 14 „
Victoria.. .. 92 2 „
Dep. and Mortg. 95 6 ~
It might be a better plan in most cases to turn the thing
upside down and show how much was laid by as reserves,
only some banks write down certain assets out of profits,
and that is as good as putting the amounts to reserve. It
can’t quite be said either that the foregoing list
invariably shows the banks which have most regard
for their depositors and other creditors, because the pre-
sent extent of reserves has a good deal to do with that
matter; a bank like the E., S. and A., which has still a
good deal of cleaning up to do, is not in the same state as
the Bank of Australasia, for instance, which isn’t under
the same painful necessity. Still the list certainly shows
some of the banks that are paving away far too much,
even if it doesn’t show' all of them.
Tlie list that follows shows more clearly the
decline in the earning power of the shareholders’ funds —
in spite of which, it will be noticed, there have been some
increases in dividend. The figures are based on the last
published report, yearly or half-yearly, and are compared
with those of the corresponding period of previous years
(P. represents preference and O. ordinary shares) :
Interest Earned per
cent, per annum Dividend
on Shareholders’ per cent.
Total Funds. per Annum.
„ . 1904-5. 1905-6. 1903-4 ’O4-5 ’O5-6
National (M.L.)£l3 17 2 £lO 13 11 10 12 12
Royal (Melb.) .. 815 2 10 37 6 6 7
Q-N 913 0 914 8 Nil Nil Nil
Australasia .. 10 1 9 913 9 12 12 12
Westralia .. 9 7 9 814 5 174 174 20
Com. of Tas. ..9 9 8 717 10 10 10“ 12
Union .. ..917 716 1 10 10 10
N.S. Wales .. 710 10 710 3 10 10 10
Colonial.. .. 711 11 7 711 5 5 5
National (Tas.) 614 5 641 5 6 6
Com. of Syd. .. 6 6 4 6 310 10 10 10
Ballarat.. ..554 558 6 7 7
National (Melb.) 4 9 7 51 3 j>, ®
to. <s£ 6 % 4
Victoria .. 442 43 7 -I T- ® ® 5
d ' 10.31 Si 4
London .. .. 216 7 42 11 J
10. 24 24 24
North Q’land ~ 4 2 0 316 11 2J 2£ 24
Royal (Q.) .. 313 5 315 7 jq 3“ 34 34
Dep. & Mortg. 12 10 3129 j £
CormofAus. .. 3 9 1 310 3 {£
City of Syd. ..3 0 8 219 8 4 24 24
A-J.S 315 6 115 1 Nil Nil Nil
The Bank of New Zealand has been in a state of tran-
sition during the year, and it is impossible to submit
similar figures of any value concerning its earnings. The
Q.N.’s figures, also, are of little value ; for, besides capi-
tal, it has £3,116,621 of old private deposits (now con-
verted into interminable 3J p.c. stock), as well as other
liabilities of a similar character. The Australian Deposit
and Mortgage Bank has, during the year, written down
its capital from £909,979 to £198,935, which accounts for
the remarkable increase in its earnings per cent, of share-
holders’ funds.
* * * *
Launceston (Tas.) Municipal Electric Light-
ing and Power Enterprise :
Total Revenue Added to Total
Capital. from Working Sinking Sinking
Expended. Working. Loss. Fund. Fund.
1899 .. £91,639 £6,414 £251 £3 487
Profit.
1900 .. 98,794 8,305 1490 £1054 4 541
1901 .. 105,616 9,653 2192 935 5’476
1902 .. 113,366 11,180 2913 1200 6 676
1903 .. 115,580 10,692 1795 1390 8 066
1904 .. 139,984 12,292 3710 1842 9 908
1905 .. 155,417 13,079 2489 1355 11,263
The financial position u'as not put as clearly as it might
have been up to a couple of years ago ; but since then full
accounts have been published. For 1904 and 1905 the
whole position has been: —
Interest Added to Re-
Profit. Paid. Reserves. serves.
1903 £9,741
1904 .. £8347 £4191 £4156 13 897
1905 .. 7886 4973 2913 16,810
In addition to the sinking fund (reckoned here among re-
serves)there is a reservefund properand afloa ting balance.
Not only the sinking fund, but the reserve fund also,
is credited with the interest which it earns—which shows
that the aldermen of Launceston either have a truer idea
than the Government of N.S. Wales has as to what a
sinking fund really is, or are more honest in administer-
ing it. The year’s profit (before paying interest) was
£461 less than that for 1904 ; the revenue was larger
but repairs, maintenance and renewals, all charged
to revenue, amounted to £2024 as against £1533
an increase of £491. The reserve fund, which is supposed
to provide for renewals when they become too heavy to be
paid for outof current revenue, amounts to £39BB(included
among reserves in the second table above); of this
amount, £2087 was added last year, equal to ljper cent.-
on the total capital outlay. Summed up, this is the
position : After paying interest and providing the works
with repairs and renewals, the undertaking shows
£ll9s. lOd. per cent, profit on the average amount of
capital invested in it during the year. Out of this
provision has to be made for sinking fund and for re-
newals when the renewals become too heavy to be paid
for out of current revenue. A margin of 2 per cent, is
certainly not too much for the purpose, especially at this
early stage in the works’ history (the margin will get less
as the renewals cost more); yet, compared with what
shiftless State Treasurers do—they don’t even show in-
terest on their borrowed money—it is magnificent.
« * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co. (Perth):—
Dividend and To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
April, 1901 £756 10 per cent. = £473 £283 £5503
Oct., 1901 681 10 „ „ 473 208 5711
April, 1902 769 10 „ H 473 296 6007
Oct., 1902 730 10 „ „ 473 257 £264
April, 1903 1019 10 „ „ 473 546 6810
Oct., 1903 986 10 „ „ 473 513 7323
April, 1904 1443 32J ~ „ 1523 7243
Oct., 1904 1363 10 „ „ 525 828 8081
April, 1905 1551 30 „ „ 1575 8057
Oct., 1905 1611 10 ~ ~ 525 1086 9143
April, 1906 1252 10 „ ~ 525 727 9870
The comparison which follows shows where the shrinkage
of profits has occurred, though it doesn’t explain why :
April, Oct., April,
1901. 1905. 1906.
Commission earned .. .. £1,540 £2,685 £2,464
Interest, rents, &e 535 665 484
Expenses 1,321 1,740 l-,696
Expenses per cent, of gross
earnings 63’6 51-9 57'5
Profits on Shareholders’
funds per cent 10/12/7 17/17/- 13/1/7
Trust balances .. ..£103,234 £251,335 £264,948
The earnings are erratic, which in connection with a
trustee co. always arouses a suspicion that it takes full
credit for the commission on the corpus of an estate when
the estate comes in, thus leaving the annual commission
to pay expenses of the subsequent management of the
estate. Interest earnings are also very erratic. Never-
theless business expands, and the profits are still glitter-
ing. If a manufacturer made £l5 16s. per cent, on his
capital and undivided profits in a year, every Freetrader
in the country would be shocked, and every importer
would call upon the gods to witness the horror of it.
* * - *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (N.S.AV.): —
Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901.. £3Ol 6 p.c. =£4s £256 £256
1902.. 1528 6 „ „ 104 £1262 162 418
1903.. 2957 6 „ ~ 253 2583 121 539
1904.. 2778 6 ~ „ 320 2147 311 850
1905.. 4958 6 „ „ 368 4188 402 1252
1906.. 4206 6 „ „ 432 4126 900
So the co. goes to its small reserves, grabs £352, and pays
a bonus to consignors, in order to make to them a cash
concession of 25 percent, on the amount of their com-
mission-payments. The one thing that can be said in
extenuation is that the money is not applied as dividend
to shareholders, though whether there is much differ-
ence between the two things The Bulletin doesn’t know.
Possibly consignors expect this sort of thing ; if they do,
they are very short-sighted. Their true policy is to help
the co. to get together decent resources, not only in order
to guarantee themselves payment when some unexpected
disaster happens, but so that it may be in a position to
battle better for its clients. For instance, the co. on
March 31st owed consignors £19,443, and on other similar
accounts another £7555. On the other side, “outstanding
accounts ” stood at £28,529 ; and there are large possi-
bilities about outstanding accounts of £28,529 should a
disaster happen along. If the co. could not collect, the
co., whose own capital is only £8445, could certainly not
pay. The reserve fund ought to be built up to meet
circumstances of that kind. At present, having all its
own resources liquid, the co. no doubt stands in a strong
financial position—so long as things go reasonably well.
Considering the vast services which these co-operative
concerns are rendering the farmers, the latter might be
a little more generous ; for it is hard to believe that
directors would go to their reserves in order to pay cus-
tomers a bonus if the customers didn’t drive them to it.
* * * *
When the liquidator steps in, honesty and fair
dealing sometimes stay on in the premises ; but, if they
do, they have a hard time of it as a rule. There was a
good deal of swindling during the Melbourne land boom ;
but, for unadulterated villainy, it could not hold a candle
to what happened during subsequent liquidation pro-
ceedings. This is a branch of the public’s business that
the Public Trustee, when he arrives, might very well,
undertake ; at present the job is often handed over to
somebody whose own incapacity or personal greed has
helped to bring the concern to grief.
And it is already becoming plainer that the
Public Trustee should take over the control of every
insurance co. that decides to give up taking new business
in Australia—especially every foreign co. When a co.
decides that it won’t take any new Australian business,
its troubles about what Australia thinks of it or its
methods ! Its concern is to make things good for the
people among whom it is canvassing for policies ; and it
can make thing's better for them by making them worse
for the other people—the people it doesn’t care, two
straws about. And if it wants to do that, there is no sort
of co. which can do it more easily than an insurance co. ;
there is no sort of contract that ought more to be read in
the light of equity, and there is none so liable to
have a flaw in it if viewed in a narrow legal
way. The insurance co. which is asking for new
business knows that; and as long as it is satisfied
that it has not been the victim of deliberate fraud, it
pays up. But the other sort of co., when it sees a
possible hole, is liable to make a bee-line for it. It mav
have the brick of public scorn thrown at it; but the
brick of public scorn only counts when it might hit a
canvasser who is just about to rope in a new “ life.”
The Equitable of the U.S. is big and honest
enough to be above the worst of the tricks that might be
adopted by a foreign office which has withdrawn from
new business ; yet even the Equitable was fighting a claim
on a policy the other day. The society objected to pay
up “ on the grounds that Blake, when passed as a good
life, suppressed the fact that he had suffered from
appendicitis and gallstones.” Even apart from
the fact that the medical evidence about the
gallstones and the appendicitis was conflicting, Blake
didn’t die from them, anyway; in fact, he got into
financial difficulties and ended up in quite another way.
It is hardly possible to believe that any insurance
co. still looking for business in the country would have
mentioned either the g'allstones or the appendix. The
view the Supreme Court of Westralia took of the matter
was that the co. must pay up, with interest. In other
words, it came to the conclusion that the co. had tried to
get out of a payment it should not legally escape—and if
the other sort of co. errs at all, it prefers to err on the
other side. If they did any less than that, insurance
wouldn’t be as popular as it is.
» * * #
Broken Hill Water Supply, the mostly Mel-
bourne co. which owns the only reservoir the Barrier can
get a drink from, is about to return a first £50,000 to the
shareholders. The co. has to hand over to the State its
works in about 12 years, without payment. For years it
has been accumulating funds, and has about £BO,OOO of
assets which it won’t have to part with, among
them over £50,000 of public securities, &c. Hitherto
investors who dig deep into such matters have
assumed that the fund would remain there at
compound interest for 12 years more, by which
time £50,000 would be worth, say £70,000 at least,
and probably £80,000; and of course the situation is con-
siderably altered if the other £150,000 (present capital is
£200,000) is expected back in 12 years without the help
of the compound interest. The contributions out of
profit and loss will have to be much larger. No doubt
that can be managed easily enough ; for, though the
capital will be reduced from £200,000 to £150,000, the
earnings from the works will not be any less. Of course
the change won’t affect present holders ; instead of the
co. investing their accumulated ss. per share, they will
be able to invest it themselves. It is the man who buys
the share who will have to remember that the position
with regard to the fund for the return of capital has been
altered.
* * * *
The April yield and profits of the chief W.A.
mines were as followsOroya, 12,5690 z. and £34,480;
Great Boulder, 14,0340 z. and £26,100 ; Fingall, 10,6230 z.
and £24,000; Horseshoe, 12,9100 z. and £21,230;
Ivanhoe, 10,0400 z. and £21,010; Kalgurli, 73990 z.
and £18,970; Perseverance, 56720 z. and £ll,lOO ;
Associated Northern, 35400 z. and £10,700; Gwalia,
62040 z. and £9540; South Kalgurli, 38300 z. and £5360 ;
Associated, 47600 z. and £4920 ; Hainault, 17710 z. and
£2000; L.V. Consols, 36)40z. and £l5OO ; Menzies Con-
sols, 87loz. and £l6lO ; Tower Hill, 19410 z. and £1420 ;
Leviathan (Northern Block Synd.), 4600 z and £1220 ; Ida
H.,9730z. and £1070; Golden Pole, U93oz. and £980;
Red Hill, 7070 z. and £830; Cumberland, 608 oz.
and £700; Greenmount, 4630 z. and £460; Belle-
vue, 15050 z. and £4OO ; North Feather, 9500 z.
and £4OO ; Ingliston Extended, 1790 z. and £2O.
The following- worked at a loss: —Vivien, 4840 z. and
£3020 ; Waihi, 4160 z. and £500; Golden Ridge, 6320 z.
and £230 ; East Murchison United, 15420 z. and £9O. The
most striking change is in the Kalgurli, whose profit has
risen to nearly £lO,OOO. The big debit balance of the
Vivien is due to the cost of erecting a 10-head mill being
charged to revenue.
• * • •
The latest estimates of the ore reserves of the
chief W.A. mines are as follows .-—Brown Hill Extended,
52,000 tons, worth 445. 6d. per ton ; Cumberland, 11,300
tons at 855.; Golden Horseshoe, 931,300 tons at 645.; Sons
of Gwalia, 358,500 tons at 40s. 6d.; Associated, 263,700
tons at 48s. 5d.; South Kalgurli, 123,000 tons at 395.;
Ivanhoe, 769,000 tons at 595. 4d.; Boulder, 453,600 tons at
855.; Red Hill, 13,400 tons at 31s. 6d.; Lake View Consols,
103,000 tons at 31s. 6d.; Ingliston Extended, 15,000 tons at
85s. ; Great Fingall, 753,000 tons at 555. 6d. ; Tower
Hill, 60,000 tons at 305.; Great Ophir, 65,000 tons at 425.;
Golden Pole, 134,000 tons at 1275.; Boulder Perseverance,
336.300 tons at 435.; Kalgurli, 548,000 tons at 615.; Merton’s,
202.300 tons at 30s. ; Hainault, 205,000 tons at 365. ; Asso-
ciated Northern, 89,400 tons at 945. ; Oroya, 192,200 tons
at 158 s. Most of these estimates as regards values seem
to be pure guess work, but Associated Northern, Hainault,
Kalgoorlie and Gwalia practically give the extractable
value. Numbers of the mines either extract only 50 per
cent, of the gold, or the managers over-estimate the gold
contents by 100 per cent. The directors of all such mines
are neglecting their duties in not holding an inquiry into
the discrepancy when subsequent work discloses it.
* • # *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, is opening up splen-
didly. The ore reserves on January 1 were estimated at
263,700 tons, worth 48s. sd. a ton ; but from 1000 ft. to
ilOOft. of development per month has since been done,
and the ore in sight has been largely increased. The
fourteenth level at 1700 ft. has been started, and the lode
there also should be cut before long. The Australia East
lode is opening up well at the four bottom levels, and is
adding greatly to reserves. Then the prospects of the
much-talked-of Oroya shoot are much more hopeful. A
great lot of work has been done on this body. Vertical
winzes from the long incline winze (now 600 ft. deep on
the incline) have been sunk at intervals of 125 ft., and
have proved the pipe to be as large as it was in the Oroya.
Proper connection has been made between the 1000 ft. and
1200 ft.; so in future the ore, instead of having to be hauled
up 600 ft. of an incline and then trucked another 1200 ft., will
be passed down to the 1200 ft. level and trucked 200 ft.
only. Two new furnaces have been installed, and the 16
old ones are being gradually rebuilt. Once this is com-
pleted, the output will be increased and the costs re-
duced.
* * * *
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) has taken over the
Sandstone leases at Black Range, after an eight months’
option, during which a great deal of work was done.
The leases comprise 148 acres, containing 3000 ft. along
the strike of the reef. Numerous shafts have been sunk,
showing the reef to be 2ft. to Bft. wide, averaging about
4ft. There are already 3000 tons of pay ore on the sur-
face, and a 20-bead mill is to be erected immediately. All
this stone has been taken out in the course of develop-
ment, and the result will give a fair indication of the
value of the property. The purchase price is said to be
£lO,OOO cash, and half the net value of the gold from stone
at grass.
* + * •
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, has now proved
the Perseverance lode at 1900 ft. to be 10ft. wide and
worth 555. per ton. Until some driving has been done it
is premature to express any opinion on this discovery,
but, if the pay shoot continues for any length, many
opinions will have to be altered. As much as £133,000 of
Lake View money has recently been diverted to other
countries, as the management, after sinking fruitlessly-
to 1900 ft., decided that the bottom was out of the mine.
Unfortunately- there is no George Lansell in W.A., and
the first blank, or impoverishment, that occurs in the
lodes knocks the stuffing out of directors, and they
are ready lo give the job best. A good many manage!s
are as bad. All the Menzies mines have been abandoned
at a vertical depth of 300 ft. Certainly geologists Jack
and Goeczel were consulted before the abandonment ;
but geologists can see no further than other people.
• * * *
Hannan’s Reward, Kalgoorlie, is working on a
big scale since erecting the new 10-head mill, of 12501 b.
stamps, which can crush four to five tons per stamp daily.
During April, 1431 tons were treated for 3410 z., worth
£1449, or practically £1 a ton. This class of ore would
not have been looked at a while ago. There is an open-
cut on the mine, and ore can be got out for 2s. per ton.
Anything over 2dwt. pays, and 3dw't. leaves a fair profit.
Work is also being done on the main lode at 300 ft., where
the rock is a hard, dense sulphide. This ore was too hard
for the old light stampers to treat profitably, but it is
hoped that the new mill will get through it.
* * * *
Engineer Ridgeway’s patented invention for
treating slimes, after four months’ run on the Great
Boulder (W.A.), is found to save idwt. (or 2s. per ton)
more gold than filter presses, at a cost of 3s. less. The con-
trivance consists of a circular tank about 10ft. in diameter
and 15in. in depth, divided into three compartments.
Round this revolve 14 filter plates connected with valves
used either for suction or expulsion. These filter plates,
which are corrugated, have the filter-press cloth attached
below, and are carried round the tank on wheels. The
rim of the tank is like a switchback, and each plate in
turn dives into the first compartment, which contains the
slimes solution. The suction valve then opens and auto-
matically sucks up about five-eighths of an inch of slimes
against the cloth. The switchback then carries the plate
up out of the solution, and it dives into clean water, and
is dragged through it, and again rises over a shoot.
While there the vaive re-opens, and air is blown through
and expels the slimes off the plate into the shoot, and
they fall into a truck below-. The Great Boulder has
ordered ten of these machines, and they- will shortly bo
installed.
• * * *
The North End, Kalgoorlie, according to its
new- manager (the fifth in its short career, or at the rate
of one a month) is looking well. But, as reporters
are sooled off the premises, folk become suspicious.
There is a pipe of ore dipping south, which has
been worked right up to the surface on the
north, where it cuts clean off. How far the shoot
travels south has not been proved, as the co.
started with too little capital, most of which was spent
on equipment and plant and surface decorations, and ore
has been simply gouged out to try to keep things
jigging. Co. is in 200,000 shares, w hich have been quoted
about 25., but they cannot be recommended except as a
pure gamble.
* * * *
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, is now open-
ing out at 800 ft. from the new main shaft. There are
two payable lodes on the property- besides the Brown Hill
lode, w-hich crosses the north-west corner, and manager
John’s estimates ore reserves roughly- at 52,000 tons, worth
445. 6d. per ton, or over £lOO,OOO. The ore is not blocked
out, but the manager is a cautious man whose estimates
can be relied on to be pretty conservative. There is still
a good deal of ore standing in the Brown Hill lode, as
only the richest ore was broken out. The other two
lodes are practically intact, as no stoping has been done.
Co. is in 100,000 shares of £1 each, latest quote for which
is 10s. After paying last div., on April 15, 1904, co. had
a cash balance of £51,000 ; and, even allowing for equip-
ping and sinking the new shaft. it must still be in a
strong financial position.
* * # *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), now accounts
for its poor returns by stating that the gold is being
systematically stolen, and the chief detective at Kalgoorlie
has been called in to investigate. No doubt gold robbery
has been carried on extensively in Westralia, and con-
siderable fortunes have been made by- some of the
“receivers”; but for the management to blame it for
such a collapse as that of Golden Pole is too thin. It is
something like what happened at Broken Hill; when the
Fat crowd had scooped out the rich oxidised ores and
sent shares up sky-high on the strength of the big
dividends, they had to find some excuse for what was to
come next, and they said the men robbed the co.’s by-
sleeping underground when they- should have been at
work. The shareholders were thus worked up
to such a pitch of indignation against the miners
that they- forgot to be mad with the Fat men
w-ho had really- done all the serious fleecing.
In the case of Golden Pole, consider a few figures.
On February 1 the ore reserves were given as 13,400 tons,
worth 1275. per ton ; yet the three returns since have
panned out only 665. 3d., 575. 6d., and 635. 9d., or barely
half, although 800 tons of old tailings have been include!:!


Will
So thaUt
Will be
1 Carrtedr
0ut.,,...
■§§§!& I
kJ s%\
Of
...-V:
i
o
/«,456
TRUSTEE
COMPANY
(LIMiTCD)
t
Dunlop
Rubber
Belting
is more efficient than
leather belting for Out-
door & Wet Work.
.Sample & Price on application.
The Dunlop Rubber Co.o/Auj. Ltd
108 Flindera it. Melb. a- All Jtatea.
in each month’s returns. Since the start the extraction
has never been more than half of what the gold contents
were estimated at; so why the directors did not take
action long ago is a mystery. It was always represented
that the gold was in the tailings, but that now proves to
be a myth. It either never existed or has been stolen all
along, and.this could easily have been proved by assaying
the tailings.
* • * *
Burbanks Birthday Gift, Coolgardie (W.A.),
shows how tributors can score where managers can’t.
Mine is controlled by 8., M. and Co., who, on taking
charge, shut down the mill for months and pushed
developments ahead. When the mill was re-started returns
only averaged from sdwt. to 6dwt., so after running some
months at a stead}' loss, the mine was closed down, and
tributes were offered three or four months ago. Since
then the mine has produced over IOOOoz. monthly, the
last return being 1041 oz. from 1167 tons. Some of the
tribute parties have made as much as £l2 a week per
man.
* . * * *
Merton’s Reward (W. A.) has been closed down,
allegedly because of shortage of water, by Charlie
Kaufmann. In January, co. treated 2590 tons of 275. 9d.
per ton ore at a profit of £100; in February 3017 tons
of ‘2ls. lOd. ore were treated at a loss of £7BO ; and during
March 2033 tons of 265. sd. ore realised a loss of £6O. No
figures have been published for April, probably because
they were too bad. On June 30 last ore reserves were
estimated at 202,300 tons, worth 305., or enough to keep
the mill going for six years. Unfortunately the results
have not come up to expectation, and Kaufmann, the
biggest shareholder, doesn’t see the fun of running the
mine at a loss. Mine is in charge of Judd, who for years
bossed the Lake View South, but neither he nor anyone
else can make a success of a gold mine if the gold
is not there. The Government has arranged a water
supply, but water is not gold. The water scheme was to
save Coolgardie, but it did not put metal into buck reefs.
*« . * Jr *
The Vivien, Lawlers (W.A.), is now equipped
with a 20-head instead of a 10-head mill, and it is expected
that 3000 tons monthly will be treated in future. The
last estimate of reserves gave the value at 435. 6d. per
ton, but actual results have not come within coo-ee of it,
the April extraction being 255. 7d. only. Mine has two to
three years’ supply of ore in sight, but the reef is very
patchy, judging by the erratic nature of the monthly
returns. Co. is in 90,00# shares of £1 each, chiefly held
by the London and Western Australian Exploration Co.,
and is controlled by Bewick, Moreing and Co.
* * » *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) will soon make a
fresh start on its new property, the Goodenough. The
surface equipment should be ready early this month.
Manager Ferguson is confident of the result; and, as he
has had a long experience of the erratic reefs of the
district, his opinion is worth something.
* * » *
At last the Cobar (N.S.W.) deal has been
completed—or the money has been put up to complete
it. “ The Syndicate ” gets £BOO,OOO ; another £400,000
has been subscribed for various purposes ; and another
£300,000 is reserved—making up the total nominal capital
of £1,500,000. According to a statement made by the
British Australasian (London) the capital was to be dis-
posed of this way
Purchase money £BOO,OOO
For additional purchases .. 100,000
Reserve debentures .. .. 200,000
Working capital 200,000
Underwriting shares .. .. 75,000
Underwriting debentures .. 37,500
Stamp fees 40,000
Other expenses 47,500
Total £1,500,000
No doubt the “ additional purchases ” contemplated for
£lOO,OOO consisted of the Cobar Gold Mines’ property.
As, however, that mine has not been included, this
£lOO,OOO is now represented by reserve shares ; so there
will be 650,000 shares issued out of 750,000, and 550,000
debentures out of 750,000. The underwriting was a pretty
costly business with copper away up past £BO, seeing
that all the estimates were based on a £6O market.
Previous expert Kendall figured on a total pos-
sible annual profit of £456,750 from Great Cobar ; the
syndicate which put off the present co. talked of £400,000
a year, with ore reserves sufficient for three years at that
rate. The syndicate figured it this way: 1,500,000 tons ;
average, 3| per cent. ; workable extraction, 83 per cent. ;
copper to be produced, 41,500 tons; profit, with gold
contents, (say) £3O per ton = £1,245,000. Expert Kendall
reckoned on a profit of £32 12s. Od. with copper at £52.
Apparently the present valuation is based on a £6O
market, in which case the present valuation of the mine
is more conservative than Kendall’s was. Meantime,
certainly much good ore has been extracted. Ordinarily
£6O would be a high copper price to figure on, even
though it is £25 higher than that now ; and £25 per ton
on the extractable copper in the reserves amounts to
£1,037,500. Still, it is not as though the new co. had to
look at the market ahead for years. Given energy, in
four and a-half years from now, with copper at £6O, the
co. should either have got back its capital or laid it aside
for further developments. And £6O looks a perfectly
safe average for as little as four and a half years.
Of Great Cobar’s reserved debentures £lOO,OOO
worth are to be drawn in two years, and the other
£lOO,OOO in three years, at £lO5.
Cobar district has hung out its joyful rags over
the sale of its boss property to J. Bull; for it means
doubling the number of hands employed, and that means
more beer to be sold, and other local blessings. For the
rest, there isn’t much to be glad about. For £BOO,OOO
to the vendors, and about £200,000 to others, Bull has
got the greatest copper mines in Australia, and will not
be satisfied unless he draws at least £2,000,000 in dividends
out of them. Probably he will spend another £300,000,
and that and anymore he spends will be just so much
foreign debt on which Australia will be expected to pay
interest; and in this case it gives its best copper mines as
security that the interest will be paid. There is mighty
little, therefore, to hang out joyful rags for. There
wasn’t even the excuse that “ foreign capital was neces-
sary to develop the great natural resources of the
country.” For some years past the Read-Longworth
Australian syndicate has made an average profit of
£lOO,OOO per annum ; its recent profits have been at the
rate of nearly £150,000 a year. There was, therefore,
plenty of capital coming out of the mine to develop its
own resources. Certainly they have not been developed
as fast as they might have been recently ; but that was
simply because of this option. People who reckon that
“The Syndicate” has been wasting its time must be
gluttons. In 1893 the mine was practically abandoned ;
it was only in January, 1894—twelve years ago—that the
new crowd, having got a tribute, began to work. During
the first year it got out 13,460 tons of ore, valued at
£26,600 ; and considering that for years it was only a
tribute syndicate, and started with very little capital and
not too much faith (outside the Longworths), the people
who, looking back on that small beginning, reckon that
it hasn’t done enough meantime are pretty hard to
satisfv. Perhaps they are better satisfied with what J.
Bull’s Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., has done ! That concern
was going to rush things, and put up a vast plant (which
is now just about due to be scrapped) ; and, for the past
18 months, it has been sitting down paying directors’ fees
and wondering why the blessed sulphide problem has not
got up and solved itself.
6 r * * * *
Bulletin readers will not have been surprised
by the creep in the Sulphide Corporation’s Central mine,
Broken Hill. The north end has now settled with a run,
carrying down the mill with it. The vigor of the move-
ment can be judged from the fact that it ran right
through the neighboring Block 10 mine, and affected the
deep workings in the Broken Hill Prop, on the other side.
The Central mill has settled so much that if it is ever to
be used again it will only be by pulling it down and re-
erecting it; that, anyhow, would be the easiest and
quickest way to patch "it. For a couple of years past it
has been known that the mill would go sooner
or later, and a new plant was started ; but it
is a long way from being ready. The zinc plant
is at work, but there is very little money in that.
Meantime 1000 men have been thrown out of work, and
the hope of dividends for the Sulphide Corporation’s
ordinary shares fades further into the distance. Whether
the vigor of the movement means that there has now
been a complete settlement no one can say until an ex-
amination is made far more thorough than has yet been
possible.
B.H. Block 10 is a mine with a remarkable
backing. The morning after the creep shares tumbled to
84s. By the afternoon there was such buying both in
London and in Australia that the market had got back
to 90s.—just about where it stood before the shock. As
a matter of fact, though the settlement could only do
Block 10 harm, it could not very seriously
damage it, because its main workings are below the
level (800 ft.) at which the Central movement must
stop. Block 10 is now going even deeper; the
announcement was made, just when it would do most
good, that from 1100 ft. the co. would push down to
1600 ft. A new windiilg plant will have to be got in ; and
the electric-power plant must be strengthened. The
B.H. Prop, has the lode at 1100 ft. in Block 11, next door ;
and the B.H. ore-bodies pitch away north and south from
an apex somewhere in Block 13 of the B.H. Prop. mine.
Block 10, being south of this apex, might expect the
same ore, then, at a lower level than Block ll’s 1100 ft.
The experience so far has been that, with depth, the
Barrier ores get richer in metals, but harder and more
refractory.
Managements of the southern group of Broken
Hill mines (Block 10, Central and South) are not a happy
family. Each always blames some other one for every
creep. Present trouble in the Central is alleged by the
Central to be Block 10’s fault; and Block 10 is sure it
isn’t. There were such ructions over a previous creep
that a Commission was appointed to find out all about it.
The Commission made recommendations which got lost
next day, and have never since been seriously thought of.
The Central’s troubles really began, like those of every
other Broken Hill mine, with Australia’s importing
disease. It dumped forests of imported softwood into
the mines ; it imported mine managers who imported
foreign methods (and more forests of foreign timber);
and when there was two or three millions’ worth of
timber in the mines, Broken Hill co.’s found out that
Australian mine engineers made fewer mistakes, that it
was madness to rely upon the softwoods to resist the
lateral pressure, and that the pretty imported methods of
timbering were entirely unsuited to lodes of the width of
the Broken Hill body. But it was too late then ; the
timbers had begun to give, the ground had begun to
move, and from that day to this it has never wholly
stopped, in spite of the fact that nowadays the co.’s fill in
with debris the stopes from which the ore has been taken.
* * * *
From a Broken Hill man ‘'The hard facts
about the latest creep are that the Central mill has sub-
sided a clear 3J*t., and will never work again. Block 10
has lost Campbell shaft down to the 700 ft., and is
shut off from what little ore there was left in
the upper levels there. The Central (Sulphide Cor-
poration) intends to put on a spurt in erecting its
new mill, of which the timber framework is up ; but
at least four months must elapse before the job stands
completed. The smash has extended from the 700 ft. to
the surface, and is wedge-shaped, the thin end being
about 250 ft. long and resting on the Block 10 boundary
at the 700 ft. level. Spreading upwards and outwards, it
just about reaches the footwall near the surface. The
footwall runs along a few feet to the east of the mill, and
is marked by the clean break where the ground beneaih
the mill has sunk.”
* * * *
Flooding the northern group of Broken Hill
mines has had the expected effect of starting the old
movement in the north end of the Junction. M‘lntyre
shaft, near the boundaries of Junction North and Block
16 (British), has caved in at 550 ft., and is smashed from
that up to the 400 ft. The old creep just catches the
Junction North shaft between 570 ft. and 640 ft., and that
section is badly dragged. No damage was done in Browne
section of the Junction ; and the North mine is pretty
secure. The crosscut made at 550 ft. in the Junction to
work the new find of high-grade ore in the British has
been smashed. That ore body must remain unworked
till the Marsh shaft is deepened.
* * * *
If the amalgamation of the B.H. North and
Junction North comes off, the North mill will probably be
doubled (present capacity, 2000 tons per week), and all
the ore treated there. But amalgamation is not regarded
favorably in Broken Hill. Broken Hill lives by wages,
not dividends.
* • • «
South New Moon, Bendigo, puts up a six
months’ tally of 90500 z. from 12,430 tons; average,
14|dwts. Dividends panned out at 16s. per share, aggre-
gating £25,600. This is below the average for the
previous term ; and unless co. mills stone on a bigger
scale, the poorer stone showing will prevent a return to
old-time divs. However, with Bendigo directors it is no
use any outsider making suggestions.
* * » *
South Caledonia, Warrandyte (Vic.) struck the
Yarra river last week. Now, the gamble is whether the
co. will ever get that pellucid stream out. Warrandyte
folk have been waiting for the flooding. The co. has a
shaft on a dot of an island in the Yarra, and another on
the bank, down about 120 ft. Stopes run from one shaft
to the other, and men were driving at 110 ft. under the
worked-out ground. The general idea is that the blast-
ing opened up the rock under the Yarra ; the mine ex-
planation is that a concrete dome put in the island shaft
to keep out the water did not fulfil its duty. Look-
ing at the matter cold-bloodedly, the men in the
drives at 110 ft. can thank their stars that no' bad
inrush took place. If it had they would have been caught
like rats in a trap. The mining inspector’s obvious duty
is to insist, if the mine is unwatered, that only first-class
work is put in to stop any inflow. The risk to men’s
lives is too great to permit anything else. The Board
was slow in letting out that the mining inspector had
come down thud ; and its reticence was punished by
the slashing attack made on the scrip when the secret
came out.
* * * *
New Dempsey’s, Gaffney’s (Vic.), has its
mascotte again in the original Nolan. Every mahn of ’em
swore that the old skipper was needed to bring luck back
to the mine, and so he has ! Directly he got to Dempsey’s
the reef began to widen in the old shaft as, indade,
was only dacent of it. Moreover, gold came
into the stone to smile him welcome, the
creek ran high, but was also dacent enough to kape out
of the shaft, and so ivery mother’s son of the shareholders
is wearing a green ribbon and a smile as broad as that of
Gaffney’s itself. Nolan deserves to have luck. He has
stuck to Dempsey’s since Wood’s Point was in its prime.
There was nothing jerry-built about him. He went there
to stay, and stay he did till he hit it rich when Dempsey’s
jumped to the front a couple of years back. Men like
Nolan are the salt of mining, and here’s to him and to his
mine !
* * * *
A world of moralising might be indulged in
over the last sentence in the six-monthly report made by
W. A. Mason, mine manager of the Band and Loch, Bal-
larat: —“In conclusion, I may say that the mine is
looking fairly well, and if we are successful in locating
payable stone in the 2300 ft. level, as appearances at pre-
sent indicate, your mine should shortly give a good
account of itself.” With this statement may be bracketed
a characteristically Ballarat paragraph in the directors’
report: “ The large area of ground .. . north of the pre-
sent workings warrants the management in feeling con-
fident that when the shoot of gold (2300 ft.) is met with,
the full length of same will be found within the com-
pany’s boundary.” From these statements, the in-
genuous might deduce' that the co. had at some
time cheered the soul of shareholders with dividends
from some shoot of gold that was making down to 2300 ft.
But while the mine has produced gold worth £116,000,
and has taken £44,000 cash from calls, there isn’t any
item on the other side of the balance-sheet in respect to
dividends paid. Even the last half-year’s work makes
up poorly, in spite of the * fact that the
manager talks of “ highly-payable stone” in the
crosscut off the air winch shaft, at 1970 ft. level; of “ good
payable stone ” south of the south rise, at the 2080 ft.
level ; of “payable” stone in the western ground, between
the 2000 ft. and 2080 ft, levels. Crushing's went 1884 oz.
from 3026 tons, and cost £6lll to win ; so there was a
profit of £l6OO. But prospecting had to be carried on
which cost £3047. Figures like these prove that the mine
is as disappointing as ever, and that there is nothing more
tangible at the 2300 ft. level than a six-months-old un-
realised expectation of picking up a payable shoot of
ground north.
* * * *
The luckiest hit near Ballarat of recent years is
the Birthday, Berringa. On under£2ooo called-up capital
it paid nearly £140,000 in divs. As 1000 ft. was reached
the stone took on the poverty of the district at that depth,
and the outlook became as blue as G. H. Reid’s chances
ought to be. Co.’s horizon was smudged still more by
the failure to pick up stone in the east crosscut at 400 ft.,
put out to cut the Fancy lode. As a forlorn hope,
driving in this crosscut was continued, and at 1034 ft. a
big formation was met. Whether this is the Fancy or
the Surprise lode farther east no one ventures to guess,
as the Williams’ Fancy is a mile to the north, and south
nothing has been done. Some nice specimens coming to
hand, the market got an old-time “buck” going.
Obviously the advance was a pure bit of gambling that
has not deceived anyone. The stone has to be opened
on to prove its worth, for it has always to be borne in
mind that at Berringa a few gold-bearing specimens do
not make a mine. It’s the bulk that tells.
■* * # *
“Yack”: Bulletin (17/5/’O6) under-estimates,
I think, the chances of Fletcher’s dredge, the first bucket-
dredge to start in Yackandandah Creek. Present position
is a large sludge dam, and I believe it will prove the
poorest part of the lease. For a mile up, the creek is all
soft granite bottom ; and, in spite of all talk to the con-
trary, the dredge is paying. Labor required is very small
—two men and a boy per shift.
* * * *
Read it as you like, the report of F. W. Payne,
the Maoriland dredging engineer, does not help the Tas-
manian tin-dredging shows at all. Stripping off the
excuses, Payne declares that the Gladstone dredge is a
failure, badly constructed and incapable of doing good
work. The Ringarooma is passed over with a light hand,
possibly because work has been too small to disclose its
defects. It is no use making the excuse about the indus-
try being a new one, and that unlooked-for things
occurred. Local doubt as to the ability of the dredges to
work the ground was openly expressed, and almost every
tin-miner in and out of the State was dubious about the
saving of the tin even if the dredge could raise the dirt.
So there was a fair field of criticism to help and
warn promoters. The public was with the Gladstone
promoters at the start, so that there was no trouble about
cash. But the dredge bought was too light, the result
being almost a collapse. Payne may talk about tin-
dredging having come to stay in Tasmania, but if three
months do not see a radical change for the better, there
will be some very willing scalp-hunting in the neighbor-
hood of Collins-street.
* * * *
Wyniford (Tas.) is feeling the strain of a second
advent. Co. once owned a tin claim on the Wyniford
River, over which many egg-shell castles were built.
When it came to yields, the castles crumpled. Co. there-
fore moved on to the Frome River, but in doing so had to
repair its castle with the proceeds of 9000 forfeited shares
sold at 2d. each. New manager was once with the
Krushas, and his sampling of the lease told of as rich
tin as was ever intended to be got by the Gladstone
dredge. He thus set the standard to be lived up to, and
also provided a market value, based on anticipation.
Already the co. has had a Black Thursday, when such
mysterious selling took place as to raise grave doubts as
to whether the new property is much better than
the old. Friday brought no relief to the strain,
despite official assurances that everything was right.
Saturday disclosed that a marble bar had come in in
the face. Speckers issued so sad a wail that it stirred
even the Melb. Stock Exchange committee to do some-
thing. What the committee learnt or did can, as usual
in such cases, be very well described as x. There really
was nothing to investigate. In shallow ground some high
rock had been uncovered, and the yield was expected to
suffer. If criticism had to be applied, it was to men who
boosted shares that ought never to have got above 2d.
Then if additional censure has to be given, it is to those
who bought before yields could speak.
• • • •
Australian tin mining co.’s have a way of
giving assays of tin ore in units of black tin or tin oxide,
and this requires a deduction of 25 per cent, or more for
dross, according to the purity or cleanness of the oxide ;
and that is just where the estimated return gets all
astray. And so does the punter. “ Don’t report man-
ager’s estimate, as yield of tin is unstreamed and greatly
disappointing ” was wired from the Weldbrook Tin Co.
(Tas.). It was a repetition of the Briseis Extended
bungled return last year. Now there is the case of Vul-
can Hope (N.Q.), whose “black tin” gave only 24 per
cent, of white or metallic tin ; so that “4 per cent.” in
that case would have really meant something under 1 per
cent, of the stuff that has been selling for £2OO a ton or
so lately. Another familiar instance of the way
tin assays are reported comes by wire from Smith’s
Creek (Q.): “Ore from bottom of prospecting shaft
assays 2‘3 per cent.; ” but wire does not say 2'3 oxide of
tin, or sulphide, or metal. Possibly it is a mixture of
oxide with sulphide of tin ; for the poor recoveries made
by the mill last year were explained in that way. Not
that the explanation is adequate; for if 2 - 3 per cent, of pure
oxide of tin is in the ore, an excess of sulphide would not
matter. There is only one correct way of giving assays
of tin ore —that is, to give the return in units of metallic
tin, with the proportion of tin sulphide that may happen
to be contained in the ore “ 2'3 per cent.” contains no
information.
* * • •
According to the admission of one of their num-
ber, some of the trustees of St. Hilda Cemetery (Vic.) have
been carrying on a profitable little game for some
years past. The trustees have been accused by Dr.
Norris, chairman of the Board of Health, of abusing
their positions by trafficking in graves for their per-
sonal profit, and one of those affected has given an
explanation, which mainly goes to confirm the charges.
He says that Norris was correct in his facts, but did not
take the circumstances into consideration. He explains
that the trustees, as a trust, were in the habit of allowing
members of the trust, as individuals, and also employees
of the cemetery, to select graves at a price lower than
was charged to the general public. Some of them took
advantage of this privilege, and subsequently sold
the graves at a higher figure. The interviewee
appeared to regard this action as above all suspicion,
seeing that the person who obtained the grave from the
trustee only paid the amount he would have paid had he
approached the officials in the first instance. That the
trustee obtained the advantage of the reduced price, and
was able to pocket the difference, which should properly
have gone into the funds of the cemetery, didn’t seem to
strike him as at all improper, and he finished up with an
assertion that there was “ nothing underhand about the
transaction. Everything was fair and above board.” The
affairs of the St. Hilda cemetery have lately come under
public notice, owing to the hurried departure of the
secretary for parts unknown, and numerous allegations
are flying round. It is asserted, among other things, that
the cemetery gardeners spent much of their time in the
private gardens of the trustees, which is an interesting
item if true.
A popular yarn with the hang-the-expense poli-
tician in Westralia is that, owing- to the increase of popu-
lation, the debt is shrinking; which, of course, means
that there really isn’t any reason why they shouldn’t tap
somebody for a "trifle more. It is a fact that the Westralian
debt per head is a bit less than it was, chiefly because
there are more babies’ heads than there used to be before
the t’othersider took “the missus and the kids” over.
The revenue per head therefore puts the whole show
away. In 1902 it was £lB 15s. lOd. ; and from that level
it has gene on sliding away till last year it was only
£l6 9s. Bd., and this year it can’t well be more than
£l5 15s.—in fact, for the first two-thirds of the year it
was only at the rate of £l4 19s. per head per annum.
Therefore the debt per head keeps growing larger in
proportion to the revenue per head, and in a country
where money, not heads, are currency, that is a serious
matter.
* • • #
George Musgrove’s Grand Opera Co. shares are
about ready to be pushed off—2ooo of them at £2 each,
nobody to have more than 10. The scheme works this
way: If there is a profit, Mr. Musgrove is to take
half of it (Mr. Musgrove is to be manager, and,
presumably, will therefore practically decide what the
profits shall be); if there is a loss, the co. is to bear it.
By way of bonus, shareholders are to be entitled to apply
for tickets for the operas ahead of the crowd. As a plan
for securing grand opera in Australia, the scheme is all
right; judged as an investment, it is, of course, absurd.
it it * *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * it #
Co bah. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
■*•***
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 li.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
maintenance. It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all parts of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
~ Upright ” boiler. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Sydney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
* * * »
The Policy-Holder (Manchester), July 27,
1904, writes with regard to the last annual report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
“ There are a number of satisfactory features about the
report now presented, for the premium income and funds
show a satisfactory increase, whilst the claims are smaller
and the rate of interest realised has been the same as in
1902.”*
• * * *
The New Havillah Gold Mining Company has
just installed a high lift pump to make all necessary pro-
vision against any increase in the volume of water now
that they are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This
installation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71‘5 per cent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.*
* * * W
Electric haulage is one of the best paying in-
vestments for every mine in which the wash-dirt has to be
hauled from a greater distance than 2000 feet. The actual
saving effected at the Berry Consols Extended Mine,
Allendale, amounts to £3O per week at a distance of 3000
feet; at the Great Southern Consols Mine, Rutherglen, it
runs into £45 per week, at a distance of 5000 feet; in both
instances the necessary plant which was installed to
replace the manual labor has cost but £l2OO. Experience
has proved that at a distance of 4000 feet electric haulage
cost a quarter of that of horse traction and a tenth of hand
trucking. The Charlotte Plains and New Havillah Mines
at Moolort are the latest to adopt electric haulage, and
have again proved it to be highly satisfactory. The favor-
able results obtained with these installations are un-
doubtedly due in a great measure to the reliable and
smooth operation of the electric apparatus, especially the
locomotives adopted, which were all supplied and erected
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, corner
of Hanna and Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, agents
for Ganz and Company, Budapest, Hungary. This firm has
devoted special attention to mine haulage problems, and
during their 14 years’ experience have brought up their
mine locomotives and other haulage apparatus to the
highest degree of perfection.* [2.]
George D. Meudell, Money and Mining Broker,
A.M.P. Building, Bendigo (formerly of Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).*
• * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.* , * ,
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.H.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Meplian Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every disermtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■K * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Throughout Australia voices sing—
A Cure 1 A Cure 1 i A Cure 111
The only really certain thing
Which, Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring,
Will Cure. Will Cure. Will Cure
Your coughs and colds, and make them bring
Glad tribute to their healing king,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
ANGLERS
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
“Janor”: Herewith a plea of not guilty
of the “ bloomer ” charged against me by “Kul-
fara ” (B. 17/5/’O6) re the sky scraper of the
white ant; likewise the “perforated mounds” that
adorn the landscape in my district are similar to
those in other parts of the continent. Further-
more, “Kulfara’s” billy-boiling yarn is quite
true. The explanation is that many white ant
nests are built around and over the stumps of
long dead trees, and have thus a wooden core. The
termites excavate galleries in this core, but do
not entirely destroy it, and in course of time it
becomes so dry that it w’ill burn like matchwood.
It is necessary to make the holes in the mound
as described by “Kulfara”—otherwise no com-
bustion ensues. When the core is burnt out the
fire expires, and leaves the earthy portion of the
nest (the portion which is the work of the ter-
mite) intact. Any bushman who uses his eyes
may see scores of anthills lying about the coun-
try, that have been thus gutted by bush fires,
simply because they had been tunneled by the
ant-eater. It is impossible to burn an
ant hill that has a sound skin; and
the insects are quite aware of that fact.
Punch a, hole in one and they put on three shifts
until it is built over. Knew a party of prospec-
tors on a Gippsland creek who, having a quantity
of explosives not in use, dug a hole in an ant hill
close to their hut and placed the stuff inside. A
few days later the record bush fire of the district
swooped down on their camp. They made heroic
attempts to save the hut, but found they were
playing a losing game. One of them rushed to
the anthill to seize the “dinny” and throw it
into the creek, but found the opening closed.
“ Never mind the hut, chaps,” he yelled, “this
ant-bed will blow up directly.” And they tarried
not. Returning a few days later, they found the
bulk of the scenery ashes, but the improvised
magazine still raised its topknot proudly over the
blackened ruins, and, after they had built a new
hut, they dug out the explosives and found them
not even singed.
* * * *
Young Australia and its mother had an
exciting scramble with Death in Moyhu (Vic.)
list month. Seven-year-old Lily Lewis fell into
an 80ft. well with 30ft. of water in it. Lily’s
mother put 15-year-old Harry Share into a bucket
(apparently she just borrowed Harry for the occa-
sion), and had lowered him less than halfway
down when the windlass got away from her, and
Harry and the bucket went down with a rush.
But Harry wasn't drowned, and Lily’s skull wasn’t
split by the fall of Harry and the bucket, and
Mrs. Lewis and her sister succeeded in hauling
the youngsters up —Harry clinging to the chain
of the bucket, and Lily coiled round Harry’s legs.
And the only damage done was the bruising of
Mrs. Lewis by the runaway windlass-handle.
A BAD INFLUENCE.
“ Yes, I don't believe in the papers printing so
much about boxing. It's spoiled that kid
altogether since he read about Squires. He
used to be some good, but now he only rushes
in with his head down, and me tcllin' him
every time that what suits one man don't suit
another.
“ Paul Cupid ” : The practice of calling
the same snake by different names in different
places often leads to argument, sin, and even
strife, not to speak of incivility and procrastina-
tion. Once heard a Tasmanian explaining how,
only for much brandy, ligatures, scarifying,
suction and a doctor, he would have been called
to his reward after being bitten by a diamond
snake. A New South Welshman casually re-
marked that the bite of this snake was as
harmless as a dead land-agent, and
hinted that the Tasmanian wouldn’t
know’ the truth even if the
Angel Gabriel blew it in
his ear with a trumpet.
War was declared and
a splendid battle
ensued. When the
last of the fur-
V. i 4- r.
niture was
broken I
started t o
explain that
they were
both right—
that the so-
called dia-
mond snake
of Tasmania i
is eminent- J
ly venom- j
ous, and I
that the J
harmless '!■
diamond
snake of
N.S.W. is a
totally differ-
ent serpent.
The combatants
called me
several kinds of
a fool for not
making the
explanation
sooner. I
meekly admit-
ted they were
both right
again, but that
I had vainly
tried to make
my voice heard
above the
shouts, curses
and breakages.
I apologised for
being a fool,
and so warded
off annihilation.
This anomaly in
names is evi-
dent again in
the carpet and
the black
snakes. In Tas-
mania they have a reptile that in some parts is
called the black snake, and in others the carpet.
This fellow is identical with our tiger snake. The
duplication of names is responsible for as much
wasted energy in argument, “language,” and
physical violence as would, if properly applied,
build an Australian battleship.
* * * *
“T.D.,” from London :
They have just installed a young emu out at ’Appy
’Ampstead, near the Old Bull and Bush, and I went over
the other day to give him my salutations and feed him
up on a handful of iron nails and other delicacies. He
seemed tickled to death with the comments made upon
him by intelligent Cockneydom. Some savant was
gravely explaining to an admiring family, and to all and
sundry, precisely which of the bird’s feathers were used
for the hats beloved of ’Arriet. He said they folded up
just under the wings, and the smooth portions that could
be seen were just the ends, and they had to be adroitly
curled by the feather merchants before they were fit for
market. Then somebody informed him that tlie fowl wasn’t
an ostrich at all, because he had seen a picture of one
in a paper, which called it an “ Hemu.” But the learned
Cockney was not to be made an object of doubt and
possible scorn in the eyes of his family. “ Whv,” he pro-
tested, “I thought any schoolboy in these days’’ud know
that a hostrich was a hemu and a hemu was a hostrich.”
As the other fellow wasn’t quite sure of his ground lie
accepted the information.
«...
“ Gip " : Be snakes and their fondness for
milk. A little while back, I came into possession
of two very tiny orphan kit-
tens. Placed them in a flat
box on the hut verandah,
under the bedroom window.
Regularly I filled a saucer
with fresh milk, and regu-
larly the milk disajipeared.
Yet my kittens did not
thrive. On the fourth day I
found one dead, on the sixth
the other died. I’m certain
I stuffed enough milk down
their little throats with a
spoon to keep them alive.
Also the saucer was emptv.
Having no cat or dog about
the place, I grew suspicious,
and a Bulletin par suggested
snakes. So filling the saucer
again, and arming myself
with a stick, I waited
developments. I was just
giving it up when I heard a
slight rustle in the sweet
peas. A snake —an ugly
brute, 6ft.-long or thereabout
—glode noiselessly on to the
verandah. I waited until he
had almost reached the box,
and then, with the stick
grasped firmly, and my
teeth cutting into my lower
lip, I leant out of the win-
dow. The brute saw me.
He seemed to resent the
stick, and flattened his head
, sickenmgly. They say here he
must have been a tiger. With a gasp and a yell
1 dropped the stick and ran till 1 fell down up-
setting all the furniture in my flight. And now I
see snakes everywhere.
* * * *
Householders will find that for universal
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassed.
i-n Phenyle is a powerful insecticide it
lulls bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold bv all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, throughout Aus-
tram.
“H.J.L.” : The eternal discussion re the
merits of the Kanaka tires me, who have
spent many years with him. The crux of
the whole biz. is that he has three virtues : (1)
He’s cheap; (2) he’s easily beguiled into buying
rum and slops ; and (3) he is partial to missions,
and forks up his thruppence in the spirit of one
who pays for a corroboree. It would be interest-
ing to overhaul the personal effects of long-
service Kanakas before their
return islandwards. It
would help the public
to see who scores
in the nigger
game.
MARRIED.
REV. SLOWBY : “ Ah, my friend, if you use
language like that the devil will get you.”
MAN (inside): “ Too late, mate. She's got me.”
“ Krex ” writes from Far Out :
“C.X.G.”, re Cooper’s Creek (B. 29/3/’O6), earns dis-
respect tor an unreliable correspondent. What sort of an
exclamation would he have made had he known that
Cooper’s Creek, in ordinary floods, spreads nearly 100
miles wide, instead of 50, as he says? In 1898 a flood
went over the bar below Innamihcka, and ran the
Strzlecki Creek for over 100 miles.
Innamincka Station is not built on a high sand-ridge—
it can scarcely be called a ridge on account of its low-
ness. Still the water runs on both sides when a flood of
any consequence happens along, before sweeping over
the place the station is built upon, so I suppose there is
some semblance of a ridge. But even in the record flood
of 1906 the water left an island less than 200yds. from the
station Oft. above water-level, and that island is the real
ridge. Finally, Cooper’s Creek at Innamincka Station
was only about a mile wide, even at the height of the 1906
flood.
I have just ridden from Innamincka to Boulia (Queens-
land), a distance of 450 miles, and the country is practi-
cally a carpet of grass, in most places so thickly matted
that the soil is invisible. The old hands, not to be out-
done, say they have seen the grass as good, but as to
when they are not at all agreed.
The late heavy rains played skittles with the fences;
along Barrow’s Creek they are completely obliterated.
On the S.A. side of the rabbit-proof fence there are num-
bers of rabbits to be seen ; on the Queensland side I did
not see a sign of one—though there are some, I suppose.
* 11 »
The reputation of a wealthy member of
the Victorian squattocracv for kindness and
humane sentiments has been seriously damaged
by a recent event. Jumb, the squattocrat, owed
the excellent opinion which the surrounding dis-
trict entertained towards him to his generous
treatment of Old Bill. Old Bill was a tall,
venerable, hairy slouch, who had worked about
the Jumb homestead for some years. When he
became too old and rheumatic for any kind of
graft, he was permitted to remain in a log hut in
the home paddock, and he drew his rations from
the kitchen, and loafed about in the boss’s cast-
off clothes. He was a silent, morose sort of
rapscallion, who rarely washed, and had a hatred
of combs and other toilet requisites. Other
squatters would have turned Old Bill adrift, but
Jumb had too much heart for that, and although
the veteran was not a pleasant object for visitors
to stumble across, he was not cast aside. This
was remembered and counted unto Jumb for
righteousness up to the time of Bill’s death, which
happened the other day. Then, through an
inadvertence, it was discovered that Old Bill was
Mrs. Jumb’s father. Now the surrounding dis-
trict has taken its good opinions all back, and
there is talk of entering theJumbs for the mean
man and economical woman competition.
* * * *
“ A.P.R.” : The emu is certainly a stupid
bird, and a clumsy one, too. Its awkward,
meandering stride and senseless curiosity suggest
some quaint survival of prehistoric days. Its
idea of sport would be ridiculous, if it were not so
cruel. I have often seen a mob of emus careering
about amongst a flock of ewes and lambs, driving
them to distraction, and separating the lambs
from their mothers. These lambs either die of
starvation or have their eyes pecked out by crows,
and their piteous bleating through the solitary
bush awakes intense contempt amongst bushmen
for the clumsy, elephantine bird whose sport
means death. If we want a national bird, let it
be the picturesque brolga, with its romantic dance
at break of day, and its sweet trumpet call, and
its flight high up among the clouds. That is a
bird.
A girl who slaved behind the lace counter
of a leading Sydney frill establishment answered
an advt.—the usual sort of advt.—which appeared
in a Sydney daily a couple of years ago. He was
a wealthy planter down in the South Sea Islands,
and they corresponded some months, and finally
exchanged photographs. The photo, she re-
ceived was that of a middle-aged man, not
bad to look at. After more correspondence,
the planter sent a substantial draft to
buy the trousseau and a steamer ticket, accom-
panied by messages of undying affection. The
girl proudly exhibited the likeness and some of
the ardent letters to an admiring circle, and
spread a romantic rumor that her adorer had
fallen in love with her when quite a little girl,
and, now that he had climbed to affluence, wanted
her to come and be queen of his island. After a
cheerful “send-off” she got aboard with her
trousseau and wedding presents, and sailed
away. Upon arrival at the island the planter
came on board to claim his bride. He came
alongside in a canoe pulled by two semi-
naked islanders. His costume consisted of a
singlet-shirt arrangement that came to his knees
and exposed a pair of thin, bony shins and a
nightmare of claw-like toes. He was old and
grizzled, also somewhat unclean, and, in addition,
had lost most of his nose. The distracted girl
cried to the captain to save her from the Horror,
and the Horror flared up and ordered
her to get into the canoe, as he had paid
for her and wanted the goods. Finally
a missionary and his wife came aboard and took
her beneath their collective wing; and the jilted,
noseless one, with his shirt fluttering in the
breeze, was rowed off threatening to sue the
weeping girl for fraud, breach of promise, false
pretences, and numerous other crimes. Subse-
quently she drifted back to Sydney with her box
of wedding presents and a shattered illusion, and
is now filling a niche behind another lace counter
in another city. The planter’s offer is still open,
and probably his book-keeper will write more
ardent, luring letters to other romantic damsels.
At any rate, the old advertisement, wailing for a
plump, comely damsel to come and be his queen,
again appeared in an Australian daily not long
ago.
• * • *
“A.P.R.”: Be over-pubbed townships.
The hamlet of Bugaldie (N.S.W.) should be a
first favorite, for it consists of two hotels and a
school-house. As a rule, with closer settlement
the old shanties disappear. Ten years ago, on
the 65-mile mail route between Gunnedan and
Coonabarabran, there were two hotels and three
wine-shops; now, one hotel and one wine-shop.
Along the main routes out back one continually
sees ruins of old shanties that have not been
supplanted by newer drunkeries. Most of these
buildings are inhabited by spectres that walk
about carrying their heads underneath their arms.
“Dux” : At Hokitika (West Coast, M.L.)
I struck a Bulletin par re over-pubbed towns,
and immediately resolved to enter Westland for
the belt. Hokitika (1200 people) boasts 23 pubs.;
Westport (2800) has 22; Kumara (1500), 18;
whilst Ahaura, a town of 12 families, has six
pubs., and within a radius of four miles there are
eight other hotels.
• « * •
“Wilbea”: Our Papuan fellow citizens
haven’t got an educated taste in the art of dining.
Goanna, python, caterpillars, eggs of a most
doubtful character, are considered delicacies. Once
saw a free fight—in which many heads would have
been laid open only the New Guinea skull is too
solid —as to which crowd had the most claim to a
rather long-deceased alligator. Man, woman or
baby cometh not amiss, once you get inland.
Civilisation, however, is bringing its advantages,
and for an extremely high tin of
“ bulamakau ” (meat) the average
Papuan would gladly give a
short mortgage over his soul—or
his womankind.
THE RABBIT PROBLEM.—RODIER
SYSTEM OF EXTERMINATION.
PA BUNNY (meditatively to Ma Bunny): “I was
just thinking, dear, how lonely I shall feel
when you and your lady friends go over to
the big majority.”
“Plevna” heaves an unusual brick at
“ The Man with the Hoe ” :
“The Man with the Hoe” (B. 17/5/’O6) represents the
born hoe-wielder. There are any number of him here
in Australia to-day. They are simply born like that—the
easiest way is the best way with them every time. Bobby
Burns was a man with the hoe; but he knew how to
wield it. Abe Lincoln, and dozens of others—the hoe
didn’t get them down. Have working for me three
samples, brought up on farms. Should a swingle-bar
break, horses are unyoked, taken home, and Edgar, or
Leslie, or Ivan sits on the fence, waiting for the boss to
come along. Often as not the boss makes shift out of a
sapling. They never think of tightening a loose bolt ;
their first knowledge of anything wrong is a breakage.
They will be “men with the hoe” till the end of their
days. And who will be to blame? Nobody but them-
selves. They won’t think ; and the man who won’t think
must hoe. Sometimes he must hoe anyhow ; but that’s
another matter.
■» * * *
“Ku-Klux”: Be trapping (“Elmore,”
B. 17/5/'O6). For the information of “Elmore”
and any other inquiring aborigine, let me say
that I have often trapped black and tiger snakes
in Gippsland. In 1902, just outside of Drouin, I
found a black snake, 4ft. 9in. long, caught firmly
in two traps, which I had set close together at two
openings of a fence. He had evidently lashed
round on being snapped by the head and sprung
the other trap, some 3ft. away, with his tail. It
was no uncommon thing to catch goannas and
kookaburras.
GO ON THE LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Eve had eaten fruit she didn’t ought,
And v/ith a woman’s usual luck been caught,
This as her punishment did God command :
“ Go on the Land ! ”
She drifted to the saltbush plains and ploughed—
No other recreation was allowed.
Thus was the primal immigration planned
About the land.
The serpent shared the fate of Mother Eve,
A footless horror he did Eden leave.
Accurst upon his stomach did he stand,
Upon the land.
After some toilsome years there came the Flood
Which mixed all Closer Settlement with mud ;
The rain supply exceeded the demand
Once on the land.
The law holds good through all the aeons flown,
At least, so far as any facts are known ;
So why not heed the exhortation and
Go on the land ?
Sniff at these verses, critic, if you will;
Sooner or later, all some ground must fill,
One day, e’en you will join the dusty band
Upon the land.
vie.
BAMDOO.


V)
WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
THE 11 Fx. & R.” WATCHES
“ Are the most extraordinary Watches of the age."
THEY are f-plate Levers.
THEY have Brequet Overeoil Balance Springs.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are Dustproof and Watertight, as their
cases screw together.
THEY are especially made to stand BOUGH
BIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT, and go
with Profound Accuracy.
THEY are Guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
With 15 Jewels, in Oxidised Case, 30/- ; in Solid
Silver Case, 42/-
Fairfax (SI Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Gent’s
Open-face
Oxidised
Metal
Case, 30/-
i »0 grl Co
. C\J/ /
Gent’s
Silver
Open-face
Case, 42/-
“Kaban”: Recent discussion in the
columns of The Bulletin over the derivation of
“shicker” draws attention to the cosmopolitan
nature of slang. Very few slang words have their
origin in Australia. Even “barracking,” which
the late Professor Morris was at such pains to
derive from the aboriginal “borah,” is more
probably akin to the old English slang “barrikin,”
which in turn comes from the French. Such
distinctly Australian terms as “swag” and
“damper” are Australian only in their appli-
cation. “Billy” certainly does seem to have
originated in this country, but “diggings” was
used by an English writer before Australia was
dreamt of. The larrikin’s term “push” comes
from an English prison, while “stoush” is a
slight modification in sound and meaning of the
English slang ‘ ‘ stash, ” to stop. About ‘ ‘ larrikin ”
itself sufficient has been said and written, although
it may be noted that “lary,” commonly supposed
to be a contraction of “larrikin,” is evidently,
from its pronunciation, the English thieves
“leary.” “Mash” is from the Romany of the
gipsy. “Donah” is from the Spanish, to which
language also we doubtless owe the recently-
introduced “ bonzer,” most probably a corruption
of “bonanza.” Ancient Greek has given us “spon-
dulix” as a slang term for money, and “tug”
comes from the Latin. “Prog” for food is
Greek; “lam” or “lambast” (to beat) is Latin;
and so on.
THE GREATER HALF.
UNCLE : “I hear yer gain to get married, Ned. How are yer
goin' to manage ? Yer can't earn enough to keep yerself yet."
NED : “I can almost, uncle; an' I think a missus would help
me out."
“ Itan” : Is there a town in the world with
a shorter name than 0.K., situated in Banana-
land? [The Bulletin suggests certain Chinese
towns—Ho in Kan-su province, and Yu and Ju
in Ko-nan. They are shorter because of the fact
that a small letter takes up less space than a capi-
tal. If rivers are eligible, the Y deserves an
honorable place for brevity.]
“ Houseabout ” : During
the big drought I was grafting
for a Victorian squatter. He
kept about 300 broken-mouthed
merino ewes in one of his pad-
docks, dry red volcanic soil with
a shallow clay-pan in one cor-
ner, fence sheep-proof, and no
other water within three
miles. Beginning of
September the water
failed, and not a
shower fell until the
middle of the follow-
ing April, nearly
seven scorehing
months. Sheep were
only watered twice
during that time,
yet 70 per cent,
of them pulled
through.
“ Darius ” : I was yarning with an old
cookie, the other day, and asked him what sort of
men he usually got to assist in getting in his
crops. “ Well,” said he, “ two saisons ago I had
three beautiful min from the Ould Dart. They
didn’t ait very much, and they wor always
workin’. Anny one of thim cud take a bag of
whate under aich arum and walk off wid it.
Dacent-tongued min they wor, too, and cud dis-
coorse on anny subject. But lasht saison I was
ruined,' horse, fut, and artillery. I had three
spalpeens from Sydney. They wor allways aitin’.
They wouldn’t work, and they cudn’t talk. All
they cud say was, ‘Bybuck,’ ‘Straight wire,’ and
‘ Bli’me ’.”
“Hiphen” : In the
bad old days, when Dayles-
ford (Vic.) was better
known as the Jim Crow
Diggings, a large Italian
colony settled there. It is
there now, bub merely in
name. Its descendants are
Australians —and good ones
at that. The names remain,
but everywhere are big blue-
eyed men, whose front desig-
nations are Bob, Jim, and
Bill, but whose surnames
end in “etti.” The pub-
keepers are Rolettis, Sper-
macettis, Garelettis. A
Garibaldi sells the bread, a
Spinozzari dispenses meat,
while most of the dogs
answer to the name of
Carlo. I was thither re-
cently with some pals, when
we happened across a
euchre party and dance.
We were debating as to the
advisability of parting with
our bobs, when the M.C.
informed us that the belle of
the district, one Giulia
Vanezetti, was inside. Be-
fore my eyes rose a vision of
some dark-skinned Italian
signorina, with flashing eyes
and a poniard concealed in
her corsage (whatever that
may be). In three seconds
iny bob was down and the
M.C. was intro-
ducing me. She was a
typical Australian (not that
she was any the worse for
that), with blue eyes and
the fairest of fair hair.
From among the ruins of my
romantic visions, I mumbled
something feeble. “Wishcher
meant it ! ” laughed the sig-
norina Giulia Vanezetti.
They wouldn’t even give me
my bob back, and I couldn’t
find a soul there who took
the least interest in the gon-
dolas of Venice.
• * *
Our black sister Mary
is learning a thing or two.
At Angledool (N.S.W.), the
other day, an aborigine lady
named Mina proceeded, un-
der the Infants’ Protection Act, against a casual
white person for leaving his illegitimate daughter
Emma without means. Certainly, after the P.M.
had nailed up the doors and windows and heard
the evidence in private, he turned little Emma
out with no more means than she had before ; and
that sort of failure is liable to discourage our
black sister.
BANKRUPT.
DE BROWNIE (who has married into a laundry
business, to FitsJones, who has married
into a pub): "By gad, old chap, we’re
dooccd lucky chaps—eh ? If we hadn't
both married money we’d have been hump-
ing our beastly swags by this.”
FITZ JONES: "Bai Jove, no, dear old chap;
YOU might have been humping your swag,
but me, dear boy, no, no!”
DE B.: “Be gad , dear old chap, I believe you're
right. Damme if you’d have had a swag to
hump.”
“ C.X.G.” (from up among the northern
sand of S. Australia): A flock of 1200 Angora
goats passed through here last week on their way
to market at Adelaide. The flock was in charge
of a white man, accompanied by three niggers;
camp equipment was on two camels. But the
feature of the procession was a kangaroo dog,
owned by the white man, which had been brought
up from a pup with the flock, and understood all
their little differences. When the argument
between any two Williams got to butts, the dog
would move up quietly and seize one of the com-
batants by the hmd leg, and the argument would
be left for another time. The flock came
from the Peake station, and were those bred
up by the late E. O. Kempe, of that place.
The first Angoras brought into S. Aus. were
imported by the late Price Maurice from the
Cape in the early 70’s —eight nannies and two
Wms., and cost £4O a head. They were un-
trucked at Tarlee, and taken from there to
Pekina station in a horse dray, a distance of
about ICO miles. P. Maurice made a great
attempt to establish them firmly in that district,
even going to the length of taking away from his
shepherds their common goats, killing them, and
giving them Angoras instead. They were not at
all popular with the shepherds, however, as they
are very poor milkers, giving only enough for
their own young. From Pekina the flock was
shifted to Fourth Creek, another estate of
Maurice’s, where they were bred up for a number
of years. When the owner died, the goats were
sold in due course to realise the estate, and
portion of them were purchased by Kempe, who
raised the present flock at Peake station, near
Warrina, in the far north of S.A.
* * * •
“D.S.M.”: Ran across a traveller the
other day humping a Matilda almost as big as
himself. In fact, it was within a pound or so of
his own weight; when weighed it tipped the scale
at 1211bs. Carrying a swag like that is no lazy
work, yet this man was offered a job and refused
it. After a deal of persuasion he was induced to
show me the contents of Matilda, which included
a boot-last (weight about 81bs.), a hammer, two
chisels, four suits of clothes, an overcoat, prayer-
book, two old Bulletins, knives, pipes, and
various sundries, all of which had seen better
days. He even carried an alarm clock and
an old pair of lady's corsets. He maintained a
strict silence as to his intentions with regard to
the corsets, but I believe they were honor-
able. Some time back I met a man with
just such a swag, but he had his load packed on
two dogs, and all he carried was himself and his
pipe. His two billy-cans were hanging round the
dogs’ necks. “A good idea,” he said. The
dogs seemed to think differently.
• # • •
“ Gip ” : Is it usual for “ English ” goose-
berries to grow wild in parts of Australia ? Up
here, near the Snowy, where the Federal capital
is going to be, there is a mountain side, rough and
stony and far away from any homestead, that is
covered with the fruit. Creamy clematis in lovely
profusion clings to the bushes, and it is by tearing
this aside that the finest fruit is got at. About
Christmas-time the gooseberries ripen. They are
large and deliciously sweet, and thousands of
parrots and other birds feed on them. The oldest
and stupidest inhabitant doesn’t know how they
got there.
IN THE GOD-FOBSAKEN WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you seen the latest papers, read the god-forsaken
news
That I’m travelling down the river with some god-forsaken
ewes?
Meeting god-forsaken bagmen tramping round the dismal
land,
With a god-forsaken billy in my god-forsaken hand ;
Sewing god-forsaken patches on my long-neglected pants,
Breathing nasty brimstone language on the god-forsaken
ants;
Calling at the Mulga stations on the god-forsaken mend,
Catching god-forsaken crawfish in the god-forsaken bend
While the god-forsaken squatter, with a god-forsaken dog,
Hunts the god-forsaken rabbits from the god-forsaken
log,
And his god-forsaken wethers bog and shuffle in the
tanks,
And his god-forsaken mortgage keeps on growing at the
banks;
Past the “ hardy, bronzed selector,” making god-forsaken
tracks
For the god-forsaken lawyer to raise money on his stacks ;
Read the god-forsaken papers, kill the god-forsaken flies,
While the station boundary riders tell me god-forsaken
lies
Of their god-forsaken horses and about their station girls,
And their god-forsaken beauty, till my kokum fairly
whirls.
But I think this news is musty in the god-forsaken West,
So I think I’d better give it a long, god-forsaken rest.
I could tell you more about it in this god-forsaken rhyme,
But I haven’t, on my honor, got the god-forsaken time.
N.B.W.
WALFRE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
One of the Bucolic Persons: There is one
weak point in your argument. The high rates on manu-
factured goods are paid by the local consumer, but he
only pays on what he uses. The loss caused by charging
unprofitably low rates on farm produce is a loss not only
on what we consume, but on what we export. In other
words, we are taxed to pay an indirect bonus on exported
wheat, so that it may be exported cheaply enough to
stand about lid. a bushel freight and other charges to
England and still compete in the English market. Of
course, while the manufacturing population that buys it
is in England instead of here, that can’t be helped, but
it makes the agricultural industry a parasite none the
less. You say that yourself when you allege : “If the
charge was the same on wheat as on machinery there
would be no wheat to carry.” The wheat industry, you
say, depends on this indirect bonus—which Tub Bul-
letin objects to mainly because it is Protection put
on by Freetraders who lie about it and deny its
existence, and because the progress of the assisted
wheat industry is always quoted as showing how
an industry can rise under Freetrade conditions
George 11. : Tns Bulletin’s words were: “ The repay-
ment of the publio debt is the transfer from private
capitalists to the people of all Australia of some
£235,000,000 of property yielding an annual income
of over £8,300,000.” And The Bulletin can see no
reason why that repayment should be impossible.
J.B.P.: Inferior. Nym : Subject good; verse
not nearly so good Jagged Edges: It would have
been all right if you hadn’t run so painfully short of
rhymes in verses IV. and VI Nimrod: Your
argument (put shortly) is that the farmer gets his
wheat, &c., carried at unpayable rates because the reduc-
tion is no good to him, and that he clamors for
cheap freights because he gets nothing out of them
T.A.: “Hymn from the Depth ” lacks fire and energy.
.. ..J.P.: “Apart ”is only one more of many vague and
cloudy yearnings after a kindred soul James Roberts :
“As Good a Man as You ” has a few (too few) good lines
....F.J.E. : Have doubts about the originality of
“ Jock” Eungella: “Street Galls” declined R.W.:
“ Satiety ” rather high-flown verse, in long, easy, lazy,
metre.... Ah Ohow : Rather too rugged Iona: Very
commonplace murder done by a parson Tonga-
tera: “ Autumn ” was the only one that nearly
got through, and it died away at the post
Yelrom : Dry bones.... Ruby: Such a pale little story,
we’re almost afraid to send it back by post Driveller :
Very well said; but you had little to say F.J.0.:
“ Silver’s Brother " hangs on too unpleasant a morsel....
W.F.R.: Smart, but unsatisfactory Lock 6 M.: Third-
class stuff Mary M.: Not nearly good enough....
AnnisG.: Both unsuitable... Smith : Sorry for yourplight.
Neither is up to our mark Gus A.: A neatly-versiiied
nothing Foster O : Such laborious humor defeats its
own object Phoenix: Not well enough told Mark
M. : Yes, there is promise in them Dicker: You
should learn to spell first.. ..J.M.S.: Poetic, but awk-
wardly versified Gip: Pretty good, but you’ve anti-
climaxed it by giving Jess a successor Tom Donohue :
Too formless and pointless A.O.A. : Lamentable lack
of skill.... Leonard J. : Insufferably dull Wanderer :
No print value.. ..Broda R.: Rather weak and ineffec-
tive Mainmast: Went promptly by the board
A.G.A. : Sorry no use to us 0.T.J.L.: Destroyed ac-
cordingly F.L. : But Morpheus isn’t a “ nymph,” and,
in any case, you mean Somnus.. ..C.0.H.: Lively, but too
crude Bamboo: Not up to your usual level
W. Brenta: “Kid” shows your usual lack of finish....
Ben Isuf: Ranges from very good to very middling
Appin : What is meant is that no payment on any other
account will be made while any receipt remains unre-
turned. “ Australian M.P.” too prosy and matter-of-
fact. Other verse much better. Story not quite up to
mark... .0.T.F.: Rubbishy and incoherent.... A. Madden :
Not enough in it Varchoel: Never quite succeeds in
being funny N.M.8.: Painfully true, but hardly well
enough put together Oliver: Very weak and unin-
teresting....Nilgo : Has glimmers of merit Kingsley :
You do not show much gift....W.M. : Very near the
mark Australian: “Dirge” embodies a great truth.
Pity it is too rugged for publication.. ..Fosco: Verse
isn’t up to the level of your patriotism G.W.J.: “Go
on the Land ” has a streak of madness in it—not first-
class madness either.. .A. 8.: “ Keep it Down” declined...
L.S.D.: Old American joke. That never happened in
North Queensland.... A.T.R.: “ Sorrento ” came within
a shade of success Francis L. : A rough piece of work,
with traces of strength Prodigal: Rather feeble
and conventional Hera: Poetic, but rather meaning-
less W.P.8.: Not worth print G.A.T. : Spoilt by
such matter-of-fact terms as “passport.” T.W.F.:
Verse too poor Ruth M. B. : Has good points,
but suffers by strongly inviting comparison with
Milton’s “L’Allegro.” W.C.K.: Moderate merit
only Bill: Reasonably well-written, but otherwise
unsatisfactory J. 5.1.: That story about the inner
workings of the Statistical Office is too —too — too thin....
A.E.: “Parable” declined. Too much “Yea, verily”
makes it wearisome H.T.: “ Dido ” rolls a good deal
in Homeric metre, but she is off our beat Norman:
Burned them accordingly, but did it reluctantly....
Hack: Full of patriotism, but too rugged Oairfield :
“ Cruiser ” is vigorous but crude, and it is only a loud
thinking of the old, old thoughts Kaban: Well, it
isn’t very good E.E.: “Arcady” has poetical ideas,
but rather roughly put together K.: Not taking any
chances with “Just Friends.” Jean J.: They don’t
come near our standard Stanley E. : Rather lame and
tame Eungella: “Curlew” has glimmers of merit.
Other unintelligible Harold W.: True to life, but very
badly versified Diogenes: Sorry they are no use to
u5....J.G.D.: Some truth in it, but it is badly turned
0ut....W.0.5.: Rather slack of interest Roderick
Dhu: No print-value Bat: Lamentable doggerel
Can-Teen: Smart, but belated.... M. B.: Rather feeble....
Stony: “Maud” is a bit too “strong.” Ku-Klux:
“Bill’sßide” doesn’t justify its existence Rita S. :
“Euclid” is much below the mark F.H.B. : They
don’t get above mediocrity The Carrier: Too rough a
piece of work San Remo :On the Jap subject, good ;
but we’ve said all that before Quan : Objection antici-
pated. Smells are “ off.” A.C.M.: If a man has been II
years in Australia and shows an appreciation of Australian
conditions, The Bulletin would count him an Australian.
If he were white, English-speaking, in Australia only one
year or one day, but showed a full sympathy with
Australian aspirations, he might be also reckoned
Australian. It’s a matter not of birth but adoption....
Unsuitable : R.J.H., G.W., J.A.S., T.B.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
W.F.A.: Afraid you’ll never be an artist.... Master E.D.:
Not a hope in the whole batch T.T.T.: Sketches were
quite valueless. You enclosed no stamps for return, so
they were destroyed. Your insufficiently stamped letter
cost 2d. for deficient postage Tom G. Roberts: You
haven’t the art instinct of your namesake R.R.: Stale
jokes, and drawings not up to the mark W.N.: Rudi-
mentary drawing Unsuitable: Buis, P.P.K., D.M.G.,
J.P.G.


-^r*^€r s -to
■^riryjeKS
In A r gS
4ro*v> Weefc; 1
i *’ |
To weeX , ]
)Q
lower a«7 f
> Ci\|?Ablc. of
rl'€C 'l yy b>. Jn
-ti)f 'Aty>s
And qoW'.bfo "fbucl^M7£^ trjb^uve. —
v <
iimwi (7 U
*Tbe Wyun\ 'wj I
(iovT Model '
is in v»ness I
-fKO»n l
MelWne’ I
(owh+ry l
«S % QOO<X /Oho pit? ortwo 3 few* t3ft Press. ..
_ "The Corn it,
-id be 3k
Very
'fee •
fily ! \ C
" HoW
CV>Y/ ? UH ~t£e red COWS X
—-Tell nje wljen \ ■,.
WMtf' -flannel heyi" your SK'i*j . <f e c <f+<* £ f V
■fe
?^&r f 4 «f/S
"ip [income] ‘f&dfi'o* is
|>rij«*r lris»> si*,d*rd, *W« ymH V»
€njWrassed IOOK por* i7«lf» ,
in emergency : A r^ u s |/"
•■ f> CoursQy -
vt r r«r?1 “/
l§e &$e of' /
Cjo^ttoi^e, R 4 ? or 'j ,»
<®lj€ 'fljle ”fo o.ai'T"'.
Jr order Jo
pirls Vole Jtjz buttle y
baK'ei' io T>e «Tilixe4 Jo ..
distribute political li ferajHYo.
ser 5 er _
. «
PKofctiTor? & |^hdTip<.
Are -io effervesce es\cl, like a S*i4Utr~
P°«*"
He\b 'tWo WovtocV)
cfot">«4 "HU deceived to
p»S
only
K >h Hfc»b«*»ro«. J
ţ
LARGELY T. BENT.


a 4 ,
cr is is ° f f«t ,,, */*t man
i/>. ° *<s /.•» "? " , ‘fee rf -
• e s treet 6 l ‘e ~ U P- tfte ro ,
** C( - *«<f ( / rori 4f t* /s , *•«
Petf th ri .* r9 *>C
p f e »»ce
. art \mp° rter
ar to TW convu»* ed
*” ,,K
sorrow JOW
Ito^'
he tries strategy.
At
■va» a , rtV 5 *
And here comes the moral. The
Bulletin stepped in with it. “Sir,
> within the last ten minutes you have given
'T complete demonstration of the folly of the
' importing policy. You have been reaching round the
globe, in the shape of yourself, for a lowly thrl-ppence In
order to get that thri’ppeoce, you have ruined at least
worth of raiment.”
SEEN IN THE STREET. An Incident with a Moral.


\
Odol keeps more mouths
healthy and more teeth sound
than any other preparation in
the world.
Price 2',6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for
several months (the half-size bottle 1,6).
Of all Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is definitely announced now that
Kingston will seek re-election at the next Federal
contest.
A Queensland official document shows that
H. Beak recently leased 28 square miles in Hades.
He can have them as far as this paper is concerned.
If a new Judge is appointed to the Federal
High Court this session, the choice will probably
rest among four men—lsaacs, Wise, Higgins, and
Inglis Clarke.
Over £6OO is now in hand as a testimonial
to the Owe’Sullivan, N.S.W. ex-Ministcr for
Works. If you are going to Face the Dawn,
you can do it much more confidently with £6OO
than without.
SENATOR DAWSON.
Mr. Francis Beresford McMahon, actuary
of the Hobart Savings Bank, retires on pension,
with 52 years continuous service to his credit.
About 37 successive officials like that would have
seen a bank all through the Christian era.
W. H. Duncan, M.L.A. of S.A., who died
on the Ormuz on May 12, shortly after the vessel
left Colombo, and was committed to the deep, is
the third S.A. legislator who has died at sea in
the same neighborhood. The first was George
Kingston, and the second J. C. Bray.
It was left to a presumably educated Syd-
ney medical man to plumb the lowest depth of
slavish adulation on Hempire Day. The medico
in question, who probably depends wholly on
Australians for his livelihood, had a flagpole on
his suburban lawn. At half-mast floated the Aus-
tralian flag, higher up the Union Jack, and above
all the Crimson Sun of Japan ! Banzai!
Book-Arcadian Cole, of Melbourne, has
occupied the last few months, in conjunction with
his tame editor, in compiling a Book of Liars, to
be published in about a fortnight. The volume
will begin with Ananias and continue to De
Rougemont. A special chapter might be devoted
to the Six Hatters Lie and the Petnana Myth—
not to mention Tozer’s Maid. But The Bulletin
bets it won’t.
“ Kotuku ” : The death at Wellington
(M.L.), at the age of 85, of Amos Burr recalls an
interesting incident of Pacific history. Burr
arrived in 1840 in the New Zealand Co.’s surveying
ship Cuba. A fortnight later the Cuba was sent off
to the Chatham Islands with the co.’s attorney,
R. D. Hanson (afterwards Chief Justice of South
Australia), to endeavor to complete a pur-
chase of the group from the Maori owners,
the Ngatimutunga tribe, who had
almost finished eating the original
proprietors. Hanson completed
the job to his own and the
co.’s satisfaction, and
the directors in Lon-
don had almost
agreed with a
Hamburg firm
to colonise
the Chathams
from Ger-
many, when
the Colonial
Office waved
its arms with
aloud whoop,
and warned
the co. off
the grass, in-
asmuch as the
Chathams
were outside
the latitude
and longitude
of its charter.
The storm
raised then did
not subside un-
til the co.’s
activity ceased
with the surren-
der of its charter.
Amos Burr had
both arms blown
off when the Cuba
was firing a salute in
Port Nicholson, prior
to leaving on the expedi-
tion to the Chathams, but
that did not prevent him run-
ning the first ferry and house of
amusement on the Manawatu River,
and living a jovial life for 06 more years.
An interesting heavy-weight championship
event took place in Ballarat on Saturday, Premier
Seddon, of Maoriland, and Premier Bent, of Vic-
toria, being the contestants. Seddon got on a
penny-in-the-slot weighing machine, and turned
the indicator at 19st. 51b. Bent followed suit, but
the indicator only showed 18st. 131 b., so Bent re-
tired defeated.
Hugh Dixson, who gave £5OOO to Sydney
Y.M.C.A. the other day, is in the habit of throw-
ing about cheques of £lO,OOO, £5OOO, and similar
amounts when a cause hits him in the right place.
He is president of a tobacco-manufacturing busi-
ness, which he and his father worked up from
very small beginnings, is an Australian by birth,
and was schooled in Sydney.
The unkissed Gladstone Dowie has been
appointed by Yoliva “Colonel of the Zion
Guards,” and, as such, this dutiful son (who seems
to suspect Pa of having kept an injurious and
selfish monopoly of the kisses) was lately threaten-
ing that “if the First Apostle set foot in Zion City,
he would lock him in the secret vault of the Zion
chamber, where he could howl at his heart’s con-
tent.” It is his own parent that the unkissed
specimen is alluding to.
Senator Dawson, once the stalwart Andy
Dawson whose seven days Premiership of Queens-
land was an oasis in the desert of the Continuous
Ministry, cuts a poor figure standing on a public
platform as the apologist and sycophant of
Melbourne tote-man Wren. Wren may—or may
not—possess many of the untheological virtues,
but his business is an essentially illegal one ; and
is, moreover, one of the two great curses afflicting
the workers of the community.
Hua, the Maori upstart, who recently
blossomed out as a prophet, is fast losing his
mana, and has now but a handful of followers
who are helping him to eat various tribes out of
house and home. The police have discovered that
the dusky gentleman has “ done time ” for theft,
but that isn’t the worst trouble. Rua has
guaranteed that Jesus Christ and Edward VII
will be at Gisborne this month, and the fact has
leaked out that Edward YII hasn’t even started
yet.
Died in Sydney, a few days back, during a
visit, F. H. Browne, a Victorian Congregational
parson, who worked in the S.M. Herald office
over 50 years ago. Browne and Sam Cook, now
general manager of the Herald, had been in the
same office in England, Browne as boy, Cook as
apprentice. Browne came out first, and Cook,
when he arrived, found a familiar devil on the
premises. It was largely owing to John Fairfax
that his devil went on to Camden College, and
threw up the inky business. He was a “white
man ” all through.
Professor David, who tries hard to breathe
life into the very serious-minded Sydney Univer-
sity, has been granted five months off to visit
Mexico, where there is a geographical congress.
He promises to inspect the Indian coal fields
cn route, and also to endeavor to soothe Mount
Vesuvius. Further, it is his intention to visit
Frisco and demand a reason for recent happen-
ings, and the earthquake will have to offer a
satisfactory explanation or come outside.
Some men manage to compress a lot of
incident into quite a small amount of time. To be
on a steamer when it was run down and sunk, and
to escape just in time to dodge the fate of the
foundering ship is a good enough “crowded
hour” for most men. But to come ashore and
within another 12 hours to get drunk, and fight
three policemen, and get fined 10s. for the drunk,
and to get three months for the fight, is rushing
things. Yet a Sydney fireman recently did all
this. Run down, taken off, taken up and run in,
so to speak.
The recent passing of Vic. mining man
Bailey recalls, the fact that David Syme had a
notion of making his pile on the diggings when he
first struck Victoria, and, in ’56, he was one of a
shindykit of six that pegged out a quartz claim
almost at the very spot where Bailey and co.
afterwards made their wealth. But the Syme
partyhad no luck. After it had spent £l3OO in
prospecting, buying machinery, and so forth, its
claim was jumped, and the Warden, after much
heated argument, adjudged the jumpers to be in
lawful possession. That Warden got a few for
himself in the Age from the hand of David’s elder
brother, Ebenezer, but possibly the house of
Syme now thinks it has cause to revere his
memory. Many mining investors who have met
the wild cat in all its aspects wish that they, like
David, had been driven out of the cat-infested
industry when they were young, and driven into
a profitable newspaper.
’TWAS IN THE LONE PACIFIC.
“ He died of worry about a dinner.”
“ What! Was he the chef!”
"No—the menu!”
If Irvine tries for a Federal seat in Vic-
toria he’ll probably find that he isn’t Iceberg size,
but only a hailstone.
Old George Lansell’s Victorian property
has been valued for probate purposes at £695 00U.
The old man spent a lot of money during the past
few years in sending shafts down to record depths
after gold. Fifteen years ago his estate would
have been proved at over a million. He was
always a clever old man, and he managed to die
just at the stage when his property will pay least
in death duties. The chances are that in a year
or two, a whole barrow-load of his scrip, now
worth mere shillings, will be saleable for pounds—
that is unless old George has taken all his luck
with him.
Charlotte Gibson Tyrer, the “ Melbourne
heiress,” who ran up bills at many shops in the
city, got old man Belson involved in numerous
legal difficulties, and got three months herself
from the Brighton magistrates, was last week
“run-in” on a charge of plain, unromantic lar-
ceny. She had been working as a barmaid, and
numerous missing articles are alleged to have been
traced to her possession. Charlotte is a pretty
little girl with a saucy, turned-up nose. She is
6ft. 3in. high, plump and glib, and has large,
honest eyes that anyone would trust with cash
down.
“ Pressman ” : I was once present in the
Criminal Court at Darlinghurst when the late
Charles Bull got a man off with two minutes’ im-
prisonment without “hard.” The culprit was
put in the dock for doing “ grievous bodily harm.”
“Your Honor,” said Bull, “the prisoner pleads
guilty. The injured man made base proposals to
prisoner’s daughter; he went in search of him,
and floored him right off.” “I don’t see how he
could have done less,” said the late Judge Coffey.
“ Two minutes’ imprisonment.” The proper
official started to take the prisoner to gaol to
work out his term, but the sentence expired on
the stairs, and he was disgustedly turned loose.
The late Edmund Spicer, of Adelaide, left
behind him plenty of visible reasons why he died
rich. These were his business accounts, made
out on scraps cut off the ends of the accounts
which other people sent in to him. The writer
has one of them before him —a flabby bit, about
the length of a cigar, on which Spicer’s ill-paid
clerk had written out an intimation that £534 was
due to his saving boss for fencing wire.
Malcolm M'Eacharn, just back in Mel-
bourne from Japan, is a big shareholder in one of
the Tokio tramway companies. The Japs gave
three foreign shindykits tramway concessions in
that city, and smiled placidly when the three
competitors, as is the custom with Private Enter-
prise, started cutting each other’s throats by
lowering their fares. Presently the three com-
panies came to an understanding, and set out
to recoup themselves by raising the fares. But
Yoshiwara wasn’t taking any rise. The Govern-
ment merely passed an order-in-council that,
the companies having reduced their fares of their
own freewill, they would remain reduced till
further orders. Now, supposing anyone in Aus-
tralia treated foreign capital one-tenth as badly as
these brown swindlers —our chivalrous allies—have
done, think of the language of Stinking Fish and
Co. ! !
Concerning Dowie :
Hair-raising yarns were told, with more or less
truth, of Profit Dowie when the Zionites of Sydney
and Melbourne, with much objurgatory formula,
renounced the devil and all his works. It was
alleged that out of 3,578,000 dollars sent to Dowie for
investment in Zion stock only 1,000,000 dollars were
really invested, the rest being Dowie-ised ; and that only
250,006 dollars out of 2,884,000 dollars subscribed for the
Zion City laceworks went to help that factory. Dowie
was said to have arranged to take to Mexico as his wives
“ the seven most beautiful girls in Zion.” Most of Zion’s
maidens are lean, but probably Dowie picked the plump
ones. Another weird story concerned a vault beneath
one of Dowie’s houses. A double door of chilled steel
stood at the end of a secret passage, of which Elijah
alone held the keys. Within, the vault was luxuriously
carpeted (ah !)—its walls were silk lined (o-o-oh !) —and
there was in it a magnificent double bed (00-ooh !)—with
the downiest of pillows and cushions. This dove-cote
cost 25,000 dollars. The dwindling Zionites (all save one
who, being named Smith, does not count) renounced
Dowie with a fierce Whereas and a vituperative There-
fore. The Profit, who recently alleged that his legs were
decaying in Mexico but that they had been divinely re-
paired, is selling at a very low figure these days.
There is a sad degeneracy in abusiveness
among the leaders of Zion. Even Voliva’s foetid
fury never quite reached the rank, malodorous
picturesqueness of Dowie’s flights. Now the Aus-
tralasian mantle has fallen upon Pastor M’Cullagh,
a once-upon-a-time roarer among tl»3 Seventh-
Day - Adventists. M'Ctillagh’s attempts at
vituperation are poor pale things. “Damnable,”
“abominable,” and “adulterous” -are the worst
words he knows. The Zion battle in Australia
has become about as colorless as a controversy be-
tween two Archbishops. Even in the stormy
Melbournejmeetings, the most truculent epithets
were those flung at M’Cullagh by a mere un-
trained outsider—a light-weight amateur who
ought to have been struck on the jaw by the first
curse and knocked right out.
The death of Michael Davitt, the Irish
patriot, removes one of the finest characters of his
generation. He was the son of a little Irish
farmer who was evicted by a grasping and loafing
land-owner because he couldn’t pay an impossible
rent. When he was less than six years old his
mother begged to support herself and him in the
streets of London. When he was eight he was
toiling hopeless hours for an almost invisible
wage in a Lancashire cotton mill, and there
he lost his right arm in a machinery acci-
dent while still a child. Yet, with all his
disadvantages, he grew up to be one of the con-
spicuous figures of British politics. England sen-
tenced him in 1870 to the usual reward of the Irish
patriot—ls years’ penal servitude—the same Eng-
land which always had a casual tear to spare for
Garibaldi and Kossuth and Kosciusko, and other
foreign insurrectionaries with strange names and
strange hats and loud red shirts. Yet Ireland has
a better case than Poland, and there was more to be
said for Davitt and his friends than for Kosciusko.
England has made Ireland a place that is unfit to
live in, if there is any evidence in the fact that
half its population has vanished. Russia has
made Poland a place where existence is possible,
if there is any evidence in its fast-growing popu-
lation, in its ever-rising industries, and in the
fact that it has become under Russian rule
the most densely-peopled and richest part
of the Czar’s empire. Ireland has had
some semblance of political liberty and no
victuals—nothing but rack-renting English land-
lords and industries ruined by Freetrade; the
Russian policy was to give Poland no semblance
of political liberty, but to build up its industries,
and to see, as far as the limited Russian intelli-
gence knew how, that Poland had a water-tight
raff over its head, possessed its own bit of farm
la ad, and enjoyed its three square meals a day.
B at England could never understand why Ireland
o’ ijected to being rack-rented, evicted, and starved
v hile it enjoyed the priceless blessing of sending
105 members to the House of Commons ; and when
1 dichael Davitt failed to see things from Eng-
land's point of view, it sentenced the one-armed
patriot to 15 years.
OUR FRIEND GEORGE AGAIN.
Several complaints have been received from the suburbs
of the practice indulged in by some wanton or careless
individual in dropping poisoned morsels on the public! from the suburbs
thoroughfares. —Sydney TELEG[?]APII
There has been a remarkable fatality
hanging round one Australian life-insurance office,
the Colonial Mutual, during the last few months.
First, one of its London directors (ex-Premier of
Queensland Herbert) died ; then, one after the
other, its general manager (Leslie Park), its
actuary, its London manager, and two or three
officers. Next the strain told on the assistant
general-manager, and he had to retire; and finally
(the whole office has daily prayers that it is
finally), one of the head-office directors, J. F.
Levien, died the other day.
TO DOVVIE (A PLANTATION HYMN).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1100 ! come along yous niggers, dar, an’ hoi’ de big
camp-meetin’—
Hurry yaller gals an’ copper coons 1
De Lord am soon a-comin’ an’ I reckon dat de seatin’
’lll be jes’ more ’n crowded wid galoons.
Doan’ you wait, you nigger 1 You can’t grow no bigger !
Step right out an’ tote you’se’f along—
Hi, you little varmint! Whar’s dat weddin’-garmint
Come an’ sing de Hallelujah Song !
Drop dem does, Elijah !
’Lijah, drop dem does I
Climb down off'n de chariot an’ han’ me down youah hose !
Pass along youah halo
’Fore de go-cart goes —
Drop dem does, Elijah — 'Lijah, drop dem does !
De Debbil am a-waitin’ for all dose dat miss de meetin’—
So hurry dar, ma honeys, while you can !
Millenyum ’ll soon be hyar, an’ poor ol’ Time be skeetin’,
An’ you can’t get saved on no instalment plan.
Doan’t you keep a-waitin’—lookin’ out for Satan—
He’ll be hyar somewharin de throng ;
Leave de cake and candy—Paradise is handy,
So come an’ sing de Hallelujah song !
Drop dem does, Elijah !
’Lijah, drop dem does!
Climb out ob dat chariot an’ join de sinners’ rows ;
Voliva ’ll drive it
Whar dat Glory shows—
So, drop dem does, Elijah — 'Lijah, drop dem does!
Hurry, coons, an’ listen to dat angel band a-singin’—
Heah ol’ Gabriel tootin’ ob de horn !
See dat resurrected host from Zion City wingin’—
Wingin’ for de regions ob de Morn !
Hike ’im off’n de chariot!—wicked ol’ Iscariot—
Tote ’im to dat Place whar he belong—
Off to Hebben glidin’, doan’ you go backslidin’ —
Come an’ sing de Hallelujah Song 1
Drop dem does, Elijah !
’Lijah, drop dem does !
We must get to Hebben shore, ’fore dat Trumpet blows I
Climb into de Chariot,
Sam an’ Pete an' Mose —
Drop dem does, Elijah — 'Lijah, drop dem does!
vio-
O. C. CABOR.


Brickfield Hill to Brickfield Hill.
A Story of Progress, PlucK, and Perseverance, in Five Chapters.
Hill
234, Brickfield
' 18 5 A->
/ ~ -
Georoe Street
‘ fmo or a. ®iompßumr,
WHOLSMLB AND RETAIL
Mlßia & W©©iL!LSEI 2HMIPBIB*
IMPORTER CF . 17
Bonnets, Stays, Shawls, Parasols, Prints, Muslins, Lace, Slops,
Blankets, BabygLinen, &c.
COUNTRY STORES SUPPLIED—TERMS CASH.
'y. /^
_y
-yy
y
yj>
r>
y
sX
■ V~r- X
yx
p.
y? ** Ss \
%
1852
Anthony Hordern's at BricKfield Hill.
Anthony Hordern's at the HaymarKet.
1901
1901
Anthony* Hordern’s Burnt Out.
Anthony Hordern’s temporarily
accommodated at the Exhibition
Building'.
1905 Back to Brickfield Hill.
v
l i
Ui-
II
wsamSSMAi
BJEMmUMiI
iH:i{«
Witwn.iri;
! ; •■'
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS js? &
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
THE j*
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCETY, Limited.
Completed NEW BUSINESS for the Year
ended 31st December, 1905 £922,400 19 4
New Annual Premium £35,608 7 4
Accumulated Funds, 31st December, 1905.. £2,990,532 17 3
Annual Income exceeds £460,000 0 0
The Contracts of the Society are of a liberal
and comprehensive nature, and its financial
position is thoroughly sound and solid.
Branch Offices established In all the Australian States,
New Zealand, South Africa, and Great Britain,
4
PRINCIPAL OFFICE
419 & 421 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A., Acting Secretary.
When You Take
Photographs
You naturally desire to take them with the simplest and most
economical apparatus that ensures satisfactory results.
9\9
0
T £* KODAK
METHOD..
Meets all requirements. It is
easy, certain, and perfect.
Can be worked either with
Plates or Films, and the Films
Can be
DEVELOPED
in Daylight.
We are the Sole Agents in Australia for “ Kodak Limited,’
all their Specialities, and all Dealers’ Supplies.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
BAKER & ROUSE "TSS-
-375 & 377 6EOR6E ST., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, and Adelaide.


<1
C^ e
Si'ut/ruL
4
4MHM-VW 1 f
'JwxxjbxMiM,
JXAfttSU-
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN
OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
“craVcme ms’
lisK Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 5, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
The attempted assassination of the Spanish
King and his bride had awful consequences to
very many, but the luck of the Bourbons—and in
the matter of avoiding assassination they have a
freat deal of luck—stood by Alphonso and Queen
!na. Probably no royal race has been more shot
at or made the target of more miscellaneous explo-
sives, yet they have come off reasonably well.
The first of the family who climbed on any throne
worth mentioning, the Henry IV. that Wallace
Brownlow used to do so well, was murdered —I
don’t remember very distinctly how, but it was
done at close quarters. Louis XVI. was shot
with an axe, so far as I can recall. But every-
body who aimed at a Bourbon sovereign, at
20 yards range, has missed him, though there
were three royal families of the race to shoot at,
and 317 years in which to take steady aim. The
last Alphonso, father of the piesent King, was
fired at twice, and if the germ of consumption had
been as bad a shot as his other enemies, he might
have been living to this day. The present
Alphonso begins early to dodge the homicidal
maniac ; he is only a few days over 20.
On Saturday morning Spain’s Consul in this
State (Major Freehill) held a reception at the
Australia in honor of the Wedding, but the bomb
cables had their effect, and at the explosion of the
first champagne cork the guests started nervously.
As all the horde of Consuls were talking of the
King’s escape, nerves were “ in,” and had anyone
entered carrying a bouquet, a waiter would have
run him through with a corkscrew on the spot.
One doesn’t know (or forgets) how numerous are
the Nations and Nationettes until one sees a well-
attended Consular reception. By their clothes ye
shall know them—the Consuls. Besides the roll-
up of Consuls, there was a great muster of R.C.
clergy, beginning with the crimson-clad Cardinal.
Mrs. Freehill was present, and received a fairly
large number of ladies, who, if it hadn’t
been for the bomb, would have talked royal
trousseaux and fair Ena. Consul Freehill is one
of the most uniformed men in the State with his
consular, church, and army dignities. He didn’t
have them all on this time, however—was, in fact,
in plain morning dress.
At Monday’s races at Randwick Mrs. E. P.
Simpson took the vote for art-like dressing. Her
achievement was a black velvet, trained, with
horizontal bands of wide silk braid on the skirt,
bolero of velvet and white furs. Her black
straw hat with black feathers was said by an
expert to be the top-note of style, but I thought
it had been in the awful tram collision on Satur-
day. Mrs. Ewan Frazer, in petunia chiffon and
velvet, with a tea-tray hat all humility on the top
surface (no trimming), and all pride and a wealth
of shaded feathers under one side of the brim, had
a right to a front stall, in Vanity Fair. One
winsome stranger was all in soft crimson,
from toque to toe, with white fox furs.
The Northcote Ex. came out for a while.
Mr. Willie Kelly, in ti-tree green clothes,
formed one of a tableau of three, of which Mr.
G. H. Reid and Colonel Stanley were the other
two. “An interesting composition,” remarked a
painter person of them, “but some of the figures
are out of drawing.” Antique ornaments are
“in” again and Mrs. Severn wore one —an odd
amber necklace—with a white gown. A small
child, dressed in a frock with six inches of white
silk skirt and much costly lace, had neither shoes
nor stockings on its mottled violet limbs. The
mother who would dress her offspring in such
guise on such a nipping day deserves a monu-
ment of jackass skulls raised in her honor, with a
kookaburra eating a mule on the summit thereof.
Mrs. Shipman, the brown-eyed, fair-haired
little American who is here with her husband,
Marie Narelle’s pilot star, was playing in “The
Man from Mexico ” (she has played every woman
part in it) when her husband first saw her. Talk-
ing of Miss Narelle, the visitor says she looked
real cute going shopping in New York, wearing a
jade-green velvet walking suit and toque of black
and green. The singer has ebony-black hair,
and when singing at the Waldorf she
wore in it several white combs set with tur-
quoises. Like Ada Crossley, Marie Narelle has
developed and perfected a taste for artistic
dressing, coiffing and posing. The Shipmans’
meeting with Marie, and consequent taking-on of
the Narelle tour, was accidental. Mr. Lemmone
couldn’t see his way clear to manage the cam-
pa!gn to its sweet end, and the singer had just got
a letter from the flautist to that effect.
But it is on the Earthquake that Mrs. Shipman
chirrups best at present. “We had got into the
St. Irancis Hotel only the night before, and at
8 o clock I was sitting in the grand corridor watch-
ing the millionairesses sweeping out, all frou-
frou and jewel gleams, to the opera. It was
grand opera night, you know, and every woman
that trailed out to an automobile looked as if the
St. Francis was just It as a background for Her
Distinction. The ’Quake occurred at 13 past 5
in the morning. Another nail in No. 13’s coffin !
All the official clocks in the city stopped at that
figure. All elevators in the hotels fell with the
first shock, so one had to run down those miles of
staircases—they seemed like miles. I saw one of
the bejewelled women of the night before rush
out of the hotel flushed with triumph because
shed saved three pairs of shoes. But she’d left
a j precious stones on her dressing-table.
And the bell-boys were bumping steel-clamped
trunks down the marble staircases and knocking
out chunks of marble at every bump. Two of our
big trunks, with a lot of Miss Narelle’s property
were m the basement, and my husband offered a
lift boy twenty dollars if he would help in getting
them out. When pay-time came he found he had
nothing smaller than a hundred dollar bill, but
the boy loftily said ‘I can oblige you,’ and gave
him change. Those boys reaped a full-dollared
harvest. We didn’t lose anything but a ham
sandwich.
“The lossesoftheCollier company, though!— one
of the ladies lost 16 hats. Mr. Collier’s 11 trunks
are gone. He is a great dresser, and al-
ways wears his ties, socks and fobs to match. His
hats and ties are on the same color terms, and he
must have felt a Human Discord in the out-of-
tune clothes in which he made the voyage with
us. Talking of men’s clothes—do you know the
street boys here guy Fred for wearing the latest
in hats—little round ones with a low crown ?
Collier wears them also. No, the guying doesn’t
make the men a bit hot about the collar. They
just keep on wearing them. Haven’t you got the
‘pony coats’ here yet ? They’re being w r orn in New
York, and are awfully smart, made of silk or velvet,
perfectly fitting, short on the hips and often
elaborately braided. . . . Haven’t you heard of
Roselle Nott? O, she’s just a peach. My
husband’s brother is manager of the ‘ When
Knighthood was in Flower’ Company in which
she’s leading woman, and he’s thinking of bring-
ing it out here. Ernest Hastings is leading man.”
From a bookstall I picked the April copy of
“ The Smart Set.” It had a prose sketch by Mrs.
Poultney Bigelow. You remember Prof. P. 8.,
the historian, who was in Sydney with his little
canoe nearly a year ago, looking for infor-
mation about Lola Montez for one of his numerous
histories. The writer of the sketch is fortunate
enough to be his wife. He wore very smart ties
and, in spite of the height of the Chair he occupies
at the Boston University, he was a sympathetic
and engaging superman. Well, this sketch is
entitled “Merely Players,” and tells of two
ladies who, to test a theory, wrote to two
London star actors, making appointments for
a meeting. “ I shall wear a large bunch
of pink roses and an ermine toque, and
be walking at the end of Sloan-street, ” wrote
one of the ladies to an actor who is called in the
sketch Fortescue Orme. Then she drove slowly
up and down in her brougham, and as soon as she
saw Orme winding up to keep the assignation, she
dashed off to tell the other coy deceiver. This
one had written to “Peter Bowles,” the
other star, asking him very prettily to tea. In-
stead of going he wrote saying he had a charming
wife, and his home was at such an address, and
asking the writer to call. Now, the curious thing
is that the sketch is an incident from real life.
“ Peter Bowles” is Mr. Hugh Ward, and Mrs.
Bigelow prints his letter slightly disguised. The
lady of the story did call, and she and Mrs. Ward
became great friends.
The sensible soft shirt is catching on. All
the Americans who come here wear it, and
several “ Silvertails, ” as the man who leans
against lamp-posts calls the club man, have
adopted it. Gilded Willie Lawson, who is said to
be now circling the earth in a motor-car, was very
previous with the fashion. A friend of his says he
was fashionably limp about the collar and cuffs
some years ago.
The only daughter of the Mackays, of Wallen-
been station, was married last week to Dr. A.
Campbell, at the Australia. They have taken
the Lambs’ house, at Randwick. She is a sister
of Colonel Kenneth Mackay, and is a pretty,
rather dark little bride. An authority tells me
that her ivory-satin wedding gown was remark-
able for its quality. It could have stood up on its
own merits without any girl inside it, and the
train, when not in action, was like frozen pearl-
billows. There is such a sameness about the
love-honor-and-obey gown that one is glad to
hear of a robe that shows such self-reliance as to
stand alone. One firm made nine glad gowns for
this bride (who is moneyed), and—significant item
—not a corselet robe amongst them. Nearly every
woman who has a corselet skirt and bolero is will-
ing at her afternoon tea to drink perdition to the
style.
Mr. Hugh Dixson, of tobacco and orchid-liouse
fame, is said to be the giver of the £5OOO towards
the building fund of the Y.M.C. A. When Igo
on the land I think I’ll grow tobacco and cigar-
ettes, and wood for pipes. I did intend to raise
onions and potatoes because a man whose land
adjoins mine has rabbits infesting his place, and
my vegetables and his bunnies would dovetail
nicely in the matter of stews. But the Dixson
donation has given me other views.
News of Nora Long’s three years’ engagement
by the Moody Manners Opera Co. will make her
birthplace in Maoriland throw up its hat and
never care whether the head-garment comes down
again or not. Nora came over from her island
home some four years ago and began the strenuous
life of study and struggle in Sydney. Some 18
months back she went to London at the same time
as Eva Mylott. The contralto is about to be mar-
ried, but the soprano is in for grand opera. Miss
Long is a thin, dark-haired girl, with (what is rare
in a thin girl) some dimples and a large store of
energy and optimism. She isn’t more than 20 or
so, yet her portraits make her look older than her
own mother. That mother, by the way, was as
good a singer as her daughter is, only her voice
was never published.
Accounts of Miss Edyth Latimer’s marriage in
London to Mr. W. Haviland, an actor-manager,
tell of a brilliant wedding-breakfast overflowing
with precious gifts, and a list of names thickly
punctuated with Australian appellations. Minia-
ture silver paper horseshoes were thrown for luck
instead of the usual Chinaman’s food. Bride is a
girl from Manly, and beautiful is a word that fits
her better than pretty.
Mr. Atlas Samson Goliath Seddon, Premier of
Maoriland, backs his belief in full cradles with
his sovereign purse. A trefoil of little baldheads
arrived to an amazed parent in M.L. recently,
and the dynamic Richard sent three guineas to
the enterprising mother. If the shamrock hasn’t
shed a petal at the end of a year he will repeat
the golden offering.
A teacher in a Sydney school, run by some very
religious women, lately gave her class of well-
grown girls an essay on the subject, “Freetrade
versus Protection.” She first gave them a few
points to go upbn, stating, among other things,
that no Christian could be other than a Freetrader,
and that farmers were leaving this country in
great numbers on account of Protection. Next
day only two girls brought in essays. One frankly
owned up that she had got her father to write
hers, and a glance at it showed it was very like a
fiscal article in The Bulletin. She was ruled out,
on the ground that her work wasn’t original. The
other girl rose manfully to read her effusion. She
got through the first sentence : “ Protection is be-
lieved in by thoughtful and educated people, only
the lower class and ignorant ones being Free-
traders.” Then the teacher waved a shocked arm
in the air, and said that the geography lesson
would now start.
For the last month I’ve not been able to enter
Paling’s without some pianist or soprano or con-
tralto or just plain crank skipping up to me to
say that Miss Jean Ramsay, who was a popular
singer in Melbourne just ten years ago, and who
accompanied Ada Crossley from the Bluff to
Auckland, married Mr. A. E. Donne, sec. of the
Wellington Woollen Manufacturing Co., not, as I
wrote, Mr. T. E. Donne, chief of the Tourist
Department. These gentlemen are brothers.
Then another Duck, with a portfolio of drawings
under her arm and her hair done with a bellows,
would rise to remark that the other Mrs. Donne
would have won fame as a seascape painter, only,
like the musical Mrs. Donne, she extinguished
herself under that great early Entinguisher—
matrimony. I hope these few carefully-selected
remarks will sort out the respective ladies.
The Fresh Air League Ball occurs on July
3rd. Excellency Rawson and Miss Rawson will
attend.
Lady Le Hunte and her two sisters, the Misses
Clowes, who have been helping Lady Northcote
to live in Government House here, left last
night for Adelaide. The Clowes girls think
Australia “ charming,” and the Birthday
Races “ great fun.” So they were. The
Lady of Many Tails alone would have
made them deserve the description. She is an
Australian girl, quite good-looking, and married
to a naval officer, but she wore an inartistic fur
toque that might have been ’possum or snark or
gazeka, with several furry tails dangling about
her ears. Then there was a nice girl who played
asoubrette part with Johnny Sheridan, and played
it very well. She had a long coat with two great
pockets on the back, and coat and skirt were in
such audible, big check pattern that other women
said she was trying to signal Mars with the cos-
tume.
In spots Her Majesty’s on Saturday night
looked like an Easter parade—not the one they
have at the Show Ground, but the other one they
have at the place where they spend days and
nights calling out “Eyes Front!” and “ Shol’
Ump!” In J.C.W.’s box were the double G.
of the Commonwealth and the single G. of S.
Australia, the short and long of it so far
as Excellencies are concerned; and there was
consequently much military on the premises. In
the circle another dazzling figure was the wife of
Haigh Jackson ; the baritone, out of the cast, sat
beneath the lady’s shadow, and for once looked on
from the front instead of from the stage. Rose
Musgrove was also out of “ The Little Michus ” ;
but she is tripping to Europe.
Early in the proceedings the last lingering doubt
•about the all-wool way to speak the name
of the new Messager piece was routed,
and we knew that it wasn’t all the same as if it
\yere spelled “ The Little My-Cuss.” Something
like a peripatetic sneeze, was how George Lauri
described the real thing. There isn’t as
much philosophy as there is music in the
piece. The most warmly approving nod that
the late Solomon would have given wouW most
likely have followed the remark of Aristide Percy,
grocer’s assistant, that, when a man has to have
three meals a day with a woman, it’s most impor-
tant to know how she eats before he sets out for
where the Voice will breathe.
The recent stranding of the French barque
Vincennes at Manly to the accompaniment of
“Home, Sweet Home ” and the “Marseillaise,”
played by the local band, recalls some weird
Manly music of former days. When the Co-op.
and Port Jackson Ferry Companies were cutting
the return fare from Sydney down to 3d., the
band came down to the pier to welcome the
Co-op.’s one-time greyhound of the harbor, the
Conqueror, when it arrived on its first trip. And
of all things in the world the melody that band
played was “The Ship that Never Returned.”
Its capacity for the inopportune seems something
above the average.
“ The motor car has begun what will be for me
a liberal education in Australian natural
beauty.” This sounds sententious. It’s
Ramaciotti, of the Williamson-Tallis Combine.
He and Mrs. Ramaciotti took Mrs. Tallis for a
sprint in their little De Dion to Medlow, 3400
feet above fish level. Got there in three hours
and 24 minutes over perfect roads, and ran back
in two hours and 50 minutes.
The two birds of passage, Sir Evan James and
Mr. Bethell, who were appearing enfamille with
the Northcotes, have gone to blow bubbles in the
South Sea Islands. Former has been P.M.G. of
Bombay, and held ever so many other Indian ap-
pointments. Latter is a young man, a son of Lord
Westbury. (This peer’s complete name is Richard
Luttrel Pilkington Bethell.) They did M.L. with
rod and gun and hoof.
Handsome Lillah M‘Carthy, who, when last
here, was Wilson Barrett’s leading woman, has
married the (possibly) most intellectual actor in
London. He started the Court Theatre and put
on high-class English and foreign dramas that
otherwise would never have seen Fogtown’s day-
light or gaslight. Barker is a scholarly-looking
man and Lillah —well, you remember her in the
“Sign of the Cross” looking the beautiful Early
Christian martyr to the life. But she spoke her
lines in fearsome basement tones.
A Sydney woman journalist is writing a book
on etiquette to the order of a local publishing
firm, and this city pauses with its knife half way
to its mouth and waits for the publication thereof.
Miss Grace Joel, the artist, has left Sydney.
She intends to stretch her canvas permanently in
Melbourne, and mix her colors for better or worse
on Yarra’s moderately smiling shore.
A. doctor of repute has written on spinal curva-
tures, and speaks quite reverently of the corset,
Says its extraneous support is beneficial. Why?
Because man is built to go on all fours:—
All his internal organs are arranged for progress on
four le » rs instead of on two. By morphological rights,
, too ’ he ?h° u . ld be a hairy quadruped. But as he
hanHno-p foutld ’ by experience, that
BOme ® orfc bandage support is required in order to assist
a n abdominal mechanism that is inadequate for biDed
progression.
If this be true, most men are dressing most un-
wisely. Let us start a Compulsory Male Corset
Society. Then will the drapers hang specimens
in their windows : “ As worn by Mr. Bruce Smith,
Ver y chic.” “ The Peach. Mr. B. R. Wise wears
no other.” “ Distingue . As laced by Mr. J. 0.
Williamson.” Johnnies like the late Marquis of
Anglesey are sane then, and scientific when they
practise closer settlement on their innards. But
if man is naturally a quadruped, as alleged, going
on all fours with his eye-glass gazing at the mud,
what animal is the natural biped ? Or is there no
natural biped ?
A Sydney man’s wife came home from a world
tour and ordered him to dismiss the “niece” he
had acquired during her absence. He declined,
and has gone off with the adoption to Japan and
other countries where the Ten Commandments
are dead.
Yours Affectionately,
AKRNEHI.
“ A.C.D.” writes :
The Tasmanian Government, under the leadership of
ex-mariner Jack Evans, has defeat staring it in the face.
Weakened by the Labor and Liberal victories at the last
general elections, the Tory Premier sought to strengthen
his party by stealing from the Opposition Messrs. Prop-
sting and Urquhart. This was accomplished by appoint-
ing the former Attorney-General and the latter Treasurer
in the Jack Evans Ministry. For a glaring example of
political immorality the change of front on the part of
Propsting would be hard to beat. As Premier, and later
as leader of the Opposition, he denounced as utterly
rotten everything suggested by Evans and his clique.
Now he plays second fiddle to his late political enemy.
But having bought the support of Propsting and Urquhart
(who secured their election by posing as Oppositionists),
the gain to the Government is neutralised by the loss of
Stewart and old melancholy Bird. If the Labor party
throws in its lot with the Opposition, there will be
nothing left for Evans but to take the most dignified
departure he is capable of.
Premier Bent is now buying 1400 acres
of land near Maribyrnong (Yic.) racecourse,
allegedly for workmen’s homes—and only five
miles from a station! These land purchases
are beginning to have an odor. Of the 97
Footscray allotments 20 are still unsold ; of the 44
at Moreland 12 are not yet taken up; the Dal
Campbell estate alongside is hardly touched as
yet; and the brickyard at Thornbury (30£ acres)
lies absolutely idle. Working men don’t want
these half-acres away at the end of everything and
about two hours journey from their work. Mean-
while Bent, as a consistent buyer at anything but
bargain prices, raises the price of other and more
suitable nearer lands. A tax that would fall on
ununecl land would do far more towards enabling
workmen to acquire homes than all these trumpery
purchases.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade lumin-
ously expounds the bearing of the Liquor Law in
cases where a doctor considers brandy absolutely
necessary for a patient who has been foolish enough
to fall ill on Sunday and who hadn’t the foresight
to have drink in the house. The exposition comes
to this : The doctor, or someone else, may, or may
not, find a publican who will sell the liquor on the
doctor’s order. If he does, the police, supposing
they hear of the case, will summon the publican
and the purchaser; and the magistrate will fine
them. Then the fined parties may appeal to the
Attorney-General, who will go over the facts if he
has time, and if he discovers that the brandy was
ordered in an actual life-and-death case, he will
remit the fine. The costs and the worry will re-
main. If the Attorney-General, in the depths of
his medical ignorance, reckons the brandy wasn’t
required, he won’t remit the fine.
HOW TO BE BEAUTIFUL.
Imitation may be the smcerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying, as in the case of
“ Valaze,” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skin-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
“Valaze” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “Valaze.”
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “Valaze” are widely recognised. Price,
3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Comtesse Potocka’s
“ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake).
Comtesse Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “Valaze” special “Black-
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed, 3s. 6d. jar.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in your home from
Bs. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. ' After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no sear or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*


DUNLOP
RUBBER GOODS
ť
for Comfort f>
Durability.
Guaranteed .for [2 Honthi
Beware of Imitation).
nB
LJBilSL
Washing
MADE EASIER. when your
WRINGER ROLLERS are ir\
good condilion.Weare
now re-rubbering Rollers
af the/ollowing Prices.
lO'x W 4'ea. I|x]& 4'6 ea.
12'xlH" s'ea.
DUNLOP RUBBfP Cf OFW.L”
JOB flinders Jf. Melbourne.
_ - C- a/t Stales.
Obtainable
alt
Boor
Sborea
_ Specify
'Dunlop
Brand.”
CUSHION Hill.
0 « 0
Durth
Cushion
f Heels
Ensure easy u
comfortable
Walking,
P Rubber Co. ofAus. L*f
&// *5/&res.
Dunlop
Hose
Recommended for
Stable Use.
Usrs/or years without
Perishing or Bursting.
SP6C l F Y “DM LOP” BRAN D.
The Dunlop Rubber Co.of Aus. Ltd.
103 Flinders Sr. Melbourne.
& All States.
ŧ
1
Dunlop-Kelly
Rubber lyres
Make Driving
doubly enjoyable
No Noise, No Rattliacj,
arid . '
No Repair Bills.
Send Jo r Illustrated Price List
The DUNLOP RUBBER C? OF AVAL??
108 flinders 5t Melbourne
tr alt States.
Dunlop Packings
■
t
Are guaranteed to wear well.
You will find the Quality & Price right.
■Send for illustrated c&taJague.
The DVrtLOP RUBBER. CO. of AUO.LTD.
108 FI.INDER.3 JT. MELBOOR.NE 6-ALL STATES.
are made
by Australians for
Australians
SYDNEY DEPOT, 150 CLARENCE ST.
gtocKjn
®ress
SHIELDS
TTIEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any garment* They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
PD
Lm&jshapc
norm
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 5, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie, —
There’s a mighty army of clerks, typists,
secretaries, advisers, and handy men following in
the wake of the Maoriland Chief. To see them
and hear them at the Grand, tapping at the
machines, whirling along with cablegrams, rushing
through the corridors at the call of the ’phone,
dictating, conferring, and all the rest of it, is to
secure a view of the elaborate Yankee-like hustle
that dazzles the throng in occasional stage scenes.
This is the
way of startling the community. Mr. Donne has
his Tourists’ Bureau and Exhibition forces in full
swing. Mr. Owen Cox lias his shipping clerks
going at full blast. And the other Grand residents
wander about in a dazed state as if portion of an
exploded ’Frisco had been suddenly thrown at
Melbourne.
Prime Minister Deakin, Bigjoh’n Forrest, and a
brace or two more Federalists went a-frivolling
on Friday night to “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” having
as special guests Mrs. and Miss Seddon. Mr.
Seddon himself was banqueting with the Bent
Brethren and the State Talbottle at the Exhibi-
tion quarters. Mrs. Seddon rose to the occasion
with a mauve garb that knocked spots out of all
the Princess flutterers.
The swarm of politicians and vice-regals with
their staffs has staggered the Seddon corps more
than any other Australian possession. “The ex-
pense ! Think of the expense ! ” says even Miss
May Seddon, who is splendid and energetic
enough to govern several States herself. In vain
the feminine portion of Emperor Dick’s retinue
endeavor to remember who among the Babel
brethren are State and who are Federal. They
can’t do it. They give it up, and shrug their
shoulders helplessly.
I saw the other day the Bent Premier, the
Falstaffian Forrest, and the heavyweight Em-
peror from the hot-spring province, and I prayed
for Georgie Porgie Reid to lne along. He didn’t.
And then I remembered that after all he is a man
of no real weight in the community.
Some of the most interesting chiffons exploited
this Seddon season of gush are owned by Miss
Bonsor, from Sydney. I saw her one night in a
wonderful hand-painted zouave arrangement
imitative of an old Louis brocade. A clingsome
voile skirt in milky tones went with the zouave.
The same Miss has an admirable way of rigging
up her pale honey thatch. She secures a smart
effect with a soft Regent set of puffs.
The hips that wobble have entirely gone out—
blown out —collapsed. A French corset-designer
fell upon an old patient—or patron, rather —the
other day, and uttered a broken-hearted protest.
“It ees the feegure of 1902. Alas! that you
could be so weecked 1 You can be round—yes, a
leetle; but small! Oh, please—please do not
wobble ! It ees too terreeble ! ” Of course, the
fashionable patient had her wobble instantly
removed. But it’s a trying thing to move the
waist-line about in this capricious manner, and to
dismiss one’s hips at a day’s brief notice. The
next proclamation of Tyrant Fashion may be to
mangle out the entire figure and make it an abbre-
viated telegraph pole. That’s all very well. But
next week there may be a recall of the curves.
And how mangle them in again ? These are try-
ing times.
An Excellency in a State much slower than
this is taking painting lessons from a she artist,
and so far none of the local tongues have been set
a-wagging. Now, imagine the Talbottle sub-
mitting to, say, carving lessons from a giddy
young carvess !
Gossip on this side is busy with the story of a
Harborville beauty of much account having given
the direct public cut in Sydney’s flashest hotel
to a professional visitor of profound coun-
tenance. The story came from an informative
male; and several sentimental friends of the
hero are enjoying anticipatory thrills of conquest.
Dr. J. Harbinson publishes a second edition of
his rather fragrant verse this violet season. The
Brighton medico fills in time between social
whirling and pill-practice by spinning on poetic
feet. The volume in preparation contains some
verse that has already had a baptism of ink, supple-
mented by many lyrics and sonnets.
How the Irish-throated score, oratorically and
vocally ! There are innumerable Erin-Australian
tjo tiers on the war-path, Miss Eileen O’Brien
being one of the fittest. Now Miss Ivy O’Shan-
nassv is listed as a platform recruit. This young
thing is a fine contralto, with deep, organish
notes.
Hal Cohen was to get a farewell show at the
Theatre Royal of his native town (Ballarat) on
Tuesday the sth. All his musical worshippers,
including the Pinschof girleens, Dr. Gray’s
daughter, and Miss Elmhurst Goode, were going
up to repeat the performance given recently at
the Hawthorn Town Hall.
The Stuart Balmains are determined to give all
Melbourne a sight of the trousseau. So they
hang out at the parent nest, and are about town
most of their time, taking tiffin in popular cafes.
Every girleen lets her crumpet and chop grow
cold while she seizes the points of Alison’s
tailoresque suit, or her toot-tooting rig, or her big-
feathered hat, or her acute-angle toque, or her
rings, or her shoes, or her appetite. A brand-new
bride is such a curio.
Toorak quite suddenly took to entertaining the
Fitzpatrick couple. Mrs. George Cliirnside, who
only comes out of her shell for a big splash, set
the ball rolling with a Sunday tea, whereat the
Stonington Aides and the Very Best People
tiffened in their best bib and tucker. Mrs. Robert
Harper and Mrs. Charlie Ryan followed suit.
Finally, the newly-hitched pair set off amid fare-
well blessings on Friday for Warrnambool, where
their retreat starts. There they will watch the
crops and the cattle, and speak kindly to the baby
pig on occasions.
The Malcolm M'Eacharns hie away again in a
week. They’ve had enough of Australia for a
while. Besides, the second Miss of the family,
who is rather a charmer, gets launched into the
gay and giddy vortex this year, and the family
regards this as a dazzling event.
The Stonington Dame has been soothing the
swagger element, who are usually not bidden to
a breaking of bread at the weekly feasts, by a
random tea or two. At these little consolation
rallies the Cream find comfort, and are able to
quote her Ex. in thatfriendly-cum-private fashion
that is the hall-mark of real frill. Very
thoughtful of the vice-regal. But, then, thought-
fulness is her forte.
At the Ormond Women’s Graduate Club
annual dinner the toast-list was honored more
than usual, allowing to several ringleaders a large
talk apiece. It’s a delightful experience to gaze
on a hushed and tongue-tied set of women heark-
ening to one privileged spouter. The suppressed
propensity to interrupt and then pitch a tone
higher than the first starter leaves the face con-
torted and convulsed. I have seen the counten-
ance of a talkative She turn apoplectic purple in a
mental fight with the talking impulse. You
never can get a skirt gathering absorbed in a she-
speaker. The very fact of one of the sex holding
the floor tranquilly and without contradiction is
enough to set all the rest frantic. Now when one
of t’other sex starts to hold forth, all the rest
settle down to a cheerful smoke, thanking their
stars it isn’t their spouting turn.
Professor Osborne, one of the latest importa-
tions to the ’Varsity, has a brainy wife who is
continuing her science course despite domestic
demands. She is now entitled to wear a brilliant
academic gown, and still burrows into learning,
probably to achieve a Joseph coat of divers
colors and high diplomas.
A bold, bad Benedict is flaunting his amorata
in the face of the town. He’s a big swagger
identity, and this reversal of his usually decorous
state is knocking Melbourne silly.
Miss Maggie Mather infuses some personal
magnetism into her piano playing. A large
audience (filling Glen’s Hall better than it had
been filled for many a chilly eve) hearkened in
glee to warm, throbbing melodies of Chopin,
Brahms, and Schumann that seemed for the time
to give life to the ivories. The performer is young,
sweet-faced, and her magnetism is beyond dispute.
Miss Mather hasn’t been trumpeted much, but
she deserves to be. Herr Scharf has the credit of
instructor.
Miss Winter-Irving followed in the Mackinnon
steps, and introduced a Rickardian element into
her afternoon spree last week. The Miles-
Stavordale quintette raised its joint and several
banjos, and a comic man gave funny proceedings
without the usual burnt-cork effects.
This city chews now to slow music. In vain the
business-man searches for a corner where he can
bite a grill in quiet. If the band isn’t making
frivolous music inside the cafe it is stationed out-
side. Menzies started the scone-serenading move-
ment. Now all the bun-coops and grill-resorts
have rounded up an orchestra to deaden the appe-
tite. One day a hustling citizen, who looks to the
lunch-hour for cogitation or consultation with a
client, will rise up and slay the band in cold blood.
The Old Girls of the Fitchett Methodist College
had a spree the other Saturday—a musical-chair
spree with the tops cut off their party-rigs.
Old Girls never foregather with that dash and
diablerie that mark any rally of Old Boys. The
Old Girls are mostly grey and largely wrinkled.
Care and the family whooping-cough or Care and
Single Wretchedness have soured them. Only
now and then does a jolly she-bachelor happen
along to brighten the planet and then she isn’t the
sort to attend the severely formal Old Girls’ even-
ing party. That sort forgets the cats of her youth,
and their middle-age purring interests her not.
A recent arrival from the Cold Country relates
how one of the most expensive and highly-prized
camera men in the Great Smoke sometimes be-
comes so lost in the beauty of the subject as he
has posed her, that he faints standing, stumbles
out of the studio, and sends in an assistant to state
that Mr. Photographer is overcome with great
thoughts, and cannot take any pictures that
morning. Usually the sitter departs with a vague
but beautiful impression of the man’s overwhelm-
ing' genius and a large respect for such an artistic
soul. But sometimes a strenuous lady breaks
up her handsome pose to demand an
explanation. She may even ask if the
expensive artist is drunk. I remember a
rather famous camera-man visiting these parts a
few years ago, and indulging his aesthetic caprices
and emotions in somewhat the same way. In
the midst of arranging a drape, or the lady’s
skirt-edge, he would fall on his knees, possibly
clasp her hands or feet, and murmur brokenly,
“Madame, I cannot photograph you. I love
you.’’ This sometimes sent the surprised beauty
into hysterics or made her shout for the police.
It was only now and then the avowal moved a
Grace to divine pity and forgiveness. But for
the sake of this occasional happening, the less
emotional women were frequently inconvenienced
by the “artist’s” strange behavior.
Talking of the photographer. One of him gives
out with an aesthetic squirm that the brides of the
season have been prodigiously over-dressed. This
is how he puts it. “ I spent hours endeavoring to
eliminate the billows about the twenty-second
under-skirt, which they call the ‘foundation,’and
trying to coax, pin, or crush back the mountainous
frills. It was like shovelling away a heap of
snow from a porch. I wanted to find the
line of the figure—not merely to picture
clothes. It was the most difficult task
going. And by the time I had manipu-
lated the frills and secured them so that
What a glorious boon to Australian ladies to
know that if their skin is disfigured by wrinkles, pimples,
blotches, freckles, sunburn, blackheads, roughness,
chapping, flabbiness, muddiness, or any other blemishes,
Patti’s Beauty Cream will rapidly and permanently
banish them all without the slightest injury to the most
delicate skin ! It is manufactured by Dr. Martin Artze,
the world-famed Parisian Skin Specialist, from the purest
and most costly ingredients, and is warranted to induce
no hair to grow or produce any eruption on the skin, and
to make the complexion soft, clear, smooth and trans-
parent as that of a healthy infant. It is as much superior
to imitation skin foods as is the beauty of Madame Patti to
that of a small-pox victim. There are thousands of
living proofs of these truths in Australia and New
Zealand to-day, and the piles of testimonials, which grow
larger daily, afford incontestable evidence that Patti’s
Beauty Cream stands supreme as a complexion specific.
Every month since its introduction to Australia, three
years ago, its sales have doubled, and not a single
purchaser has made the slightest complaint. Patti’s
Beauty Cream alone does all this because it is a Perfect
Skin Food. Of all Chemists and Stores, price 3s. 6d. and
6s. per pot.*
there appeared some semblance of a person and
not a clothes-stand, the expression of the ex-
hausted poseuse was too terrible for words. But
having scored a victory over the villainous dress-
maker, I had to snap that terrible wedding-day
expression. Now you understand why none of
the brides of late have smiled up to focus. They
couldn’t. My morning’s toil in beating the
billows out of the camera’s eye had exhausted the
patience and strength of the sitter.”
The Bohemian Club, after a long immunity
from outside gaiety, is going to give a dance in
the Prahran Town Hall, and the announcement
two months ahead argues that the brotherhood of
gay sparks intend to do the thing well—like
Jenkins did.
Some of the senior sticklers at the Athenaeum
Club have never recovered from the blow of that
mixed afternoon tea early this year, when giddy
girleens and staid dames rallied to the refresh-
ments. It met with their cordial disapproval.
The younger fry were strong and won the day,
but ever since the conservative veteran has gone
on his way grimly with a load on his club con-
science.
The Clive Baillieus have now taken a turn at a
grand gad. The numerous Baillieus are always at
sea—in a sense. One never farewells a voyager or
greets one without knocking against a tall, superb
Baillieu gripping a dressing-case.
The youngest of the three acrobatic and con-
tortionist Lees at the Opera House bears an amaz-
ing resemblance to the Vic. Chief Justice dame.
The Cream feel almost indignant about it, and
erect the lorgnette several times to make sure that
the young person in question is still bearing the
resemblance. Occasionally a cheeky grin or a
lightning wink breaks up the likeness and the
Cream breathe freely again. It ought to flatter a
Society marin and her kin to have a young and
beautiful vaudeville girl looking somewhat like
her. It is only when a woman grows to look old
that girls decline flatly to resemble her any longer.
Kinking—this time on bona-fide ice—is the
ecstasy of the cold hour. Or is to be. It.is now
in anticipation. The opening is to be effected
this Saturday (9th) in ceremonious fashion. The
whole of this frivolous community is preparing to
drag on the ice-boots and get a-capering.
Mr. Dash, a Melbourne gentleman who has a
neat office in the city, had the misfortune to receive
an unexpected visit from his wife, at his little
place in Blank Buildings, one pleasant Monday
afternoon recently. The lady found Mr. Dash
somewhat distraught and unnerved, and he
ascribed his agitation to toothache and business
worries, complicated with an overdraft and a
touch of sciatica. The gentleman tried hard to
make his wife go, without making it too apparent
that he wanted her to go; but she realised that
when a man is in pain and adversity a true wife’s
place is at his side, and she stayed there to console
him, and tell him about all the things that she had
ever heard of or read of that were good for tooth-
ache, sciatica, and a nagging overdraft. Suddenly a
very, very far-away voice interrupted her flow of
solicitude, repeating the plaint of the starling.
The voice said it wanted to get out. Dash looked
at Mrs. Dash, and Mrs. Dash looked at Dash, and
the eye that quailed was not the lady’s. “ I want
to get out,” repeated the voice, which seemed to
be strained to the utmost but yet was very still
and small. Mrs. Dash insisted on having the door
of Dash’s strong room opened instantly, and at
length, driven to desperation, he made an effort.
To his horror he discovered himself unequal to the
task. He had never had occasion to use hisburglar-
proof cosj -corner before, and now the door was
closed for the first time, and it resisted all Dash’s
Objurgations and all his ingenuity. Meanwhile,
tears flowed out under the door, while Mrs. Dash
mounted guard with a face like Fate. In the end
an expert opened the door, and the young person
who had inadvertently wandered into Dash’s vault
fainted out before Mrs. Dash and witnesses. This
is as far as the story has gone to date.
They’re keen on the “Juliet hair-net” just
now. It’s a tricky jewelled affair that has to be
set on the most eminent hair-billow or bump, and
is designed to catch the local Romeo quicker than
any other net, visible or invisible. Of course
only fresh young things are supposed to flaunt
the hair-net; but, as usual, advanced ladies of
the solus variety are hoisting it, more probably as
a bait than a decoration.
One divorced lawyer in this State has a mar-
vellous regard for the mate who blighted his
affections and cut the bond. He seems to blot
out from memory that cutting act altogether, and
retains only recollections of when they two were
jolly good pals in the long ago. Only a man
could do that. Fancy any deserted She speak-
ing, under any circumstances, with pride and
delight of the brute who fled with another ?
“ Lerli,” from London :
These fine spring afternoons I betake myself to Hyde
Park, where the aristocracy and plutocracy take the air
in carriage and automobile. I am on foot, and I gaze upon
the elite of England, the flower of that Empire which
has proved too large an egg for the sun to set on. Being
still young, I scan the various vehicles to see what the
aristocracy or plutocracy has of lovely women to
offer to my gaze, and I am disappointed, almost
disgusted. In all, I have seen in an afternoon half-a-
dozen women whom I might, in a rash mood, be prepared
to ruin myself for—if they were seeking my ruin, of
course. The others are commonplace. They have’the
features of the suburban tradesman and his wife, over
which they have tried to spread the real Yere de
Vere look of dignity and polite ennui. But most
of the people in the carriages are old—dowagers,
widows, and such-like —and it would seem that
old age with these wealthy, privileged people is
more hideous than with the poor. See the old Chelsea
pensioners—they are hale and hearty old fellows ; but see
the old Earl of Something, or the' Countess—they are
decrepit, shrivelled-up, and pitiful. I am not one of those
narrow-minded Democrats who can see no good at all in
an aristocracy. The pity is that England’s privileged
class should make such a hog of itself, and miss its g'reat
chances to do something, for the good of the people and
as a for itself.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
W. H. Suttqtf, whose will has been proved
at a trifle over £BOOO, has left behind a number
of bushranging yarfts, with materials for a host of
episodes. He had arrangements almost com-
pleted with a daily newspaper for the regular
publication of instalments when, his health gave
way. W. H. Suttor and F. B. of that ilk
for many years divided a N.S.W. portfolio
between them. W. H. was a Freetrader and
F. B. a Protectionist, and as one went into office
he met the other coming out.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO..
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
‘ B~* o BCEIjXji"
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good s*tamps, send to
Fr*d. Nagel), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
A CUKE FOR ASTHMA.
A Noted Physician will prove this to ail
Sufferers.
It is but natural that the majority of sufferers
from asthma, after trying doctors and numberless
remedies without avail, have come to the con-
clusion that there is no cure for this most dis-
tressing disease. These same persons may still
have doubt when they learn through the columns
of the press that Dr. Rudolph Schiffmann, the
recognised authority, who has treated more eases
of asthma than any living doctor, has at last
achieved success. He has perfected a remedy
which not only gives immediate relief in the
worst cases, but has positively cured thousands of
sufferers who were considered incurable. These
persons had previously been just as sceptical as
some of our readers now are. Dr. Schiffmann s
remedy doubtless possesses the merit which is
claimed for it, or he would not extend an invi-
tation to every sufferer to make a free personal
test of it. He authorises this paper to announce
that he is not only willing to give free to any
person suffering from asthma and bronchitis in
Australasia one free liberal “trial package” of
his Cure, but urgently requests all sufferers to
send him their name, to whom a sample will be
posted free of charge. He fears that in making
the claim he does for his Cure, a strong doubt
may arise in the minds of many, and knows that a
personal test, as ho offers to all, will be more
convincing and prove its merit, than thousands of
testimonials which he could publish from persons
who have been permanently cured by the use of his
remedy. “Dr. Schiffmann’s Asthma Cure, as it
is called, has been sold by most chemists for
several years, although many persons may never
have heard of it, and it is with a view to reaching
these that he makes this offer. This is certainly a
most generous and fair offer, and all who are
suffering from any of the above complaints should
send to Dr. R. Schiffmann’s Depot, Nos. 5 and 7
Barrack-street, Sydney. He requests that you
send him simply your name and address plainly
on a post-card, nothing else.* '
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEOItGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
Ami at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
Adelaide, though unable to run electric
cars itself, is proud of being able to make other
people’s. One firm, which has just sent over ten
cars for theEssendon Tram Co., has had four con-
tracts of the kind for Victoria within the last two
years.
Sydney Telegrabh casts laborious sneers
at the Commerce Act. “Is this the glorious ideal
of promoting Federal unity ? ” it asks. , Well
“ One people, one continent, one honesty ” isn’t a
bad bond of fraternity. And that’s what the Com-
merce Act aims at.
Prime Minister Deakin, in reply to a
voluble pest who infested the top gallery: “If
wise forethought is nervousness, then I am ner-
vous. I can’t lose sight of the fact that to-day
Australia is the only large, practically unoccupied,
piece of habitable land on this planet.”
Britain now seriously reduces the status
of the Cape Colony naval station, the ships being
withdrawn to England. Quickly the legions are
being concentrated to guard the heart of the
empire. And still politicians like W. Kelly urge
the limbs to make no effort to protect themselves,
but to rely on the “ mother country.”
While the Japs were in Melbourne they
were shown over the local Safe Deposit, and its
intricacies were explained to them. This is true
courtesy. They have been shown the safe de-
posits and the banks. They have gone round the
pubs., and have located the cash registers. And
they have seen the defences. What more do they
want ?
Bigjohn Forrest, Federal Treasurer, has
declared himself definitely opposed to a Federal
graduated land-tax. Bigjohn reckons that the
Commonwealth doesn’t require the money, which
suggests that he knows very little about his own
cash-box. Also, Bigjohn is surprised at anyone
suggesting a Federal land-tax, “considering that
we have Customs and Excise exclusively our-
selves,” which suggests that Bigjohn has quite
forgotten that the States get three-fourths of the
Customs and Excise money. One way and an-
other, the necessity for the Australian Ministry
to throw Bigjohn overboard begins to loom pretty
large. He is very lfttle good as crew, and'he is
too troublesome as a passenger, and he shifts
about too much to make useful ballast.
MAN VERSUS MONKEY.
THE MONKEY : “ That poor chap looks tired.
I’ll just help him along with his iob while
he's asleep .”
Sydney Telegraph’s London correspon-
dent, dealing with farming life in England
The N.S. Wales farmer, who often is heard to bitterly
bewail his hard lot, would regard himself as the victim
of a terrible nightmare were he dumped down on the
Golden Plain to farm under the same conditions as the
Huntingdonshire Fen man. The man who rents on the
Golden Plain the farm of 300 acres, which is so often
regarded in Australia as an insufficient living area, would
find himself set the task of making £lOOO a year to clear
his rent and taxes. He would find his railway rates just
about three times as much as he had been accustomed to
pay in N.S. Wales, and he would find that unless he put
expensive manures freely upon the land his returns would
not be worth the garnering.
These sort of things creep into the Telegraph by
accident. As a matter of general policy in that
paper, the N.S.W. farmer is the unfortunate victim
on whose tariff-burdened shoulders fall the
exactions of the greedy protectionist manufacturer.
Victoria now sweats its shire secretaries
and other officials so severely that it is almost
impossible to make a living by working for one
set of municipal bosses only. The sec. and
engineer of a shire which has just found out that
it is insolvent acts in a like capacity for two other
shires, is engineer for two more, valuer to two,
and rate collector for one shire and a railway
trust. Besides this, he is “agent for contrac-
tors, architects, and surveyors.” Over this
last part of his occupation trouble has natur-
ally arisen ; and, in the dust that is being
raised in consequence, the inherent
meanness of the landlords who boss
the shires escapes notice —likewise
their folly in splitting the country
up into ridiculously small districts.
A special correspondent
of London Times is gloomy
about the Kitchener military
regime in India. The position
in India, he says, “is fraught
with grave danger.” Lord
Kitchener has “ aroused so great
an indignation that we are on the verge
of another Sepoy war” through his “ want
of knowledge and lack of personal
courtesies.”
A Bairnsdale (Vic.) parson has drawn
attention to the high educational value of
Hempire Day—God bless it!—by quoting some
extracts from the essays composed by local
school-children. One infant Imperialist wrote:
“ Of all the sovereigns that reigned on the throne,
Queen Victoria was the only or.o that reigned
longest. God save the King.” The ardent
loyalty of another youngster took a statistical
turn—“ King Edward rules over about 400,000,000
people, more than one-fourth of whom are of
mankind.”
The S.M. Herald’s great joke about
the Australian capital:—
It. is doubtful if the active co-operation of the (Aus-
tralian) Government will be accorded to the representa-
tives of the mother State in their desire to settle this
momentous question.
The desire of certain representatives of the Ma
State to settle the momentous question by doing
all the selecting of the capital themselves and
letting the rest of Australia have no voice in the
choice of its own capital, has been so earnest as to
be quite noticeable.
Bigjohn Forrest has pointed out that it
would be useless to appoint an Australian High
Commissioner who could not scatter gold in the
Cold Country. The Commissioner must be in a
position to leave his oof marks all over the place,
or he will “make no impression.” Now Malcolm
M‘Eacharn, who just answers Forrest’s descrip-
tion of an ideal High Commissioner, comes along,
and has no hesitation in saying John is right. He
holds that “the success of Canada is due to Lord
Strathcona being an extremely wealthy man.”
According to Malcolm, the Canadian lord gives
rich, bloated dinners to 400 people at a time.
Neither John Forrest nor Malcolm M‘Eacharn
says a word about the necessity of any kind of
ability or patriotism or energy in the High Com-
missioner, and this seems to strengthen the sus-
picion that they are after the job.
The Commerce Act, taken in connection
with the regulations gazetted under it, is the only
really serious effort made in the Parliamentary
history of Australia to compel the commercial
classes to recognise the existence of moral
laws. There have been State Acts which
diffidently hinted that commercial
thievery is thievery, that commercial
lying is lying, and that obtaining
money by commercial misrepresenta-
tion is plain false pretences, but the
hints in the Acts were very diffident,
and the regulations under them very
vague and inconclusive. Some raw
amateurs might fall in under these
Acts, but the reasonably capable com-
mercial thief, commercial liar, and
commercial poisoner, flourished in
every State, despite Acts and regu-
lations, and often found them rather
an assistance than otherwise. The
Commonwealth Commerce Act lines
up the whole band of professional
robbers, and tells them that if they
say their goods are of a kind they are
not, of a size they are not, or of a
weight they are not, they will be held
accountable for the lies. This Act
alone is sufficient to justify the crea-
tion of the Commonwealth.
Of the 1 2 members elected to
the Queens’ and Assembly in 1890,
only 13 are i a the present Assembly.
Nineteen art dead, five have gone to
the Australi m Parliament, two are
Ms.L.C., anc 33 have retired or been
passed out b;' the disgusted electors.
In this wreckage, the Labor party
has had its share of casualties. It has lost
three members by death, four have been passed
out, four have gone to the Australian Par-
liament, while six remain in the Assembly. Truly
a procession of shadows.
A letter from Western Victoria :
The pathetic emptiness of Eeid’s alleged policy was
made strikingly evident by the “campaign” which Joe
Cook and the scrag end of the Tory brigade have just
conducted hereabouts. The campaign was a humorous
affair right from the start, and before it concluded it had
become a screaming farce. The performers were Joe
Cook (in the lead),. Grattan Wilson (who mis-represents
the Warrnambool district on a minority vote), and
Robinson (who mis-represents the adjoining constituency
of Wannon, also on a minority vote). The troupe opened
at Geelong, and afterwards appeared at Colac, Camper-
down, Warrnambool, and Koroit. By talking loudly and
fiercely, Cook usually managed to get through his part
without the audience discovering anything ; but as the
milk-and-watery Wilson and Robinson began to speak the
electors started to ask questions. At every meeting
Wilson explained, with tears in his voice, that though he
followed a Freetrade leader he was “a Protectionist to the
backbone ”; and right to the end of the tour he continued
to be amazed that the electors should see anything incon-
sistent in his position. Both Wilson and Robinson were
“ opposed ” to quite a number of things ; but so far not a
sign of their being in favor of anything has appeared.
At time of writing the meek pair (Cook having been lost
on the voyage) were in the wilds of Glenelg, where the
bee-farmers live, and I hope no one will throw a hive at
them and miss.
SOMETHING JUST AHEAD.
GEORGE: “ That's right. If you
only keep pushing like that we’re hound
to go somewhere.”
Advt. in Sydney daily :
TAIVORCES obtained by Solicitor at less than half
-L' the usual charges.
Apply to „ ,
Box 1243, G.P.O. ; Sydney.
It ought to be within the resources of the Law
Institute to find out who is Box 1243 and say
something harsh to him.
“V.” : The press cable monopolists are
giving us too many of the trivialities of English
politics. In a newspaper this week I find 14 lines
devoted to informing Australia that Chamberlain
accusedC. Bannermanof ‘‘impertinence.” Above
the 14 lines there are big black headings. What’s
the good of cabling young-ladyish repartee like
that to a community that has possessed a M'Elhone
and a Dove of Ararat ?
May 24, being Empire Day, and being
marked by the visit of the Japanese fleet to
Sydney, evoked numberless speeches, articles, and
clerical addresses on the glories of the Jap, liis
chivalry, his magnanimity, his bravery, and his
religious feeling. And all this applause went to
Buddha on the vital feast-day of the Christian
religion, Ascension Day. Any casual stranger
might have thought it was Buddha who ascended.
Said that the Carruthers Government
hopes to settle one or two tangles in this way :
Chief Railway Commissioner Oliver will go to the
to-be-formed Lands Commission ; his subordinate,
Kirkcaldie, will go to Victoria ; his other subor-
dinate, Fehon, will retire; and the imported
Canadian, Tait, will come from Victoria to act as
N.S.W. Chief Railway Commissioner and to make
things as cheerful and lively as he has done in
Bent’s State.
Queensland Land Court is a cantankerous
Tory body with a great love for big estates and
sparse settlement. Several large areas which
have lately fallen in, and which were wanted by
the Department of Lands for closer settlement,
have been again leased for a term of ten years in
spite of official protest. The court did not even
give the Minister a chance to put his case before
it. The Kidston Government intends to Do
Things in this matter when Parliament meets.
N.S.W. P.S. Board invites applications
for male teachers for small up-country schools,
applicants to be unmarried, to be less than 35
years of age, and to be paid £72 per annum.
Granting the probability of the successful ones
being selected from the young candidates, it is
putting a mighty poor premium on “ gentility ”
to ask an educated man of anything up t 035 to go
into the bush, and be a learned and patient celi-
bate for less than 30s. a week. He could make
much more than that rabbitting.
G. H. Reid, at South Botany, t’other
day :
The highest ideal for an industrial peace was that in
which the two great powers of Labor and Capital should
come to some arrangement, not by compulsion, hut con-
scious of their own rights and of their own power.
The highest ideal of social peace is that in which
Yes-No might sleep peacefully in Hyde Park any
night, and find his watch where it ought to be
next morning. But, because we haven’t that
ideal yet, does Yes-No advocate abolishing the
police ?
Sydney, as occasionally mentioned in this
paper, has 41 mayors and sets of aldermen, and
the alarm of these useless functionaries lest they
should be abolished to make room for one good,
vigorous, modern municipal system is pathetic,
The city of Sydney has an electric-lighting system.
Paddington and the other municipalities (bar
Redfern) have none. Many Paddington people
who want electric light and can’t get it from their
own municipal insects, have asked the City
Council for a supply, and lately the City Council
greatly alarmed the small municipal potentates
of Paddington by offering to carry the electric
light into their gloomy region. Paddington
aldermen agreed that “ the enemy was insidiously
creeping upon them,” and that unless they woke
up and resisted outside improvements they might
one day find themselves improved out of exist-
ence. The prospect was so terrifying that the
aldermen postponed their decision and went home
to think the matter out.
N.S.W. Public Service Board is supposed
to have its quinquennial regrading of the service
ready by June 30, the last day of the financial
year. It has not made a personal inspection of
the departments either personally or by deputy,
so the regrading will be little better than a farce.
It is freely stated that the Board will increase
only a few salaries in the service, mainly because
it has no money, and also because it has so much
to do, or else is so slow in doing it, that it has not
time to investigate individual cases. The remedy
officers have, the Board states, is an appeal against
their regrading, but, if practically everyone is left
out in the cold and everyone appeals, the Board,
which can’t consider cases for want of time, will
be just as short of time then, and things will be as
they were. It is a Board of old men—an old,
tired, prosy, long-winded Board, and it lingers
and hesitates, and holds up its ear-trumpet and
dusts its spectacles while the service toddles to
the devil.
The Prohibitionists of Maoriland lately
published a map which professed to show that at
last local option poll there was a No-License
majority all over the country, and the only thing
which prevented an overwhelming victory was
the nefarious law which requires a two-thirds
majority to carry the abolition of der-rink. The
reasoning seems curiously inconclusive. The No-
License party, it is claimed, can raise a majority
(though not a two-thirds majority) almost every-
where. Now a bare majority is good
enough at a Parliamentary election,
so it should be possible to capture
Parliament. Then the bare
majority in Parliament could
enact that a bare majority (in-
stead of a two-thirds majority)
will suffice at a local option
poll, and after that the thing
is done. Why isn’t it done?
It looks easy enough.
“Itan” (indignantly) from
Queensland: —
Sydney Telkgrapii persistently misrepresents the posi-
tion of the real Labor party in Queensland by quoting
Boot’s Worker. As a matter of fact, there are only seven
Labor members who have not openly refused to subscribe
to the “ objective.” Two of these seven own land, lately
acquired, while another favors a syndicate railway in his
own electorate, and a fourth advocates sales of land in
his own district for settlement purposes, while yet
another, who advocates one-man-one-billet, keeps someone
out of a job by helping to run a weekly newspaper. The
policy of the Kidston party, which has a large and in-
creasing following, is very simple: (1) Queensland must
stop borrowing and pay its way ; (2) no large areas of
land to be sold to one owner; (3) all proceeds of land
sales to be used in the construction of public works ; (4)
assistance to people without means to become primary
producers ; (5) bursting up of big estates, by a progressive
land-tax; (6) assistance in mining and industrial centres
to workers to get homes of their own so that they will not
have to pay rent. What objection has the D.T. to this
platform ?
Premier Bent’s intimation to the Aus-
tralian Government that Victoria will in future
require rent for Melbourne Government House,
now occupied by the Governor-General, gave
Carruthers a chance to rise up, with a local
patriotic expression in his eye and an injury to the
Ma State in his right hand. “ If,” he said, “ the
Federal Government pays the Victorian Govern-
ment rent, it must pay us rent, too.” This method
of putting it left it to be inferred that there was
some sort of “Victorian conspiracy” afoot, by
which Bent was going to obtain £3OOO a year from
Deakin ; but that Carruthers had his eagle eye on
the scheme, and if Victoria got anything from the
Federal Treasury he would see that N.S.W. had
her “rights,” and got something, too. Then
Bent explained that the whole affair had been
rigged up at the late Premiers’ Conference ; that
it was arranged that he was to demand rent for
Victoria’s Government House, and Carruthers
was to do the same for N.S.W. Now why didn’t
these two State Premiers put in their bills
simultaneously, and show that it was a joint
arrangement? Or why didn’t Joe put in his bill
first? And why did -Toe look as if he had been
suddenly and unexpectedly “druv” to ask for
rent by the unexpected action of the grasping
Victorian when he meant to ask for it in any
case ?
Maoriland farmers’ unions have a righteous
detestation of spending money, even to assist
their own cause. Lately, the I aimers’ Con-
ference at Christchurch was asked to approve of
a vote of £lOOO a year to the leader of the Opposi-
tion, so that he might be better able to travel the
State per motor-car and preach the anti-Sosli
propaganda. But the delegates showed no
enthusiasm. They thought the billet would be
“too comfortable,’ and that increasing opulence
would infect Massey with the microbe of inertia,
andthat-tlie noble cause of Toryism, anti-Sosh
and land-grab would suffer in consequence. So
Opposition-leader Massey, who is a farmer and
not rich, is expected to neglect his hay-crop in
the landlords’ interests at his own expense, as
heretofore.


THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
Suits Particular Men.
Good
Shape,
Good
Wear .
A GLANCE
AT THIS
BOOT IS
ENOUGH !
In Black Calf.
22s 6d, 25s
or Tan Willow Calf,
23s 6d, 25s
Post Paid, 1s extra.
Delivered
to any address in the Common-
wealth, including West Australia .
A'
'm-i
IN BUYING
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS or
SHOES
You ALWAYS get full
value for your money. You
can’t buy Boots that are really
cheaper.
SEND FOB—
THE CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK.
Fully Illustrated.
POSTED FBEE.
POST
YOUR
ORDER
TO -
DAY!
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
THE OPPORTUNITY OF
A LIFETIME.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
SURPLUS STOCK.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN BOOKS.
Colonial Library Editions: Ordinary Prices, Paper Covers, 2/3; Cloth, 3/6.
Now offered, Paper Edition, 1/4 Post Free
Cloth Edition, 2/3 Post Free.
ABBOTT, J. M.
Plain and Veldt
An Outlander in England
Tommy Cornstalk
ATHERTON
Los Oeritos
Californians
BARR, R.
Lady Electra
A Prince of Good Fellows
Tempestuous Petticoat
The O’Ruddy
The Speculations of John
Steele
Over the Border
A Woman Intervenes
BOLDREWOOD
In Bad Company
Sealskin Cloak
Ghost Camp
Romance of Canvas Town
Plain Living
The Miner’s Right
A Colonial Reformer
Babes in the Bush
BACH ELLER
Darrell of the Blessed Isles
Dri and I
Virgilius
BROWN
A Magdalen’s Husband
The Dark Ship
BURGIN
Tuxter’s Little Maid
Land of Silence
The Shutters of Silence
A Wilful Woman
The Lady of the Manor
CHESNEY
Baptist Ring
Branded Prince
Tragedy of the Great
Emerald
The Foundered Galleon
CLEEVE
From Crown to Cross
Indiscretion of Gladys
Purple of the Orient
Free Soil
Mary Anne of Parchment
Buildings
The Real Christian
CARRELL
Marcus and Faustina
Realisation of Justus
Moran
Paul Le Maistre
Progress of Pauline
Kessler
Houses of Ignorance
DRUMMOND, H.
The Ideal Life
Man of His Age
A Man’s Fear
DAVIS, R. H.
Ranson’s Folley
The King’s Jackal
Captain Macklin
FOWLER, E. T.
Double Thread
Place and Power
Farringdons
GALLON, TOM
Aunt Phipps
In a Little House
Nobody’s Baby
Lady of Cameo
Charity Ghost
Boden’s Boy
Rickerby’s Folly
The Dead Ingleby
The Second Dandy Chater
GREEN, A. K.
One of my Sons
A Difficult Problem
Circular Study
Agatha Webb
HILL, H.
By a Hair’s Breadth
Sentence of Court
The Duke Decides
Spectre Gold
The Plunder Ship
Guilty Gold
Shadow of the Bear
HYNE, C.
Paradise Coal Boat
Thompson’s Progress
Further Adventures of
Capt. Kettle
Four Red Night Caps
Filibusters
McTodd
Captain Kettle
Horrock’s Purser
KIPLING
Five Nations
Traffics and Discoveries
From Sea to Sea (2 vols.)
Kim
MILFORD
War and Arcadia
Haviland’s Chum
Dorien of Cranston
Triumphs of Hilary Blan-
The Word of the Sor-
ceress
The Red Derelict
Renshaw Fanning’s Quest
MOORE, F.
A Damsel or Two
Jessamy Bride
According to Plato
Shipmates in Sunshine
MA CL A REN, I.
His Majesty, Baby
Dwellers in the Mist
Beside the Bonnie Briar
Bush
Days of Auld Lang Syne
PEMBERTON, MAX
Dr. Xavier
Sea Wolves
The Phantom Army
Beatrice of Venice
Feo
LE QUEUX
Tickencote Treasure
As We Forgive Them
Seven Secrets
Whosoever Findeth a Wife
Secrets of the Foreign
Office
Stolen Souls
ROBERTS, M.
The Way of a Man
Bianca’s Caprice
Rachel Marr
Lady Penelope
Lord Linlithgow
A Tramp’s Notebook
RITA
Souls
The Jester
The Masqueraders
Quee-Lady Judas
The Silent Woman
SARGENT, A.
Antheas Way
Under Suspicion
Cynthia’s Ideal
Accused and Accuser
Progress of Rachel
Mystery of the Moat
Blake of Oriel
STOCKTON
John Gather’s Garden
Captain’s Toll Gate
The Hundredth Man
The Girl at Cobhurst
Kate Bonnett
WELLS, H. G.
The First Man in the
Moon
When the Sleeper Wakes
Love and Mr. Lewisham
Twelve Stories
Mankind in the Making
Tales of Time and Space
A Modern Utopia
Sea Lady
WHISHA W
Lovers at Fault
A Fool with Women
A Splendid Imposter
Countess Ida
Many Ways of Love
ZOLA
Fortunes of Rougons
Abbe Mouret’s Transgres-
sions
The Monomaniac
A Love Episode
SUNDRIES
Adventures of De Rouge-
mont
David Lyall’s Love Story
Author of the Land
of the Leal
The Life and Adventures
of Geo. Augustus Sala,
by Himself
An English Woman’s Love
Letters
Thousands
of Others.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.
476 George St.,
-Sydney.
'CUnZ
itToTtifotoUds
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884. ff
SAN FRANCISCO, and f!7 Pitt St., Sydney
P. & B. PRESERVATIVE PAINT
NOT THE same as other paints.
INSURE AGAINST
Fire, Accident, or Death. Everyone
gives you that advice. Rut did anyone
ever advise you to insure against the
evil effects of moisture ?
WET WEATHHB
is the oause of a lot of damage to build-
ing materials, machinery, eto. P. AB.
Paint is as good as an insurance policy.
Waterproof, acidproof.
“Ifit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it
not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aast. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vio.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENOKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NKOLEPHONES
The World's Triumph in Talking Machines.
From £3 lOs. to £5.
Nicokpbooe Disc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. ■ -5/- each. 7in. - • 2/G each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
lOin. - • 3/6 each. 7in. • ■ 1/6 each.
W. G. KING, AGENT, 316 George St„
SYDNEY.
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
60 CANDLE POWER, for Less than
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene.
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney , from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
m
Extraordinary
Value.
%
Best British
Manufacture.
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
DOES YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
Welsbach Light Co.
OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*
Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide.
Levi Green, Perth.


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . « »
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and hew Zealand.
PETROL
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pimples and Blotches.
Cubed by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the skin is red with blotches or pimples
it is a sure indication that the blood is out of
order. Instead of resorting to cosmetics, powders
and paints, which are poisonous and cause irrita-
tion to the skin, you should take a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. These pills cleanse
and purify the blood, and, at the same time, iy
their action on the digestive organs, assist in
nourishing the body and replenishing the system
with new blood, rich and red, which, circulating
through the veins, gives the skm a fresh and pure
appearance, glowing with the tint of pertec
health. Mrs. Dunston, of 34 Shepherd-street,
Redfern, Sydney, states:—“lt affords me much
pleasure to inform you that your pills have been of
wonderful aid to me. For over eighteen months
I was a victim to dreadful headaches, and that un-
well feeling, always tired and languid. I broke
out in a rash covering my face, and then 1 con-
sulted two doctors, whose treatment did me no
good whatever. One day your little book came
into my hands, and I thought I would buy. your
remedy. This I did, and I had the satisfaction of
finding that they were doing me much good.
Indeed, thev soon cleared the unsightly disfigure-
ment from my face, and gradually the headaches
disappeared. I still take a pill or two, once or
twice a week, with the very best results. I hey
keep me free from all disorders, and I feel m
perfect health.”*
ALE & LA<£€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCH-L & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN,
SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Premier Pent has heaved a bombshell into the
cricket dispute. A while back, to fill up vacancies, Bent
appointed six new trustees of the Melbourne Cricket
Ground—the Minister, Secretary of Lands and four
M’s LA As there were only three of the original trustees
left—Roderick Murchison, J. M'Laughlan, and T. F. Mon-
crieff—the new crowd bossed the situation. The M.C.C.
kicked, one of its amusing, self-made bye-laws being that
al'. trustees of the ground must be members of the com-
mittee of the club, but Bent had the law behind him and
stood firm. Since their appointment these six trustees
have been investigating the deed of grant of this lump of
public land, and they find that, under the said deed,
made June 21st, 1862, the land is granted “ to provide
a site or place for playing at cricket within the
city of Melbourne,” and shall be used for no other V !!> ~
pose whatsoever. If the trustees fail to keep the land and
buildings in proper order, or if they sell or lease any poi-
tion thereof, the State has the right to re-enter and take
possession forthwith. The deed makes no mention what-
ever of the M.0.C., wherefore the six new men set to
work to discover how the cheeky club came to be there at
all Thev found that it had a sort of permissive occupancy
of the paddock before ’62, but of course the deed of grant
annulled that, and there is no trace whatever of the
trustees having at anytime given the club a permissive
occupancy. Further, under this deed the trustees
have no right to delegate their power to anyone
else, and they alone have the right to use the
ground and collect revenue from it. There is
as vet no hint that the new trustees propose to kick
the' M.O.C. out neck and crop; still, they say they
“intend to fulfil the duties of their trust ’ —which is to
say, they practically own the ground and the buildings
thereon, and they can let it to whomsoever they darn
well please, and on such terms as they please, for cricket
only. So the Melbourne Cricket Club may presently find
itself a mere push on a street corner, without a ground,
or club room, or grand stand, or bowling green, or any«
thing. * If, f’rinstans, these six—a majority of the existing
nine trustees —choose to let their ground and buildings
to, say, the V.C.A. to play inter-State or international
matches, they are legally entitled to do so. As to where
the M.C.C. would be then, that is a matter that concerns
its members only. *
At the Sydney end of the scrimmage the N.S.W.
Cricket Association is proceeding quietly on its triumphant
way. On Tuesday afternoon last Trumper, Cotter, and
Hopkins were passed out to join Noble and co. At the
coming monthly meeting the Association will proceed
to vest itself with new powers, and, ®‘ter it is
dressed in its new fighting suit, Noble, trumper
and co. will find themselves quietly but firmly
shelved for at least 12 months, although a strong party
will make a fight for two years. If the suspended players
think they are the hub of N.S.W. cricket, they are likely
to have their mistake revealed very plainly before long.
In a little while they will realise, with some bitterness,
what a deuce of a lot opportunity plays in the affaus
of this life. Already lists of players have been
made, from which the next State Eleven and the N.S.W.
portion of the next Australian XT. will be chosen. The
earthquake that has struck the M.C.C. in relation to its
inability to prevent the V.C.A. having the use of
Melbourne Cricket Ground for inter-State and inter-
national cricket has practically hroken-the back ot the
insurrection.
* * *
Dwyer, who was a member of the ground staff
of the Sydney Cricket Ground a few seasons back, re-
cently went to the Cold Country, and is now a regular
member of the Sussex eleven, for which county lie has
qualified. In his own land but few ever heard of the
professional ground bowler. Now someone cables the
fact, at considerable expense, that Dwyer, in a county
fixture, captured nine wickets for 35 runs.
* * * *
So far in Sydney the oaf at the goal has not been
muddied, except when he mixed his own nose blood with
the dust of the touch-line. Saturday s round brought
about something like a levelling up, Eastern Suburbs,
owing to its defeat by University, losing its lead. Glebe
and S with Sydney managed to escape getting to the top
of the list by making their match a draw, and the result
is that no less than six clubs (Eastern Suburbs, Glebe,
South Sydney, Sydney, University and Newtown) are now
level with seven competition points each. North Sydney
and Western Suburbs follow close with six and five points
respectively. ,
The match of the day was that between Eastern
Suburbs and University at the Oval. Ten thousand
people rolled up to watch it, and did not come away dis-
appointed. Immediately play started the ball was kicked
over the Urn. line, and an exciting race was won by the
Uni who forced. Almost immediately afterwards Mes-
senger of E.S., marked at the centre and kicked a beau-
ful goal. Then the Uni. backs let loose a passing charge
that went through E.S. like the wind, and scored a try,
and thereby equalised the scores. Messenger played a
o-uileful game, and although several of his ruses failed
he kicked a penalty goal, and set the Suburbs in
the lead by three. Again the Uni. machine broke
through but its pass was smothered, the tack-
ling of the Suburbs hacks being very effective.
The play became brilliant, though somewhat inch-
vidualistic, and then the University pulled its com-
bination together again and, hurling the Suburbs down
on its line, attacked like wild cats. The Uni. forwards
heeled beautifully, but the Suburbs backs came rushing
round the scrum and smothered with great energy.
Twice the Uni. men took shots at goal, but the flying
E S forwards bustled the kicks. With a desperate effort
the Suburbs forwards cleared the line, and then someone,
in his anxiety to avert danger, got off-side and preci-
pitated the disaster that he was so anxious to
prevent for the University kicked a penalty goal, and
made the score level. The Suburbs took a deep breath
and went in to do things. A dribbling rush swept clean
over the struggling University forwards, who were
demoralised by the speed and combination of it. Oxen-
ham came at the line with a mighty rush, head down,
an d ri'ri't off their toes he took the leather, dashed
through the startled line, and was away towards the
Suburbs’ goal. He flew between the halves, he ran round
rhe three-quarters, and tried to go over the full-back, but
D’Alpugct held on grimly. With a wrench the University
back tore himself free as Hughes raced up .and shouted
for the pass. It went, and next moment Hughes had it
across the line. A splendid run, and as splendid a
defence by the full-back, but he could not block both
men That made the scores nine to six in favor of the
University, and before E.S. could get going again the
whistle sounded. It was a great game, and the first
defeat the Suburbs team has sustained this season.
* * * *
At Sydney Sports Grounds the Glebe and
South Sydney seemed a perfect match. The advant-
age of ' weight in the pack looked slightly in
favor of Glebe, while the backs of the S.S. equa-
lised things by their accurate line-kicking. Ihe full-
back in particular repeatedly sent the game inside
Glebe 25 by most accurate shooting. Tins led to a
series of Wild struggles right on the Glebe line, but
the tacklin<>- of the Reds was very deadly, and
that was where the illegalities happened. South Sydney
was determined to cross the line and didn t care how it
did it. Glebe was just as determined it shouldn t, and
didn’t care how it prevented it. The first half ended
without either side having scored. The second half found
both more determined than ever, and the leather lolled
hack and forward from 25 to 25. Neither side got its back
division going, and the match presented the curious spec-
tacle of all the passing rushes being carried out by the
forwards, and blocked by the backs of the opposing
team. Bleeding noses were the order of the afternoon,
and at one stage of the game South Sydney was playing
with no less than three men short, owing to casualties
and suspensions. Time ran out before either side could
score.
* * * *
At last, and none too soon, Sydney Metropolitan
Ru"-by Union has decided to suppress rough play with
the axe. Glebe-South Sydney and Balmain-Western
Suburbs matches were melees on Saturda} r last, and every
afternoon has seen the players “ mixing it ” in response
to the frenzied shouts of the barraekers. The explana-
tion is that a new species of bookmaker has arisen—a
brand of the beast that lays the odds on football matches
alone—and large sums of money have begun to change
hands. So far the bookmakers have apparently not risen
to the affluence of squaring the players, and the
men who have big wagers on won’t allow any trilling
regulations to come between them and victory.
There have been a lot of ugly “accidents,” and the pre-
sence of footballers in bruising clubs and halls settling
“ old scores ” has not made for the credit of the game.
Unless the Metropolitan Rugby Union comes down with
its lethal weapon, and passes out a few very bad cases,
the rough play and gambling that are becoming features
of the game will ultimately lead to its downfall.
Glorious autumn weather helped the “gates
of Melbourne footballers last Saturday, and the customary
surprises came along to maintain interest in the compe-
titions. Last year’s premiers, Fitzroy, went down before
Essendon by 46 points to 51, a circumstance that demands
more explanation than it is likely to get; while Colling-
wood returned once again to its proper form and wiped
the floor with St. Hilda to the tune of 89 points to 31.
The other two League matches were played on the Mon-
day, when Geelong beat Melbourne (75 points to 56 was
the score), and the unbeaten Carlton met the redoubt-
able South and just saved its record by four
points (69 to 65). The chief surprise of the round,
however, was furnished by the Association ex-pre-
miers, the Richmond men, undefeated so far, who
either took matters too easily or got their tails between
their legs. After letting Williamstown score 39 points to
nine in the first half, they plodded along in a bedraggled,
dispirited fashion till the bell rang, with the scores 10
goals 11 behinds to Richmond’s 6 goals 8 behinds. An
inter-State team had arrived from Adelaide that morning,
with intent to play the Vic. Association on the Monday ;
and as Richmond had done most of the reception honors
perhaps that accounted for the debacle. Two St. Hilda
players retired from Saturday’s argument with ’Wood,
one with a badly sprained ankle, the other with a small
bone in his instep broken. These casualties will appear
in the balance sheet as “medical expenses” and “new
boots.”
* * * •
Sydney British Association clubs have made a
few slight alterations in the paired appearance of their
competition list. Pyrmont is now on top with 10 points,
Glebe and Rozelle tie with eight each, Balmain is third
with six, and Granville and Ultimo have four each.
In Saturday’s match, in spite of the fact that it
started with the sun in its eyes, Pyrmont was soon
attacking* the Balmain goal line, but the Balmain full-
back worked like a Trojan and saved his side repeatedly.
Balmain forwards made gallant attempts to break
through, but the Pyrmont half-back line was firm as a
rock, and back again Pyrmont came to the goal line, press-
ing pressing till the opening was made and the goal won.
Balmain made wild efforts which were quite unavailing.
On resuming Balmain got more combination into the
attack, and a really brilliant shot had the misfortune
to strike the cross-bar. Pyrmont got its head down and
cleared the line by sheer weight, and, getting the Balmain
men on the trot, kept them going till the Pyrmont score
was increased by another goal. Again Balmain hit the
post, and Pyrmont swept down once more and took the
third goal; and then, with a very fast rush, Balmain had
its third shot at goal, and managed to score at last.
Pyrmont scored again, and Balmain made a second
goal. So the game ended—Pyrmont four, Balmain
two. Other matches were : Rozelle’s defeat of Glebe by
three to two, and Granville’s victory over South Sydney
by six to two. Out at St. Peters, Ultimo trod on Sydney
to the tune of two to nil.
Monday last was the first day of the Rugby
Country week, and resulted in a practical draw between
Sydney players and the men from Ironbark. New England,
hard as nails and full of wind as a liquid air com-
pressor wiped Sydney out by 11 to five. The
Northern team trod on Glebe to some purpose,
downing the bright reds by 14 to six. University and
Eastern Suburbs upheld the honor of the town, the col-
legians beating the Western team by 28 to 16, and the
E.S. men beating the Western team by 16 to 9. Country
teams may not know much of what the Telegraph
calls the “ finer points of the game,” but for grit and
stamina they are all there.
* * * *
Latest (Saturday last) was the fastest Adelaide
Birthday Cup yet run. Winner (Zepho) finished in 2.35 J
ljsec. speedier than the previous figures shared by
Laverock and Antilles. Zepho is identical with the nag
of that name who finished last, or thereabout, in the
Autumn Stakes and Sydney Cup at last A.J.C. Autumn
meeting with only 6.12 up, and subsequently won V.R.C.
Bagot Handicap.
* * . * *
First and second steeplechases at A. J.C. meet-
ing- were depressing spectacles Saturday’s event saw
seven in commission. Four —Rise Up, Probus, W.H.A.,
and Kaffir—failed to complete the journey, and Auri-
culum. Up-to-I)ate, and Dancing Joe got home as named.
Up-to-Date fenced faultlessly, though carrying 591 b. in
excess of the winner’s load. Monday’s display proved a
sorrier exhibition still. Of four starters, Aurieulum
came a cropper ere traversing six furlongs, and four leaps
later saw Kaffir and his rider sprawling, while the same
obstacle brought W.H.A. down in the next round, leav-
ing Up-to-Date (the safest conveyance seen in Sydney for
many a dav) to finish solus. Thus was £9O (second and
third money) of the £3OO offered saved to the club.
'* * * * *
Tasmanian jumper Mercury’s win of A.J.C.
Second Hurdles, Monday, was a staggerer for punters
generally, but someone gathered a good haul, for Ikey
Mo laid his coin from 20’s down to 3’s, the latter taken
while the bulk of the crowd was watching the start.
Sheer grit and remarkable stamina kept Mercury in front
from first six furlongs to the end of a 2J miles’ run.
Inside two weeks, the visitor showed poorly indeed at
Rosehill, and improved little at Randwick on Saturday,
but, let down 41b. in the weights, he was a widely dif-
ferent animal on Monday.
* * * ♦
Carbine colt Spearmint’s win of English Derby
last week in record time (2.36 4-ssec.) comes years too late
to be much of a boost for his sire—Australia’s “ Old
Jack,” who’ll probably still continue to serve at the same
fee—£9B. Carbine’s get have to date accumulated
£lOO,OOO. The latest winner previous to Spearmint was
Gingal who in April last gathered the Wood-Dittan Stakes
at Newmarket (Eng.) from 10 others without much of an
effort.
* * * *
Jockey J. O’Brien, up on Avalon, winner of
big race (Alderman Cup) at Adelaide meeting, Monday,
has won that event three times, riding Avalon and
Adjuster before. Finish was unique. O’Brien’s body hid
other two placed nags from the judge’s view, and that
official had consequently to declare a dead-heat for second
place.
Mackay, («ho won the .Tampers Flat »f J
at Adelaide Saturday, is an ancient. He was oreu av
Hobartville.’by Marvellous from Paquita, 14 years ag .
Prince of Wales Stakes (lm. 3f.), carrying large
nnt nf Tatts sweep, was appropriated by the usually un
lucky Tatterdemalion, who beat Saturday’s Princess May
Stakes winner Clonsilla and Binma, as named The
unreliable was confidently backed from twelve
down to “ fours,” and, though he shirked pronouncedly
near the finish and shot across the course, he was going
too fast to lose. # „
Recently deceased turfite Mr. Oliver'Aitkeri
will always be referred to as the owner of D.0.D., A'ho,
when he won the Goodwood (S.A.) Handicap a year 01
two back, paid the remarkable dividend of something
over £BOO. Mr. Aitken once had a fine chaser in Tyro,
which Mr. W. T. Jones bought for £6OO, only to see him
break up a little later.
* * * *
Rev. Fitchett, talking to a Melbourne City
Mission the other night got excited t P won
subject than his dear old Empire and the bleeds that w on
it Fitchett this time invited patriotic abomination foi
“ the scandalous tote shops, that bear to the bo <ty social
the relations that the pustules on a small-pox patient
bear to the body human.” Somebody has supplied him
with details which have a bad odor of truth about
them “In connection with one tote-shop says the
reverend crusader, “ thirty-seven men are employed, ana
all their records are in Pentridge. Twelve of them are
distinguished pickpockets. Four have been under
sentence of death—commuted to 12 years imprisonment
in each case—for outrages on women. These are the
forces for evil amongst us. They are a menace to eve y
mother’s son. They have their secret police their own
detectives, they wage an open shameless war-
fare against society, and they have allies in
high places,” &c., Ac. Fitchett, Judkins and Co
are on a good wicket just now, and the
harder they slog the faster they will score. But,
unfortunately, they don’t know enough about the tote-
punting to put in some effective strokes in the £ s. a.
direction. If Fitchett wants to rouse the virtuous in-
dignation of Young Australia he must be able to talk
about the way the tote returns are faked, and he must
tell his Christian friends what proportion of the nominal
tote dividends is represented by the odd threepences
that are retained by a grasping management. The loss
of the odd “trays” is a social evil that touches the
pockets of thousands of infatuated punters. It has been
calculated that tens of thousands of long beers are thus
annually diverted from their natural channels.
. * » *
It is no good going against your luck. A large
punter, who lives at the Oriental Hotel (Melbourne),
rushed out in his pyjamas and overcoat on a recent
Tuesday morning, fell into a cab, and made a wild dash
for the Bendigo express, to get to the races at that golden
city. He got to the gates just in time to see the tram
leave. Every favorite won. Next day he got up at half-
past six, got to the station half-an-hour too soon, lost
£3O going up in the train, and when he got there the
second races were postponed till the following
Wednesday.
* * * ■*
“Gun”: Was surprised to read in Tuesday’s
Svdnev dailies that from the press stand (in front of the
post) Kirrinoor (placed third) appeared to win Second
Nursery at Randwick on Monday. Writer was close to
the judge’s box, and hasn’t the smallest doubt but that
the horses were placed right—Yabba Gabba, Banzai, and
Kirrinoor. In fact, an accumulation of Moses on the
slope offered twos against Kirrinoor after they passed the
post. So much for what pressmen see from their position.
* * * *
The Argus people certainly know how to
advertise cheaply. A year or two ago they presented an un-
imposing challenge cup for competition among . public
schools—not State schools, but the kind of institution to
which the moneyed citizen sends his sons. Iwo
meetings have been held, at which half-a-dozen
schools went through all kinds of sports merely
that the winning school might hold The Argus
and the Australasian Challenge Cup for a year.
Weslev College won it this time. But the holding of the
utensil is a mere circumstance beside the chance the con-
tests give for pages of illustrations about “ The Argus
and The Australasian Challenge Cup ’ —leadeis, sub-
leaders silly season letters, and columns of fashion notes,
aU <,-iven rise to by “The Argus and The Australasian
Challenge Cup,” and having the clumsy title of that vessel
blazoned at frequent intervals down the column. AM all
this fuss about one poor little slop-basin seems destined to
continue, even unto the day of the great-grandsons of the
youths who are at present unconsciously advertising the
Argus. „ *
“ Sha” : Servus Takoysterus got even with me
for a lot of chaff, ’tother night: Wata you tinka ma
country now, eh? He winna 28 race at Athena ; you
!!™crack a notta winna one! eh? You saya Grik
played out; only fit sella fishanoyster! eh ? Next a
push come in an’ notta wanta pay, I show him Grik notta
Slaved out I show him . 1 took
my change and left him whirling his muscles, and getting
ready togiveahot reception to the next pushite who
“ balanced ” Servus Takoysterus for ‘ a plata fry fish.
* * * *
According to the latest reports the Victorian
police were still busy issuing warrants against J. I. Baly,
whom they affirm is identical with “ Professor Kemp,
the rough-rider. In the meantime the buck-jumping
show' meanders on the uneven tenor of its way, and last
week the Age arose in its wrath and cursed its ladies
contest as an “ unedifying ” spectacle. A similarly un-
edifving ” spectacle had taken place the previous week,
and y was reported by the Aom without any
rin<>- of horror in its voice. One of the com-
petitors, Miss Macdonald, is a Victorian girl,
and the other competitor was Miss Kemp, a Queens-
lander. Neither lady was thrown on that occasion, and
the judges were unable to decide the owmer of the
championship, and ordered the competitors to change
horses and ride again the following Wednesday night.
To give the women a clear fall in the case of then being
unable to sit the horses, the stirrups (and not the ladies
feet as the Age man seems to have thought) were
fastened underneath the horses, so that they could
not flv up. Both horses were urged to buck by
the use of a flank rope, and “Black Bob,” after
a tremendous exhibition of bucking, managed to unseat
the Victorian girl. This was the same horse that had
previously failed to unseat Miss Kemp. Miss Macdonald
is a wonderful horsewoman, but she had essayed the
almost impossible task of riding two savage outlaws m
the one night, and, being a rather light woman, her
strength gave out before that of the animals she rode.
Miss Kemp managed to ride both her horses, and also
Black Bob, but of course he was more or less bucked
out ” after his bout with Miss Macdonald.
* * * *
British naval experts have said that the Jap
big gun shooting at Tsushima was anything but accurate,
and that on an average something like 1 5 per cent, of the
shots missed. So apparently the Russian shooting must
have been absolutely damnable. When the Jap squadron
was here its riflemen were so badly beaten in Mel-
bourne that out of courtesy to the feelings of our brave
brown allies ” the scores were not published. At bydnej
the squadron sent a team against the Council of the
National Rifle Association, and the result was another
Jap debacle. Teams of 15 competitors fired at the run-
ning man,” who travelled 100yds. in one minute. The
Australians averaged 11’6 shots per man, and loaded
sino-lv. The Japs used the magazine, and averaged only
10-2 shots per man, taking much longer time to aim than
the Australians. Yet the visitors scored only 186 to the
Australians 309. Banzai! Also, whoop 1
* » * *
After a wrangle extending over many months,
the Victorian Automobile Club has allowed members
interested in the trade to take office. The brutal truth
of the matter was that unless those interested in foster-
ing the pastime were allowed to take a band in tbe gmer
in"- of it, there would have been a dearth of prizes and an
appalling 1 lack of public interest.
No wonder Joey Carruthers has a surplus
look at the revenue his police are raking ' n ,
through raiding two-up and other bett&g seho< Svdnev*
lowing the raid on Wren’s Club, P
came that on the Empire Pastime Club in Castlereagn
street, when the bag yielded 65 mw and boys, who ought
to clean up for over ±3OO. Evidently the greed of gam
has got Joseph down, and one of these dayshewillra id
the two Tattersall clubs in Pitt-street sure as his name
Joe- . . * *
Nigel Barker has gone on from Athens tothe
Cold Country to have a try for English championsh p .
He is sanguine that the English tracks will Jield him
some trophies. # *
The billiards season in Melbourne starts this
week with the Victorian Billiard Markers’ Tournament
to be played at Alcock's Hall. The tournament
handicap, and judging from the interest take i n t
year, when it was a new departure the most likely men
will have a large following of barrackers this time.
* * * *
The world’s greatest motor boat gathering, the
Speed Carnival at Monaco, otherwise known as Monte
Carlo, on the Mediterranean Sea, was carried
successful issue without one single accidentto spo i t
symmetry of the meeting. Some amazing boats figured
in the race, such as the Dubonnet, a 240 h p. craft. Other
French boats were the Delahaye of 190 h.p., and the
Antoinette, also 190 h.p. England sent the Yanow
Napier and Siola, but so far there are no particulars oj
their horse power. The Yarrow-Napier was badlystrained
and damaged in transit, but after being Pa tct e,1 uP
started in and won several races.. Its most sensatmnai
win was the Racers’ Handicap, in which it put up a
phenomenal burst of speed at the end. It overhauled and
passed all competitors in the last few miles and won by
ssec. after covering 31 miles in lhr. onnn. 3s ®°- ..
was the blue ribbon event of the meet
a W Uliough the actual championship race was won
bv the huge-powered Delahaye, which rushed
124 miles in 4hr. 40min. 12sec., with the Antoinette
second, three minutes later, and an unnientioned
French boat, Fiat X 111.,. three minutes behind tge
second. The Yarrow-Napier was fourth, 7nnn. Jbsec.
behind the first. Other remarkable performances were
standing mile in 2min. 25sec., covered by the Fiat Ain.,
and 1293yds. (one kilometre) from a flying stalt
70 3-ssec., equal to 31 miles an hour. These are tall
speeds. * * ♦
The really up-to-date motor-car is a thing of
beautv, and instead of being shot at by irate:*» r ™ ers
other scoundrels on the land, will be haded as a boon
and an ornament. “ Motocones, an Austrian inven-
tion, are little cones of some chemical mixture costing
about lOd. each, which, when dissolved (one to 10 gallons)
in petrol or benzine, give motor-car
odor of heliotrope. In course of time the means of vary
irur the odor will be discovered, and the modern motor-
car with its eight-note horn making sweet music as it
sroe’salonv, will breathe forth a fragrance of new-mown
hay, and horses will pursue it instead of flying in terror
and asses will try to head it off, and cows will gather
round it at every stopping place.
* * * *
The League of Victorian Wheelmen has granted
permission for the Dunlop Warrriambool-Melbourne road
race to be run on Sept. 22. As usual, the company
arranges for supplying competitors with solid and liquid
fuel in the course of the journey. The on y new condi-
tion is a rule which forbids the use of single tube racing
tyres • this was interpolated for the purpose of placing
the city and country racers on absolutely equal condi-
tions. Competitors are forbidden to utilise pacers oi to
change machines during the race. T' e ll " f^, rn , L au
these forbidden tactics is strongly illustrated by an
account received of the recent Rans-Roubaix road race.
Single bicycle pacemakers were permitted, and the race)S
were allowed to change their mounts as often as they
pleased. The consequence w'as that the man with the
deepest pocket won ; he arranged for. a light machine,
with special hill-climbing gears, to await him at the foot
of every pinch, and had relays of single pacers along the
road These, although they were probably not in the
same street with him for the journey, could take him
along at a merry pace for a few miles, and their nuuibeis
did the trick. As a matter of fact, the best man did not
win for the winner beat by only half a wheel a man who
could not afford hill-climbing gears.
The latest idiocy is an undertaking by an Eng-
lish cyclist named C. C. de Finney to ride 100 miles per
day for 365 consecutive days on a motor-bike. Ine last
person who attempted a similar long and dreary enter-
prise was Teddy Hall, who seven years ago rode an ordi-
nary bike 100 miles per day, six days per week for 12
months, and covered 32,479 miles. This sort of thing
strikes one as the bedrock of inane futility.
* * * *
The old bucks who frequent the golfing links
are agitating for girl caddies and the brazen portion of
the daily papers is echoing the demand. No club that
intends to retain the membership of married men will
dream of allowing the innovation. Up to the present tne
w7t.u. Social Gimlet Brigade, and the Ebenezer
Society for the Elevation of the Home and Safeguarding
of the Marriage Tie have not recovered their breath after
hearing of the scandalous proposal, but when they do
i i i the Bulletin also raises its voice in oppo-
sition, not because it fears that the system would lead to
the downfall of the home, but on the ground that a man
who would let a girl carry his golfing sticks would allow
his wife to clean his boots, and the man who does that
isn’t a man—he’s hardly even a bloke, and he doesn t
amount to a cove. * *
Vic. Premier Bent has yielded to pressure ap-
plied by archbishops, common or garden parsons, and
eminent persons of refined tastes, and ordered the trus-
tees of Melbourne Exhibition Building never again to let
the place for the holding of glove contests. Cl^ z ( e ''
Wren will now have to fix up a little place of his own for
his £lOOO scrap at Cup-time, when the American cham-
pion is to be let loose upon Bill Squires. Wren will
probably run up a temporary building on his Richmond
course.


Why the
n
mmrn
111 lull
si in
Good tobacco can only be grown on virgin soil. This is the reason that most Havana
and Mexican cigars are now so poor in quality and lacking in aroma.
Artificial manures have been used to force the growth of these tobaccos, and this
entirely spoils the quality.
The tobacco from which the “MARSUMA” cigar is made is grown on virgin soil—
that is, land which has been covered for all known time with rank, wild undergrowth.
This is burnt, the land tilled, and tobacco seeds sown, and only in this manner can good
tobacco be obtained. Every few years the ground is allowed to return to this wild state
but m Cuba and Mexico this is not done, and consequently these tobaccos have
deteriorated year by year, and must now give place to EAST Indies tobacco, the finest
the world produces.
Quite different from any cigar offered before, the peculiarity of the East Indian
tobacco is that the dark leaves are equally mild as the light-colored ones.
Only ripe tobacco being used in the manufacture, “MARSUMA” cigars are always
a rich brown or dark brown color.
Being made from picked sweet-scented leaves of the young tobacco plant, the cigars
have a most fragrant, pleasing flavor, peculiarly their own.
SOLE AGEKTS ;
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
[6
“ Before this terrific demonstration of the power
of gold any private company might have quailed, the
hard-up raiiroads were cowed at once. The Trust bought
up their scrip, or their scrip-holders. It bought up the
majority of oil wells, and it came down with an iron hand
on distribution. People who still struggled against the
grinding monopoly were crushed ruthlessly, reduced to
destitution, their wives driven to kitchens, their children
to charitable institutions, and themselves to lunatio
asylums and premature graves. It is even said that men
who could not be crushed and wouldn’t be bought were
murdered. So the rebate went on, secretly in spite of the
law. The Trust had got practical control of the U.S.A.
oil supply. Fresh oil fields were being discovered, but
owing to the Trust’s control of the means of transport
they could be worked profitably only by the Trust.”
From “ On the Trail of the Trust,” now on sale at Tub
Bulletin office.
TEN JOURNEYMEN TAILORS
Constantly employed solely making COATS —NO FACTORY WORK.
The Best and Most Fashionable Goods, regardless of cost.
RESULT—Once a customer, you will always have your Suits made by
E. T. WALSH, Expert Tailor,
359 6EOR6E STREET (opp. the G.P.0.).
SUITS from FOUR GUINEAS* Samples and Measure Forms sent to any address
Legal Notice.
IN the Intestate Estate of John Kelly, late of
Middle Harbour, Miner, deceased Mary
Kelly, Margaret Kelly, Bridget Kelly, and Kate
Kelly, the daughters of Bartholomew and Johanna
or Judy Kelly, late of Mount Shannon Scariff,
Ireland, are requested to communicate with the
undersigned, giving particulars of their birth, etc.,
and they will hear of something to their advantage.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates,
Queen’s Square, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
CJareudou-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10!,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OK TAIiI.K Kl It.MSII I MIS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with conlidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
JJ*£j' or
ab!e
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Hoarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Visitors to IVteSbourne
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. Gt’. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telki'HONK 1040.
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King of
Briar Pipes
obtainable
from all Tobacconists
INSTANT RELIEF.
f POWELL’SX
Balsam'Aniseed 1
fCGUGHS
Uor COLDS
\ j ASTHSVB A
BROMCHaTBS,
Safe for Children.
TRADE
MASK
an ISE^
Chemists & Stores. Be sure
tJf° u Qet Powell’s with above
Trade Marie.
THE
ents
of tho
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
ţ
A
“AHSfA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well-seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDHEIM.
GOTTHfcLL & CO., Sydney.
S. A. lacrosse men are getting to work early.
Sturt, the premier club, which single-handed beat Vic-
t >;ia and Westralia in turn last year, has already piled up
27 goals against decent opposition in one match. This
tops the 26 which S.A. once made against N.S.\V., but
falls short of the club’s own record of 29 in an inter-club
match. Sydney players never dream of putting up scores
like this ; the good players seem to be too evenly distri-
buted around the metropolis to make it possible. On
Saturday Marrickville fell on North Shore, and, contrary
to expectations, overwhelmed it; but, in comparison to
the S.A. precedents, it was an even game, the winners
scoring only nine to the losers’ six.
» * * *
On Saturday Sydney followers of the ancient
game of hurling (which is really the oldest game in its
present form) were treated to a splendid exhibition at
Moore Park by the City and Annandale Clubs. City,
having won the toss, decided to make first use of the
slope of the ground. But the slope didn’t avail City
much, for, from the puck off, the Annandale crowd swept
the leather down the field and promptly scored a point.
The Annandale game consisted of a series of good passing
charges, some of which were successful. Then City
levelled things up somewhat by scoring a goal
from a free, and the first half ended with Annandale
leading by seven to four. The second half found the
out-matched City playing up hill, and, strange to say, it
played better, scoring a couple of points in rapid succes-
sion, and then another, which made the scores equal.
Over anxiety on the part of the City full-back in his
defence gave the Annandales a free within a few
yards of the goal line, and they scored a goal off it.
The City put on its business aspect, and played up in a
manner that would have made success certain had it
been indulged in from the opening of the game. But the
Annandale defence was too solid, and, in spite of great
efforts, City was unable to score again before time ran
out, leaving the Annandale team boss by 13 to 11.
The Griffin-Murphy mill, at Sydney National
Sporting Olub last week, was a mere roughing match.
Murphy was outweighted, and Charles Griffin, who re-
fused to go on the scales, looked not only much heavier,
but also much stronger. From the start he made use of
his extra weight and strength. Murphy is as pretty a
side-stepper as is in the game, but he was dazed after
having somewhere about 10 stone odd of Maoriland
meat burled against him for three consecutive minutes,
and he never side-stepped worth a cent. Still, he
fought a plucky fight, and although over-matched
and crushed by the roughing tactics of the
Maorilander, the champion featherweight jabbed
and stabbed away, and groped through the shower
of blows in a vain endeavor to find the Maori-
land point. But the Maoriland blows fell like Canter-
bury rain, and the Sydneyite saw only a'sheet of falling
fists, most of which fell on him. And, as the Scriptures
say, “he marvelled greatly.” His common sense told
him it could not last long—even the whirling machine
he was up against must get tired in time; but, unfor-
tunately for him, the Maorilander kept it up for five
rounds, and the Sydney boxer was beaten and roughed to
the floor over and over agaip. He came up gamely, but
at the end of the fifth round, after he had been floored
three times, the referee declared Griffin winner.
* * * *
George Towns has been challenged by English
sculler Harding to defend his right to the title of Cham-
pion of England, and to the Sportsman Cup—distinctions
which have been won on two occasions by Towns, and
held for six years. As the race must take place on the
Thames or Tyne, it is extremely likely that Towns will
forsake the title, and leave Cold Country scullers to
scramble amongst themselves for it.
“Huffin-Guffin” : A day amongst horsey men
and their nags has convinced me that the plea of im-
proving the breed of horses as a reason for racing them is
utter rot. One never hears anything among these human
weeds about the quality of the animals. The only mat-
ters discussed by the “inner” crowd are whether any
particular horse is a “ trier,” whether the “ push ” run-
ning it means to “go,” whether the jockey and trainer
haven’t been “got at,” and the like. There al-
ways seems to be quite a crowd engaged in
running each horse, and the crowd's unanimous
decision about its collective nag is the information every-
body desires. If it is found that the “push” itself is
divided, there is trouble. The racehorses seem for the
most part poor, worried-looking creatures ; they look as
though they felt their positions, and were always
conscious-stricken about their dishonest lives. They
seem to only need a leader to start a rebellion and an
eternal swearing-off “stiff” practices. They are
rushed into a railway horse-box, jolted and jerked
in the train, rushed out of the train, rushed
on the course, and then bustled about generally. Then,
when they feel that it is the business of their lives to race,
they are as likely as not, or more so, held back by a
narrow skulled boy who has but one idea—“riding to
orders.” The towm order of horse engaged in the racing
business, the cab horse, is even more badly treated than
his superior. He is rushed to and from the course as
hard as he can tear, each additional trip squeezed in
meaning the more shekels for his owner. Bah! the whole
business of horse-racing is a fraud and a cruelty to
animals. I wish I could draw, I w’ould steal Fred
Brown’s idea of the place w'here things are levelled up,
and would give the whole range of horse-frauds particular
Sheol.
From tlie Bent country
Vic. Premier Bent sa.vs he is going to sell the lands of the
Ivew Asylum, irrespective of the fact that those very
lands form the security of a special loan raised by Duncan
Oillies some 18 years ago. Even apart from Duncan’s
loan, the suggestion is absolute madness. The land
should be leased and form a perpetual endowment for the
State Lunacy Dept. It is strange how the Australian Fat-
man slavishly follows every British precedent which suits
his own purposes, and denounces every sensible English
practice as a “modern Socialistic fad.” Nearly all
the big charitable institutions of Great Britain
have behind them the solid foundation of a land endow-
ment settled on them ages ago by the foresight of
mediaeval founders. Hardly any of the great colleges of
England would exist to-day but for the revenues ob-
tained from land given when it was worth a fraction of
its present value. St. Bartholomew’s Hospital is a notable
example. This immense institution, one of the five largest
of the sort in the world, is maintained almost wholly
by its rent-roll and, not long back, was refusing contri-
butions and legacies on the ground that it had no need
for them. The Vic. Education Department has a vast
area of land along Fishermen’s Bend which should
become the centre of a great manufacturing district
when the Commonwealth provides a decent Protective
tariff ; and not long ago T. Bent suggested that this area
should be sold at its present value, Which is about
nothing. The force of public opinion was dead against
him then, and he dropped the string of his little kite.
But he seems determined to go through with the Kew
scheme, which is just about as bad.
BOODLE FIRST.
“Unfortunately good sound mercantile men say that
business is too important to neglect for politics.”— ARGUS.
“A much better yame on! Ah—well! — yes,
thanks! ”
About the end of April last 26 blocks of
land situated in the Tweed district (N.S.W.) were
thrown open for “ conditional purchase lease.”
For these blocks there were 108 applications.
The local Land Board sat at Mur willmnbah for
two days for the preliminary examination of
the applicants. On the second day the Board
announced that, owing to the land being thickly
timbered, and consequently difficult to clear, it
intended to take Capital into consideration in
coming to a decision. On the following day the
Board, wallowing at the shrine of Capital, reduced
the number of applications to GO—eight appli-
cants had withdrawn in disgust, and the other 40
had been refused a chance at the ballot owing to
insufficiency of bloated affluence. Poverty,
although not a crime, is apparently something
nearly as bad in the eyes of a Land Board.
Goldsbrougli, Mort and Co., Limited, report.
The week’s business in wool has been practically confined
to private selling which, however has not been of an
extensive nature owing to the limited supplies now
coming forward. Notwithstanding the easier tone that
marked the closing of the last series of sales in London,
the market here continues firm, and any lots available
are readily taken at rates fully equivalent to those ruling
at the auctions last week.*
*’The purpose of the Trust system is ever the
same. Monopolise the trade and production of a city, of
a State, of a continent, of the whole earth. Only when
you’ve got the whole earth in the clutch of your monopoly
can you bleed with thoroughness and in safety. To
bleed is the purpose of a Trust. It is not in business
for philanthropy’s sake. It does not weave its webs to
amuse the flies. It is after blood and spoil.” From “On
the Trial of the Trust,” now on sale at The Bulletin
office.
There is lying in Hobson’s Bay just now
the only six-masted brigantine afloat; it has just
brought hither two million feet of Oregon timber.
When first built it was rigged by its German
owners as a barque, but rolled its masts out. The
underwriters traded it off to a Yankee firm, and
the Yankees have made a success of it so far. It
is a queer-looking object, with its foremast square-
rigged and the other five schooner-rigged, but it is
easily handled, and travels all right. Its name is
the Everett G. Griggs. The first thing the
American does when he buys a ship is to change
its name to something with a naked initial in the
centre.
A letter published by Dr. Arthur, M.L.A.,
throws sortie doubt upon the latest tale ol
Stinking Fish and Co. The tale concerned
one Colchester, who sold his business in Eng-
land ; took up, through hfie Agent General,
a farm at Myall Creek (N.S.W.), and came
out to go on the land. Then in some un-
accountable way he found himself deceived, or
betrayed, orsomething, and went back to England,
where it is understood that he is likely to say
things injurious to this unfortunate country. The
nature of Colchester’s injury was not at all
clear, but Stinking Fish and Co. decided
off-hand that Australia had been at it
again. Dr. Arthur, however, says Colchester was
a man with only £7OO ; that he selected on his
own responsibility an area remote from the rail-
way (this despite the fact that he had a
map before him); that he intended to
be a large sheep-farmer on a mere dairy
farm, and didn’t realise till he arrived that it was
impossible ; that he was offered a more convenient
farm and urged to wade in at the highly-profit-
able dairying industry, but decided that his
sons were too delicate to wrestle with the coarse,
uncouth cow ; and finally this gentleman took
his futile way home again and was seen no more.
Which story leaves one wondering what harm
Australia did the aggrieved Colchester. It
couldn’t help his sons being delicate.
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business .*
A start is about to be made with the
erection of the Maoriland Government’s first set
of workmen’s homes, tenders having been let for
25 at Petone, near Wellington. Houses are abso-
lutely unprocurable in that city, and rents are
outrageously high. People of the houseless sort
are glad to get accommodation of any kind at all;
so long as they are under the shelter of a roof they
don’t care. A woman who applied to the Benevo-
lent Trustees for aid said she rented a bathroom
and cooked food for herself and child on an oil
lamp. Wellington, with a population that is
growing like a high wind, is jammed in between
the sea and the mountains, and the inhabitants
cut shelves in the mountains where they are not
too steep, and get up home by zig-zag paths, and
spend the evenings looking down their neighbors’
chimneys.
The wonderful anti-Socialists of a Victorian
shire up Kyabram way have been begging again.
They wanted to make a new road, and
making it involved the purchase of
24 acres of land. The owners demanded
£4OO (£IG 13s. 4d. per acre) which the men-
dicants said was a fair thing. They also
said, however, that the local rates couldn’t
provide the money, and came cadging
to Bent. Then Bent said in effect:
“ You say land in your district is worth
£l6 13s. 4d. per acre. Yet you only value
it for rating purposes at an average
of £4 7s. 4d. per acre, and levy on that a
miserable Is. in the £ of rental value,
which seems to be about 3gd. on the
real rental value. If you abolished
this swindle, and valued your lands
honestly, you would have nearly four
times the revenue, even with your pre-
sent low rate, and you could make your
own roads. Good morning. Mind the
step.” And another barefaced swindle
found itself out in the street.
From Clifford, Love and Co. The Bulletin
has received some samples of their corn-flour—a
local product, manufactured on one of the delight-
ful Lane Cove River reaches. The flour comes
from the “ Chicago Mill,” but this Chicago mill
is in Australia, and the'pwrity and quality of its
products are unchallenged.
Walter Duncan, who died at sea the other
day, and was buried under the waves close to the
spot where Charlie Kingston’s father’s body lies,
was about the wealthiest man in S.A. Assembly,
and one of the most popular. His vote was
always solidly Conservative, but he was a really
good fellow and always a gentleman. Although a
big pastoralist, he was a strong supporter of the
Shearers’ Accommodation Act. He never wob-
bled, and never sought office, and the longest
speech he ever made in the House did not exceed ten
minutes. He was alwaj's at the head of the poll
in his district, but that was a personal matter
and Murray will now probably be captured by the
Government.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The great
and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is that it
relieves without discomfort; in other words, it effects
reform without revolution. This is because it is the
bust and safest natural aperient.*
Like Coghlan, who might have secured the
job had he wanted it, G. H. Knibbs, the new
Federal Statist, was born in Sydney. He is 48 ;
Coghlan is 51. As a youngster Coghlan went
into the Works Department; Knibbs joined the
Lands. When Knibbs was acting-Professor of
Physics at Sydney University, the under-grads,
used to marvel at the things he knew—all sorts of
things. Privately he would tell them some of
those things in five minutes. Then he would tell
them the same things in a lecture two hours long,
and when he had finished, they would try to
grope their way back out of the wilderness of
words to the real solid information they had got
in the five minutes.


A. SAUNDERS
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising 5 pieces.
Other Styles.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
in Silk-lined Case, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Sterling Silver mounted.
First-class Timekeeper, 15s.
Extra Quality, 20s.
THAT’S THE NAME.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak INK STAND, Nickel Mounts,
Cut Glass Bottles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d. 7s 6d, 10b 6d, 12s 6d, to £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION.
Solid Silver, comprising
articles, 15s 6d.
Larger Size, 18s 6a.
as
Mg®
I'-ilt
Mi
w
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver Plated,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
Save by Mail.
Personal service in
our Mail Order
Department
enables
us to
serve you by Mail
anywhere,
as perfectly as if
you visited our
Showrooms.
All Goods sent.
Post Free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SAFETY VESTAS BOX
HOLDER,
Richly Embossed, 7s 6d.
Cherub Design, 8s 6d.
Free to All.
No matter
where you live,
if you have a copy
of our Illustrated
Catalogue,
you can obtain the
latest goods delivered
to your own home,
at City Prices.
Write for our
Catalogue
to-day. We send
it Post Free
to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Solid Silver,
In Velvet-Lined Case. 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver llAlli BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Fine White Bristles, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted
PIN CUSHIONS,
Heart Shaped, 2s 6d.
Larger, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU-l
DE-COLOGNE BOTTLE,
Cover and Stopper, 30s.
Larger, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather
CHATELAINE BAG,
Sterling Silver Mounts
and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass
TOILET BOTTLES.
Richly Embossed. Solid Silver Tops, ii
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
3 sizes,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather
LETTER CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 255,
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH,
Pure S-ver-1 lated, Real
Badger Hair, 5s 6d.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTII or HAT BRUSH,
Fine Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver CARD CASE,
Handsomely Engraved, 15s 6d.
Without Lid, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Self Rolling RAZOR STROP,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand-
somely Embossed, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 13s 6d,
17s 6d, 255.
itifuiiuiuiHiiKtiiiiitjiiiiiiiijHimiHmiiiiiiiiiihi iiiiii u i
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
Oomnrisincr 2 Richly Embossed HAIR BRUSHES and
COMB, in SEk-lined Morocco Case, £3,
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5, £6.
Gent.’s Gold-Mounted Amber CIGARETTE HOLDER,
in Solid Silver or Plain Cases, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CIGAR Size, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A
mm
UHIMMUHHIIIUIIUIUIIHIIHIIUUIIIIII
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass TOILET BOTTLES,
Richly Embossed, Solid Silver Tops, £2 6«.
Larger, £3 10s, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s MILITARY HAIR BRUSH
Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles, 15s.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 20s.
a 3
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile LEATHER PURSE and
Combined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
CARD CASE
15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SERVIETTE CLIP,
2s 6d, Ss 6d.
ť
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Leather Wallet
POGivET BOOK,
Silk-lined, fitted with
every convenience, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR PIN BOX, Solid Silver Top,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass, Size 6in. x ljin.,
10s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s. 17s (sd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted Head
SALTS BOTTLE. 3s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hobnail Cut Glass Head
SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Top, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather PURSE,
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Mounts and Lock, 16s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d 4 17s 6d, 20s.
■III
bp"
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver SHAVING SET,
Comprising Shaving Brush, Soap Holder, and
Powder Jar, in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3.
A. SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
l SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, I
809, 811, 813, 815, Bl7j
GEORGE-STREET, (
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


pn
flip
t>2
#Y
'¥M:
y&
'*£s
.-.- . *•
'
:'4
- I?<* Si . t
», e I;
'
* y -*s■*$ 1
:5f >'• V
.
.-4’
to/-. -
viffi
Jfigli
,
Hfesi
\T
iY
It#
;ffe:Sl
II!' • '#
\S- 1 ' A&& fe
I'
m
m
A\
A
.... A-
■r\
ASMA £ ■ %
K
Sti
M
g'j
I .]
■kv
m
mi
7#
'^*V^' ,T '"
,7 - > ' -»,
.
«§§ : '
lg4#
feftssi- .. *VI I, *-£t - '.i*:
A# J £,-■ 0
A REGAL TIME VICE-REGAL MIXTURE.


Amusements.
MARIE NARELLE
Opens her Australian tour at the
Sydney Town Hall,
JUNE 16.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
Theatre
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BLAND HOLT’S Spectacular, Sporting, & Military Drama.
FOR ENGLAND.
A SURE SOURCE OP ENJOYMENT and MERRIMENT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IW~ PRICES AS USUAL.
QR ITER lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
LAST NIGHTS of the
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD NEW LONDON COMEDY
COMPANY, including MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
the Famous Society and Beauty Actress, in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Day
Tickets at White Rose.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURGIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
WINCHAM, THURSDAY and FRIDAY, JUNE 7 and 8.
TAREE, MONDAY and TUESDAY, JUNE 11 and 12.
COOPERNOOK, WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY,
JUNE 13 and 11.
LAURIETON, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, JUNE 15 and 16.
PORT MACQUARIE, MONDAY, JUNE 18.
WAUCHOPE, TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY, JUNE 19 & 20.
KEMPSEY, THURSDAY & FRIDAY, JUNE 21 and 22.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
I VOL I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Re-Appearance for a Short Farewell Season of the
MILES-STRAVORDALE QUINTETTE in perfect imita-
tions of the Human Voice from the Strings of the Banjo.
Enormous Success of OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
Also, O’NATIS TROUPE of Wonderful Algerian Jugglers.
Emphatic Success of HOMER B. MASON and
MARGUERITE KEELER CO.
Continued Enormous Success of BLAKE and GRANBY.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Ways.
ROSE CABANI, Serio Comic and Dancer.
SLADE MURRAY, Comedian, Descriptive Vocalist.
VASCO, the Mad Musician, plays 27 Instruments.
MDLLE ALEXANDRA, MASTER BERTIE, Novelty Act.
LILIETH LEYTON and Mr. HARRY KENDAL in
Comedy Sketch, THE LADY BURGLAR.
And a host of others.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
NENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY.
J Direction .. .. Mr. W. J. Macdermott
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Macdermott’s New Zealand
Biograph Company.
The Finest Pictures yet presented.
PROFESSOR W. E.
SCOTT, Magician, Ventriloquist,
Entertainer.
2s, Is, 6d.
Plan at Paling's.
AUSTRALIAN AXEMEN’S CHOPPING CARNIVAL,
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus Building, Melbourne.
£225 12th, 13th, & 14th JULY, 1906.
I*risses« PROGRAMME:
CHAMPION STANDING BLOCK CHOP, 56in. Logs.—
First, £25 and Gold Medal; second, £10; third, £5.
Entry 10s.
CHAMPION U. H. CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £25 and
Gold Medal; second, £lO ; third, £5. Entry 10s.
U.H. HANDICAP CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £3O;
second, £l5 ; third, £5. Entry 30s. ;no acceptance.
S.B. HANDICAP CHOP, 56in. Logs.—First, £3O ; second,
£l5 ; third, £5, Entrv 30s. ; no acceptance.
INTERSTATE TEAMS MATCH, 3ft. Logs.—First, £10;
second, £5 ; Entry 10s.
D.H. SAWING MATCH.—First, £10; second, £5 ; Entry
10s.
PALING SPLITTING COMPETITION.—First, £10;
second, £5. Entry 10s.
BLACKBUTT TIMBER. Entries to
C. E. ELY, Toora, South Gippsland.
E. ERSKINE SCOTT, Business Manager.
pRINCESS’S
Lessee
Amusements.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE]
----- ... Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
To-Night, THURSDAY 7th, To-Morrow Night FRIDAY
Bth, Last Performances of DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
SATURDAY 9th,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY CO in
LITTLE MARY.
Reappearance of MRS. BROUGH.
“Tew theatre
Ni
Lessee
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY 7th, FRIDAY Bth—LAST TWO NiGHTS of
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
SATURDAY 9th,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
The Latest London and Continental Success
DEATH OR OLORY BoVs.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
|_IER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ " Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, a Gale of Merriment.
America’s Foremost Comedian, MR. WILLIAM COLLIER
—in—
THE DICTATOR.
As played by Mr. Collier 250 nights Comedy Theatre,
London.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee. Wednesdays.
HENAUM H A LL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS, EVERY EVENING
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS
THE BEST, SWEETEST, STRONGEST,
AND LOUDEST IN THE WORLD.
SYSTEM
Av */2>
professional
BOOMERANG.
“ Professional,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-, post free
“ Boomerang,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6, post free
<MC
€=2
sS?
Edison Gold-Moulded
Records ,
Price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SON,
137 KINQ ST., SYDNEY.
Largest Wholesale and Retail Stores
for Music, Musical Instruments,
Violins, Accordeons, etc., Edison
Phonographs and Records.
CATALOGUES FREE.
WHOLESALE SUPPLIED.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War, Patriotic Comic, Coon,
Nigger, Sacred, Pathetic, and Love Songs of England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, etc.
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6, posted 2/10,
If stamps only are enclosed add 3d. extra. List of Songs for stama
Name this paver.
Am dm SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St mf Sydney.
A FREE GIFT SALE
I
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5,000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, 13£ in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
GIVEN
AWAY.
One Feather
7/6
Post Free
Pom Pom Given Free to everyone ordering
this month. Catalogue Free. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
' LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
tor Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTH ARTICUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’*
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST.. MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
pe-LIVE AGENTS WANTED IN «VARIOUS STATES.
OV6RCOATS
READY TO WEAR.
M
ffM&tt&.i&S; 'lf:
•filslt®®; Is -M''
wmm
:»wt
gSS!
«**:»*' 2S623«&P«!*EK I
ia!S&’ ‘f-kys -'** * feSf • <«i f
pmSS®
j
<S&£§
KWi
In the Latest
Tweed Effeds.
IN GREENS, BROWNS, OR
GREYS.
Overchecked and Striped De-
signs, and in Scotch and
Harris Tweeds. Very Smart
Coats. Perfect Fitting.
455. 50s.
575. Gd. 635.
The Celebrated
“Rainlea ” Coat.
Light Weight, Porous, No
Rubber. Thoroughly Water-
proof. In Grey and Fawn
Colors.
555., 635.
Only obtainable from us.
The “Stag’s Head”
Brand Overcoat.
A Smart-fitting, Nobby Coat.
Gentlemen’s, 38s. Gd.
Boys’ and Youths’, 255.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUES.
CAN’T BE BEATEN.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
300-310 Bourke Street, HELBOURNE.
MOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE MOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
RANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
EESTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Cordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenliall-street, Loudon, E.O.
SOMETHING . .
VERY SPECIAL
For CYCLISTS.
ff guinea Acetylene Bicycle [amp for 5/11
GUARANTEED EQUAL TO ANY HIGHER-PRICED LAMP SOLD.
WE have not the slightest hesitation in recommending
this WONDERFULLY CHEAP ACETYLENE GAS
BICYCLE LAMP to ALL CYCLISTS. Since their intro-
duction thousands have been sold, not one of the pur-
chasers being- dissatisfied. The principle is the same as
the higher-priced Lamps ; the water is stored in the upper
chamber, and is turned on to connect with the Carbide
chamber by means of the distribution pipe by turning- or
the water regulating valve at the top. Special attentipn
has been devoted in the manufacture to ensure the most
essential feature in Acetylene Gas Lamps, namely, that
there is NO LEAKAGE. In this respect our Lamp is fat
away superior to the large number on the market, which
allow some of the gas to escape, consequently are more
bother than they are worth and of no practical use what-
ever. Our ACETYLENE GAS LAMPS have all the good
features you could desire in a Bicycle Lamp—fitted with
Reflector ; very massive looking ; and most beautifully
finished and HIGHLY NICKELLED. Honestly worth
15/. We guarantee every Lamp, and, further, will refund
amount in full if any purchaser is not in every way satis-
fied on receipt of the Lamp. If you want a good, strong,
reliable Lamp at a reasonable price, sit down right now
and send in you- order. The Price is ONLY 5/11. The
postage, which must be added, is as follows —N.S.W., 6d ;
other States and N.Z., Bd.
m
y
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
EST 9 1782
PHCENIX
Assurance Company of London
117 PITT ST„ SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers), WILLIAM N. FARMER, Manager.
SKS, WINES, BRANDIES $ WHISKIES
IMPORTED DIRECT PROM
COCKBURN, SMITHES & CO., Oporto, Portugal— Finest Old Tawny PORTS.
DUFF, GORDON & CO., Jerez, Spain— Finest Dry SHERRIES,
JAMES HENNESSY & 00., Cognac \
A. DUBOIS & CO., Cognac /
PURE GRAPE BRANDIES,
In Hhds. and Cases.
JOHN JAMESON & SON
SIR JOHN POWER & SON
WISE’S (Cork)
BEN LOMOND (Special Highland)
SPECIAL OLD POT STILL*
WHISKIES.
7 Years Old.
THE ABOVE FAMOUS
OLD POT STILL WHISKIES
made from Home Grown Barley, and thoroughly matured in bond, fulfil to the letter all the conditions
by the court when giving judgment lately in the celebrated case— WHAT lVixliyKY ?
HOQAN, MOONEY & CO. Ge S rt M '«” St., MELBOURNE.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
The anti-Socialistic Gippsland farmers
give the public something fresh to gasp about
every day. Allan M'Lean’s request for abso-
lutely free carriage of beet to Maffra (Vic.)
beet sugar factory was not consented to, but a
liberal rate of payment for beet and an almost
invisible freight-rate were fixed which (even the
farmers admit) will make it possible “to grow
beet profitably within a radius of 50 miles,” and
it was promised that all the pulp (which is suit-
able for cow-feeding) would be returned free of
cost and freight. Still the private-enterprising
farmer is not quite satisfied. Those who live
closest to the Maffra factory point out now that
they are “not properly equipped” with horses
and carts to drag their beet in, and they ask for
Government horses and carts to do it for them.
This staggering proposition looks like what U.S.
people call “ the limit.”


v^*ar.
..
s. car#*®*
'
■ •
*
r^
,%>■ :
■ -•
W"wsfe <**t,=t
\>.-3* -■
<K«ir»,
•■ 4i
t>
-*■
jim*#
I,.*:»»r.j
f '*•£*£••
■-
i
i #■ ,„ sh#i ■
flfc'":
m
i :
I
_*_
I-
m&s&im
■
*
'
fesng**
mm
■
m til m-
■;
i *■’.«>
. V
■
#• • . ,
nP p mB *
■
■■ ( ' ' /?' ■' ■ ' V-
.
.
.
SMB
SP
v'K
mm
msmm
-
M#?*;
«• V- /
J-.,v : ;;x ; ; . WvV,' ... -,..^
■ ■ . • ■>'''
ssssaswss
„ - ( rT ■'. ;
■ . ■
.-v ‘ •' ..::•.• .. • '
«< * ?**««-’ V .
...
Don’t Miss the Darling' Downs.
To miss the Darling Downs on the Queensland Tour —which
is the ideal Winter Trip in Australasia —is like going to Egypt
without seeing the Pyramids, The Downs is the most mag-
nificent stretch of country in Australasia, and the views
going down the Range are unparalleled. & & Write to the
Queensland Railway Department, Brisbane, for full particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE -
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON
‘BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE
‘BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS -
“BRISBANE and CAIRNS -
- &e o
. 10 o
- 12 0
- 14 5
- 9 15
- io io
- IO 17
“Including' Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
cs o 0 0 0 0 0


A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch's.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdooh’s
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A Free
Hat at
Murdoch’s.
A FREE HAT
WITH EVERY
SUIT TO #
ORDER at 42s
We began this Free Hat idea as a
celebration of our alterations and
our new Clothing and Hat Depart-
ments—and we were desirous of
thanking in some way all those who
had “helped us to boom.’’ So we
gave the Free Hat.
BUT
the success of the offer has been so
marked—we “ got rid of ” so many
Hats and sold so many Suits that
we’re keeping up the good work
and will continue to give a Free
Hat with every 425. Suit to Order.
What the Sait is-
The Suit will be to your
order, and will be made of
handsome Tweed or Indigo
Serge—material for which
you’d pay the merchant tailor
635. The making, trimmings,
fitting and finishing will be
absolutely satisfactory to
YOU or we don’t press you
to keep it if you don’t like it.
What the Hat is-
It’s a Hard or Soft Hat in
the very newest Shapes and
Shades —made of real Eng-
lish Fur. Some hatters get
10s. 6d. for them. You can
get one Free by ordering
your Suit at MURDOCH’S.
Write for Patterns To-Day.
MURDOCH’S
. . . IN . . .
Park St., Sydney,
“Where the Good Hats are.”
Compulsory Windlng-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
5 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price £0 8 9
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5.
Sale Price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. •• •• £9 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box. .
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Clean White
T mean sound teeth, fit fop their
■* »'*■'*••*■* work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made fay F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH ?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE 113 EACH *
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
‘particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
-
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Tell
Your
Husband.
Are
You
Sensitive ?
ŧ
That
Bald
Spot.
Are
You
Sensitive ?
It’s no use pretending that you are not sensitive about it—because you are, aren’t you ?
Aren’t you looking older than you can afford to ? Why do you still neglect it ?
Don’t you know one of the many thousands who have testified to the wonderful
hair-growing merits of
CAPILLA
CAPILLA is a Medicinal —Antiseptic—Curative—HAlß FOOD, which
cures the cause of the trouble and gives the scalp the power to produce
strong, healthy hair. It doesn’t matter how bald you are, provided a
“slight down” exists on the scalp CAPILLA will positively produce hair
—or I will forfeit £lOOO.
CAPILLA is sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6 a bottle, or I will post the
full course on to you (under cover) for 17/6. Advice on all Hair troubles
free of any charge. Correspondence or personal interview invited.
W. O. RICHARDS, Inventor, 166 Pitt St., Sydney.
UNLOCKING THE LANDS.
The Midland Railway Company of Western Australia
LIMITED
are now subdividing their concession of
2,500,000 Acres,
Comprising some of the finest AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING COUNTRY in the State of
Western Australia, into FARMS and GRAZING PROPERTIES.
THE FIRST SALE of
ONE HUNDRED SPLENDID FARMS, and
MOORA and KOOGAN TOWN SITES
Will be held by Public Auction at the QUEEN’S HALL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA, on
FRIDAY, JUNE 22nd, at 2.30 P .m.,
BY
JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer.
THESE FARMS are situated from 96 to 108 Miles from PERTH, the Capital City of Western
Australia, fronting and served by the Company’s own railway. None of them are more than
4 miles from railway station or sidings—with a very convenient train service.
RICH AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING LANDS. 19 to 22in. RAINFALL.
Good Roads. RED FRIABLE SOIL, Easily Tilled. GREAT FATTENING COUNTRY.
The Concession is situated between the METROPOLIS and the GREAT MURCHISON
GOLDFIELDS.
Western Australia imported last year £1,500,000 worth of Land Products.
FARMERS—COME AND SEE ! and let the Land speak for itself.
AVERAGE YIELDS for Country separated from this by only the Railway Line, for 1905-6
WHEAT, 20 Bushels; HAY, 30| Cwt.
WATER easily obtained and conserved. NO HEAVY CLEARING.
UPSET PRICES fixed from 6s to 40s per acre. ALL UPSETS marked on the Plan.
The whole of the Blocks will be offered by Public Auction, and sold to the highest bidder at or
above the Upset Price fixed.
TERMS —Ten per cent. Cash Deposit; Balance by 15 equal Annual Payments, bearing
Interest at 4 per cent. The balance of the purchase-money can be paid off at any time, and a rebate
of interest will be allowed at the rate charged ; or purchaser may pay Cash.
On payment of the whole of the purchase-money the TITLE is guaranteed by the Western
Australian Government. POSSESSION given the day after the Sale.
If you intend inspecting, send a wire either to the office of the Company or to the Auctioneers,
stating by what steamer you are coming, and you will be met, and every facility will be given
for inspection.
If you have not received an Illustrated Pamphlet, giving the fullest particulars, send a Post
Card addressed to GORDON AND GOTCH, SYDNEY, and one will be sent you by return of
post, free of charge.
JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer,
Howard Street, PERTH, W.A.
0R THE MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA, Limited,
293 St. George’s Terrace, PERTH, W.A.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
£
Produce the
most ..
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne. i
-Vr
The “Hem flajah”Gold Heme Brooches
Gold Cased. Good Pins.
Any name up to 12 Letters to order—Dinna For-
get, Mizpah, Forget-me-not, Regard, BABY,
Darling, Mother, Good Luck, Pet, 1.0. R.,
C.E., 1.0.G.T., etc. Price only 1/6 each, or
4 names, 5/-. Post free anywhere. Send
Postal Note to STAR NOVELTY CO.
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
101
m
©
(
\l
s
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of" Niagara. Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, OH APPLICATION.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure Of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Harr or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
ftSTHMACURE
I ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Didonlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervons Coughs.
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists,
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jrrm
INSTRUCTION FREEH
You cau become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
j 6 a uarn to Hypnotize. Keiueuiber, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
iud profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifeti.....
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, isa Pitt St., Sydney
t
The advance of the petticoat. There were
four nominations for judge of produce at Milton
(M.L.) show, three men and a woman, and the
woman got it. The secretary of the Amberley
Agricultural Show is a Miss. .


§£ Briflsb=Jlustralasian
1 BROAD BTREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing Dlreotor- - Mr. J. E. SOANTLEBUKY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
Tins British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
No. I—Gunznetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4- 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing; Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND,
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
ara the
BEST.
X
Sold
all first-
olise stores
in Australasia
. No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
- “ PAMPA,"c
iCgfCoa Handle 116
'Butrcita Handle - 2h
[6ictg Handle a » « 2/6
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Ptice, Gd; Posted, Bd.
THE 1900 MODEL
OF THE
Edison Cinematograph
V
Price 3L27 lOs.
AMERICA’S FINEST INSTRUMENT. It contains every known modern
improvement, and represents the highest possible development in
CINEMATOGRAPHS. It is built for wear, and will outlast any other
machine made.
THE BEST FOR THE SHOWMAN. NEW FILMS Arrive Each Mail.
Write foe Illustrated Catalogues—Post Free,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., " MV
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
V
good hatr for at.h
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4a, 5a ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 6s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND Ter ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
(ADBURYS
Absolutely Putt
Cocoa
s
m
SS
111
l/Mfi!
m
It is t!\e purest aad nvost ecoaonvical
cocoa iause. It’s aicest too.
‘ftff JMNCfT sa/s.-~Xadbur/’s is of highest punt/.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Begular Use.
MAGNESIA
SORE
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI ELVELR RAILS.
EYES
CURED
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
DO IT NOW!
WHAT?
REGAIN YOUR HEALTH, IF IT IS LOST.
TAKE MEASURES TO PRESERVE IT, IF IT IS FAILING.
Good Health is the greatest blessing mankind can
experience. It means not only the power to vigor-
ously engage in the contest of everyday life, but
the ability to enjoy the fruits of success; the
intuitive conviction that one is the equal of his
fellow, and the joy of the fight that is found in the
fighting—in short, it means Energy, Force, Vitality
and Power. WHY BE WITHOUT IT ?
WEAK, AILING and DESPONDENT MEN, recover
your Strength. Get rid of that Tired, Languid
Feeling. Be young again. Health is yours for the
asking. Don’t cast aside the Pearl that is beyond
Price. Consult the Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON
INSTITUTE. Their experience extends over many
vears of successful practice. THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE, when a case has been undertaken.
Sufferers from NERVE, BLOOD or SKIN DISEASES can consult no Higher Authorities than the
Expert Medical Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE. We cure, to stay cured, and
thousands of grateful testimonials can be seen in their officially-stamped envelopes, at the Consulting
Rooms of the Institute.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS THE LATEST
DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL SCIENCE. IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITF a *' onCIJ f° r )r - Langston’s
eVIrl a C latest medical work (Illus.)
“ MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.”
It tells you what you want to know,
ought to know. POSTED FREE.
THE
Dr. Langston Institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free.
All Communications
Sacredly Confidential.
Established 1887.
Mention this Payer
when writing.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body ... • <
AERTEX
. .
UNDERWEAR
All garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Gentlemen —SHIRTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sou Agents in N.B.W.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King Street, Sydney .
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST—Post Free.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years ’
unbeaten and increas-
ing SIiCCeSS is the
best proof of the claim of
Ottftridge
v £ungTonic
to be the WORLD'S CTJRE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemiator Store,
and Sayes Many
Lives.
FOK
BOSISTOS
“PARROT ..
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTES- ,
ţ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
i allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qui stion
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee sale
delivery.
Onn Second-Hand Cycles
ZUU ■“ £1 to £2.10
good as new, Z. -
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices .
EARN A CYCLE machine. Active Agent*
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, & a.* half prices •
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. "39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
FAT FOLKS
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary; £ vocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. CR A I G &. CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
This is a cold, cold world. Not long ago
a South Coast (N.S.W.) man sent a bailiff a few
miles out of the township to take possession of a
debtor’s house for a milk bill. When the bailiff,
having faithfully fulfilled his duty, returned home
he found another bailiff in possession of his own
house, put in by the same man for another milk
bill.
The luck of drunks held good to an amaz-
ing extent at Port Melbourne the other Sunday
afternoon. The drunk and a mate, feeling joyful,
hired a boat and set out to catch whales. They
had got as far as the pier-end, when the least sober
whaler, disputing as to the correct way to navi-
gate the craft, tumbled overboard. The pier-end
was crowded with idlers watching some sizeable
sharks nosing around, and they immediately and
strenuously urged the drowning man to get on
board again. They also threw him the handiest
implements available. One eager rescuer tossed
him an oar, which landed on his head and nearly
slew him. Some one else threw him a lot of iron,
and told him to hold on to it. Ultimately his
mate hauled him aboard again, and the pair
gradually sculled shorewards, and capsized within
about 20 yards of the beach. Fished out again,
they meandered towards an hotel to obtain medi-
cal comforts, turning at intervals to ask, with a
dismantled expression, what all the fuss was
about.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s!
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of pstralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt.Stock,£43,43s) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and t he East.
Directors. —las. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The gelonial |))utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461 —Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, 11. C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Deiv Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bank of Berth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised . . .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) ) £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M. L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fari.ank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,100,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy -Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humpiiery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
N. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly IVlail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Alaximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
The Rogaljjank of Queensland
hIMJHCI). ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FunD(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Shipping.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€,
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalf/ety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
W//A
m
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
12th JUNE,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEYIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 30 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Datyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
C33E3 AKTIC S.S. Co. -A-. & A.. LINE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 2.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7, are row
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
1
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras ; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“Holiday Hints”?
BURNS,
PHILP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs>
$
-dp-
BXLIiS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.’w.
fflont it pete Co., [id.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1579.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
AORAftSGI Sails June 11.
THE NEW TURBINE STEAMER,
MAHENO,
SAILS JULY 9.
EXCURSION TO CANADA.
A Journey of 16,000 miles on Sea & Land.
Cheaper than any trip being offered
in Australia.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
AX7G. e, SEP T. 3.
(C3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. il. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T J?° South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney -
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala, June 9.
S.S. Gran tala, June 27.
BRISBANE, 'l
MACKAY, i
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, June 30.
S.S. Marloo, July 14.
Best itntl Cheapest Itoate to (ioldjlelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IVIessageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through theCustoms,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE'lTlUY, Principal Agent.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . ■
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. lients also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000-
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000!
Ueserve Fund £165,000.
Head Off fee —96 Bis hops gate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA —Perth, Premantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND —Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
EWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find everj' omror and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parada
SI. KILDA.
’J'illi Largest and ±>est-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
IN OUR HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE AEE JUST NOW OFFERING . . .
A SPECIAL RANGE of NEW WINTER SUITINGS
COMPRISING PURE-WOOL TWEEDS AND FANCY WORSTEDS,
BLACK COATINGS, AND PURE INDIGO TWILL SERGES.
63|-
Men’s Sac Suits to measure
SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS
IN THE COMMONWEATH.
ALL GARMENTS REALLY TAILOR-MADE.
NOT MACHINE-MADE TO MEASURE.
63}-
Sample Patterns of Materials, Self-Measurement Forms, and All Information by Return Mail, FREE.
BiG T el6bk, Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
AND AT MARYBOROUGH, Q., MURWILLUMBAH, N S W., and 27 MILTON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
The Kin*.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &ci|
increases their nutritive value and ifhproves their flavour.
01
Visitors to the Old
Country |Q
Gloucester Roai , South Kerxs'mgtorx . London, S.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
pf3>
Z°yav.
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
WILL ANDRADE
BOOKS .
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOR OF NATURE and Ili.ustr.atkd Marri-
ages Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over f>o
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. M agic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
D ictor, 6d. Doneldy’s Art op Boxing, new en-
-1 irged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
tid. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to ail degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of tiie First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FREN3H ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kir Us, 7s 6U Uoxen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA CIPLY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s j posted 1/3.
it
-
Nf
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels In
Engtish.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanics
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmail), illus., is 3d.
Gat Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappiio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Mid wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
'how to cure"them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/S.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
u I llllLi I VICTORIA MARKE'
AND
201 BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE.
HOLLOWAYS PULS
•V
# #
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy r for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
A
V
&
&
❖
s
ft
c?
OINTMENT
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has eureri
permanent]}' the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11.-;
Thousands of testimonials. Of all Chemists* Stores* etc*
Wholesale Agehts:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward 0118 of opr
latest improved nigh grade El feCTKIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and oomplete ever invented.
It will cure all oases of Rheumatism, Yirico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back,, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will aloe Free arts
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer,' but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castiereagh St.,
SYDUEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose ant) adjoining passages.
If this irlllrtihtnatlon is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
t he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bohes of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Ilay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with4months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Nevelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
AHOPn by Dr Langston’s Perfect
bUntU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Conducing Testimony and Refer-
ences fr. ...rly every town in Australia
sent with uxy Valuable. Book—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY A. CURE
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. I
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1| and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors —PK.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
People who had given evidence in various
cases at Melbourne City Court one recent morning
subsequently rushed to the nearest chemist and
disinfected themselves. A witness in the last
case of the day, after being sworn and kissing the
dirty promiscuous book, spoke so inarticulately
that the magistrate inquired why. He was
suffering from cancer of the tongue, in so malig-
nant a form that the member was almost useless !
Then, for the first time, the other people realised
the vicissitudes of that book—the diseases that
are breathed on it, blown on it, rubbed against it,
pawed on to it—and they wanted to die.
Just now when the chrysanthemum men of
the Monkey brand are getting unlimited credit for
virtues they mostly don’t possess, there is a chance
for the Japomaniacs to score a point by denoun-
cing the national spirit of vandalism, which Aus-
tralia has in common with all English-speaking
countries. Melbourne Aon reported lately
that “ complaints of wilful damage to plants
in the public gardens in the city have been
of frequent occurrence during the past few months.
In many instances the damage has been the work
of school children. Recently about 20 boys were
caught breaking valuable plants in the Fitzroy
Gardens.” An infusion of Japanese public senti-
ment into Australian State-school education would
cure this complaint, anyhow. The youthful Jap is
taught to regard a garden vandal as an enemy of
the people and a fool to himself. The most essen-
tially immoral Monkey in the visiting squadron
might be safely trusted to refrain from destroying
a pretty foliage plant for destruction’s sake, and
not to chip the nose off a plaster image.
“ Wanderer ” writes :
The American’s genius for advertising is marvellous.
His latest outbreak is in the shape of a gorgeous cable-
gram about the proposal to construct a “ boulevard ” 3300
miles long—“ a sort of Appian Way from the Pacific to
the Atlantic.” Now, first of all, it may be safely assumed
that there is no intention of forming any Appian Way,
Appius Claudius, being a bull-headed man with abund-
ance of cheap labor, built his road of carefully-fitted
stone blocks resting on a stupendous foundation ; he
hewed his dogged way through mountains with cheap
labor, and filled up valleys because he didn’t know how
to build bridges, and filled in swamps by sheer quantity
and brute force. He didn’t live to finish his work ; in
fact it took 280 years to complete the whole 350 miles of
it —rather over a mile a year on an average. The
U.S. people simply propose to make a boule-
vard, and a boulevard, in this connection, is just a
plain, ordinary, every-day road. And the reason why
they are going- to make so much road all of a sudden is
that the U.S. is a good 50 years behind the times with its
roads, and has to catch up arrears. In some of the
Western States there are practically no roads, and over
a great portion of the old settled country a huge propor-
tion of the highways are just plain dirt or mud, and have
never heard of road metal. In England or France or
Germany the proposed highway would have been built
long ago as a matter of course, and it wouldn’t have been
called a boulevard or an Appian Way, and no one would
have dreamed of cablegram mi ng about it. It would just
have been built (as the road that runs from Western Vic-
toria, through Melbourne, Sydney, and Brisbane, into
Central Queensland, was built), and probably built a great
deal better than the Americans will do it, for Jonathan’s
economy in road metal amounts to a disease.


A GOLD MINER’S PLAIN STORY.
A Victim of Indigestion, and Mother Seigel’s
Syrup was Worth more than Gold to Him.
W. 0. Cousins, of King-street, Bendigo, Vic-
toria, is a gold miner by occupation, and is widely
known in that city, where he was born, perhaps
30 years ago. _ Some years ago he was a great
sufferer from indigestion, and as a result of it
became so ill that he was unable to give attention
to his business. On the advice of his friend, Mr.
W. Hunt, the manager of Springvale, a sheep
station between Melbourne and Ballarat, Mr.
Cousins used Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and was
cured, as he tells in a letter, dated August 9th,
1905, as follows:
“For more than three years my health was a
constant source of anxiety to me. I was costive,
bilious, unable to digest food, and troubled with
headaches and racking pains all over the body.
My complaints were sufficient to render half-a-
dogen men miserable. Such Was my state in 1894,
When my friend, Mr. W. Hunt, manager of Spring*
vale Station, advised a course of Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. He spoke of it as his only
medicine, which had been of untold benefit to him
Upon several occasions, and said that he was sure
it would do me good if only I would give it a fair
trial. I consented, and the truth of irty friend’s
statements soott, appeared. The constipation from
iyrlieh I had so long suffered was brokett up, and
the biliousness, headaches, and othet digestive
troubles began to abate. By the time I had taken
Six bottles pf the syrup, all Of these symptoms had
left me, and I had become quite .a different man.
“ My health hits rem lined all I coif’d wish it to
be; a b!< .sing for which I am wholly indebted to
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. But for its
timely aid, I bplievb my constitution would have
been ruined. It will always bb a pleasure to me
to make known the sterling merit of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, as shown in my own case, and
other equally remarkable cases that have since
come to my notice.”*
-f
JLLsiLS-
CiUffi.
Ls.taia
I
Cp-10-daXe Ollice Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for EvKßvrmxG.
Australian Users now num-
bered by tlie hundreds, j
QUHcHSIAMD B3ANOH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tai.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Wkst Australia—
MID DOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building', Perth
f Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER I
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St», Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
6
What is
the matter
to
With your chest? Per-
haps a little pain, a little
cough, a little wheezing,
a little stuffiness ? Never
run past nature’s danger
signals! Act instantly ;
take SCOTT’S EMUL-
SION of cod liver oil
and hypophosphites of
lime and soda and avert
the danger. You will
quickly be well.
Hamilton-on-Forth, Tasmania, July 15,
1905. 44 My son, Ledgitt Jordan, was for
years a great sufferer from weak lungs, and
was often so ill that he was unable to rest
in bed, being compelled to sit by the fire to
enable him to obtain any ease at all. He
decided to give Scott's Emulsion a trial,
and did so with most wonderful results. It
gave him an appetite for ordinary foods, and
so eased his lungs and cough that he was
enabled to sleep well. He is restored to
complete good health, and has gained two
stone in weight." (Mrs.) D. B. L. Jordan.
Scott's Emulsion never disgusts, never dis-
agrees. It is the original emulsion of cod
liver oil which has stood the test of 30 years.
The celebrated Scott process, by which
Scott's alone is made, has been constantly
improved and to-day produces the finest
emulsion and the most nutritious form of
ť
Always get the Emul-
sion with this mark—the
Fishman—the mark ol
the “Soott" process 1
cod liver oil in the world.
Always SCOTT'S for
the
Test the truth of this.
Write at once for a free
sample bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to
SCOTT & BOWNE,
Ltd., 453 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.'W jt
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
6000
GOOD
GOOD
COOD
SUnlicHT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
aooo
%001
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
X
! >l*lo [j
&
A
A>
5v
5V
S.
$
i
&■
s?
<s
s?
<o>
/ /
LIFE.
(I3y “Viva.”)
No living things from man to a microbe, can exist unless it is continuously dying. It is not merely
necessary for man to absorb nourishment in order to live j it is equally necessary that, simultaneously
sotnfe portion of his body, bone, blood, or tissue, must waste away and die. It is essential, also, that
a balance be preserved in the two processes of replenishing the body and the removal of the waste or
dead material which js constantly accumulating within it. An uneven action of either means disease
A total suspension of either means deatln
Of course everyone knows that an adequate supply of suitable food, pure water, and fresh air is
requisite, to build up the body, but, unfortunately, most people are not as well aware of the compli-
cated action of the mechanism with which nature has endowed man for dealing with the used up
dead and waste material always being produced within us, and which, unless regularly extracted from
the blood and expelled from the body, must cause disease or death.
Upon the skin, lungs, kidneys and liver rests the main responsibility of retnovitig waste matter
from the system -The skin usually requires little attention beyond regular washing with good soap
and water, and it will m the form of perspiration, rid the body of a quantity of dead matter. A fit
o coughing or a choking sensation will speedily call our attention to anything which hinders the
lungs in their work of removing, in the form of carbonic acid, an amount of used-up material equiva-
lent to eight ounces of pure charcoal every day. The kidneys and liver, on the other hand, are
delicate organs, and it is often not until we begin to suffer from some serious complaint that we
become aware that their action is impeded. Rheumatism, gout, lumbago, neuralgia, backache
sciatica blood disorders, indigestion, biliousness, jaundice, sick headache, general debility, gravel
stone, bladder troubles depression, low temperature, anaemia, bright’s disease, are all caused by
disease, or indifferent action of the kidneys or liver, or both of those organs, permitting the body to
retain urinary and biliary waste poisons which it is their function to eliminate from the blood and
expel in a natural manner.
It will therefore be seen how important it is that the vigorous health and activity of the kidneys
and liver should be maintained. A person suffering from one or more of the many complaints men-
tioned should not regard them as diseases, but should adopt the rational course of attacking them at
their source, by restoring a proper and regular action of the kidneys and liver, when, the cause of the
disorders having been rectified, the waste matter which produces the trouble is removed and health
ensues as a matter of course.
It was the comprehension of this fact which resulted in the discovery of Warner’s Safe Cure
Certain medical men-being aware of the difficulty of treating the disorders referred to, and knowing
that they w_ere due to inefficient action of the kidneys or the liver, but being unable in most cases to
accurately diagnose just which organ was at fault—set themselves a task of compounding a medicine
which would act specifically upon the kidneys and liver alike. After long research they succeeded
and introduced the medicine to the world under the name of Warner’s Safe Cure. This was about thirty
years ago, and since then many millions of bottles have been sold, and millions of people have been
saved from pam, suffering and death by taking a course of this invaluable specific for all kidney and
liver diseases and disorders arising therefrom. [gj
‘
Mp/Wt/’/fifafatfaj fa'
fafa<dm
<mdJaM fonafat fa
fa fife afoa/igM'.
The Inky Way.
THE AMUSED COUNTRY PAPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fnwn USemen f ; " as caused on Monday evening in
mhloi- en °j r esteemed constable was observed to be
C‘ n « £ drunken man to the police-station in a
narrow .—Humorous paragraph in a country paper.
Said tLj Sun: “On Tuesday morning, without giving
any warning
Mr. William Block, the butcher, broke his arm,
The news went round the town he had fallen on his
crown
W hile cutting out a beast on Beefer’s farm.
When the facts were first divulged, the townsmen’s faces
bulged
With the joy that such a happening should inspire.
ven Aaron Cohen smiled, and the happy hours beguiled
By indulging in an accidental fire.”
Said the Moon : “ We learn to-day that Mr. Thomas Kay
Was attacked by heart disease at one o’clock.
Much merriment was caused when our fellow-townsman
paused,
Threw his arms up, cried out twice and died of shock.
Mis funeral is in hand, and the newly-formed town band
Will precede the cortege, playing lively airs.
Miss Fluff—of Whom men rave—will high-kick upon the
grave;
And the choir will do a Cake-walk during prayers.”
Silid the Star : “ We are informed that Mrs, Jenkins
warmed
Her flanneletted infant at the grate.
It is suffering now from burns, our chief reporter learns,
And will die directly, we are pleased to state.
Many influential nien, numbering nine, or maybe tert,
Called on Mrs. Jenkins, laughing heartily.
They indulged in comic song, to assist the fun along.
And id general the town went on the spree;’’
Said the Comet : “ It is stated that a very animated
Milk-cart ran our valued local bobby down.
Smiles are seen on every face ; the hotel in Deakin Place
Offers free drinks to all citizens in town.
But our readers will regret it is much in doubt as yet
Whether Chalker’s cart will ever run again.
Yet we rejoice to know that Trooper Donohoe,
If he lives, will be for evermore insane.”
Said they all with wit profound : “ A good story’s going
round,
And the jokelet gets a lot of local space.
Mr. Spurs, the other night, found his brown horse painted
white,
And some humorist dammed up his water-race.”
And the story that gets going n ;ver ceases in its flowing
Till it’s toothless, and no hair’s left on its hide.
If it’s always “going round ” same day p’raps it may be
found
It got dizzy and fell down a hole and died.
M.Tj,
CLAUDE JRWRLL.
London Family Herald lias reached its 32S8th number
—in other words, it has more than completed its 63rd
year. A British reviewer says of it: “It is exactly the
same paper as it was when it and the London Journal
were the only sources from which our village derived its
knowledge of how earls looked in their evening clothes
and governesses wormed their way into the
squire’s heart.” *
<«****
“I have often wondered,”says a writer in the Satur-
day Review, “why a town hall can never be built, but
must always be ‘ erected ’; why a church must always be
, a sacred edifice ’; why you cannot turn a corner without
, negotiating ’ it ; why you cannot play a solo without
, rendering ’ it; why you cannot go to a wedding without
attending it; why you cannot shoot a goal in football
without placing the sphere in the rigging *; why you
cannot be married to any but a ‘ charming bride’; and
why you cannot die without your death 1 taking place.’ ”
Also, why should a gathering be “ very representative,”
and an occasion “ most unique ”? Above all, why should
the parson be the only man who says “ vouchsafe,” and
why should you “ wend your way ” when vou never wend
anything else ?
* * * *
David Syme has no use for poetry of any kind, and verse
is conspicuous by its absence in all the Syme publica-
cations. “ Dawvid’s ” Scotchness is apparent in this trait;
he didna see the sense o’ cripplin’ reason for the sake o’
rhyme,” and when verse is mentioned he smiles in-
dulgently and shakes his head over it as a fond frivolity.
It is interesting, too, to hear from Australian black-and-
white artists who have had professional dealings with
David They groan despairingly when he is mentioned,
and tell you. that the Great Scot’s idea of a drawing is
something with all the crudities of photography and none
of the graces of art.
* * » *
A newspaper, typewritten from end to end, is now
published in the vicinity of the Victoria Falls, in Central
Africa. It is called the Livingstone Pioneer.
* * * *
“ Pen ” : The Melbourne Argus is sorely in need of a
little new blood. The editorial staff has for long shown
signs of staleness with the weight of years and overwork,
the result being leading articles of the merest platitude!
baldly expressed. But then the Argus is run on economi-
cal lines, and the newspaper business is one in which
economy of that sort doesn’t pay. Everyone knows the
story of the London newspaper proprietor who attempted
to drive out his partner by increasing expenses. The op-
posite effect was brought about, the paper speedily
doubling its circulation and advts.
* * *
“ Hiphen ”: For some time past I have been making a
deep study of the various phases of our poets. I find that
in the spring we have the Girl poets to the front. Under
this heading the “ Her soft blue Eyes ” variety, the “ Her
rounded Limbs” species, and the “Her snow-white
Breast ” class are most prominent. As the year speeds on
into summer, and the green gives place to the grey, the
Beer poet spills his ink like water. In the “ Beer ” class
is the “ Wine, Women and Song ” scribe and the “ Nights
we Squandered ” bard. November, of course, is the time
when our great “ Horse ” poet lays in his stock of
stationery, and burns the midnight oil at both ends, and
then the Biff bard, who tells “ How Mickey Bourke Won
the Scrap ” also emerges from his winter obscurity. With
Winter comes the Melancholia minstrel with the cold on
his chest, which he takes for a pain at the heart, and so
hands out his regrets for the “ Past that is Gone.” Also,
he has a few words to say about the girl who was untrue’
and about his mate, “ Poor Drifted Dan.” The Political
poets have no set season. They’ve always something to
say. And I’m not sure that we have any Dog poets, though
I have recently seen one or two Cow poems in The
Bulletin.
* • » *
“ Falder ” : Am in training to take over the “ Dame
Durden ” column in the T. and C. Journal, or anywhere
else I can get an opening. This will be about my average
gait and performance :
“ Looney ville, April 1, 1906.
“Dear Dame Durden,—l hope you are quite ill. We
have two pet cats, one dog, and a poodle. The cats’
names are Moses and Jehoshaphat. When not stealing
about home they are raiding the neighbors. We keep a
boy called Joe. Joe says he has to work too hard here.
Father says Joe wants oil—plenty of whip-oil well rubbed
in to make him active. Joe hates colored people. He
always calls any of them ‘ those blinded Tndoos.’’ One
sold him a mouth-organ last month. Joe played on it
for three days. Then cook told him the Hindoo had been
taken up for leprosy. Joe buried the mouth-organ at
once. He spends all his spare time now washing his
mouth out. I have two pet foals. One of them kicks at
you with both hind feet; the other with only one. When
the,} grow up the}' may bite as well. I have a pet galah
The cook gave it to me. It swore dreadfully at first, but
now I have taught it to sing hymns in between. We have
some nice drives into town sometimes, as father often
gets summonsed for not paying his shearers. This is all
I have to say for the present, so good-bye.
“ Yours dearly,
“ Ella Googoo (aged 1J).”


This Watch was manufactured specially for
us by the Waltham Factory, and we can re-
commend it to anyone requiring a reliable
and serviceable watch. The hunting cases
are strong and of sterling silver. The move-
ment is a jewelled J-plate one, with exposed
winding wheels, Brequet spring and compen-
sating balance. Guaranteed for three years.
Price £3 10S. Better Grades, £4 10s
£6 10s. With Gold-filled Cases, £6 lOs,
We supply this Watch in four styles at
these prices : Crystal Front, Polished Steel
Case, 25s ; Hunting Polished Steel Cases,
30s ; Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case,
35s ; Hunting Solid Silver Cases, 40s.
The lever movement of this watch is
highly finished, has fourteen jewels, patent
screw balance, exposed winding wheels,
reliable keyless work, and we can recom-
mend it for the use of men or boys.
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as the “Prin-
cess.” Although we sell many of these
every year, we seldom have a com-
plaint reach us, and this should be a
good guarantee that it is a reliable
article. We make with silver or gold
engraved cases in open face and full
hunting. The movement is keyless
and properly jewelled. Guaranteed
for two year's. Price : Crystal Front,
Silver, £2 ; Hunting, 50s ; Crystal
Front, 18ct. Gold, £4 HOs ; Hunt-
ing, £5 lOs. 1
This is a Met. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing Cased Watch, suitable for
young ladies. It has a reliable
jewelled movement exquisitely
engraved solid Met. gold eases
strong, keyless work, and altogether
is a sound and serviceable watch.
It is possible to sell a gold watch at
a lower price, but as the timekeep-
ing and construction is not such as
would give lasting satisfaction to
our customers, we do not stock
them. Price £4 lOs.
DO YOU WANT A WATCH?
These Watches we have tried and found satisfactory. They^ r °“^®g e^ a A U g[^?a S !a W exp*afn n why? h< Send 6 your
duality can be bought for elsewhere. Our eight big business houses In Austraias p FREE,
order by mall! We will give it prompt attention. For other Grades see our Special Watch Booh. We po t * KCt L
This shows our Lady’s Keyless
Defiance Watch, hundreds of which
have been sold, and have given
unbounded satisfaction. It is a really
reliable watch and priced very reason-
ably. The case is a solid silver one,
beautifully engraved. The movefnent
is }-plate, jewelled and carefully
finished in detail. Open Face,
£/ IO& ; Hunting, £1 17s 6 d.
This shows a dependable
small size Lady’s Crystal Front
Watch. The movement is a
keyless and jewelled, the dial
is of pretty decorated opal,
the case is polished steel, and
we find them to be excellent
little timekeepers. An ideal
girl's watch. £1 2s 6d.
“THE NONPAREIL.”
We have advertised and sold this
Watch wherever the English lan-
guage is spoken, and surely no other
has given such universal satisfac-
tion. Best Keyless Movement, 18ct.
Gold Cases. Hunters, £7 lOs.
Crystal Front, £S 10s•
this is OUr Lady’s Waltham Lever,
the movement is ol solid nickel, is
jewelled, has compensating balance and
Brequet spring, the hunting cases are
ot solid silver, nicely engine turned and
engraved, with shield in centre, after the
style of the picture showh here. Price
«£4. Guaranteed for 3 years.
Our
Watches
are
Hohest
Watches.
this Watch, (or either gentlemen or youths,
is a Triumph in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. It has a
very fine-finished, full-le\Velled keyless short-
winding movement, and the case Is made of a
very hard nickel, beautifully polished, and fitted
with unbreakable crystal glass. Price 18s 6d.
With Silver Case, 30s. Steel Case, 18s 6a.
I p
I
This is the famous
ull-capped English
J-plate “Excelsior”
Watch. Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, fine
fully jewelled
movement. Price
only £5 108 •
ŧ
iYStt
KUTNOW’S POWDER
CORRECTS IRREGULARITIES.
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN, M.D., M.R.C.S., Lng.,
writes : ** I personally derived much
benefit from Kutnow’s Powder.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER is the finest
health-giving draught in the world. It is a
perfect liver cleanser and keeps the stomach
in order. It is a natural blood purifier, and
as such eradicates all disfigurements of the
skin. It imparts to the complexion that
ruddy glow of robust health which is the best
type of beauty. It corrects all digestive and
excretory irregularities. It is delightfully
refreshing, exhilariting, and invigorating to
the whole nervous system. It relieves the
pressure of blood on the brain, thereby
removing depression and headache. It gives
you the enjoyment of a keen appetite and a
sound, healthy digestion. It is gentle and
mild in its action, and agreeable to the most
delicate stomach.
Dr. I. N. LOVE, Professor of Clinical
Medical Diseases of Children and Hygiene,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine and Col-
lege of Physicians and Surgeons, says :
“ The great Surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to him personally and in his practice,
and this remedy is one of the few he con-
spicuously endorsed over his own signature.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of
the bowels and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful
in a tumbler full of water taken immediately
on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels,
dilutes the urine, and Hushes out the kidneys
in the most satisfactory way. Thorough
elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.”
KUTNOW 3
Improveo emgryeseim carlsbad
POWDER.
&
HJ
fiK •■
Hirschenspiunj or Deer Leap
r LoreoN.
41, FARRIHGOCM ROAD. Lt.c
iCGISTEPCt) TRAOE MARK .
(EN7CREO AT STATIONER’S HALL.\
SSS»SoW^PH
.—.— c <l|
ill' POWDER.
\S>
f&k
Hirschensprung. or Deer Lea o-
LONOOW
amumpon
REV. F. L. SULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield,
“ Southampton, Oct. 22, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your
publishing my testimony concerning the
excellent properties of Kutnow’s Powder.
I only wish I had tried it years ago. In my
case it has proved to be an agreeable and
gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and kid-
neys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of
pain or discomfort, and regulating generally
the whole organic system.
“ Yours truly,
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
COLONEL W. H. WILSON
WRITES :
“Broadview, Petersfield,
“ 15th March, 1906.
“ Sirs, —I have pleasure in inform-
ing you that I have just finished a 21
days’ course of Kutnow’s Powder and
have derived much benefit from it.
“ (Colonel) W. H. WILSON.”
sp
How to Detect Fraud!
The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder
can be had of all Chemists throughout the
world. See that the fac-similo signature,
“S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the regis-
tered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” are on the package and bottle
as shown in the reduced illustrations above.
You will then avoid fraud and
Get Genuine
Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S POWDER INVIGORATES YOUR BODY.
Sole Proprietors s S. KUTNOW ®. CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
r. . „ venlence.
Each Capsule hears the name gar-
u
(MIDYJ
SOME BOOKS
SOLO
BY
SIR ROBERT!
-
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition.
2s6d p osted. How to Get Righ. is posted. Ur. Lamar-
tines Silent Friend. Is 6d, Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravino-s. Is
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is, ° Moll
glanders, a rare book dy De Foe Is noslerl
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'is 2d. ’All K’J
including Nana, is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is eacli posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
Bm IS Trni a o t eSt I ? ditioh > 3s 6d Posted. Gleason’s
i B "? K and , How to Train the
Horse, is 6d, Casanova’s Love Stories, i s od.
Siolen SWebts. Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches la
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mech axic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post Is 3d
f R B 3°d G Tht lS i, poSt ’ 18 3d : T,,,! Cuckold, Is • post,'
An Tiib Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Cove, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals)’
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldlieads, etc., Is post
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted
Carlisles I< reemasonry, 3s 9d posted. 1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chroinos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chanters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
* S t^"c^ ered ? dlt ' on of thls 8-reat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. ™
french ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business
~& a’ wi th full directions, Is posted!
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
T?, S . fc ; ,?°' V T 0 Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River 5s 6d
Poultry Keepwg, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up!
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made JiAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang oe
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is • post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster’
is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d Mac’
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements ofSocial
science, 3s 6d. On Our Hew Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. 1*“ Established SO Years.
IMo Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
♦
Write for my
CAN
i B 'S Illustrated fjafalope
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
H°w TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid’
wifes Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is’
Practical Palmistry, is. Love and Parentage 8d
LETTER VVRrmC 0 7s RT OK | NGLA ? D > lB 3d post. Lover’s
letter writer, Is. New Book of Dreams is
Freemasonry A f° UT I ? C ™ A ™ RS ’ ls 2d. Morgan’s
J REEMASONRY, Exposed 1906 Edition ls nnslpd
Aest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted’ Tokotogv
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, Is.' IngfrsolFs
Complete Works, 2s. How to
(Jas. Coates), ls 3d posted. Ohevasse’s Advice to a
Book E over S 3oo . P ? st ; ecL Wonderful Budget Song
look, over 300 latest songs, ls 3d Dost free n w
°T T ° F SmlLfa each posted."
Bread anu Biscuit Bakers and Slgar-
Boilers Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s l-r ,™„!
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, is post 100 New
IS J d - Nt'RV OUSNESS AND
its oure, is 2d posted. Webster’s Largf ttv-
abrtdged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa«-es cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted. Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Guide’
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood
os. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron and mam’
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the Firl
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post gly
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
an interesting
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructing .v
s p eedy cure of Nervous and other complaints whtch
embitter life and produce premature decay and lo«
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions fnr .lii!! 8 ? f
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thoum^h
ssXnir 110 ™' Tic “* Sffi
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Or. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
If I were asked which single medicine Ishould
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
t
Her Theatrical and
Domestic llistor,V.
Post Free, lg.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post FrSe, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Xovettl.es
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ţ
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and l
will send you full information FREE. Address—
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
® JUCORO’s
S£t*CE of F £.
The on.y i.i.aii.u.u nai.eii, to. h^hhiiu ,a & ucdiLiTY.
used lor over a (Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricorti’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Frice 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
e* .. jj ull P h lets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faultiing & Co., 16 O’Connell St,.
°y dn ey, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
IS NOW BEING USED BY HUNDREDS OP WOOLGROWERS, AMONGST THEM ™ ™
AMONGST THEM SOME OF THE LARGEST SQUATTERS
IN AUSTRALIA.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THA T IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
IT WILL STAY ON THE SHEEP’S BACK AS LONG AS REQUIRED
IT WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL and can be SCOURED FROM IT.
RED > and BUIE (in 8-Cailon Cases) :
PRICE IN MELBOURNE ~ ,
* * / Per
” SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) /_
" BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
" HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) 4r/
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FELTON. GRIMWADE & CO-
MELBOURNE
The GRANDEST LIVER PILL
L C fitnL P „ m ”J!i he Do ?. tor ' B a 4 vi <» throughout the aivlieh-aneaM™
tongue
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all Mndred Uver and bowel
Of all Chemiatsf at prices froS l/lj to S B/ surely aud safel^
Of all Chemists, at prioes from l/i* to 22/ re& ail r6ly and safely.
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
• J'tie Xarjcef describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirably
preparation.”
Vtie British Jdedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
, reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
ť
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
AGED.
Bbnoer’* i-'ood is sold in Tin*
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Once again it is chronicled that a military-
spy, acting for a foreign Power (not specified), is
perambulating Maoriland examining its defences,
At latest he Was consuming whisky and haggis at
Dunedin, where a small-arms magazine is to be
erected at St. Clair. But a start hasn’t been
made yet, and, presumably, won’t be until the
alleged spy has gone. Maoriland has no defences
worth speaking of, and what it does possess in the
Way of shooting irons is known to every race in
the world, bar, perhaps, the Hottentots or the
Laplanders, and the like. The spy business is
Ponderous joke so far as Maoriland is con-
cerned, but the conceited Pig Islanders take the
yarn quite seriously,
tte the stories told of fierce sweating in the
sydney rag shops. The law allows 7s. fid. per
Veek for the keep of the illegitimate infant. And
<ind P K i ly reC ) OnS a % rawn Sirl, who works
Hve in 9 °£f ep her w f in working condition, can
i mnniM 6 >u a wee k (sometimes she gets nothing
a month), with a problematical rise faintly visible
.ahead of her. It either reckons that, or else it
tJ ? at s, ! e should depend for the bulk of
her support (estimated at a minimum of 7s 6d )
exis 0 t utS Th fi circ ”f msfc i ances ’ wh j ch m&yor m:i y not
exist. JLhe writer knows a drapery person who
hls t , ire J e dogs cost him 12s - a week for
e-itamMnff na ", ed f V a ” d , nothing but bark and
eat and loaf, and their lodgings are thrown in),
He gets the services of five girls for 12s. fid. and
they are expected to Wear something more than
the dogs do, and they have to work hard, and the
drapery person doesn’t supply them with a
kennel to sleep in. And if they barked even once
there USIneSS h ° UIS tbey W ° Uld b ® sacked right
There are points about ’Lijah Dowie as a
prophet, after all. One not very old issue of his
eaves op Healing was described as a “business
number ” ; and because ’Lijah had to cast the halo
ot a text round even his candy-store, he printed
on top for a motto—“Do business till I come”
winch, according to ’Lijah, is the true rendering
ot a command given in the parable of the £lO ”
(Luke xix., 11-17). Just at that moment’Lijah
was busy booming the stock in his Zion Lace
Industries and Zion City Bank. Scorning any-
ung in the way of fetters, the prophet apparently
proposed to sell stock while there was a soul t»
uy it; anyhow, no mention is made of a limit to
the capital. For instance—
uponajrofitabletesis. 3 "° Wbeen fully established
Therefore" u? Xt ear u earn H per cent.
share, a premium oU5 o percent VanCed t 0 P ° T sl °°
•ySraa cent - when the
Stock aTrhep e eU?p°r o ic| h o a rno 0f Zion LaCe Industries
ad^“‘SKtolS 1 f ° r> W6Shall at once
?£ ophet business to some
practmai use. Most of those who have been in
is h up to h dlte b - Be h mere dreamers : ’Lijah, however,
down the “ n h pe ? r f J? t 0 the future, looks
and reads- ‘‘7™?’ News” column of 1908,
anu reacts . /.ion Lace Industries, 12 per cent
payable June Sist.” It’s a change fromtheTom
financial prophet who never seems to get past the
leadmg article, even if he doesn’t blulk at the
irths, Marriages and Deaths” announcements.
An Adelaide woman who lately got 12
months’ “hard” as an habitual drunkard ad-
mitted 347 previous convictions. It was about
time that a Premier like Price came into office to
deal sensibly with this subject of the chronic
alcoholic, who needs hospital, not gaol treatment.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
XT ACS MATmT'V T On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
A£LkS X Jt U JW City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand |pgr>- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MIFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
b-~~
u
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Oppo»ite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
10/6 rt PLUM RAZOR
When you get it you’ll say you never used a
better razor in your life. For a good, clean,
comfortable and quick shave, the PLUM
RAZOR stands at the top.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 ;
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-;
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/-;
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/
POST FREE to Any Part of Australasia.
agrnts: CRAIG & AITKEN,
PRICE 10/6
yviNCHSsrm
i
Model 1 90 S Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers,
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By All Dealers .
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EIVAMEU (Washable) —Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOUIItr EIVAMEUB.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOI.IV” BATH TUB EIVAMEU. . In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
i GERSTEMDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
&lso makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ** FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
r*
jftgsggflfl^
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
M M ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Po wer, Restore Lost
Manhood., and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and NTerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
ESI r»l I£2ST oil | © Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUuSJ wUfsCi ■ • SoSUiSa Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
tinman Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
wsUBIIBII Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC ami SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office s 547 OEOBOE ST., SYONEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. HANS PETER RASMU .
Typhoid’s After Effects
A Relapse and a Radical Cure.
The Case of Mrs. T. Vaughan.
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
Probably many who have hitherto played the
onlooker’s part have been sharply taught by ex-
perience that the trials of life possess an arm of
far-reaching propensities, and in such instances,
where a personal interest has been aroused, much
pleasure will be found in reading the conversation
which took place between our representative and
Mrs. Teresa Vaughan, of No. 39 Elizabeth-street,
Camperdown, who said :
“ The first sickness I ever had in my life came
to me six years ago, and it was a very severe ill-
ness, too.”
“ What was it?” asked the writer.
“It was an attack of typhoid that had
laid me low, and I had taken a turn for the
better, and was getting on fine, when I
made the mistake of leaving my bed too
soon. A relapse was the consequence, and,
of course, I had to take to my bed again. I
believe I was worse then than before, for the pains
which came to my head were frightful. Those in
the house told me that often I was quite delirious,
so that will give you an idea of how bad I was.
Well, I had been losing and losing flesh till at
last there was no more to waste away, nothing
being left of me but a portion of my former self.
Everybody who saw me thought that my case was
hopeless, and I’m sure I thought so, too, but the
old saying that ‘ while there is life there is hope ’
proved to be a true one in my case. It was when
I was so ill that I couldn’t possibly have been
worse—scarcely able to move myself, in fact, that
a friend of mine, a lady about seventy, told me
what a grand thing Clements’ Tonic was, and
that it would be sinful not to give it a trial.
Well, what could I say ? Nothing had done
me any good so far, so could I expect
this one remaining remedy to benefit me ? I
asked myself. My friend’s persistent ‘ Give it a
trial ’ answered the question for me, so I sent for
some Clements’ Tonic that day. I don’t suppose
you’ll believe this, but it is perfectly true—the
very day I first took Clements’ Tonic the retching
stopped, and if that didn’t make me joyful nothing
would. Oh ! I was so thankful, for I knew then
that so long as I persevered with Clements’ Tonic
there was still a hope for me left. My friends
were almost spellbound with amazement, and
when I told them that Clements’ Tonic had also
created a feeling of hunger within me they could
hardly believe their ears, they said. But I had
still more to boast about, for this latest medicine
of mine had brought me such general relief from
pain, that it was as much as I could do to
realise that I was the same woman who so
recently had endured such a great amount of
torture. My chest had been very badly affected
with the weightiness that was almost unbearable,
but in a week or two I was quite free from it.”
“When you had taken some solid food what
were your feelings like ? ”
“Well, at first I did not feel too comfortable,
but after a while, and by taking Clements’ Tonic
regularly, the overburned sensations passed away,
and eventually my stomach became so strong that
I could oat anything, and never had the least
unpleasantness to contend with afterwards.
Why, the agony I used to endure from windy
spasms was something terrible, but Clements’
lonic eradicated them for good. Several
times a day, too, I was subject to fits
of uncontrollable giddiness—the room seemed
to be turning round and round, and then
everything would go dark for a space ;
but even to this trouble Clements’ Tonic proved to
me my staunch and only friend. My eyes used to
feel much larger than they should have been, so
heavy, and so defective in sight, too—and you
only wanted to catch a glimpse of the whiteness of
my tongue to understand wnat a disordered state
my internal organs were in. And what a terrible
taste I had in my mouth ! As though I had been
drinking gall, even after I had rinsed it out with
vinegar and water, which I often did. But there,
what a small matter Clements’ Tonic made of these
things, besides which it soothed me so well that I
soon got a sound rest every night without any of
the fearful dreams that used to terrorise me.
There is no doubt when I first used Clements’
Tonic I was as near the portals of death as I could
be. I earnestly hope this account of my recovery
will come under the notice of delicate women, so
please publish this in any way you may think fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION. •
I, Teresa Vaughan, of No. 39 Elizabeth-street,
Camperdown, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have read the annexed
document, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my state men ts—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment—and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true and
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) TERESA VAUGHAN.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred
and four, before me,
C. S. MALLETT. J.P.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
salt:
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you baro •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. KNGh,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
i
i
There’s SECURITY in
Larters
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS.
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
•Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Price:
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter’s


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
NOW OPEN
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RAGE, Flemington, Vic., July 7
SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 18 ...
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., Aug. 11...
MELBOURNE CUP, Elemington, Victoria, November 6
100,000 at 5 2 eaoh.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On *ll Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d, on each
Ticket, and 4c/. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
an< * con 1 t ucC Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels mav be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
raw
SSK'
ŧ
INCREASED
By the New “ Clease-Extensor ”
Method a Rational and Scientific
System of increasing height from lin li to
2£ inches with added Strength,Health
and Bodily Beauty. The invention of
Mr. F. Meredith Clease, Ph. L.D., late
Director of Exercises to Saileybery Coll-
ege, and the outcome of 17 years of con-
tinuous study of the Physical side of Life.
It vastly improves awkward and ungainly
men and gives to Ladies a Beauty of
Figure and Natural Grace of Move-
; ment unattainable by other methods. Mr.
Clease’s System has no connection or
similarity whatever with any other form of
bodily exercises whether it he for health or
increasing the height that, is being adver-
tised. If you are Too Short, or have
Round Shoulders, Flat Chest,
Narrow Chest, Weak Back,Weak
Chest, Stomach Trouble, Lung
Trouble, Curvature of Spine, Un-
gainly Walk, Prominent Hips,
Superfluous Flesh orare Too Thin,
write and indicate your physical require-
# ments, and Mr. C ease will send F.RE W
Explanatory Booklet and Personal Advice. All correspon-
dence strictly confidential. (Mention Paper).
F. Meredith C/ease, Ph. L.D.,
74, New Bond Street, London, Eng.
Cures Wliil©
You Sleep
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Vapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz. 5 2-8$ 2 ©z., 1-8*
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE GURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
CIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Tosted Free.
Tlie Dr. Langston Institute,
1 29a COLLINS STREET,
IYF '-.BOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
the famous hemedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness. Pain or
Soreness m the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
*nd a Complete Cure is certain. s b J ’
33"17W-A.I=6.IEIS OF COUGHR l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Ililslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO
YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say
that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of
health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure
in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
. Reedy Creek, Victoria.
DRY, HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hack-
ing-cough on my chest that used to trouble me terribly
at night-time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I
tried different sorts of medicine, which took no effect, so
I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure
in informing you, relieved me at once. It has completely
cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your
medicine for a thorough and immediate cure.—l remain,
yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH,
AND WASTING A WAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success, until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington,
Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE
OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had a
very bad cough that had been a trouble to her for years.
I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of
them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since
she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been won-
derful. —Yours, etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S. W.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUBE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—l am writing- to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it g-radually g-ot worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be
consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was' too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH FOR
TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from a most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctor’s prescrip-
tions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and
difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE CURED BY ONE SMALL
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —-Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without
it. —I remain yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearn \ Dear Sir, —It affords me very much
pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can
say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form it com-
pletely cured me, and now in the Winter months if I at
all contract a cold on the chest it gives me instant relief.
I have also proved its efficacy with members of my
family, whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the
chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir,
you are deserving of the best thanks of the community
for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable
medicine.
I remain, gratefully yours,
W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking
two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in
quickly curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels
stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medi-
cine for chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them
all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received.—
I am, Dear Sir, v'our faithfully, D. BEATTY,
Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Last winter my youngest
son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest, had a dry,
distressing, hacking cough which troubled the poor little
fellow very badly at night time. I tried many so-called
panaceas, without any appreciable effect. But after
using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure I am
pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite
well, all symptoms of the cough having entirelv <ji s .
appeared. I have had much pleasure in
your magical medicine to my friends.—Believe me to be,
yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES,
“ Lillieslea,” Union Street,
Windsor, Victoria
KSARrME’S EI&OMOM1TIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s> 6d«
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch OEPOT- QiHce i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


BANISHED
FROM HOME
Sent away from loving friends to suffer
amongst strangers. Such has been the fate
of thousands of sufferers from chest com-
plaints the world over. Why be an exile,
when
NEW tM
Discovery^
OUCHS
(TIPS AND
ONSUMPTION
will cure you at home ?
Read the following letter from Mr. John
Rogers, the well-known citizen of Violet
Town, Victoria: —“ My son was suffering
greatly from a severe cold on the lungs, and
a prominent Melbourne physician said he
would certainly have consumption if he did
not leave the district. I bought him one
bottle only of DR. SHELDON’S NEW
DISCOVERY for COUGHS, COLDS, and
CONSUMPTION, and he is now entirely
cured. I cannot recommend this great
remedy too highly, for to us it has proved
a great friend in time of need.”
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discowiy is not a
patent medicine, or a common cough mix*
ture, but is a scientific discovery that makes
sore lungs well. Sold everywhere at 1/6
and 3/-.
77
ECZEMA, is a disease of the epidermis or outer layer of the skin, which
does not mature, and which allows the watery portion of the blood to
exude. Scabs or incrustations form on the surface, and these, on being
removed, expose a red, angry, and extremely irritable, itching surface.
Sufferers from this terrible disease have to contend with constant, wearying
irritation, days of weakening pain, and nights of sleeplessness. Wonderfully
soothing and efficacious is the treatment of Eczema with Zam r ßuk, which is best
applied on a fresh piece of lint, night
and morning. The burning, itching
pain will be allayed, and with each
fresh application of Zam-Buk another
step towards complete recovery has
been made. The skin which was
once so full of disease will eventually
present a soft and wonderfully smooth
surface.
“I have suffered for years with
Eczema on my hands,” says Mrs. L.
Walker, c/o Mrs. J. Lane, of 116
Cobden-street, South Melbourne.
“ Being in service, this complaint
handicapped me greatly. I tried
all sorts of so-called remedies for
Eczema, but nothing I tried seemed
to give me any relief. On the con-
trary, the complaint appeared aggra-
vated, and was especially severe as , ,
the Spring season of the year opened, when the complaint would spread, and
cover my hands completely. Seeing advertised that Zam-Buk had proved suc-
cessful in curing bad cases of Eczema, I purchased a pot, and applied the Balm
as directed. The results of this treatment were a revelation. After
five applications the Eczema disappeared, and has not since returned. That
was five months ago, and at the present time my hands are as smooth and
healthy-looking as one could wish, for which I am indeed grateful.”
iiMio
ZAM-BUK is invaluable for ECZEMA, ULCERS, RINGWORM, PSORIASIS,
BAD LEGS, INFLAMMATION, RASHES, ERUPTIONS, PIMPLES, SORES,
SCABS, SCALES, PAINS, SWELLINGS, CHAPPED HANDS, SORE FACES,
COLD SORES, CHILBLAINS, CHILLS, COLD IN THE HEAD, CUTS, BURNS,
FESTERINGS, GATHERINGS, POISONED WOUNDS, &c. Of all Chemists, or
post free from the ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, price Is. 6d., or 3s. 6d. family
size (containing nearly four times the quantity).
RUB IT m r
The City Where Work was
Slack.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the story the white man told to the
Children of Black and 1 an ;
In the days when his heart was hard and
old he spoke to the Piebald Clan,
In the days when the white man bowed his head,
long after the first great war,
Long after his bubbled pride was dead and his
nation ruled no more !
“The land smiled back to her laughing lords, and
the soil was soft and wet,
And the big barns bulged with the golden hoards
where the grain and the rafters met,
And the laden boughs of the fruit trees fell to the
kiss of the rich brown loam,
And the rivers sang to the sea to tell of the joy in
the farmer’s home.
“ The fat flocks fed on the grassy plains, and never
a sheep that parched ;
The streams ran high with the blessed rains
where the wandering cattle marched ;
And the white wool won by a white man s son
the white-world factories fed,
And our hearts grew bold as we gleaned the gold,
and the man and the white maid wed.
“Long over the land the warm white stars of pros-
perity shone serene,
And the sunlight smiled on her many scars and
nourished the fields of green.
And proud with the pride of a well-filled purse
were the big brave men outback,
Nor recked they the weight of the deadly curse
of the city where work was slack.
“ They came to the city where work was slack ;
they gaped on her gilded domes.
‘Of the wealth we’ve won we would barter back
for gear to adorn our homes.
Ours is to shepherd our sheep, to weed, and
winnow where we were born ;
Yours is to weld and weave for our needs, and
sell us your wares for corn.’
“They laughed as they propped up the greasy
posts and sucked at their cigarettes.
(Oh the vacant minds of the loafing hosts in the
cities of beer and bets !
The wonderful wit of the city brat; the sneer of
the man who knows
The proper shape of a Bourke-street hat or the
cut of a spieler’s clothes !)
“ They sniggered and drawled, ‘ We have left off
toil, for little there is to do.
Go look on the wharves ; there the big cranes
moil, unloading the ships for you.
In the big blind stores the white girls wait on the
nod of Calico Jim.
The importer man in the land is great; you may
buy what you like off him.’
“ They turned from the city where work was slack
—from the leer of her fair, false face,
And her wantoned wealth ; they took the track
to the sun-sweet open space ;
But they spent their gold on some foreign fake,
at the word of the city fools —
Some foreign trash that would wear and break,
like a youngster’s kit of tools.
“ And away in the city of Don’t-Know-liow, in the
mansions of Let-It-Slide,
Her people lived with unfurrowed brow, and
laughed in their empty pride.
And they spent their strength in the fields of
sport —in the chase of a puffed-up ball.
They weaved no web, and they built no fort, nor
raised they the sheltering wall.
“ There came a time when the Red King woke,
and stalked in his wrath abroad ;
The pent-up hate of the centuries broke to the
fury of flame and sword.
Your fathers looked on a world aghast, and the
crumbling kingdoms swayed ;
And we knew that Shem was awake at last, and
Australia saw and prayed.
“We prayed the prayer that the sinner prays at
the hour of his parting breath ;
(Man seldom whines o’er his wasted days till he
stands at the door of death).
For your fathers came in their armored hells—
‘ England, we look to thee ! ’
And she sent us guns, and she sent us shells, but
the ships went down at sea !
“The ships went down in a reddened sea, out-
numbered and undermanned.
No forts, nor guns, nor shells had we, and the foes
were on every hand.
Our horsemen were but a broken mass —a tumult
with pike and sword,
And onr unarmed ranks dissolved like glass in the
furnace of the Lord.”
This’ is the tale the white man said as he stalked
through the Hall of Dreams
On a day when the piebald children played by the
side of the haunted streams.
And the flag that flew from our gilded domes, and
our people of brown and black
Told the fate of the men who had their homes in
the city where work was slack.
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE LEPER.
[For The Bulletih.]
WHEN Jones arrived at Romahapa
Traffic Office one Wednesday morning
he found Traffic Clerk Flu ter complain-
ing of incipient grippe. In those days the grippe
was a serious matter, and had to be treated
promptly to ward off a serious illness. The place
reeked of eucalyptus, and another odor which the
overwhelming stench of bluegum could not dis-
guise proclaimed that the Traffic Clerk had been
trying the rum remedy.
“Jones, old man, I think I’ll leave you to it.
God only knows where Mackenzie is, but if any-
thing serious should happen don’t hesitate to ring
me up, and if necessary I’ll come down in a cab.”
“ Right-oh ! You go home and sweat the blessed
thing out of you. Besides, you want a rest badly.
I’ll get on all right. Hey—Jimmy, get a cab for
Mr. Fluter.”
Five minutes later Mr. Fluter, who was peri-
lously close to being drunk on eucalyptus and
rum found himself in a closed-in carnage which
his subordinate had paid for. and being driven
rapidly home.
Jones watched the carriage till it disappeared
round the coiner of Burenda-street, and then
turned back to his own desk.
“ Guess I’m the bloke in charge of this machine.
One blessed day of power, I suppose. Anyhow,
I’ll know what it feels like to be a I rathe
Manager.”
And then he sat down and plunged into Jus
work, till Jimmy laid a telegram on his table
corner. Jones glanced at it. It was from Burning
Plains and ran :
Chinese leper hoarded No. 2 North at Uranium or
Havelock, and when requested to pay said he had no
money. Please wire instructions. P. Gill, S.M.
“ Wire instructions—good lord ! ” snorted Jones,
disgustedly. “Jimmy, call up Burning Plains
till I tell Gill what I think of him.”
When the telegraphist got Burning Plains
Jones opened out.
“ That vou, Mr. Gill ? ”
“ Yes, sir.”
“And you don’t know what to do with a man
who won’t pay his fare ? ”
“Not when lie’s a leper, sir.”
“Well, chuck him out. No good running a
sick man in.”
“Very well, sir. Will I instruct guard or
porters ? ”
“ The whole crowd if necessary. Chuck him
out yourself.”
Mr. Gill made no reply. Presently he came
back.
“Can’t get him out, sir. He is a leper, and
threatens to bite first man who lays hands on
him. He says one of his fingers has dropped off
in the carriage.”
“That finger’s a gag, Gill. He’s pulling your
leg. Sling a sheet over him, or a blanket, or
something, and rush in and gag him.”
“ Shall I purchase a rug for the purpose, sir ? ”
inquired Gill.
“ o'n, go to Hades ! ” said Jones, in a sudden
burst of wrath. He realised that he was up
against a dead wall of funk that was going to be
buttressed by every device that a mind well-
trained in red-tape could think of. Presently
another wire arrived :
Have sent No. 2on with leper on board. He wants to
go to Romahapa, and can be arrested there. P. Gill, S.M.
At Paisley the leper was hungry, and alighting
on the off-side of the train he got into the refresh-
ment-room while the guard was telling the Station-
master about him. He bought a lot of refresh-
ments, asked for a brandy-and-soda, and tendered
a pound-note. The proprietor of the refreshment-
room gave him the change himself, and as the
traveller pocketed the silver he leaned over and,
laying one finger on the note, said impressively :
“ Better you be careful—me leper ! ”
The landlord gave a gasp of horror and then
flung the note from him. The leper recovered
the note. When the landlord revived he rushed
out and howled for the solitary policeman.
“He can’t come,” said the S.M. “ I want him
to arrest a leper who is travelling without paying
his fare.”
“What! Another one?” shrieked the landlord.
At this moment the leper came out of the
refreshment-room, loaded with spoil, and ex-
tended a friendly hand to the S.M.
“You likee shake hands with me—me poor
leper, goem down Romahapa see doctor. Welly
ni’ man, him,” pointing to the landlord.
Next moment the invalid was standing alone,
and he quietly got into the first-class smoker
which he had affected all the way down. The
S.M. suddenly returned with the policeman.
“There he"is, sergeant. Take him in charge.
He’s a leper, and they are forbidden to travel on
the railways except in ambulance cars. Seize
him.”
“Be gob, Oi loike yer style. Oi’ll no seize him.
Devil fly away wid you. Would you have me
conthract the dreadful disase ? ”
“ Well, someone must seize him ; and it is
clearly the duty of the police, isn’t it ? ”
“ ’Tis not; ’tis the Health Authorities tha,t look
into such matters. How the devil can Oi take
him in charge ? Oi didn’t see him refuse to pay his
fare. ’Tis by summons ye must proceed, me
mahn!”
At this brilliant inspiration the policeman felt
quite relieved. The crestfallen S.M. declined to
have anything further to do with the leper, and
told the guard that time was up.
Hardly had the train started when the Traffic
Office called up and Jones inquired what they had
done with the leper. The S.M. denied having
done anything with him, and went off into a long
rigmarole about the cowardice of the police.
“You’re all cocktails!” yelled the wire from
Jones’ end. Then he cut the discussion short by
calling up Kilmarnock.
When Kil. was in attention Jones informed the
S.M. that there was a leper on board the train,
who had travelled close upon a hundred miles on
the strength of his disease. He expected that the
patient would leave the train at one of the subur-
ban stations, and ordered that he should be se-
curely locked in, and, if necessary, the windows
should be battened up to prevent his escape. The
S.M. acknowledged the instructions, and then
went out to draw his distant signal, for the train
was already whistling.
Five minutes later the S-M. called up the
Traffic Office and ticked of irtling story.
The leper had objected to bei.. 0 Je a prisoner,
and tried to break out while they were battening
up the windows. The constable, while trying to
push him back into the carriage, had been bitten
somewhere on the head, and also on the hand, and
was now in a state of unconsciousness. Before he
became unconscious, he had stated that he felt the
disease coming on. The leper had been struck on
the head with a batten as he tried to burst out of
the carriage, and pushed back with a mop. He
might be dead for all Kilmarnock knew to the
contrary; anyhow, he was somewhere in the bot-
tom of the carriage. Kilmarnock wanted to know
about the insensible constable. J ones thought he
had better come in by train and have the bitten
parts amputated. Kilmarnock wired back that
you couldn’t amputate a man’s head. J ones wired
back that Henry VIII. had done it frequently.
Kilmarnock wired again that the disease was
making rapid strides in the constable, and that the
leper had revived, and was using such fearful
language that it held back the train. Then J ones
cut Kilmarnock off with a bang.
Ten minutes later Jones was on Romahapa
platform anxiously awaiting the arrival of the
train with the afflicted character on board. It
came smartly up to the platform, and just as it
stopped there was a rush of cadets and porters to
get a look at the wild animal in the nailed-up
carriage. Among the crowd was an elegantly*
dressed gentleman, carrying over his arm a beauti-
fully-finished cloth overcoat.
The porters knocked away the battens, and
Jones opened the door and looked at the leper
steadily, trying to mesmerise him. The China-
man blinked back and kept on repeating:
“Better you look out, me leper, me bite
.you allee same p’leeceman. Him leper too now.
Biemby you allee same leper. See ? ”
“Be damned for a yarn,” said Jones, “Now,
you come quietly to the lock-up, and you’ll get
off lightly.”
“No fea; me no go lookup. ’Opitle much
better.”
“ Well, pay your fare.”
“No money!”
“Oh yes, you have. You made the better part
of a quid at Paisley, and got back your own.”
“Alii —my countlyn. .a pay to-mollow.”
“Here, come out of this!” and Jones seized
him by the clothes with both bands, and dragged
him out. The Chinaman tried desperately to bite
him. The crowd yelled to Jones to take care,
for it had just seen the policeman carried away
on a stretcher —nearly dead with fright. The
Chinaman struggled desperately, and Jones sud-
denly grabbed the beautiful cloth coat from the
spick and span gentleman’s arm, and tied it, bag
fashion, round the patient’s head. Then he picked
the Chinaman up and bumped him into a cab.
The cabby protested, begged, and swore. “Drive
to the police station,” yelled Jones, “before he
gets loose.” • The cab went off at a bound, closely
pursued by the gentleman who wanted value for
Iris coat.
At the station, the sergeant said he would see
Jones dead before he would take the object in
there. “ 'Tis the Board of Health office ye mane,
sure !” he said to the disgusted Jones.
“ Go on to the Board of Health office ! ” yelled
Jones, drowning the voice of the perspiring man
who was demanding the price of his coat. Off
they went again, and the perspiring man followed
in another cab.
At the Board of Health office there was only a
small boy on duty. All the officers were out,
examining crews or passengers, or something.
They had no place in which to keep lepers. The
boy thought for a moment, and then remarked,
brightly :
“ Bring him back at 2 o’clock. The chief will
be here then.”
Jones tried to speak, but his words died in his
throat, and the Chinaman struggled desperately,
and tried to bite through the cloth overcoat.
When he found the words would not come, Jones
contented himself with landing several vigorous
kicks on the counter and spoiling its beauty.
Then he kicked the Chinaman and struggled back
into the cab.
“Drive to tbe hospital!” lie yelled. On the
way there he talked to the Chinaman, and the
latter ceased his struggles. The man whose coat
John wore round his head still followed in the
other cab, and the vehicles entered the hospital
grounds together. Jones staggered with his
burden into the casualty room.
“Something wrong with this bloke. Came in
by this morning’s train saying there was some-
thing desperately dreadful about him.”
The man of the coat stood at the door, and
watched Jones uncover the scared Chinaman’s
face. Jones, with the coat in his hand, walked
towards the door.
“He seems very scared—what did he complain
of?” asked the young doctor.
“Leprosy.” Then to the' man at the door,
“Your coat, sir; many thanks,” and he gently
placed it over the stranger’s arm.
The stranger dropped the coat as though it was
red-hot iron and clamored at Jones. The doctor
gave a gasp, and also clamored at J ones.
“You mustn’t bring lepers here —take him to
the Board of Health office.”
“Look here,” said .Tones, “he’s no relation of
mine, and I’ve wasted about 7s; 6d. in cab fares
on him now. They can’t take him at the Health
Office till 2 o’clock, and I’m a busy man. Just
give him a few cigarettes and some marbles to
play with, and he’ll rest quietly till 2 o clock, and
walk down by himself.”
“ Well, it’s against the rules,” said the doctor,
“ but I’ll have a look at him. I’ve often longed
for a real live leper, to see what they are like.”
“Well, I believe he’s a fine specimen. He
says he’s something extra.”
“Lovely,” said the doctor, ecstatically.
“Where can I let you know the result.” And
he jotted the telephone number in his notebook.
* * » *
Two hours later the doctor rang Jones up.
“ Sorry to say your leper is a fraud. Hasn’t a
mark on him. All a dodge to get a cheap fare.
Just found out in time to let the man he bit
know as he came out of the effects of the
chloroform. S’long.’
“Well, well,” reflected Jones, “all my time
and heroism thrown away. Wonder where the
man with the coat is—he’d like to know.”
0. A. JEFFRIKS.


“WHY AM I ILL?”
Have you
Suspected
Your Kidneys ?
Every Picture Tells a Story. ”
II
&
A
(ft
1
r/.
The Symptoms are often mistaken for other
Disorders. Backache. Rheumatism, Dizziness,
and Sleeplessness are Serious Signs.
But whatever your symptoms are, Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills should be persevered with until not a trace of
kidney disease remains. Por if you neglect to give your kid-
neys help they will lose their power of throwing oft the
liquid poisons; they will break down, cell by cell, and allow
the life-giving albumen to pass out. This is how the fatal
Bright’s Disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills (of
which your neighbor speaks so highly) are the one reliable
kidney medicine, because they are especially for the kidneys
and bladder, and do not interfere with any other organ.
But—be careful to get Doan’s.
What Your Neighbor says:
Mr. James Higgins, Epsom-road, North Botany, this city, says Sometime ago
I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I don’t know how to account for it, unless
several accidents were to blame. I consulted three doctors, and underwent treatment
and each one failing to do me good advised me to go into the hospital for an operation :
they said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance as
one of my kidneys was m a diseased condition. I took medicines of all sorts, the empty
bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was in
such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in the
back, giddiness, headaches, and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and scarcely
able tolift anything. The day was appointed for the operation, when a friend asked me
it 1 had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew a man who was
as bad as I was, and had been cured completely and for good by these pills. I post-
poned the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight
later i returned to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in
me would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. I was not quite
cured then, but was as fit for work as a man could be. I continued taking the pills and
have been quite well ever since.”
Mr. Higgins makes a short statement in i‘ ebruary, 1905, eighteen months after the
above statement was madeDoan’s Pills cured me, and I am still free of kidney
trouble. lam eighteen months right now. and not one symptom of the ailment ever
having returned. I have advised many men in the railway and tramway service to use
these pills. Ihey have done me a splendid good.”
Dor sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per Box
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Poster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
*
\
&
East and West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE came with fair woi-ds on his lips,
And goodly greetings without end ;
We lit our ports and dressed our ships.
And bade him welcome as a friend.
Yet while we hailed him as our guest,
This truth through all our thinking ran—
There liesf a gulf ’twixt East and West
That many arches may not span.
The fault is neither ours nor his,
We follow each a guiding star;
Long ages made him what he is,
And ages made us what we are.
His gods are not the gods we serve, •
Our need is alien to his need ;
Each holds the course, and may not swerve,
Which ancient habit has decreed.
We may not make our life-blood flow
In one congenial mingling stream.
The Christ upon the Cross says “No !”
And Buddha murmurs “ Yain the Dream ! ”
His temples grey from floor to roof,
With lamps and carven shrines of gold,
Preach other creeds, and stand aloof
From our cathedrals vast and old.
The stars that fill our nation’s skies,
The songs that thrill our nation’s years—
He sees them with unseeing eyes,
And hears them with unheeding ears.
The Quest of brave Sir Galahad
To him were but an idle tale,
And Juliet, pale and sweet and sad,
Might sigh, and sigh, without avail.
All Shakspeare, Milton—all the throng,
Who fill the heart and fire the brain,
To him sing but an alien song,
And speak in accents vague and vain.
We sailed the seas while yet he slept,
And strove in realms of toil and thought,
Till slowly through his slumbers crept
Strange news to him of how we wrought.
Like one tired out with labors vast,
Who falls asleep beneath the moon,
And slumbers long, he woke at last
And rubbed his eyes, and found it noon.
The world was working hand and mind
With anvil-crash and furnace-glare ;
He heard its challenge on the wind,
And hastened forth to do and daie.
And, toiling on from rear to van,
With tireless hands and feet he pressed :
But all his toiling may not span
The gulf that lies ’twixt East and West.
We may not mix howe’er we meet;
Our ways lie charted far apart ;
We differ not in hands and feet,
But in the soul and in the heart.
IJ.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Peter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JN cattle camp and shearers’ hut, in
shanty and waterside boarding-house, the
name of Peter Jacltson stands level with
Carbine. The name holds good among white men
whether Governments are falling or the country
is in flames.
The other night I was sitting beside a crowd of
wharf lumpers near Circular Quay, and a bow-
legged Hercules was telling, in a new way, how
the immortal Peter was discovered by his mentor,
Larry Foley.
se ?’ was alwa ys on the look out for
noo blood. He was a better judge of a fighter
than Mace. Fancy Larry nursin’an’ coddlin’ a
big waster like Herbert Slade, an’ backin’ him
against a buster like Sullivan—not much. Jim
JVlace liked a man with a nice figure an’ plenty of
style. Larry always said that a gorilla would be
an ideal fighter if you could supply it with enough
sense.
“ Well, Larry was walkin’ along the Quay, one
day, an he sees a long black nigger sittin’ on a
plank swipm the hull of a wool ship with a paint
brush. Up an’ down went the nigger’s long arm,
reachm arf across the hull at every stroke. First
he’d paint with his right hand, an’ then with his
long left, an Larry stood watchin’ open-mouthed
for 10 minutes.
“ Th e nigger’s muscles was jerkin’ like shanghais
under his black skin. He always got the job to
paint the hull because he could reach from the
anchor to the donkey engine without ’avin’ his
plank shifted.
“ Larry strolls round an’hands up a bis: citrar
to the young nigger.
Punchin’ grease into the hide of a ship’s a
poor game, nie lad,’ sez Larry. ‘Come round to
the White Horse an’ see my gymnasium.’
“The nigger slings down his tools an’ goes
home with Foley. About a month after I spots
Peter cleanin’ the pub winders.
“ ‘ That black boy, ’ sez Larry to me, ‘is a
fightin machine. Just now he stands a bit ugly
and is heavy on his feet, but in six months he’ll
be able to punch a pigeon feather across the
ring.’
“ Peter an’ Larry used to chase each other about
the ring like a pair of kittens, Larry showin’ him
how to make a pancake with the other bloke’s
face when it started to breathe in his eye. He
showed Peter the ixact way to avoid the 8.49
express when it was travellin’ for his jaw an’ ribs.
“ Talk about footwork ! It would have taken a
black-tracker a lifetime to pick out Larry’s pads
- " hen Peter got a grip of the situation. In six
-months there wasn’t a kid or man in Sydney who
: could hit the atmosphere when Peter happened to
be in it.
“ ‘ The chap what beats him will have to use a
gun/ sez Foley one night. ‘He’s goin’ to dust
the rafters with a few reputations.’
Peter was a bit of a gentleman, too. Always
ready to’elp a woman or thump a bully. I see
him stop a Hindoo, one night, in George-street—
one of them gaudy, long-bodied sailors what had
run amok because the head serang had eaten all
the stoo. He tore up the street among the China-
men an’ kiddies wavin’ three feet of knife in the
air. He wa3 like a tornader with his tail off. Hi*
bedgown was all over froth as if he’d been racin
through a cask o’ beer.
. , Pster was leanin’ against the lamp-post out-
side the pub smokin’ a cigar, an’ when the Hindoo
trod on a kid an kicked a little girl, he straightened
hisself an spat out his cigar.
.fii yah, cobbah dah ! ’ shouts the Lascar
m °£?? ms wa y through the crowd an’ collidin’
With Jackson. Fist agin’knife is fair odds when
blokes like Peter are behind the knuckles. The
lascar meant business; had a body on him
about the size of a tiger’s; neck an’ chest, he was
the biggest Pathan y’ ever see. Must have been
born on top of a mountain.
He looked at Peter, an’ took his leap, an’ for
two seconds lie was like a flat-iron stabbin’ a
9-inch gun. There was no side-steppin’ about
f fie onl y punched once-it was the sort of
lit that lifts a bloke out of debt an’ calms down
the bailiff. When the Hindu picked hisself out
ot the banana-skins an’ prawn-heads, he admitted
that runnin amok wasn’t the game it ought to be.
He got a month for creatin’ a disturbance with his
face.
“Cornin’ through the Argyle Cut one day,
Jreter walked into a big 18-stone woman belting
her sick husband. The nigger couldn’t stand to
u 6e " os P ltal man being mauled an’ broom-
handled.
Take a pull, missus,’ he sez, quietly, ‘or I’ll
have to send for a policeman.’
, . was the toughest blackguard of a woman
this side o Botany. You could have stacked a
wool bale against her convict jaw. She was
the Cut lttm ’ men an ' slin £* n ’ m etal up an’ down
She looked at Jackson an’ began to walk
round him, hands on her hips.
“‘Didyerivur meet a woman who cud grind
yer black face on a doorstep ? ’ she sez, standin’
beside him, her elbows well up.
‘ ‘ Ma’am,’sez Peter, sorrowfully, ‘I have yet
to that experience.’
“He never moved or flinched, just looked at
her an showed his white teeth-yer know how he
ustei laugh. But the blow came before he ex-
pected it—full on his body; he said afterwards
that it was the worst punch he ever got in his
lite. A big harci woman, fighting every day with
men m back lanes and Chinese dens, is as quick
as a tiger, an’ full of tricks.
“ The fight stopped right there. When her fist
came at his face he caught it in his open hand an’
shook hands with her, an’ as he shook you could
the little bones breaking one by one.
“‘■’fia'am-’ sez Peter, Hingin’ her away. ‘You
ought to fight a big day’s washin’ and hit yourself
with a blue bag.
1 hen the Rocks Push rolled up—twenty of ’em
—an they made a ring round him. They’d never
seen .Jackson before, an’ they started to play
blind man’s buff and ‘tig’with him. They say
that two ordinary men are always a match for a
g °°u i-i lg mam Rot ! Peter went through the
push like two ends of an iron bar—only he never
lost his temper. When the push got out of bed
next mornin they was wearin’ cask-hoops round
their hats to keep tlieir heads inside.”
ALBERT DORBINGTON.
A “Native Industry.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIMES were very bad on the Oastlereagh.
The weather was hot, and the lambs were
dying in hundreds. Dan and I were
camped about fifteen miles from Coonamble
The cookies refused us tucker any longer and
when we went to a station the boss had the cheek
to offer us work.
Dan told me that he knew how we could earn
some money easy. I looked surprised, and he
said all we had to do was to catch crows. The P
and A. Association was giving fid. each for their
heads m Coonamble. When I remarked that we
had no gun, Dan said it wasn’t necessary.
Dan was one of these theatrical blokes He
had been a tree or a piece of an elephant or
something once, in a pantomime, and knew all
about making up. So he started to make me into
a sheep. He said it was all a man of my mental
capacity was good for, and that I had met my
destiny at last. It took him three or four days
gathering up old skins, and fixing in eyes and
things. At last, I was ready, and Dan said I was
a much better specimen than most of the sheep on
Heehaw s run, where we carried on operations.
I he first morning, I went among the sheep with
a bag concealed m my wool, and began to graze
I grazed over slowly to a place where there were
four or five dead lambs, with dozens of crows pick-
ing at them. The crows didn’t mind me at all-
only one would now and again strike at my eye
but that didn’t hurt, as my eyes were glass
marbles that Dan had stolen from a schoolboy
As soon as I caught a crow I choked it, before it
had time to make a row, and put it into mv bag
Business flourished the first three days" and I
captured over 500 crows. When I wanted to get
them extra quick, I would lie down and pretend
to be sick, and cry “ baa.” Then they would rush
at me, and go for my eyes.
On the fourth morning I hadn’t got more than
50 crows when a cocky rode along and stopped to
look at me. He scared all the crows away but I
went on grazing. He looked round furtively a
few seconds, and then grabbed me, chucked me
across his horse, jumped into the saddle behind
me, and rode off When we were passing the
bush behind which Dan was concealed I bleated
loudly to attract his attention, but the cocky
punched me viciously, so I had to keep quiet.
Arrived at the house, the cocky jumped off,
lifted me down, and called to his wife to bring
hnn a knife. But just then Dan walked up
accused cocky of stealing Mr. Heehaw’s sheep!
and said he had been watching him the whole
time. Dan squared it for £5, and drove me away.
But we hadn t gone far when we met Heehaw
himself in a buggy. He stopped and said to Dan :
i<Tini ie s lee P that ; where did you get it?”
What the devil has that to do with vou ’ ”
asked Dan coldly. “It has everything"to do
with me. Its my sheep,” said Heehaw. Then
Ban used words that meant sanguinary and
illegitimate and untruthful. The squatter jumped
down and there was a rousing fight; but the fun
was stopped by the arrival of a mounted police-
man. Dan was given in charge for sheep-stealing.
He was hand cuffed ; he and I were thrown into the
back part of the buggy, and we all started for
Coonamble.
At the police station there is a little paddock
and they took me out of the buggy and tried to
drive me through the gate. I resisted, and when
the policeman caught me by the horns and the
squatter began to push me behind, my head came
oft in the policeman’s hands. I never saw two
more surprised men.
When Dan was released he talked big about
illegal arrest (he’s a bit of a bush-lawv er ) till
Heehaw stumped up a tenner to square it. Then
we went out of the crow-catching industry.
O.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
w
S 3
V
$
I — Zy'
iL^
UU»*
“My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits. In later years these
were more frequent, and her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
here in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to give it a trial,
and the result was marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
“I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully.”— -John F.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland.
“P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla —“AYER’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by X)!R. J. O. AYER & CO., X«oweU, Mass., tJ. S. A.
Leg Dragged fron) Socket.
Man sees his Leg: slowly dragged from Hip Sookot,
and Is unable to help himself.
An Amazingly Wonderful Recovery.
THE "VICTIM’S EXPERIENCE.
“ Would X rather lose every possession in
the world than return to my former condi-
tion ? My word, I would ! ” Thus Mr. D.
McGregor, of Jindabyne, N.S.W., expressed
himself when questioned as to his illness in
the past compared to his present good
health.
“ You would hardly credit it to look at me
now, but it’s a fact. Three years ago I was
a human wreck—a derelict on the sea of
humanity. Rheumatics proved my undoing,
and so bad did I get that one of my hip joints
was drawn an inch and a half away from its
normal condition, and the front muscles of
my thigh got so bad that I could not step
forward, nor would my legs bear my weight,
which was but nine stone.
“I consulted many physicians, and was
ultimately told that all the doctors in
Australia could not cure me; but I was
recommended by one to try Electricity, as I
might hope for some relief from its use.
“In looking through the newspapers, I
came across an article on Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belts. I wrote for their book, and
I tell you what, I hadn’t read far in it until
I was all a quiver with excitement and hope-
ful anticipations. It described similar cases
to my own, and gave careful details as to
their cures I sent a careful description of
my case to them, and they wrote me a com-
prehensive diagnosis explaining each symp-
tom, and how they proposed to cure me.
Their letter was so straightforward and can-
did that my confidence was gained at once,
and I will ever bless the time.
“ Anyhow, I got a Belt, and wore it
according to instructions. In three weeks I
began to improve. In three months I was
cured. I wore the Belt for four months, to
make certain of no relapse, although the
Specialists had placed six months as the
period of my treatment. Happily for me,
my cure took just half that time.
“ This all took place three years ago, and
I have had no return of the trouble since.
Wonderful! do you say ? A miracle, and
nothing else, and don’t you make any mistake
about it. Dr.. McLaughlin is a wonderful
scientist, and his Belt is a marvel of mechani-
cal ingenuity and professional skill.
“Just imagine yourself walking along,
suddenly losing the elastic power of your leg
muscles, and then falling in a heap, unable
to rise without assistance. That was my
condition before I sent; for the Dr.
McLaughlin’s Coy.’s book* and began their
treatment.
“I induced a man who suffered from in-
digestion to write to the Company for their
book. He got a Belt, and it cured him.
The book was my inspiration. Every sufferer
should read it.
“ Well, I hope you may never need an
Electric Belt, but if you do—Don’t hesitate.
Nor need you ever fear to recommend it. It
will not betray your trust. Good day, and
may Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt go into
the home of every sufferer.”
FREE BOOK. FREE TEST.
*lf you are interested in the wonderful remedy that Mr. McGregor so graphically de-
scribes, you shoiud read the book we publish for the information of sufferers. Fill in
your name and address in the following Coupon and post it to us. We will send book
by return post.
TEAR OFF HERE AND POST TO-DAY.
NAME
ADDRESS..
If we could convince you in this article of the value to YOU of our FREE
book, “ APPLIED ELECTRICITY, 55 you would gladly pay two guineas for it.
Call, if you can, for free advice and consultation. Our Consulting-room is at
the free disposal of all sufferers. No charge is made for this service. 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
The db. McLaughlin co m
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH, W.A.
100 W. MARKET ST. P
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
EECHAM’S
IjOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flash-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath. Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensat ions, &c. I’ll ft FIRS T DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MTNCTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and ft ey will he acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of t.ie system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen ed :e of and
arousing with the Rosbbdd op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts" admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beer,ham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold ISverywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
i
i
£3 Parcel of Jewellery
8 ARTICLES OF STERUNC VALUE
Something for each member of
the Family.
High in Quality—Low in Price.
The reason that we are able to offer such
high-grade goods at so low a price is that we
manufacture all of the articles (except the
watch) in our own works, and they carry but
one profit.
The watches are purchased from the
manufacturer in very large numbers for cash.
You get the share that usually goes to the
middlemen. That is your gain.
If you bought these goods at any store in
Australia you would probably have to pay
pretty well double the price for them.
THESE ARE THE ARTICLES—
No. i— Boy's Keyless Watch, solid
Silver Hunting Case, Jewelled Movement.
Warranted to wear io years, and kept in order
by us—except breakages—for 2 years, free of
charge. Although this watch is described as
for a boy it will suit most men, find is made
to stand really hard wear.
No 2.— Gentleman's Solid Silver
Albert, with the Government Stamp on
every link. Complete with Sliding Bar and
Two Swivels.
No. 3 — Solid Bilver Locket. Govern-
ment stamped.
No. 4— Gentleman’s 9-Carat Gold
Scarf Pin, set with 2 pearls and 3 rubies.
No. s— Elegant 9-Carat Gold Bell
and Chain on Lace Pin.
No. 6— Heavy Gold Band Ring.
Any name engraved and made to anv size
you may desire. An excellent souvenir.
No. 7— Gold Brooch (9 ct.) of charming
design. Nice present for a girl.
No. B— Lady’s Purse in Real Morocco
Leather, with solid silver lock.
If desired, we can supply a Lady’s Silver
Watch and Muff Chain in place of the Boy’s
Watch and Chain, for the same money.
THE PRICE OF THESE EIGHT ARTICLES
PACKED IN STRONG BOX AND DELIVERED
AT YOUR ADDRESS IS £3.
We do the largest Mail Order Business
in Jewellery and British Silver Plate in the
Commonwealth, and this remarkable offer is
made because we know that you will be so
delighted with the parcel that we will gain
you for a regular customer. /
Write now for the parcel. Remember, \
your money back at once if you are not
absolutely satisfied.
ANGUS & COOTE,
“The Store where Quality counts,”
494 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ask for our 72-page Catalogue. It con-
tains hundreds of illustrations, and will save
you money on every purchase.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addrm—A, M. HAST, 145 Collins St.. Malbonn*
Consult DR. MARTIN,
The Old Established, Reliable
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
men
and
women
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S Great Work on the
Diseases of Men and Women, contains 34 Illustrations and
Colored Plates. Write To-day for it. POSTED FREE.
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6t/., or if you
apply to him now a copy will be Postetl Free for 3s. This
Magnificent Medical Work contains 692 pages Crown Bvo., over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautifully
Four-Colored Plate—the most interesting, up-to-date and reliable
Medical Work Published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of men
and women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books
advertised FREE TO THE PUBLIC. It is a complete Encyclopaedia
of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-standing,
chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book
has ever been published.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT
A limited number of Resident
Patients received. Terms Moderate.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO—
DR. MARTIN, M.D.
[Please mention this paper when writing.]


Rubber
Footwear.
:
Very Best Quality, and Lightest Boot Made
For Heavy Work, very Best Quality, with
Rolled Edge
Cheaper Grade
18/6
18/6
14/6
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
TALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
t
ţ
700 Prizes,
Melbourne, and Adelaide.
TINTARA
WINES. .
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rook Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Striotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE ACENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
606 LITTLE
And at
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Be van and Edwabds Pbopy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
m
uu
red Metiers
v'
. /
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
S5B George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Hr NOVEL PRESENT.
BW»EK!
W IL DD 0r "' ar d to an y a<s d‘’ e ss our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C-.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-.
Illustrated Catalogue sent Free.
If. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s Book Arcade,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDIirEY.
The . . .
CARD
CONCENTRATOR
is admitted by all impartial
Experts to be easily first in
Concentrating: Machinery,
Realising: its great merits the
Sulphide Corporation has just
ordered 17 CARDS for its Central Mine,
Broken Hili.
SSI
■
.....
Jif*
The points wherein it excels are Efficiency,
Capacity, percentage of Concentrates,
Classification, Absence of Danger
Line, Smoothness of Working,
Durability, Requiring Little
Attention.
The Booklet makes all these
points clear.
It is as near perfection as such a
Machine can be.
Solo Licensees and Manufacturers
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Sydney and
Melbourne
