

DEWAR’S WECXSI^'ir
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
It. <3r. WA.TKIKTS CO.,
107 Kent: Street, Sydney,
Milling and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’"and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
asdf
HOBA.HT.
[jadleys Orient fjote
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Portable and Fixed Steam and Oil Engines.
CENTR,F D.RECT a ScT,NG Pumps, Irrigation Machinery, Columbus Oil Engines.
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machines. Pooley’s Weighing Machines.
For Illustrated Lists and Particulars apply to GrXBSOXST. BATTLE <sc CO., "7 BENT ST-, SYPtfEY
V A
% m
-m
" Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
sdf
1
C JIU
Ks
*dMIV-| NVMSIQ3
IVAOH 3HX
'
*5
SlXfc
pjfl
I6 ; A
'j
m
.
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
ebison a mi
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
to
sd
HAVE
THE
BEST.
L and WYNGEEL TYRES
Are Unequalled for MOTOR CAR or CYCLE.
SYDNEY,
AND ALL FIRST-CLASS
DISTRIBUTORS.^^
HAVE HO OTHE
fsd
mm^mm
XOJ U3OQHO UnOA xsv
fs
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS I
Wj
<to
\
% $
m
TEA!
ASK
FOR
0^
STANDARD
UNRIVALLLED lIV QUALITY.
PALE ALE
I3XT BOTTLE, -am
A 1 i r J
dfs
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
EQUAI.S
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
[No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Goulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
m
©
co
09
<0
“VESUVIO” MACARONI
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPIN ST.,
RICHMOND,
UPON SPA.
Gcllin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.27.— N0. 1362.]
[Thursday, March 22, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THREE REMARKABLY GOOD NOVELS.
BEN BLA I R-The Story of a Plainsman, by Will Li Hi bridge ; cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
“ The author draws the pictures of men, powerful in evil and fnr » , ~ ,
the heat nor the rain of tears will alter or change. ‘Ben Blair ’ ft™ n l f' 0 ? 8 ’ t ?- afc neit s er
powerful picture of uncovered hearts.” 3 ciraina * ;lc > * U H of action, and a
CONQUEST OF CANAA N— By Booth Tarkington ; cloth 3s 6d, paper 2s 6d nostaee fid
There w 110 dollb t that this book is the best Mr. Tarkington has vet written ” ? P ’ P ' g 6d '
POLE BAKER-B, jutbor of -Abb,, Dodd," *», .'The ****,.
GEORGE ROBERTSOV & CO. PROP. LTD.. 71 r\a«?7
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BEIsSSS uJSoN. STREET ’ SYD "* Y ,
THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great •,
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Curb of
Bronchitis !
ahd Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
pp.w>
The Larynx, or organ of
The Trachea, or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a <
A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says: —
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
mr HUDSON’S eumenthol jujubes ~*m
(Reqistbrbd). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POIBONOUB DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot : 5A 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
THE RED PAGE.
LEONARDO AND OTHERS
TplOß our literary and artistic dilettanti, this
1-4 paragraph may be a signpost to “The
.JL 1 Langham Series of Art Monographs,”
edited by Selwyn Brinton and published
by A. Siegle (Lond. ; Is. 6 d. net). The books
imitate R. Muther’s “Die Kunst” series, and
translate some of the items : others are new. By
the way, one finds Muther (who has claims to be
considered the best-informed contemporary
German critic of art, and certainly is one of the
most stimulating) declaring that Leonardo painted.
in the Mona Lisa —himself. She is no vampire,
no demon, but an image of the sceptic-sensual
spirit
Having said so much (and remembering our
beloved backblocks) it is better to say more.
Here, then, is a suggestion of possibly the most
famous picture in the world :
Mona Lisa —in the Louvre, Paris.
Leonardo da Vinci, the painter (1452-1519) was
a species of universal genius in art and life, en-
dowed with all the talents that, in Dick Savage’s
view, became his birth.
[Blest be the Bastard’s birth ! Through wondrous ways,
He shines eccentric, like a comet’s blaze /
No sickly fruit of faint compliance He t
He stamped in Nature’s mint of ecstasy !..
Nature's unbounded son, he stands alone,
His heart unbiass’d, and his mind his own.
R. SAVAOIS, 1698-1743.]
In a Christian age Leonardo revivified the
Hellenic ideals, as it is told vigorously in Merej-
kowski’s The Forerunner (Loud., Constable ;
2s. 6 d. net). As a painter, for years one
face obsessed him-Mona Lisa s. Her eyes,
her smile, he re creates in a b.-iome and in a
Madonna, in Bacchus and in Pomona. Pater’s
oft-quoted description, written beautifully and
vaguely, is an inevitable quotation :
The presence that thus rose so strangely beside the
waters is expi e-sive of what in the ways ol a thousand
years men had come to desire. Hers is the head upon
which all the ends o{ the world are come and the eyelids
are a little weary. It is a beauty wrought out from within
upon the flesh, the deposit, little cell by cell, of strange
thoughts and fantastic reveries and exquisite passions.
She is older than tiie rocks among which she sits ; like
the vampire she has been dead many times, and learned
the secrets of the grave ;and has been a diver in deep seas
and keeps their fallen day about her ; and trafficked for
strange webs with Eastern merchants ; and, as Leda, was
the mother of Helen of Troy, and, as Saint Anne, the
mother of Mary; and all this has been to tier but as the
sound of lyres and flutes, and lives only in the delicacy
with which it has moulded the changing lineaments, and
tinged the eyelids and the haims. The fancy of a per-
petual life, sweeping - together ten thousand experiences,
is an old one ; and modern thought has conceived the
idea of humanity as wrought-upon by and summing up in
itself all modes of thought and life. Certainly Lady Lisa
might stand as the embodiment of the old fancy, the sym-
bol of the modern idea.
J*
And M-uther more precisely writes :
Leonardo had already given a diabolical attraction to
his Portrait of a Lady in the Liechtenstein gallery, had
composed a h.vmn to seducing grace in the Ambrosian
portrait at Milan. And now in the Mona Lisa lie pro-
duced a work which like an eternal enigma fascinates the
spirit. Is she woman at all, or merely an hallucination?
Four years Leonardo laboured at the picture, studying in
the face of his model the reflection of all the thoughts
that music and conversation called up. liut what
are these thoughts? Is her expression tender and
voluptuous, or chill and mocking? This smile radiant
with bliss, does it not hold the sinister calm that follows
the storm ? Is she Aphrodite or Medusa? Helen or the
goddess of Death? There are works of art for which every
word “is noise and smoke, obscuring Heaven’s light.” It
is futile to wish to interpret the mind of this siren who
gazes at us like a phantom from kingdoms world-remote.
Every artist paints himself. Mona Lisa is the feminine
double of Leonardo. His own unfathomable Faust-nature
took shape in his work.
Leonardo has not yet arrived in the Langham
series : we meet Whistler and Millet : the former
by Hans Singer; the latter by Muther. The
illustrations are numerous and good—within their
limits. Singer’s attitude to his subject is that of
an honest man striving to comprehend the uncon-
genial. “Perhaps Whistler's human soul was
occupied by a double portion of pettiness, invidi-
ousness, and malice, so that his artistic spirit might
be entirely free and unfettered in its greatness.”
Muther, as elsewhere, justifies his reputation;
and his little study is written with the incisive
power that in criticism is always demanded and
often lacking. “ Millet was the first to paint
a race that knows neither Heaven nor Hell,
only earth and labour...He created the first
religious pictures of our time—and consecrated
them to Labour.” Mother's commentary falls
into line with Henley’s before he went astray
in the studios and decided that “ it was Millet s
weakness, in fact, that he was not less poet than
painter.”
THE CELTIC SPIRIT
TO Feb. Contemporary Review Havelock
Ellis contributes an article on “ The Oeltio
Spirit in Literature,” which has the effect
of co-ordinating many scattered observa-
tions upon this page. What are the characteris-
tics of Celtic Literature? “In the first place,”
says Ellis, “always there is presented to us the
remote as remote. This sense of remoteness is
deliberately sought in the finest Celtic romances.
In the second place, the Celtic poet’s method is
always decorative. That is to say, he is always
concerned to find the beautiful and harmonious
detail. The pages of Celtic romance are like a
woven tapestry, with bold outline and strong
colour, as in the Irish stories, or in the Welsh
with softly harmonised colours and delicately
flowing lines ; in either case, they produce more
nearly than anything in literature the exact effect
of an old tapestry.”
This seems a just statement; and the “remoteness” of
Quinn, the decorativeness of Daley, are familiar to us
locally. O. Wilde’s Sphinx was recently compared to a
sumptuous tapestry.—But essentially, one would find
the noblest and rarest expression of the Celt rather in
the remote than in the decorative ; and some writers disso-
ciate the qualities. Quinn’s “ Camp Within the West,”
the best local example of remoteness, is simple ; Daley’s
decorative verse, however fanciful, is always firmly held,
always attached to the present.
“ These qualities of Celtic literature rest on cer-
tain psychic qualities of the makers of Celtic
literature, of which we may especially set down
inventiveness and quick sensibility, two qualities
that are allied, or indeed identical. Quick sensi-
bility, or rapid _ feminine response in harmony
with, or in reaction against, external stimuli, is of
all qualities that which we most readily attribute
to the Celt. It is a quality of nervous texture,
even to some extent a mental quality, and
by no means a pure quality of feeling This
quick sensibility is, for instance, well illus-
trated by the Celtic eye for nature imagery, so
often used for decorative purposes in the Welsh
and especially in the Ossianic literature.
But there is more to the matter than this. Inventive-
ness and sensibility account for the decorative Celt: they
account for Daley ; but they do not account for Quinn or
Yeats. Both of these have at times the air of remember-
ing in dream, of writing what they saw as they walked on
the edge of an old ancestral world. This power is not in-
vention, is not sensibility : it seems to be a scarcely con-
scious imagination, an involuntary mental projection into
the other world remote.
“ When we have clearly defined to ourselves
these precise qualities of the Celtic mind as it
displays itself, in literature—that in vision it re-
gards the remote as remote, and in method is
decorative—we begin to realise the truth that
underlies many of the rhapsodical utterances of
the writers on 1 Celtic glamour.’ For instance,
we hear much of fairyland, of twilight, in this con-
n®^on' Mr, Yeats has called one of his books
‘ The Celtic Twilight.’ The atmosphere into
which all genuinely Celtic things —the Ulster
cycle of legends least of all—brings us is quite
accurately and precisely described as one of
twilight. Twilight has the curious property of
making the scenes it envelops appear at once
both near and remote For a moment a
kind of musioal silence seems to fill the air ;
we are conscious of the presence of mystery ;
we feel as if we had caught a glimpse of a land-
scape in another world. This impression-—fan-
tastic as it may seem, and yet explicable by the
conditions of the atmosphere during this
period of diffused light— very exactly corresponds
to the special impression which Celtic romance
makes upon us.
Yet the “glamour” is not necessarilv “decorative.”
Instead of declaring that the Celtic mind'is both remote
and decorative, it would be better to say there are two
orders of Celtic mind, the remote and the decorative—the
former very rare, and merging (sometimes in the same in-
dividual : e.g., Keats) into the latter, which is common.
With the Celtic spirit Ellis contrasts what he
calls the Nordic spirit, because it is as closely
associated with the fair long-headed peoples of
ISortliern Europe as the Celtic spirit is with the
peoples of Central and Southern Europe now or
speaking languages of the Celtic family.
J he Isordic spirit in literature is manifested at
first in the Scan unavian lands, then in North-
western France and Germany, as well as Eastern
England and Scotland. The chief of its more
primitive embodiments are the Icelandic Eddas ;
its highest artistic achievement, unmixed with
other influences, is probably the ‘Chanson de
Jtioland. . ..
“ Celtic literature takes us into a world
where bright sensations, a restless invention,
dominate from first to last; profound human
passion, with all its painful and stupid limita-
tions, is not there, is not even conceivable there,
for we are m a world where all things are
possible Nordic literature is dominated from
first to last by emotion, and where emotion
is there is limitation, tension, pressure; if the
fountain leaps high in the air it is because of the
oppression at its subterranean heart.
Ihe Jsordic poet is, however, an artist in his
methods as well as in his conceptions. Those
realistic and emotional qualities which in
the sagas grow somewhat monotonous, in the
more developed manifestations of Nordic art
become self-conscious and deliberate. The realism
- remains, but the emotion is more artfully wrought
to a climax ; and the monotony, instead of being a
helpless accident, becomes a method of heighten-
ing the total effect, so that on the basis of a
primitive realism, human emotion and monotony,
it becomes possible to erect an architectonic poem
far beyond the reach of pure Celtic art.
[Mrs. Sophia, Bryant, admitting the artistic imperfection
of the Irish, traces it, ingeniously and perhaps truly in
part at least, to their positive activity in creativeness
annulling self-criticism, and allowing imperfect work to
stand, “ the vividness of the ideal making up for the
inadequacy of its realisation.” The deliberation and
hesitancy of the Nordic mind, on the other hand involve
perpetual self-criticism and progress.— E.]
“To the Celtic mind, bloodshed and slaughter
are as empty of emotional human content as to
the child who knows not what they mean • he
remains light-hearted throughout, and when the
hosts of Queen Maeve are flung against the might
of Cuchullam and thousands fall in a moment it
is all sheer gaiety, and not one pulse of the blood
is stirred. To the Nordic mind, every stroke is
j i° vibrate through the fibres of human flesh
and becomes an appeal not to the decorative im’-
agination, but to all the emotions that make us
men and bind together the world with links of
sympathy....”
Ellis proceeds to illustrate his contrast by reference to
Shakespear, Sir Thomas Browne and others. The com
plet.e article is an important and stimulating piece of
ST. JUDAS ISCARIOT
[Watts and Co., the Lond. religious publishers, of 17
Johnson’s Court, Fleet-street, E. 0., have issued recently
The Idol of Four, by the Rev. Ernest Pomeroy, hon.
treasurer of the British Union for the Abolition of Vivi-
section. It is a collection of theological essays for which
every acute reader is counselled to remit forthwith 6s. to
the publishers—reliance upon local booksellers, domi-
nated by the demand for the baser fiction, being unlikely
to be revyarded. The first and most striking essay is an
explanation and defence of Judas Iscariot. This follows
and expands De Quincey’s similar essay ; and the Rev.
Pomeroy sees much that is to be regretted in the current
dogma. Some excerpts follow.]
rpHEOPHYLACT, the elder Lightfoot,
I Bahrt, Niemeyer, and Schmidt contended
•J- that Judas, convinced of the miraculous
powers of Christ, thought that the Messiah
would use the occasion as a fitting opportunity for
discomfiting his enemies, and would there and
then establish the kingdom of heaven on earth.
Therefore he was bitterly disappointed when he
heard the actual result of his having pointed out
to certain authorities the hiding-place of Jesus.
He could hardly believe his ears. Needless to
say, these writers do not recognise the story of
Judas kissing Jesus publicly in broad daylight to
show the authorities which he was. Jesus was
one of the best-known figures in Jerusalem, and
J udas would have never received ninety guineas
[Archbishop Whately’s estimate of the value of
thirty pieces of silver] for pointing out a man
that everyone knew, and that everyone could
point out as well as he could. From sunrise to
sunset Jesus was safe, the idol of the mob. At
night he hid. Judas disclosed his hiding-place to
the Council really pour le bon motif and for the
best. This should be clear enough from Judas’s
sorrow and death, except, perhaps, to the bigoted
and biassed.
The ancient Gnostics, and Herr von Noack
among the moderns, credited Judas with desiring
to bring about the triumph of Christianity by the
redemptive death of Jesus—that is to say,
Christianity triumphing because, and in expiation,
of his death. In this case, Judas succeeded, and
Lord Beaconsfield said that he deserved a statue.
Paulus, Winer, Hase, G. Sehollmeyer, and
Whately believed that Judas became impatient of
delay, and attempted too hurriedly to bring his
Master’s name eternally before the world. Judas
undoubtedly succeeded in this, though the event,
proximately considered, did not appear to have
done 50....
J*
It may be said, then, that there are three
authoritative theories as regards Judas’s unfortu-
nate scheme and its fatal termination.
1. Judas over-estimated the miraculous powers of his
Master. He became convinced that he had only to
seize a fitting and momentous occasion for the display of
those powers in order to secure for his Master the posses-
sion of the throne of David, together with the discom-
fiture of all the authorities, Jewish and Roman, particu-
larly the Jewish ones ; while important concessions would
be obtained from the Pro-Oonsuls and procurators of
Rome.
2. Judas viewed the procrastination of his Master with
alarm, and conceived that, by forcing His hand, a definite
movement would be instituted which could but be crowned
with a brilliant and undying success.
3. Judas wished to bring about the final triumph of
Ohristianitv by the redemptive death of Jesus as Saviour
of the world.
In the first two cases it may be said that Judas’s
move is pardonable in aim, though deplorable in
result. He may be censured but forgiven. In
the third case the glorious triumph of the result
may have exceeded Judas’s wildest dreams, but
his motive was a vicious one, and he must, there-
fore be censured, but with military honours.
From a soldier’s point of view, the bravery of
Judas is undeniable. For stubborn fearlessness
in conception, and cool strategy, no battlefield
can supply his equal. Both as regards this world
and the next he stood undaunted. Picture to
yourself his position. . . . Remember the divine
attributes and the miracles of the Master. He
must have frequently heard tell of these, and
occasionally have witnessed them. Imagine for
one moment the bitter horror wh ch must have
seized him in reflecting that he himself might
shortly, in his own person, afford a manifestation
of these supernatural gifts. He had seen a
withered hand rastored, a maimed man walk,
the blind see, and several xlevils removed from
Mary Magdalene. He also knew only too
well what had happened at Gadara. Might
it not be, to put it lightly, that on the Monday
succeeding the betrayal he himself would be
afflicted with a withered hand ; on Tuesday he
might be distinctly halt, if not. maimed ; on
Wednesday he would find his vision defective ; on
Thursday he would be a leper; on Friday he
would note the entry into his system of a con-
siderable number of devils; and on Saturday he
would discover himself running down a steep
place into the sea, en route for the realms below.
The bare possibility of such a succession of events
must have been simply appalling. Judas, to my
mind, is the bravest man who ever lived....
J*
In what may be called Theory No. 4 the asser-
tion is that Judas actually came to dislike
Christ, “ that he had become repulsive to him,
and grew more so everyday.” (See Meander’s
Life of Jesus.) . . . As is well known, several
writers entirely deny the traditional beauty of
Jesus as handed down by the Divines. Justin
Martyr, A.D. 100, who may be regarded as a con-
temporary of Christ, describes the Messiah as
being “without beauty, without glory, without
honour.” The body of Jesus, according to Origen,
A.D. 185, “ was small and ill-shapen and ignoble.”
Tertullian, A.D, 160, writing of Jesus, says that
his person “had no human handsomeness, much
less any celestial splendour.”
In Rex Regum, by Sir Wyke Bayliss, K. 8.,
F.S.A., the likeness of the Master has been dealt
with fully. Sir Wyke Bayliss says it is a question
whether we possess any authentic likeness of the
Master. He then collects all the scattered evi-
dences—portraits historical, archaeological, and
artistic—and considers that they all indubitably
show the traces of one common figure or ancestor.
Some writers consider this method of framing for
our mind’s eye a portrait of Christ to be both
difficult and incorrect. A well-known exhm-f.
holds that the face of Jesus so handed down to ns
is not an authentic record of likenesses but a
series of imaginary faces. Moreover, this’authm-
lty considers that the face of Christ finally decided
upon is little more than the residuum of a long line
of more or less incapable artists. 6 0
In any case, it must be remembered that Judas
was ■ ithout this portraiture, regarded as authen
tical, and he was, therefore, without the creation
of the ideal as depicted in modern Christian
art. He had before him only the actual founder
not the ideal, as we have ; and the judgment 0 f
Judas may have been more hasty, biassed, and ill
considered. On the other hand, it was’derived"
from the original, and not from a copy...
Before condemning Judas we should attempt to
discover his excuses and his point of view. I n
addition to the person and appearance of Jesus
annoying J udas (assuming with Clemens of Alex-
andria that these were base) some of the teaching
of the Messiah may have been particularly hateful
and even exasperating to Judas. A few of Christ's
favourite texts may afford suggestions for his
heretical disagreement, and possibly excuses.
1. “ The publicans and harlots go into the Kingdom of
God before you. For John came unto you, and ve
believed him not ; but the publicans and harlots believed
him.” Now, Judas may have particularly disliked nub
licans and harlots, and thought it to be nothing in favour
of the teaching that they were to precede him in the next
world ; and he may have bitterly resented this assurance
from the Master.
2. “If any man will come after me, let him deny him-
self and follow me.... If any man come to me and hate
not his father, and mother, and wife, and children and
brethren, and sisters, and his own life also, he cannot be
my disciple.” This statement may have, as it were, been
turned suddenly on Judas, when he was quite unprepared
for it. Judas was a Southerner, a native of Kerioth in
the tribe of Judah Among the Twelve Apostles Judas
was the only Southerner. He may have been more hot-
blooded and less able to withstand the figurative language
of his divine Master. Judas may have dearly loved his
father Simon, and also his mother, wife, children, and all
his sisters down in Judah. Such a course as prescribed
by Jesus may have been harder to a native of Kerioth
than it was to the colder and more placid Galileans who
composed the rest of the flock.
3. Jesus said unto one man, “Follow me!” But he
said : “ Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.”
Jesus answered : “ Let the dead bury their dead : but go
thou and preach the Kingdom of God.” This, following
close to the last, may have added fuel to the fire of Judas!
Possibly he had hut lately lost a parent, or a near relative"
and had contemplated burying them...
The key to Judas’s character is over-zeal, not
treachery; and every right-minded man must
hope that the term “ traitor” will never be more
applied to this most estimable Apostle. He, the
maligned, maltreated, and misunderstood, can
never have imagined that for 2000 years his name
was destined to be associated with all that is
ignoble, dastardly, and base. Possibly in the
near future some novelist will rise to the occasion,
and we shall have a new Dombcy and Son in which
a little Judas will come to the front and com-
pletely supersede that idol so dear to a mother's
heart, our sweet and lovable, but rather pallid,
little Paul.
Judas, then, does not deserve his lamentable
position. He is worthier, rather than less worthy,
than many so-called saints and heroes. For instance,
take fSt. George, the patron saint of England.
He is esteemed as the patron saint of Chivalry.
Nevertheless, he has nothing in particular to do
with Chivalry or England, nor has he much to do
with Christianity and the Master. The accounts
of him seem very obscure, and for the most part
legend.. . . Why should we not substitute St.
Judas of Kerioth for St. George? Judas un-
doubtedly existed. He is connected with the
Holy land and with our religion. And if there
had been no Judas, there might have been no
Jesus. At least, He might have died quietly and
naturally, and have been forgotten. At all events,
Judas is inseparable from the Messiah, and he is a
far more estimable man than George of Cappadocia
or Chwolson of Tammon. St. Judas for England
would be but a fitting tribute to a man whom we
have so grievously misunderstood and maligned
for so long. ...
“ However, Judas cannot be left where he was.
Judged by military standards, and comparing his
methods with those accepted in love, in war, or in
statecraft, he must appear the soul of honour.
Even accepting the most ordinary theory, we must
recollect that Judas, in the hour of victory, after
having seen the Master secured and marched
before Pilate, even then Judas was for merhy.
He returned to the Council of the Elders;
he flung the silver pieces on the floor, and said :
“ Give me back my Master .” His request was
refused, and he committed suicide. Nevertheless
even in this account Judas was undoubtedly the
victor. He sacrificed Jesus to win the battle of
Christianity for all time for the Christians. He
sacrificed his own name for ever, and gave up his
life. Such an end is earnest, upright, and noble.
Our next great general or our next great states-
man might draw a lesson from these pages. He
should pass over such titles as Lord Roberts of
Candahar, Lord Kitchener of Khartoum, or Lord
Curzon of Kedlestone. He should look the world
in the face, and boldly style himself Lord Judas of
Kerioth ; family name, Iscariot; his crest, a
cross. Such a man, if he comes, will indubitably
deserve his peerage.”
©
The panegyric of Miss Roosevelt, ready to be
an American bride, presents certain features. “ Constant
outdoor exercise has given her unusual strength and en-
durance. Notwithstanding her willowy figure, she is as
muscular as a greyhound.” This both promises and me-
naces Mr. Longworth, the adventurous American bride-
groom. He stands in the arena of the American story—
“ and which came out of the open door, the Lady ? or the
Tiger?”
Frank Morton, settled in Dunedin, expresses
another journalist’s admiration of Maoriland. Gresley
Lukin has exhausted unflattering comparisons ; and G.
B. Barton exhausted flattering superlatives: despite
Julius Vogel, there was no place like it to be a journalist
in—“ far preferable to Australia.” Yet the Maorilanders
are uneasy in their paradise, or the young ones. Perhaps
it is only when one gets elderly and realises what a large
and important organ the liver is, that one really appre-
ciates physical stimulation and intellectual—no, we
won’t say torpor... calm.
A.O.S.


RABBIT SKINS
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.. Limited, Wool & Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
FUE S
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS for
Sporting Material
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent .
I>. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S. \\ r ., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2. w'US
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib
rebounding locks, left choke, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£3
National Arms Co/s _
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’a
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’!
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
df
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
Mick Simmons
mi
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE’’ D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12- gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2|in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the JJ-IA lOe
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State. .. .. .. *' "
The Celebrated
“MAINE”
RIFLE
the MAINE
Pifle
e winp Pifle flparf
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long-, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2|lb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 31b.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model; 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sig’hts, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3£lb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
13s 6d
18s
16s
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco List 3, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
i i
Stevens’
Little
Kras-
Stevens’ S.S. “Little Krag,” bolt action, blued steel round barrel,
20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep sight, but
may be had with V sight if required at 6d extra, length over all A 1 e
36in., weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.VV. ;2s Sd Inter-State) J.«
df
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb.
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
COMICAL BALL-
jxe oi jc.x Jxc.rx:i?\E
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 109
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
$lOO $lOOO
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical .. .. Is Od 9s 6d
22 Short
22 Long-
-22 Long- Rifle .
22 Extra Long.
.. Is Id 10s Od
.. Is 3d 12s Od
.. Is 6d 13s Od
.. 2s Od 18s Od
LAWN TENNIS .
seobv
3/6
Handicap
5/-
M
STANbAftb
7/3
Ascot
2/0
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above tour lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s Cd
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
.. 13s 6d
18s
Renshaw ..
Demon
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
ip?
, rT -
BOXING GLOVES .
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Bo3's’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Soz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Soz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, las 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
df
The “ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
Complete. Each.
“ARMY,” Round Shape, soft tan leather, cover, 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are very light, suitable for fast work.. . ,7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
“ ARMY,” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s
“ ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above 27s 6d, 35s
“ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
“ EXPERT,” Medium Size, w'ith rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with fine grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced 8s Od, 14s, 21s
“ EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s Gd, 20s, 21s
THE
ASCOT
Mick Simmons
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 5s ; post 9d N.S.W., Is 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, 6 horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S. W., Is 8d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 3, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, 11s ; post Is N.S.W., lsBd Inter-State
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
2s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 5, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined tray, 18s 6d ; post Is 9d
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d ; post 2s N.S.W.
Remittance and Freight must accompany Order.
MICK S
Haymarket


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DSF“- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c,
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
!r.
ri
m
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Sfcc PLUM.
Gentlemen, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of, edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of vears, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
( The “ Plum ” Razor Strop,, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
“Razoleo" lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
(Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10'6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15'- , Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30/'
' Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sola Agente—CßAlC & fIITKEH, 654 CEOBCE STREET, SYDUEV.
m
J
J
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. JSI £I I jj ”
wi fm ira i m
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked ENO’S • FRUIT SALT;' Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. BNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. C. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSISSEH'^t
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
.. . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
M Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nevves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Cost
Manhood) and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Be-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
n | nnn r>imr Dll g c Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BL.UUIJ tiimc, riLLO. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s.
Weak Women
His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. HANS PETER RASMOS
■s si
sir,
Scledi
fronu
*SS
Granp
'ERAS
etc-etc*
Includi
sfdnortoobANI
fill]
SC
NICOLE.—to-
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
HICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL »
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
AGENT,
316 George St
SYDNEY.
is.
(209)
Cleanest “Samples”
Ever made by any Harvester
were made by the :: :: ::
“Deering” AND
“McCormick
Machines in the Harvest of 1905 and 1906.
We don’t have to ask you to take our
word for this—
We can PROVE IT
by hundreds of letters from users, many of
whom used ono of our Harvesters in the
same field with one or more competing
machines.
We can PROVE IT
by photos of samples taken from our own
and competing machines in the field.
Send for the above PROOF before you
place your order elsewhere, and NOW is the
time to send.'
international Haivestef Company of America
BRISBANE. SYDNEY MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE LAUNCESTON CHRISTCHURCH
Agents throughout Australasia*
8
! CIGAR SMOKERS! Try
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and full Strength, 17/6 per box (100); postage
9d. extra. Send for Is> worth as sample—posted free.
Agents—CßAlG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE- ST., SYDNEY
1
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
tfk
£<9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
N
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c. *
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents— Hllsott t>os., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.


“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
Mger’s
'Cherry Sectoral
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lovrel!, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sdf
His Majesty The
King-and
Boyal Family.
f you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use ...
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
JELLY CRYSTALS.
Superior flavors, and
very transparent.
TRY
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE
it is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [3
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
tor (Regd.)
df
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE TH c. LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.'
CAUTION.-'Vab 1 ? 0 ™
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
/<d&7141/^s/vCM&7jdiy£/rf2£t/
v Jf.
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious Imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every,bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julioh’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH’S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JLLICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
PURVEYOR to H.M. the KING EDWARD VIL
*Xirn
Fot*
Years
30
ji
I have used Bonninqton’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, bub
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINGTON’S.”
BEST SHIFB&D
4*
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE
JWer
df
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
[this labcl'Ts protected by "registration uwder the trade mark PROTECTION ACTcrIBB3E
h
m
\ RFAL GL^mm
df
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
Beautiful Home Decorations
F
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities. 1
“ SAPOLIN FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation. I
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders, (
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOI.IIV” tIIMIVUM EMMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers, |
or anything made oi.metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver nuish,
in or outdoors. Simply brushit on.
JAPANESE GOED PAIiHT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and j
ease of application., Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes, '
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc. I
*
LJi
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100dOZ. AERATED WATERS for 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
► . !
AND verst little labor.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN/ 9
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling all American productions.
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
NOTE.—We are Sole Agents for the “ELWORTHY” Aerating Machines, of British
Manufacture, for domestie use and small consumers, from £l2 and upwards.
ECKERSLEY & SONS; Sole Manufacturers ,
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens. --
Seven
Priaeo Medals.
Birmingham, England.
Works s
df
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
1 over the roughest
I paper with the ease
I of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an «
assorted Sample Box. .
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Moral of the Two Mooltans.
Kindly give me your attention
For a moment, if you please,
For which gracious condescension
I will thank you on my knees,
And will tax my dull invention
For a story of the seas
And the moral of the two Mooltans.
She was quite the finest steamer
Of the good old P. and 0.,
A leviathan they’d deem her
Over forty years ago,
When they launched with flag and streamer
And a rousing cheer or so
The original and first Mooltan.
Oh, they thought her very splendid !
Five-and-twenty hundred tons!
And her beams the longest ended —
Forty feet between the guns—
Two small cannon which extended
Friendly greetings on the runs—
Very good runs —of the old Mooltan.
Yes, they used to think her ripping,
Did the officers in charge,
But, compared to modern shipping,
She was nothing but a barge !
For last Thursday there came skipping
In a ship four times as large !
’Twas her namesake; ’twas the new Mooltan !
Yet the old Mooltan, my brothers,
Was a beauty in her way ;
But you see, like all the others,
Ships or dogs, she had her day !
That’s a law that every mother’s
Son, like steamships, must obey—•
The effacement of the old Mooltan !
When the old ship sailed the ocean
Cobdenites were all elate,
With the vain and foolish notion
Of convincing every State.
But what once caused much commotion
Is as surely out of date
As that bygone craft, the old Mooltan !
There is nothing lasts for ever
As it is, for all things change;
And mankind will still endeavor
To achieve a higher range.-
These remarks are scarcely clever,
Nor particularly strange—
They’re the moral of the two Mooltans !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
If This Be Love.
If this be love, I challenge you, Good Master,
That ’plains of charms decayed and glamor flown;
Then ’tis a gourd, of growth and fading faster
Than that o’er which a prophet once made moan.
If this be love ’tis scarcely worth the winning,
It is not worth the price we often pay ;
Is this heart’s need that tempts our souls to
sinning,
A cowslip ball, but made to throw away ?
Methough true love was older than the oldest,
That elixir of life was in its breath ;
That it could lend fresh daring to the boldest,
And look unflinching in the face of Death.
Methought true love was no mere weeping willow
That east or west winds as they list might rook ;
Methought true love could scorn the rudest billow
That dashed against it. tho’ with Titan shock.
Sure, perfect love is not mere passion heated
That wakes and cries in Spring-time o’ the year,
Then wails itself faint-hearted and defeated—
Give me the love that casteth out all fear.
MAORILAND.
ROSLYN.
Counter Rogues.
She serves the laces and beside her, he
Deals out the satinette,
Both have an air of rigid industry ;
But, oh ! she does coquette,
And while the customers choose anxiously
His eyes on her are set.
Sometimes a message on a bill-back bears
Her latest, tenderest thought;
She sighs (in pencil) of her hopes, her cares,
Her spirit overwrought,
Her fluttering heart —and all the things she
dares
To pencil down, in short.
And he with stealth and smile reciprocates.
Brief notes between the bills
Are pressed, or by her side he hesitates,
And some address forms fills,
While, all the time, his joy, sub rosa, states,
And hints at warm heart-thrills.
The days are never tedious or slow;
With hearts uplifted they
Can serve their “lines,” endure the tidal flow
At bargain times, can play
Their smiling quick “Yes, Madame” parts,
. while oh !
Love has his secret say.
Against all customers cross-grained and tart
Thus they are fortified ;
Such worries end at last, the cats depart,
And they that might have sighed
And groaned, exchange sly looks, and, minus
chart,
Steer on Love’s Counter-tide.
That he is married is a trial; she
His lot commiserates.
Responsively he sighs that she’s not free,
And her booked Gussie hates.
But ah ! they tease each other gladsomely,
These jolly Counter mates.
VIC.
E. STONE.


HARDY’S
df
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.' |
: )
r~"
It is the purest aad n\ost ecoaoiaical
cocoa iause. It’s aicest too. H
‘frff LH/YCff sq/s :~“Cod6ur/s /s of highest purit/.
(ADBURYS
(OCOA
The Incomparable Edison!
TBADa
TIME was when people thought that all
Talking Machines were alike—squawky and
disagreeable. Now they know that the genuine
EDISON stands alone as a sweet, clear, melo-
dious musical instrument—the most wonderful
the world has produced.
♦
EDLSON^
Phonographs
WE HOLD ONE OF THE
LARGEST STOCKS IN
AUSTRALIA.
The Gem = = = = £2 10s.
The Standard - - £5
The Home - = = £7 10s.
WRITE for FREE CATALOGUES and LISTS OF RECORDS TO-DAY.
Records—ls, Is 3d, and Is 9d each.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
"MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
Si
i a
uaini
llPBljj
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to • • * The Manager.
df
GANZ
Turbine Pumps
for mines, water-supply
works, etc., to suit all
kinds of requirements,
are supplied and erected
by the
Austral Otis
Engineering Co-
Cr. Hanna & Kavanagh Streets, South Melbourne.
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
TTHE whole world is agreed that in the Art of Tailoring" London leads. Through our London house our HIGH"
1 GRADE TAILORING DEPARTMENT IS KEPT “AU COURANT” WITH EVERY ACCEPTED IDEA
INTRODUCED IN THE LEADING LONDON TAILORING HOUSES. We employ none but SPECIALIST
CUTTERS AND FITTERS of recognised ability, and in the making-up of the various garments none but
WORKERS HIGHLY TRAINED IN THEIR RESPECTIVE LINES. Every detail of our Tailoring is carefully
attended to. Every garment made is thoroughly well finished.
The goods just opened out and those constantly arriving for the Autumn and Winter Seasons include
NEWEST MATERIALS and the most UP-TO-DATE DESIGNS, and in CORRECT WEIGHTS FOR SEASON.
TESTED CLOTHS. Thoroughly FAST DYES.
HEW SUITINGS. FINE TWILL INDIGO SERGES.
By far the largest proportion of these are purely AUSTRALIAN CLOTHS, the wool grown, the weaving done
INT OUR OWN COUNTRY.
Every season we note the Growing Predominance of Australian-Made Goods in our stocks of Tailoring Materials
with Special Pride, no doubt, because of the fact that OUR OWN CONSTANT PREFERENCE, wherever possible,
of “ NATIVE-BORN ” FABRICS has been and is A FACTOR IN SUCH PREDOMINANCE.
Send for Samples and Prices.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts.,
BRISBANE.
d
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
|—
tu
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
IN EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
ms
W
£
S OLD
BY
All
Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
A Certificate. Given W/th Each Watch.
-P
\6 ft9 Vv 'BBa
V& s ' V\ 1892 /if '863
Esfab'
1750.
%
s
ROTMEIRHAnS
£
H
>7
--'V s
m
(V
S- /
/
*>■
a*
head of white, ant.
SUDDEN DEATH to
anything means a quick ending. Thousands of pounds worth of
property in houses, woolsheds, barns, fences, stables, is yearly con-
sumed by those agents of destruction,
WHITE ANTS.
Yet a sure cure, a positive remedy, an absolute preventive is at
your door. That remedy is
sdfs
THE DESTROYER.
OF WHITE ANTS.
It not only gives you absolute protection against white ants, hut
preserves timber above or below ground or water. It makes weak
timber strong and durable. It doubles the life of any timber. A tin
of AYENARIUS costs a few shillings; it saves many pounds.
ALL STOREKEEPERS, or
£. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 1906.
Priob 6n.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1362.
THE AUSTRALIAN ARMY -(Recently reported on by General Finn.)
(1) The Field-Marshal and High Cockolorum.
(2) Something not very well defined, but supposed to be the staff, or else the band.
( 3 ) The rank and file (all of it) with its imported gun.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tun Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them, to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Sjieeial Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return-it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
an.y interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, a.nd at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <Ss Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lffin.,
ivill be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 1906.
THE MERE AUSTRALIAN.
It is discouraging to be an Australian in
Australia. This scantily-populated continent has
in its time bred men of quality somewhat plenti-
fully—men of quality enough to pioneer big
enterprises in other lands. In all the odd corners
of the earth, as well as the big cities, Australians
can be found, mining, engineering, administering,
doctoring, teaching, singing, painting, writing;
and in an extraordinary number of cases they are
doing notably well. No other such small patch
of population in the same time has given to the
outside world so many persons above the level
of mediocrity. But the Australian (using
the term in its broadest sense as the native-born,
or the immigrant arriving here young enough or
plastic enough to become Australian) does very
poorly in his own Commonwealth. He must
submit to be jostled aside by any imported per-
sonage who happens to come on the scene, unless
he is one of those very thorny sorts who
cannot be jostled with safety. The man of excep-
tional ability and a proper appreciation of it can-
not, of course, be denied, even though he is
an Australian in Australia. But excluding
them, and considering only the talented—rang-
ing from a little above ordinary to distinguished—
the handicap of being an Australian in this
Commonwealth is a very serious one. The proper
road to advancement is to be British born and
educated ; to arrive with a conspicuously English
carpet bag, trousers that announce the prevailing
wetness in London, and an accent of haw-ty
superiority. Then are the doors of preferment
opened unto you and soft nests prepared, whilst
the Australian of talent prepares to emigrate and
to find in Europe, South America or Asia the
appreciation of his abilities which his own land
refuses.
* * * *
The explanation is probably to be found in the
failure of the Australian in that art which has
come down from antiquity witif its old physical
name still gross upon it—back-scratching. The
flatterer or the parasite of to-day no longer
actually wields an ivory spatula to tickle the
sensorium of a patron, as in older and more
verminous days. But the word back-scratcher has
worthily survived. It penetrates at once to the
mind and satisfies it with ample and true present-
ment of the idea. Toady, sycophant, flatterer,
parasite, cringer, crawler—no one of these titles
gives quite the full value of back-scratcher, with
its appropriately rough sound, its suggestion of
knowledge of how and where to scratch, and
its hint of the ample delights of the
patron at being skilfully tickled. The
Australian is a bad back-scratcher. The com-
plaisant word is foreign to his lips, and his
knees are reluctant to servility. “It’s hard to
get Australians into the way of saying ‘sir’,”
attested one British officer at a military inquiry
now proceeding. In saying it he gave a true and
fine testimonial to the Australian character. It
certainly is hard to get ‘ * sir ” and a doff of the
cap from sons and grandsons and great-grandsons
of men, who were convicts because they were not
duly servile to the squire in the old world, or
exiles because they craved a larger air to
breathe than Europe gave. But the im-
ported gentleman who comes from Oxford
with an adventurous carpet-bag has learned
to say “sir,” and to bow and to scrape.
He knows the art, for it is an art native to his
land, where the Duke is honored by being called
upon to look after the trousers of a King, and an
Earl is respectful to a Duke, and a Mayor genu-
flects to a Baron, and hardly any flea but has a
smaller flea to look up to him as a sort of earthly
Providence. Knowing the art of back-scratching,
the imported person has but to insinuate his spa-
tula into the crack of a departmental door, so to
speak, and he rises rapidly to a fat post of ease
and affluence.
♦ * » *
To allow of the success of the back-scratcher there
must, of course, be backs eager for scratch. They
are to be found, alas, in plenty in politics and in the
Government departments. For two generations
politics in Australia were perceptibly foreign to
Australian ideas. The cities made the Parlia-
ments, and at the time just before the Labor party
irrupted, Australian public life was curiously out
of touch with Australian ideas. Cabinet Minis-
ters were open and shameless in making a British
title the object of their dearest ambitions, and to
their minds any Hon. Percy was, by divine right
of being the younger son of a titled person, wel-
come to any Australian civil post he aspired to,
provided it was not already occupied or claimed by
a still more honorable Percy. Now things are
changing. But the old habits linger. The Hon.
Percy still claims, and receives asa right, rich plums
for which no Bill, however talented, has a chance.
Even politicians who profess to be Australian are
to be found mechanically appointing Percy as
though it were a habit which could not be shaken
off, and in the Federal Administration itself the
reverence for what is hall-marked British and
the impatience for what is Australian shows
markedly.
* * * *
In the early appointments to the Federal Civil
Service the imported Johnny and the rare degene-
rate Australian with a facility for imitating his
servility, scored notably, and whenever since there
has been a hint of public service scandal it will be
found almost always that the root of the trouble is
in the recognition of the imported British person’s
divine right to get the plums of the Australian
service, and to be treated as a being apart from
the common run of “colonists.” Probably the
latest Papuan scandal can be traced back to the
same cause. That part of Papua now in the hands
of the Commonwealth is governed temporarily by
Captain Barton, who is said by those who know
him to be an estimable and likeable gentleman,
but who, judging by what we gather from several
correspondents in the Possession, is not a success
as a governor. There has been much friction of
late in connection with his administration, and one
incident culminated in a serious difference be-
tween Captain Barton and Mr. Richmond, a mere
Australian in the Papuan Government service.
A Board of Inquiry was appointed by the Federal
Government to look into the matter. It sat in
Melbourne—obviously not the best place to get
evidence on a Papuan matter. Still the Board took
evidence of a sort. It had the impressions in
favor of Captain Barton of Mr. Atlee Hunt —
the gentleman who, as Foreign Under-Secretary,
hasn’t been a miracle of discretion. It also had
the sworn statements of four Papuan civil ser-
vants, and these four all took Mr. Richmond’s
view of the case. And yet it decided against Mr.
Richmond, who was subjected to a punishment
savage enough to please the most ardent friend of
British Johnny administration.
♦ * * m
The impression among those who know most of
the matter is that Mr. Richmond has been sacri-
ficed in obedience to English influence working
through what the daily press delights to call
“ exalted personages.” That impression may not
be right. It is to be hoped that it is not, for it
would be deplorable to think that Australian
administration, not content with advancing the
Hon. Percy type unfairly, is willing to give Bill an
undeserved kick in Percy’s interests. When Parlia-
ment meets, the truth will be dragged out —the
more cheerfully for there will then be another
Civil Service scandal to investigate, pointing to the
working of the same influences. The Bulletin
disavows any sympathy with the somewhat stupid
A.N.A. worship of “Australian natives.” It
welcomes the Britisher, or any other decent white
man of parts, who cares to come here and share
our national life and aspirations, welcomes him as
Prime Minister, Chief Justice, or in any other
high office he can reach. But there has been in the
past, in connection with the State Governments, an
unfair system of patronage and favor, of which
the beneficiaries were young Englishmen with
titled friends “working” Australian Governors
and Australian toadies on their behalf. That
system has loaded the public service with
some of its choicest incapables, and crowded it
with the Hon. Percy. And we do not wish to
see the system perpetuated under the Federation.
In a local capacity the Hon. Percy, whose quali-
fications consist solely in being Percy, is bad
enough. Spread over a wider field he would be
deplorable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bent’s Surplus.
There is no more amazing figure in Australian
politics to-day than Thomas Bent, Premier of
Victoria. He looks like one of Nature’s jokes,
and suggests that Nature is of Scotch descent and
is humorous with difficulty. It is impossible to
do other than jeer at his clowning, his elephantine
witticisms, his awful comic songs, his wonderful
reminiscences, and his oft-told anecdotes whereof
the point was broken off in the Dark Ages. And
yet, in some respects, it is impossible to get away
from the fact that Bent —this vast mass of meat
and contradictions—is the greatest figure in pre-
sent-day Australian State politics. He is the first
man who has apparently acquired a desire to get the
great Debt Problem down and either strangle it
or else talk it to death; and an Australian Pre-
mier who recognises that the pawning of his
country is an unmitigated evil, and that the get-
ting of it out of pawn is the greatest possible
good, is a man who might be forgiven even
if he bought a book of comic songs and sang
the collection right through. Australia just now
is in collision with the worst financial problem of
its history. The loans that it has floated so gaily
for the last 50 years are falling due in multitudes.
It isn’t only one curse, but a drove of curses and
a herd of maledictions that are coming home to
roost. Formerly it was only a question of raising
money to spend, and when, as happened now and
then, the London money-lender refused to make
an advance, the only thing that happened was
that we didn’t spend the money. But now, in 34
out of the next 44 years, Australia has to raise
huge loans, not to spend but merely to repay old
loans that are falling due. Even if the country
leaves off fresh borrowings there are —unless
it does something more than merely leave
off fresh borrowings—34 chances between now
and 1951 for it to go bankrupt, simply
because any year London may be hard up,
and decline to float the new loan with which to
repay the old one. A great war or any other
large international trouble would make Aus-
tralia’s public insolvency almost certain, as
things are now. And Bent, the comic
songster of Brighton, the man with strange
recollections about cabbage, the ex-actor, the
individual who loves to be a municipal councillor
and to scrap with Councillor Ferdinando about
a drain or a culvert—this Bent seems to be the
only man who realises the situation. Victoria
has £4,000,000 of old English loans to repay in
1907 and another £2,000,000 in 1908. Bent has
shut down on new borrowings, and his present
ambition, he says, is to scrape up £1,000,000 of
surplus revenue with which to pay off a quarter
of the £4,000,000 which falls due in 1907. If he
can do that he will not only save £40,000 a year
in interest, but he will almost certainly be able to
renew the other £3,000,000 with greater ease and
at a lower rate of interest. Probably, too, he
will be able to renew it locally, whereby he will
not only make an absolute saving of £40,000 a
year, but he will also prevent another
£120,000 a year going out of the country.
It is with this end in view, apparently, that
Bent refuses to reduce the income-tax, and
speaks sourly to municipal beggars to whom he used
to be affable. Victoria has a lengthened rush of big
loans falling due—£4,ooo,ooo in 1907, £2,000,000
in 1908, £2,000,000 in 1911, nearlv £5,000,000 in
1913, £3,000,000 in 1917, £4,000,000 in 1919,
£6,000,000 in 1920, £6,000,000 in 1921, £7,000,000
in 1923, and £8,500,000 in 1929. Over any of these
renewals, if it is wholly dependent on the London
market, it is liable to be remorselessly squeezed,
and told to take its choice between paying 6 per
cent, and bankruptcy, whereas if it can pay off
part of each loan in cash, and renew the balance
or a great part of the balance locally, it can
always tell London to go to Sheol if London seeks
to drive a hard bargain. Among all the State
Premiers, Bent seems to be the only one who
looks forward with an intelligent eye to the future,
and for a man with so much waistcoat to obstruct
his'.vision this is all the more creditable. If he
would only go a little further, and pass an Act
declaring that there shall be no more loans
except for renewal purposes, that a payment of
(say) £250,000 a year towards the reduction of old
loans shall be a first charge on the revenue, and
that a second charge on the revenue shall be a
payment of (say) £500,000 a year for new public
works—if he would do those things he would be
the greatest and best Premier that Australia has
seen for something like half a century.
♦
The “Trade” Mania,
London, Wednesday.— Mr. Edmund Sachse reached the
Island of Perim, in the Red Sea, on Sunday after an
African trip. He is reported to have visited Menelik,
the Negus of Abyssinia, with a view to ascertaining the
possibilities of opening up trade between Australia and
Abyssinia. — Recent Cablegram.
The Bulletin doesn’t remember very clearly who
Edmund Sachse is, but he seems to be an
energetic man, and the fact that he has been
struggling for “ trade ” among the huge mountain
ranges of Abyssinia is something to his credit. It
shows that he means well, even if he is on a fool’s
errand. Abyssinia is a land vaguely supposed to
contain 3Jj millions of population, though they may
be only a million or less. It has no real roads, and
hardly possesses any towns with more than 5000
people. Trade is carried on mostly per donkey or
mule. Abyssinia is reputed to contain 12,000
monks, and it has a speck or two of commerce.
Britain has been struggling after Abyssinian
business for a long while, and in 1903
its exports to that obscure country were
worth exactly £s692—mostly coal. That
isn’t much, but probably Britain puts some value
on it. In Britain, “ trade ” always means foreign
trade—it is a way the followers of Cobden have
got into, and they can’t believe that commerce is
real unless it involves dragging something off a
ship that has come a long way, or shoving some-
thing on to a ship that is going a long way. By a
sort of instinct, and without realising it, the
British Freetrader would rather import £lO
worth of stuff from Greenland and re-ship
it to Bagdad at a loss than sell £4O
worth of locally-made stuff at a profit to the
man next door. So Britain, by neglecting its
local market and leaving it open to every alien,
has reached a point at which it spends £140,000,000
a year in buying foreign-manufactured goods for
its own use—mostly goods which, it used to make
in its own factories —while it sends £5692 worth of
raw material’(coal) to Abyssinia. Australia has
got the same foolish idea, though it may not have
got it quite so badly. There is a market right at its
door, in Australia itself, for about £40,000,000 worth
of Australian goods. This country imports goods to
that value, when it might, if it had a decent Pro-
tectionist tariff, manufacture them for itself, and
sell them to itself. If it manufactured them for
itself the work would employ a good 400,000 or
500,000 workers, and support them and their
families —something approaching 2,000,000 people.
And they would probably support another
2,000,000 of farmers, artisans, shopkeepers, &c.,
who would want about another £4o,ooo,oooworth of
produce, and thus double the population and in-
dustry again. This is the market that we know
of and are sure of, and it is a sad thing that it
should be so much neglected while Mr. Edmund
Sachse takes the chance of breaking his neck as
he shins up awful precipices in Abyssinia to see if
there is a chance to sell a bag of potatoes or a bale of
wool at the top. The country that Sachse has
been exploring is a dreadfully poor place, and very
backward. A great deal of its commerce has to be
let down precipices with ropes, or butted up huge
ranges by main force, and the merchant is often
liable to be eaten by the spotted hyena, or the
goods trodden on by the two-horned rhinoceros.
And then, at the end of a dreadful journey into
the interior, the chances are that the trader is
swindled by a tribe of alleged Jews, who say they
came into the country in the time of Reiioboam,
and who look like it. There is more good, reliable
new trade to be done with Parramatta or Thargo-
mindah, or Wangaratta, if only the importer werq
sufficiently discouraged, than all Abyssinia is
likely to supply this century—but first we require
to get out of the habit of believing that commerce
must consist in dragging goods down a plank off
a ship, or shoving them up a plank on to a ship.
4.
A Public Service Trouble.
Postal employees in the clerical division are rais-
ing Cain and other inhabitants over the increment
question. The Federal Public Service Act de-
clares that increments should be automatic, but>
in the case of officers receiving over £l6O, should
be given “as a reward for earnest application
to duty and meritorious public service.”
Nevertheless, in the Home Affairs, Treasury,
Customs, etc., etc., increments have been
given to everyone. The amount placed on
the Estimates for postal increments was, however,
cut down by the central office to one-half, and it
was evident that in that department there would
not be nearly enough increase to go round. This
was done before any inquiry had been made to
how many officers merited increments. The
postal people saw their political friends, and
Hume Cook asked, in a firm and numerous tone,
what it meant. The secretary of the Treasury
wrote to him (the letter is held as Exhibit A by
the postal employees), and told him that though
only half the necessary amount had been set on the
Estimates, the Treasurer would pay the other half
of the increases out of savings. With this assur-
ance any proposed opposition to the Estimates was
withdrawn. The lists of officers to receive
increments were prepared by the deputy Post-
masters-General and they included everybody.
The central office sent the lists back with an
intimation that they must be cut down by half.
This was done, and seniority being taken as the
basis of merit, all the senior officers in each class
got a rise, the poorly paid ones being
left out. Whereat the left-out officers-are
standing high on their hind legs and shouting
earnestly. They claim that the action of
the central office tends to nullify the Public Ser-
vice classification, since junior officers in other
departments, by virtue of the increments which
were given indiscriminately, have become senior
to postal officers who got no increments. Also, they
claim that the Act itself has not been obeyed, since
the increments that were given in the Post Office
were given for seniority and not for merit. The
neglected officers say they will leave no stone
unturned to get satisfaction, and they are already
looking under a multitude of rocks for their lost
cash.
♦ :
The British Labor Pilgrimage.
When Ramsay Macdonald, Keir Hardie, and
co. visit Australia the Federal Labor party should
make sure of these fundamental points:—
(1) What is there in common between Australian and
British democracy?
(2) How can Australian and British democracy mutually
benefit each other?
So far Australia and Britain have been racing for
different stakes. Our goal is not Britain’s. Our
first aim is the building up of a new nation,
that one day may have a record to compare with
the champion countries of old time. Asia
threatens; and we must fight hard for the simple
preservation of a White Australia. For if Aus-
tralia is not to be a white and free man’s country
we can never work out the future we like to talk
about. Then, as a logical deduction, prohibitive
Protection is essential in order that we may do our
own work, and thereby multiply and increase, in-
stead of buying the products of sweated or colored
countries, and remaining stagnant. Our problems
are primitive, but vital. For we must secure men
and materials before we can build our house;
and we must build the house before we
can attend to the mural decorations. The
Australian democracy is the only party that fights
for Australia’s future. It is really the nation.
But British democracy is still a class party that is
fighting for the most elementary of social rights—
a free franchise, reasonably fair hours and wages,
payment of members, protection of the weak and
helpless, etc.. On bigger problems it has still little
to say. It has allowed the British Constitution,
the Monarchy, the House ot Lords, the Estab-
lished Church, and other curious relics of barbarism
to submerge the majority of the population and to
refuse them work because it “ would destroy their
moral fibre.” Unemployment means cheap labor ;
and 12 millions of starving poor testify to the
Briton’s noble self-reliance. In sheer despair
British democracy took to soaking itself in
a beer-barrel, and it will now take some time
to shake off the froth. No good democrat
can support any of the traditional British parties.
Campbell-Bannerman means well, but, fed on
Cobdenism and large phrases, he upholds a vague
kind of ‘ ‘ liberty ” that consists in letting things
drift, and in having England swarmed over by
the refuse of Europe. Morley is worse—he is a
painful repetition of Gladstone, one of the most
pathetic ineptitudes in politics, and cheerfully
advocates “liberal” measures that date from
Noah, and opposes the mildest modern movement
as “extreme.” Chamberlain is the one man
who has anything to say; and if he had allied
himself to democracy, he might have been at the
head of affairs ; but for hanging behind the Tory
caravan he deserves to be left in the ditch. Bal-
four is more humorous than George Reid in his
efforts to retain power. He believes in nothing,
does nothing, suggests nothing ; explains that he
didn’t mean what he didn’t say ; and dabbles in
golf, politics, and elementary metaphysics. But
the bright particular star is the cheerful Duke of
Devonshire. He retains all the deadly, tradi-
tional Tory notions; but because Toryism
threatens to shed Freetrade, he forms a party of
his own that advocates each and all the vices.
The Irish National party believes in Home Rule,
and in nothing else. It would support Joe Cook
if he had a chance of granting Home Rule, and,
outside of Home Rule, it doesn’t care if it snows.
The mission of the Labor Pilgrims is very
English and very vague : “To rescue the Empire
and Imperial spirit from being exploited by
reactionary anti-social classes at home,” and “to
make the Empire stand for peace and democratic
justice in the eyes of the whole world,” mean
about as much as Reid’s policy of “Anti-
Socialism.” The Empire is large enough
to suggest peace; but in face of Japan’s aggression
and China’s awakening, to preach “ peace ” to
Australia is like telling the householder to snore
soundly, as the burglars are only in the garden.
“ To get our colonial fellow-workers to understand
the Labor movement of the Mother country, and
to share in its fortunes,” means that Australia
should not prohibit British-made goods and should
still allow England to do the things for us we
should be doing ourselves. The Mission also
proposes “to study various social experiments
which have been started in the colonies.” If
it keeps its eyes open, it should learn that Aus-
tralian democracy is something that Britain never
dreamt of.


The Reform Chow.
“Squidge ” writes :
The reason for the Victorian Chow discarding his
conspicuous Chinese toggery (B. 15/2/’O6) is to be found
in the propaganda work of the Chinese Reform Club.
This association preaches to the Chows the wisdom of
discarding all Chow customs and adopting those of the
foreign devils among whom they live. The society in
Melbourne is engineered by barrister An Kett —no relation
to “ Dr.” Hackett of Perth West Australian. Aii Kett
has with him all the Chow missionary crowd and all the
wealthy Chinese merchants. The Reform Club has
grown to be a powerful organisation, and it is mainly
due to its efforts that the opium traffic was squelched.
The reformers make no secret of their object. They
reckon that, the opium-smoking Chow, sodden with
Oriental conservatism, has no chance of getting a grip
on Australia. But they also reckon that Australia
was made for the Chow, and that the way to obtain this
heritage is to meet the Australian on his own ground.
The Reform Club having removed the opium habit, has
made arrangements with the various hospitals for the
treatment of those Chows who are going to suffer pangs
through being deprived of their pipes. The Reformers
can thus assure the opium smokers that their welfare is
the only object in view, while the merchants point to
their own personal loss as evidence of their earnestness in
the matter. A Chinese newspaper is printed (by the
way, during the Jap-Russ war this organ is said to have
always contained earlier and more authentic news than
the “ great dailies ”), and it devotes itself to the regener-
ation of the Chow. He is urged to wash himself, to cut
his hair, and to be always presentable. In Melb urne at
the present time there are quite 300 pure-bred Chows
who talk good English, who are well-read, well-
dressed, well-groomed, and have a fine outward
veneer of civilisation. Ah .Kett is the chief, of
the cult—their model, their adviser, their generalissimo.
What plans are hidden away in his brain only he knows ;
but he has made it his business to lift the Chow out of
the gutter. Over 1000 Chinamen attended the Reform
Club’s last concert (they are given at regular intervals) in
the Temperance Hall. All the performers were Chinese,
but all the performances were European—including a
lecture in English by a Chinese big-pot on “ The Reform
Movement.” Nearly every night a Reform orator preaches
to a big crowd of Chows from a balcony in Little Bourke-
street. There are about 10,000 Chinese in Victoria, and
all of them can acquire votes ; most of them probably
have votes now. The Reform idea is to concen-
trate these votes on a ticket of their own, and
build up a great Chow political power. If An Kktt’s
work had started 40 years ago it might have come to
something, and the educated Chow inside Australia
might have acquired sufficient influence to enable him to
keep the national gate open to the barbarous Chow out-
side. But now Ah Kett and Ah Bang and Ah Plug and
the other Chow organisers are only preaching to a
diminishing remnant. Also it is a remnant which grows
very old for want of young Chows to leaven the venerable
mass.
♦
Seven Bushels—and 24.
Thrown in among the beetles and other farmers’
worries, of which the annual N.S.W. Report on
Agriculture is mostly made up, are a couple of
sentences or so that are worth hard thinking over :
The average wheat yield for the counties of Clarendon,
Mitchell, Wynyard and Bourke, which lie round the
Wagga Experimental Farm, was a trifle more than 8$
bushels to the acre, whilst the average yield on the Ex-
perimental Farm was 18$ bushels.
The average yield for the counties of Bathurst and Rox-
burgh, which surround the Bathurst Experimental Farm,
was nearly 7 bushels to the acre, whilst the average yield
at the Experimental Farm was 24J bushels to the acre.
There was no reason, so far as I (Director of Agricul-
ture) can ascertain, why the yield on the farms where the
average was so low should not have been equal to that on
the Experimental Farms if proper methods of farming had
been carried out.
Yet when Hyde Park and the Domain overflow
with “dossers,” the Freetrade papers tell them to
“go on the land.’’ When young men without a
trade to their hands accumulate, till an advertise-
ment for a lad to “make himself useful ” brings
in a cloud of applicants (and some have to scrape
off their greying whiskers to get themselves down,
so to speak, to weight), there is still the same cry,
“Put them on the land.” Anybody can be a
farmer —all he has to do is to take in a daily
paper with a “Soil 5 ’ column, plough when it says
plough, sow when it says sow, and reap when he
can. In other countries the always-present
crowds of unskilled laborers are absorbed in fac-
tories or about them ; in Australia Calico Jimmy
says that agriculture is “ the great natural in-
dustry,” wherefore factories are not required ; and
the unskilled army, which elsewhere does good
service at the rough work of manufacture, is told
to “go on the land.” There is hardly an occupa-
tion in the world for which this army is, as a rule,
less suited. Besides calling for capital, farming
calls for patience and persistence; and mostly
these men have neither capital nor persistence.
In very few cases have they deliberately set out
to get where they are ; they have just drifted, and
both their experience and their temperament
usually unfit them for a business in which a man
must sow many days before he can reap. And even
if a man is constitutionally suited to be “on the
land,’’ there is only toil and tribulation ahead of
him if he goes green to the work. Wheat does
not sell at 4s. a bushel these days; the greater part
of the cultivated land has been more or less impo- •
verished by ill-treatment; and success in the busi-
ness calls for skill and scientific training, as it
does in almost every branch of industry, ihe
difference, however, between farming and most
other employments is that farming is, to a
very great extent, a one-man industry. In other
branches it is sufficient for one man in every two
or three to have special skill; for the others there
is the rough work to do. But in farming, where
success calls for just as much skill as in any busi-
ness, practically every man (certainly every man
who has his own farm) needs to be a craftsman ;
so the cry of “ Go on the land ” becomes a more
hopeless solution of the chronic unemployed pro-
blem than ever. There is this to be said, certainly :
whereas the unskilled, untrained man, set by
himself to make, say, a watch, would fail com-
pletely, and would produce nothing even m the
shape of a watch, a man similarly unskilled and
untrained, set on a plot of land, often grows some-
thing. But what a life to condemn him to ! On
the Bathurst experimental farm the average of
the crops, grown as trained, skilled men
would grow them, was 24 g bushels; in the
surrounding country the average on the
farms, including those of men untrained
and unskilled, was seven bushels. That was the
average ; consider w’hat the poorest must have
been. It seems certain some men must have
reaped Is. where the skilled man reaped 13s.
Hardly another class of work would show such a
vast difference between the real earnings of
skilled and unskilled workmen. And yet this is
the business that is supposed to be suitable for
any “dosser” who happens to come along; and
having this business, the Freetrader says there is
no need to provide any other to absorb our un-
skilled population.
♦
Fire stick Civilisation.
Evert few days N.S. Wales breaks out into a
heated discussion as to whether it has or has not
more than, say, 50 acres of suitable land available
for settlement. Premier Carruthers, talking up
North in his usual sloppy fashion, said that, pass-
ing between two townships, he had “found over
and over again replicas of Coolangatta on a large
scale,” Coolangatta being one of the rich patches
on the N.S.W. South Coast grabbed m the early
days by the Hay-Berry family. Then Lands
Minister Ashton, who isn’t quite as sloppy as his
chief, unrolled the maps and found that all the
alleged “replicas” w'ere collared just as thoroughly
as the original Coolangatta itself ; and it isn t
much satisfaction to the man who hasn’t got
any land to be told that somebody else has
enough for a dozen. Thereupon Ashton re-
iterated his four-months-old statement that
in all N. S. Wales (area, 198,638,000 acres; popu-
lation, 1,490,000) there isn’t available one single
block of public land large enough to settle 20
families. There certainly is the Dorrigo Scrub—
but that is not ready for settlement, because it is
timbered country ; yet, as it is apparently the only
large block of suitable State land available, there
is a cheerful demand to get rid of the timber-
burn it, destroy it, do anything with it; only get rid
of it. It is valuable timber, and N.S. Wales hasn’t
any too much valuable timber left, as the result
of wholesale destruction ; but even valuable tim-
ber isn’t to count. And all the time a wandering
Premier can find, “ over and over again, replicas
of probably the best agricultural estate in Aus-
tralia, and in spite of these, empty estates,
the fool-country is still expected to hack
and burn its valuable timber assets in order to
make room for another handful of farmers. A
progressive land-tax would open the lands already
cleared to the waiting farmers, and save to the
State a splendid asset; but evidently this country
prefers to hack and burn.
+
A Harbor Board.
Rockhampton Harbor Board is Queensland’s
prime idiot of the hour. It has been in existence
about ten years, and, though it has contrived to
go almost broke, it hasn’t improved the Fitzroy
River two cents. First it purchased a job lot of
dredging machinery—portion of a cast-off plant
which had been piled up for years somewhere
on the Yarra. It was to be a suction
dredge, and the hull was to be constructed
in Rockhampton, at a cost of another £5OOO.
After, in one way and another, spending £14,000
on the great bargain, the Board towed it gingerly
down the river, where it promptly broke down.
The paint which the Board put on the pipes
wasn’t strong enough to stand the strain. It was
overhauled, it was patched, it was painted some
more, and finally it was hung up to rot with the
other great permanent and reproductive assets.
After that Rockhampton Harbor Board splashed
out into a purchase (for £50,000) of one of
Lindon Bates’ suction dredges. Bates, an
enterprising Yankee who was on his w r ay back to
America from India, dropped into Queensland as
he passed, talked dredge, and unloaded £200,000
worth upon the State. Anyway, he got £200,000
for what he unloaded. And again Rockhampton
and Queensland didn’t find out until it was too
late that this wasn’t the sort of dredge they
wanted ; so another mass of decaying dredge is
reckoned amongst the national, assets. Finally
Rockhampton saw that what it needed was a
training wall, and the contract it let to railway-
man Willcocks landed it in a worse mess than
ever. The contract was for £32,000; and when
£13,000 was spent it dawned upon the Board that
£60,000 wouldn’t see the job through. Old surveys
had been relied upon, and Willcocks was dump-
ing stone (at so much per yard), into 25ft. of water
where the Board had reckoned upon 10ft. Trouble,
arose at this point, and the contractor took las
case to Q. Supreme Court, but mercifully agreed
to a quiet settlement during the first day s pro-
ceedings. The Board paid Willcocks £BOOO odd,
most of which was for his plant—more plant!-
And now the Board proposes to go on with the
work itself; and on its past record that is a
decision which ought to simply fill Rockhampton
up to the chin with confidence.
The Land.
“ Dick” writes :
Your two or three hundred thousand readers in Maori-
land will feel much refreshed by the statement (8., 8/2/’O6)
that you have always favored land nationalisation, and
will fight for a sane, comprehensive scheme whenever. the
chance offers. Permit me no\v to point out that Tub
Bulletin is the only forum in which the democrats of these
States can discuss this vital question, and to express my
hope that you will give a small proportion of your space
to it even in the press of questions that are actually
before the Legislatures. Nationalisation is not before
the Maoriland Legislature, but it is very much in the
minds of Maorilanders, because we have seen half meas-
ures tested by the comparatively advanced land legisla-
tion of the past 15 years, and have reluctantly realised
their futility. * , , ~ ..
Your reference to a “ sane ” scheme of land nationalisa-
tion possibly indicates your doubt that the total btate
resumption I advocated was madness. I submit, how-
ever, that to continue on the present course is the leal
madness—sheer midsummer madness. Private owner-
ship of land wrecked the Roman Empire, and is the root-
cause of the conditions which are exhibiting in switt
succession in the British Empire the worst characteristic
symptoms of Roman decay'. The proletariat refuses to
breed, luxury saps the citizens’ fighting force, the Senate
enlists Barbarians, makes treaties with them, tamely
suffers their insults. Yet the British race is as virile and
martial as ever, where it is raised under tolerable condi-
tions. At the outskirts of the empire, plentiful land delay-
ing for a generation or two the ill-effects of private owner-
ship it produces the bush-bred Australian, the up-country
Maorilander, the Canadian of the farm and the forest.
No need to despair of the Republic ; great need to
educate the citizen, and make him vote private owner-
ship out of existence. . ...
We have now the Federal Premier s promise that the
tariff shall be adjusted—presumably in the direction of
right and reason. Should we have got so far but for The
Bulletin’s steady advocacy of fiscal reform ? Not much,
I reckon. Let us have your help, and “ a sane, compre-
hensive scheme” of land nationalisation will be ham-
mered out in the minds of the people, before ever Parlia-
ment sees a land nationalising Bill.
♦
Brummagem on the Rhine.
It is with jewellery as it is with iron, machinery,
and woollens. Australia should not only supply
itself but should be an exporter of the manu-
factured article. It has gold and silver and most
of the precious stones (of some precious stones
almost a monopoly); yet it imports jewellery by
the ton. Worse, both employers and employees
united in declaring to the Tariff Commission that
fraud, deliberate fraud, is rampant. Jewellery is
made in Germany, sent to Freetrade London
to be hall-marked, then returned to be
“loaded” with solder. London Hall will
not stamp an article under nine carats, not
considering it gold at all; yet barrow-loads of
imported hall-marked stuff assay only six or seven
carats. And, in competition, some of the Austra-
lian makers have been driven to be as bad.
Shappebe, president of the Vic. Manufacturing
Jewellers Association, swore he had handled Aus-
tralian-made articles stamped 18 carat, but which
were made of brass. Shappeee and other repre-
sentatives of the trade are importers as well as
manufacturers; yet they said they were Protec-
tionists by conviction. To manufacture here
would pay them as well, directly, as to import;
but as it would benefit the country more, it
would indirectly pay them better. The duty
they asked was 40 per cent, as against the exist-
ing 25 per cent. America levies 60 per cent.
Then, having got Protection and the trade, it
would be a comparatively easy matter, by estab-
lishing an Australian hall-mark and a system of
inspection (for which the trade is prepared to
pay), and by registering the brand of every maker,
to safeguard the public, as it is obvious no foreign
hall-mark can possibly safeguard it.
♦
A Moderate Protectionist Manufacturer.
The new progressive policy of the Vic. Chamber
of Manufactures has moved brother It. G.
M’Cutoheon to an explosion of Tory wrath which
will probably prove fatal to him at the next State
election. M’CUTCHEON, who misrepresents St.
Kilda in the State Assembly, was one of the few
hopelessly incurable members of the Chamber,
and when he learned the other morning from his
beloved Argus that President Atkins had invited
three of the Political Labor Council to meet three
manufacturers on terms of amity, he(M‘CuTCHEON)
refused to countenance the shocking proposal.
He immediately wrote to the secretary of the
degenerate Chamber resigning his membership.
The letter was not published next day, so
M'Cutcheon fatuously sent a copy to the press
that the public might know what manner of per-
son he is. The simple candor of M’Cutciieon is
quite pathetic :
I am a manufacturer, a moderate Protectionist, and am
desirous that any important tariff anomalies should be
rectified as speedily as possible in Australian interests.
But, for reasons of general public policy, I am opposed to
'any alliance for the above purpose with the Trades Hall
(or the Political Labor Council) such as is asked for now
by the president of the Chamber of Manufactures.
This fully explains what was the matter with the
Chamber in the long years that are fled. The
M’Cutcheon idea was the matter—a bloated
enmity to labor organisation was the matter. And
though the Labor policy in Victoria is thoroughly
Protectionist, there are still a few pig-headed,
Labor-hating Protectionists of the M'Cutcheon
type, who call themselves moderates and secede
from the Protectionist movement rather than
shake hands with the Trades Hall men on the
question of tariff reform.
+
“ Our Glorious Principles.”
A featuke of the Australian Socialist, who calls
himself a Socialist and belongs to an avowedly
Socialistic body, is his dreaminess and impractica-
bility. At the recent Labor Conference the
Socialist, no matter on what subject he spoke,
was apparent after his first half-dozen sentences.
He was as dour and as deadly in earnest as was
ever a Scotch Covenanter sitting out on a wet
hillside for four hours listening to an interminable
preacher droning an eternal sermon, and, like the
ancient Scotchbyterian, he was hopelessly un-
compromising. He was firmly opposed to land
taxation —it was a mere palliative which would
help to postpone the day of complete land
nationalisation. Factory legislation and Arbitra-
tion Courts were a snare ; the only course was to
make the factories belong to the people ; and so
on, right down the list. And with pitiful earnest-
ness he besought the Conference to hold fast
to “the glorious principles,” which were worth
living for, and were worthy of dying for, if neces-
sary ; and to have no compromises, no alliances,
only a grim, unyielding struggle for all or nothing.
It was sublime, but pitifully unpractical, and
tlie eminently practical EEughes attacked it
with pitiless logic. He admired the devotion to
principle—he hoped the party would always haveit,
and that the party would die the day it lost it. But
the solemn fact of the position was that the Labor
party had to appeal for votes to people who never
had enough clothes to wear, and not always enough
food to eat. These voters wanted material benefits,
and when one man came along with a load of
glorious principles to be realised in the
dim future, and another with a practical
scheme for giving them an extra shilling
a day in the immediate present —they fol-
lowed the man with the sordid practical
scheme. Therefore, he wanted the party, while
keeping its glorious principles, to put its visible
practical good works to the front. The Australian
Socialist generally comes to see things by a pro-
cess of democratic evolution, and to recognise
that the real work of practical Socialism consists
in grappling with the multitude of evils and
abuses one by one. The first stage is to provide
regular employment at a decent living wage for
everyone who wants it. And the first step to that
stage is to have a fiscal system by which tbe country
will make as nearly as possible.evcryfihing it uses.
When the proposed earthly Eden has thus been
fenced against theoutsideworla-whenitisassured
that what has been gamed cannot be lost by any
foreign invasion of cheap goods or_cheap
steady progress can be made towards the idea _
securing to worker, overseer, thinker and 01 gams
the full products of their respective labor but
the progress must be step by step. I heoretically
a vast and ornate building can be put up in a day,
provided enough workmen are employed, practi-
cally it can’t. It is easy enough to work out the
sum on paper: “If 1000 men can build a palace
in 600 working days of eight hours each, how
many men could build the same palace in one
minute?” Answer, arrived at by rule of three,
“ 288 000 000.” But we know that they coulan t,
despite rule of three. Theoretically, too, the
great fabric of a re-organised social system can be
built in a year, if enough earnestness is shown by
politicians. Practically the “ glorious principles
of Socialism must be content to win their way
little by little.
Various excitable but incompetent persons in
Melbourne have been flogging themselves into the
notion that they are being villainously treated,
and threaten to enter on a campaign ot passive
resistance ” —whatever that may mean. J. hey are
mostly small shopkeepers, and under the new Vic.
Factories and Shops Act they must dose at 6 p.m.
most of the week, and at 1 p.m. on either Wednes-
day or Saturday. One of them, who runs a furni-
ture shop, expressed her “passive resistance by
hanging a placard on her shutters—‘ Must close
at 6 Black Thursday. When will working men
buy their goods?” The Melbourne working
man is evidently such an affluent person
that he can’t possibly buy all the furni-
ture he wants in one night a week, but
must gallop out every evening and acquire large
quantities of tables, overmantels, and .other
passementerie. Another “passive resister,
dwelling in a quiet city street, sells tops, fire-
works, photos, of Greek studies, etc., and the
absence of the large crowd that nightly attended to
buy his wares moves him to great grief. It sucn
necessary businesses as those of the baker, butc er,
grocer, etc., can be carried out without difficulty
between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., surely the ornamental
ones can do likewise ; and fruiterers, lolly-shops,
etc., are already exempted. Somebody ought to
take these small but obtrusive middlemen into a
quiet place and explain to them that they are
little use and less ornament; that the community
already has about three times as many shops as it
needs : that as they produce absolutely nothing,
they only make life harder for those who do ; and
that if the aggregate volume of business hitherto
done in a trade in 12 hours can be compressed into
eight, there will be a saving of labor, gas, and
wear-and-tear, not to mention feather dusters.
The action of Freeman and Wallace against
NSW Postal Department reopens the questmn
as’to whether the freedom of the press can be dis-
associated from freedom of the post. Here, as m
the case of Tattersall’s sweeps, we have postal
authorities assuming the authority of haw, and
treating as illegal a business which should be sup-
pressed by direct law action or not interfered
with at all. If Freeman and Wallace are com-
mitting a crime with their business, how comes it
that no criminal proceedings are instituted against
them ’ And if there is no crime in the business,
why should the Post Office refuse to deliver letters
to them ? The Bulletin wouldn t argue for a
moment in favor of allowing any harmful business
to be carried on—if it is proved to be harmful.
But, according to the High Court decision, the
Postmaster-General has absolute and unchallenge-
able authority to stop any busmess-by refusing
it postal facilities—that he thinks is harmful. It s
not necessary for him to prove his case; his
opinion has only to be expressed to have the force
of Law. It is too arbitrary a power for any man
to have.
A tannery witness lately told the Tariff Com-
mission that he had noticed marine-store collectors
gathering cardboard, and had followed them to
boot-factories. Next he produced a boot-heel ot
six “lifts,” four of them made of cardboard.
After that he swore that it was the importation of
shoddy cardboard boots that compelled the local
manufacturer to use brown paper rubbish ; it he
didn’t he couldn’t compete in the matter of price.
This is what the Freetrade Labonte drives his
fellow-worker to in the effort to placate his great
god, Cheapness. And then the Australian work-
man, himself “out” half his time, thinks he is
buying cheap leather, while in reality he is buying
dear cardboard-sown probably with the seeds of
pneumonia or pleurisy. And all m order that the
foreigner shall have the job Australia badly wants
itself!
“ T.S.” : It looks like the beginning of a new era
when we read that the British House of Coinmons
has resolved, by 348 votes to 110, in favor of pay-
ment of members. Hitherto the House of Com-
mons has been the preserve of the rich, it has
suited the rich man better to be a member with-
out payment, and to drop in and legislate a little
when he felt inclined, than to have payment of
members and to lose his seat to some beastly
Labor member. Besides, the House of Commons
is a useful institution to the rich man ; it has
existed for a very long time to maintain the law ot
primogeniture, to look after the rights of the
Eldest Son, to keep the big estates and the big
fortunes together and the mass of the people in
poverty, and to see that no gang of ruffians passed
any laws which would tend to a steady diffusion
of wealth. The House of Commons doesn t
even provide seating accommodation for nearly
all its members, so little does it expect
from them any active attention to their
duties, but they' have always been expected to
roll up and oppose any attempt to promote the
active diffusion of wealth. Now it begins to look
as if a new House of Commons might be possible
—a smaller House, in which payment of members
will give the poor man almost as good a chance as
the rich one, provided he can show equal merits.
And if payment of members, comes anything may
come in time—even Protection, a graduated land-
tax, a division of estates among all the children
of the late owner and consequently a steady
cutting up of the land, perhaps even the abolition
of th e blessed House of Lords.
_ +
Mr G. E. Arhill, J.P., director of Sydney
Rescue Work Society, Society for Providing
Homes for Neglected Children, Our Children s
Homes (Liverpool), Jubilee Registry Office for
Young Women, Women’s Crusade, Home of
Hope, Open All Night Refuge, Boys’Farm Home
(Camden), South Sydney Women’s Hospital,
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
Babies’ Home, Discharged Prisoners’ Mission,
and hon. secretary N.S.W. Aborigines’Protection
Association, has broken out as secretary to the
Public Morals Association, which proposes to
suppress dancing—in N.S.W., at any rate. Sleepy
municipal councils in the country are being awak-
The Curse of Competition.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The musical and elocutionary competitions were con-
tinued yesterday. —ltem from everywhere.
The halls are lit in the hours of night,
And the wondering stars in the heavens twinkle,
While the maidens chant, and the boys recite,
And pianoforte solos thump and tinkle;
Genius in embryo buds and spreads,
And Art (with a capital) finds fruition ;
For the only thought in our children’s heads
Is to win first prize in a competition.
They spout their stories the livelong day—
The Revenge goes down in a style time-worn ;
The good news hurries from Ghent to Aix,
And Poppa’s Letter to shreds is torn ;
From Enoch Auden's wonderful isle
The Hesperus drifts in a wrecked condition,
While happy fathers and mothers smile
At Willie’s success in the competition.
“ Ora pro nobis ’’—the maidens sing
In homes suburban (we pray for them) ;
And wooden cottages nightly ring
With hosannas high from Jerusalem;
Essays are hatching in every nook
In numbers to stagger a statistician
(They mostly allude to Captain Cook),
And they all are bound for the competition.
When we were youngsters we used to play
At peg-top, marbles, or hare-and-hounds;
Climb trees, steal apples, or spend the day
On gravelly cricket and football grounds.
But the small boy now is a different thing—
He’s a inusicial monster, a weird logician,
Who will strum, write, argue, recite or sing
For the sake of a prize in a competition.
Oh, bury me, bury me, bury me far
From halls where these echoes loud are chiming;
Let me lie in a grave where no essays are,
And never reaches the sound of rhyming.
Then when I go to my final bourne,
If I in mercy escape perdition,
And angels are singing, I only yearn
That they will not sing in a competition.
VIC.
PRIAM.


igaretfes
dfsd
on account of
their purity'
& flavour.
Gallaber L$ Belfast- belong to no Trustor Combine
250
0/ *>
TO OF
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
'FROM
„ DELICIOUS
(Chocolates,
CAILLER’S. p.o box 136.
SYDNEY ' W
ened by the falling of masses of literature in
which Ardill, secretary for the Public Morals
Ass., states that his Ass. wishes the Council to
E revent the sinful pastime of dancing getting a
old on the borough. He usually encloses a
model bye-law which, he believes, will scotch
the reptile, if not kill it outright. Its effect
is to prohibit dancing assemblies at which a
charge is made for admission. The bye-law
provides, however, that the Mayor may,
on the special application of any respectable rate-
payer, grant permission in writing for the allow-
ance of dancing for one day or one night only,
from time to time, and specifying the place and
time (not being a Sunday, Xmas Day or Good
Friday). This, of course, leaves the mayor a loop-
hole if any person with a philanthropic mind and
two frisky legs should wish to organise a ball in
aid of the funds of any of Ardill’s 14 societies.
The Bulletin is waiting to receive the first
balance-sheet of the Public Morals Ass. Some
years ago it was seized with a desire to see the
balance-sheets of a number of Mr. Ardill’s chari-
ties. Looking back down the vista of time it
can’t remember having met with much luck over
those balance-sheets.
♦
The Victorian Pure Food Act is a remarkably
good Act, but it has struck the usual snag—the
wretched and useless honorary “beak” won’t
enforce it. There is nothing on earth much more
useless or more wonderful than the Victorian
honorary beak. When he finds a swagman sleep-
ing out in a perfectly honest, healthy, respect-
able way, because he has been unlucky for
a few weeks in his search for work, he
gives him six months in a stuffy cell.
When, the other day, he convicted the mate
of an American ship of assaulting and biting
a sailor who tried to prevent him stamping on a
helpless lunatic, he fined the ruffian 10s., and he
lately assessed the case of an oft-convicted wife-
beater, who had got close up to murder, at two or
three pounds. Therefore, when he strikes a bad
case of adulterated milk—about the worst
kind of adulteration, seeing that a very
large proportion of infantile mortality is
caused by adulterated milk, and this kind of
adulteration is closer up to murder than even the
average—it is quite in keeping with the dreadful
character of the Victorian honorary beak that the
fine is sometimes just Is. The law allows £2O for
the first offence, £5O for the second, £lOO and im-
prisonment for the third, but the honorary horror
makes it Is. The law also makes special provision
for the wide publication of the names of persons
convicted of adulteration, but the honorary person,
in his deep sympathy with the meaner kinds of
crime, usually refuses to enforce this section of the
law at all. One of the chief curses of Victoria is
its honorary magistracy, with its deep sympathy
for the criminal —provided he is only a swindler
or a brutal assault rowdy, and isn’t a poor but
reputedly honest man who has committed the
crime of sleeping in the open air. At giving 12
months to an old woman charged with insufficient
means of support he has no rival, but in other
respects he is an unmitigated disaster, not to say
a disgrace.
«.
The Commission that is inquiring into the Kil-
kenny-cat administration of the N.S.W. Railways
is getting down very close to blank perjury. At
least Mr. Kneeshaw, of the Sydney tramways,
said he saw Mr. Kirkcaldie open Mr. Oliver’s
drawer in Mr. Oliver’s absence, and take out and
read a paper, and Mr. Kirkcaldie declared with
tears that he never did anything of the kind. It
was a case of deciding between the damp witness
and the dry testifier, for Mr. Kneeshaw didn’t
weep while giving his evidence. The curious
feature of the case hereabouts is that though Mr.
Kneeshaw said Mr. Fehon was present when
Mr. Kirkcaldie explored Mr. Oliver’s drawer,
the Commission seems to have closed with a
bang without Mr. Fehon being asked to
give his opinion one way or the other. Judge
Rogers, who runs the inquiry, is reported as hav-
ing remarked that neither Mr. Kneeshaw nor
another person “ recommended themselves to him
as witnesses.” Perhaps, however, it was Mr. Knee-
shaw’s hurried aspect that unfavorably impressed
Judge Rogers, and he might have been only allud-
ing to the personal aspect of things. Judge Rogers
himself always looks as if his manners had been
oiled, while Mr. Kneeshaw is mostly too busy for
small amenities. It is quite understandable that
Mr. Kneeshaw’s lack of mild circuitousness might
not recommend itself to J udge Rogers.
♦
From W. Webster, M.H.R.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Ashton is reported to have said
the other day (re clause 17 of the 1905 Land Act) —“ The
Minister has no power to prevent the board from modify-
ing the residence conditions up to five years ; but he has
unlimited power to further modify them, and to extend the
term.” Tnis is a perpetuation of that system of legisla-
tion which was wholly responsible for the Lands scandals.
Similar powers enabled the Minister to grant improve-
ment leases under the ’95 and ’99 Acts, and to authorise
the transfer and traffic in settlement leases, &c., and yet
the lessons have had no effect on legislators. Without
such Ministerial power, the land agent, and
more particularly the political land agent, would find
his occupation gone ; for it is when an appeal
is necessary to tlje Minister that the influence of the
agent is seen. He who can pay will reach the court of
appeal; he who will not or cannot pay, goes without a
hearing. Thus even an honest Minister cannot fairly
adjudicate under such conditions ; and what may happen
if the Minister be not above suspicion ? Bight through
our Land Acts and their administration such powers have
been open to abuse, and until our Lands administration is
either left in the hands of the boards or appeal court, or
removed altogether from political influence; it is hopeless
to expect equity or justice. Mr. Carruthkrs has fathered
this particular non-residential proposal, yet he, when a
budding Minister for Lands (free, I suppose, from the
influence of land agents), said he would insist on per-
petual residence. If the land were unoccupied for a cer-
tain period each year, a person finding it so unoccupied
should have the right to enter and take it up. Why this
change ? Why?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Palace West’s Pictures & The Brescians.
Her Majesty’s “ The Shop Girl.”
Theatre Royal “Camille.”
Criterion “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ There and Back.”
Her Majesty’s “ Leah Kleschna.”
Theatre Royal “ The Fatal Wedding-.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall “Living London.”
Robert Brough’s health is still a long way
less satisfactory than it would be if the matter
were left to a popular vote, and pretty often in
the last week he has had to stand out of the cast
of “Little Mary,” his place being taken by E. B.
Payne, the fine old ratty chemist of the nights
when Brough is on deck. Under these depressing
circumstances, “Little Mary” is to be taken off
at the end of this week and “ Dr. Wake’s Patient”
substituted. The Broughs appear in this—
Mrs. as well as Robert, of affectionate memory.
** * *
A lot of the essential oil of childhood
remains to lubricate the mental joints of middle
and old age. A man loves to mislay his mind, so
to speak, and is pleased with a feather and
tickled with a straw (writer is here indebted for a
word or two to poet Pope, and, worse luck, he’s
the only one of writer’s creditors who can’t come
round to collect). So when you give him pictures
that are almost alive, he’ll show his teeth in a joy-
ful grin all the evening, and go home to bed
smiling, and laugh in his sleep. The oft-men-
tioned West’s Pictures and the Brescians
opened at Sydney Palace on Saturday
evening, and the “ house full ” placard was early
flaunted downstairs. The Biograph show begins
the programme, and persons who have the globe-
trotting disease, yet can only afford to wander
inexpensively in their minds, can, by calling on
this instrument, save their money and take their
choice of routes. It throws in Venice and the
Carnival and the Bridge of Sighs, the Pope and
his Noble Guard, and the fat little bambinos of
Rome, and supplies kings, wild beasts, volcanoes,
mountains, dogs, rivers, crowds, jungles, prawns
and cataracts, till it seems like extortion to take
so much of the grand tour for the money.
As for the Brescians —a group of eight performers
wearing more or less Italian costume most of the
time—the sentimental section of the audience
wants to weep on their eight necks by the time it
has listened to their singing of sweet old favorites
such as “Sweet Spirit Hear My Prayer.” Some
of Saturday’s audience confided to their neigh-
bors that they had first heard that in eighteen
forty something, and wished they might hear it
every day for the rest of their lives. Scotch and
Irish airs, violin solos, humorous monologues and
character sketches make up the rest of an attrac-
tive and first-class drawing-room entertainment.
W * & sfc
“ While London Slept ” there was a sud-
den incursion of Australian politicians. A circus
arrived, and George Reid remarked, genially,
“ Here.we are again,” and everyone was convulsed
with laughter, which was repeated when he said
it again, the seriousness of his face vainly trying to
conceal the rich humor of the remark, “Yes, here
we are again.” J. 0. Watson came on the scene,
and the sanctity of the marriage tie vanished
in a puff of smoke, and ladies in tight
tights and loose morals appeared. Then the
flames of Smithfield were lit by Bill
Wilks, and Bruce Smith fanned them furiously,
proudly claiming, that he never had kept a nigger
who was a Papist. Austin Chapman went to
Rome and imposed telephone toll rates. Where-
upon the virtuous heroine seized the telephone
wire and escaped from the flames of Smithfield,
and virtue was vindicated, crime confounded, and
they lived happily ever afterwards.
* . * * *
The above is as clear an impression of
“ When London Sleeps ’’—the melodrama revived
at Sydney Royal on Saturday by William
Anderson’s Co.—as could be arrived at after fairly
close study. It may conflict with other views of
the play. If so, that is the play’s fault for being
so elusive as to its meaning. And in this case the
play’s not the thing. “ When London Sleeps ”is
just like any other marble in the Andersonian
barrel of fits and starts. It has its crimes
and creeps, its shocks and its Noachian jokes,
and comes to a happy end about 11
p.m. like hundreds of others of its type.
What was most important to the audience
on Saturday was the return of Miss Eugenie
Duggan, Miss Mabel Lane, Miss Georgie Leigh-
ford, and Miss Ethel Buckley, to picture again
sober virtue and gaudy vice; of Harry Quealy to
be funny man in general, and George dross
and H. O. Willard to represent the opposite roles
in ethics. Melodrama, plain frank melodrama,
has come back to Sydney, and the crowd which
likes that sort of fare warmly welcomes the return.
But the next production will be somewhat dif-
ferent—“ Camille,” with Miss Duggan in the
name part, a role in which she is new to Sydney.
* sfc * *
“The Shop Girl,” at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, is now in its second edition. George Lauri
has discovered some new jokes, and Fred Leslie
has been given a chance to show what those
amazing legs of his can do. One other change
has been made some nights lately, but for another
sort of reason ; Miss Clifton falling sick, her
rather heavy part has been taken by Miss Katie
Potter. Looking at the matter in a cold, calm,
superior way, “ The Shop Girl ” doesn’t deserve
it; yet it is doing remarkably good business. It
was easier to turn up late and find an empty
perch at “ Veronique ” than at this later frivolity ;
and that’s a pretty sad admission to have to make
about the city of Sydney.
** * #
There is an outbreak of girl at the Tivoli
—singing girl, dancing girl, girl who ties herself
into knots and sings while she is untying herself,
girl who knots herself and doesn’t sing, girl with,
a freak voice, and girl too numerous to mention.
Among them are two of some Australian interest
—Brightie Smith, who has been “kidding” in.
Blandholtodrama and has blossomed unexpectedly
into “serio” business; and the widow of late
conductor Leon Caron, who sings “ Dear Little-
Shamrock ” and such. But the feature of the bill,
is still the trick-cycling turn of Lotto, Lilo, and.
Otto ; lately Lotto (if it isn’t Otto) has been up-
ending a dachshund sort of tandem built for
three, and racing round the stage perched on top-
of the shivery thing. But the bicycle football,
with its sweeping waves of low comedy, pleases
the house better even than the more remarkable
feats of juggling with the wheel.
** * *
Wirth Brothers’ Circus, now on its way
from the west, will open in Alfred Park, Sydney,
on the evening of March 31st. This is an entirely
new show, manned with fresh people. A fair
portion of the time will be taken up by aerial per-
formances ; those which take place on the invi-
sible wire are said to be somewhat weird in their
effect. The elephant herd has increased to eight,
including a baby. The young crocodile that George
Wirth used to lead round on a chain has got too
big for that sort of thing, and has been relegated
to a cage. Altogether there have been quite a
number of additions to the menagerie, which is
now under the care of a new tamer, Mons. Wilde.
Mons. looks quite tame, in spite of his name, and
is a pleasant little Frenchman of tubular propor-
tions.
“ The Fatal Wedding,” on its demerits as
a narrative, is only fit to be compared with the
bygone ’cellodrama of Van Biene, entitled
“The Broken Melody,” which came from Eng-
land. The present piece of foolishness comes
from America, and is a kiddie-drama in the same
degree that the other was a ’cellodrama. It gets
the chances of success from the exceptionally
clever child, Maisie Posner —who, coming to light
in the second act, plays an important part
with an air of naturalness and a quick
sense of humor —and from an irrelevant party
of children, ranging from nippers to damsels
of uncertain age, who are an object lesson in stage
management. Some of them give a “ turn ; ” all
of them have been taught to make themselves use-
ful in this novel scene ; and the general effect is
refreshing. A few remarks on the grown-up
section of the new company at Melbourne Royal
had better be postponed for a week to give Miss
Dina Cooper time to improve on acquaintance.
Miss Cooper is the lurid lady who performed an
unintentionally funny character m an uncon-
sciously funny manner on the first night. This is
intended as a week’s warning to her.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the con-
verted burglaress continues to win the affection
of her political gentleman. It is hard to say why
Monsieur Sylvaine should get so struck on Leah
Kleschna that he can’t leave her to her maiden
meditations among the cabbages of her native dis-
trict. But the fact remains that she mashed him
once and for all when she broke into his house and
had a few minutes’ conversation on the subject of
crime. Perhaps she won his heart by saying
“D —n you !” Up to then the girls had smiled
sweetly on him, and when Leah swore at him he
got an indescribable sensation which left a strange
yearning behind it.
* * *
“There and Back ’’ opened its innings at
the Princess’s on Saturday night, and within the
limits of its capacity the harmless farcical comedy
scored freely. You get the usual escapade of the
usual pair of married men, Henry Lewson and
William Waring, who have received medical
orders to run over to New York and back. They
are model benedicts nowadays ; but during their
bachelorhood they had, unknown to each other,
frivolled not wisely but too well with a lydy of
the music-halls, one Marie Antoinette Smith. This
light of other days arrives unannounced at the
Waring domicile to borrow ten pounds from the
master of the house. She finds Lewson there too,
and gets another tenner from himforoldsake’ssake.
Both men are in mortal dread of their wives meet-
ing Miss Smith, and they keep one another in the
dark regarding that vision of the past. The
ghost seems to be laid satisfactorily, and the
haunted men are packing their traps in peace,
when a letter comes to each from Marie Antoin-
ette, announcing that she also has taken her
passage for America. The horrified husbands,
rather than travel in such compromising company,
decide to give up America, and go instead to
Scotland to visit a mutual crony, Jock McCrea
(Gregan McMahon). Not being able to explain
their sudden reluctance re the original tour, they
allow their wives to believe they are bound for
Yankeeland, as arranged. After a tender parting
from the two deceived ladies, the fugitives set out
for Scotland, where a shock awaits them.
Marie Antoinette is there before them ! Jock
McOrae has persuaded her to marry him in-
stead of sailing for America. The complications
consequent upon this encountersoon unravel them-
selves, for the new Mrs. McCrea, anxious to cover
the tracks of Marie Antoinette Smith, is a wasp
robbed of her sting. The visitors have a good time
among the bonnie heather, ye ken, and return to
their wives on the date their ship is due to arrive
from New York. In the meantime, however, the
lorn grass-widows have been on the move,
too. The old bachelor uncle of one of
them arrives suddenly from Bourke (Australia)
and persuades his niece and her chum to accom-
pany him to Scotland to look at a Highland pro-
perty. This jaunt brings the wives and husbands
into the same Scotch inn, though they do not
meet, for Uncle and ladies (Maud Chetwynd and
Florence Redfern) are suddenly called back to
London by a telegram announcing the foundering
of the ship on which the husbands are supposed
to be returning from America. Wailing and
tearing of hair ensues and continues until the
absentees, unaware of the fate of the ship, arrive
home with tales of theatricals on board, and
generally tangle themselves up in a maze of
mystery.
* * * m
“ There and Back ” is pleasing nonsense,
hinging on that stage chestnut, the abject fear of
husbands in peril of wifely anger re pre-nuptial
philanderings. J. J. Dallas, a host in himself,
sings a frisky rendering of “Love’s Young
Dream,” and Florence Lloyd sings, too, and
dances, and altogether gets a move on that
hackneyed stage heroine, Marie Antoinette Smith.
Maud Chetwynd is natural, vulgar, bouncing
and rather Austrylian as one of the grass-widows.
Gregan M‘Mahon does a laughable caricature of
a Scotchman, and Robert, an argumentative
Caledonian servant, is convincing in the hands of
Fred Cambourne. Norah Delaney, as Jane, a
London slavey, answers for her share of the fun.
** * *
Miss Beatrice Miranda, a charming young
artist, who is not much longer for this country,
will be the star of an Italian opera performance at
the Princess’s on April 7. She is to appear in acts
from “Rigoletto,” “Lucia,” and “Martha,”
with the assistance of a small co. and a large
orchestra.
* * *
A good deal of reminiscent interest
attached to Mrs. Palmer’s recent concert at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, described in the local press as
a “benefit” concert, organised by a “committee,”
although it was managed on ordinary business
lines by a member of the staff at Allan’s. The
name of Mrs. Palmer must have been a greater
attraction to the audience—a fairly numerous one
—than that of Mrs. Gilbert W ilson, her daughter
from Queensland, a singer sufficiently matured to
excite comment on the appearance of mamma,
who has aged very little within the past dozen
years. Mrs. Palmer is said to have rivalled Armes
Beaumont in platform popularity, when the tenor
was at his best, and she is still able to command
an encore. The remains of her voice are more
effective than a good many modern fresh
young warbles. R. S. Smythe affirms that he
first heard Rosina (Mrs. Palmer) and her late
sister Fanny Carandini (Lady Morland) at the
Mechanics’ Institute, Ballarat, in 1869, but if we
accept a lady vocalist as being no older than she
sings, it is evident that Smythe’s memory ought
to be ashamed of itself.
** * *
At the Town Hall, a short revival of
“Living London ” will date from Thursday of the
present week, and on the following Thursday the
first of the Andrew Black concerts in Melbourne
is to eventuate. A musical farce has broken out
at the Bijou, and a Flying Machine is the latest
and breeziest addition to the stock-in-trade at
Princes Court, where the resident lioness has
thoughtfully given birth to twins.
* * *
The re-appearance of manager Rickards
for five nights is happening at Melbourne Opera
House this week, and Friday will be the fifth
night of that virile identity in his latest assort-
ment of songs. The other happenings are a repe-
tition of previous occurrences, the Scottish Meisters
being the newest of them. Last Saturday’s pro-
gramme included an eminent Irish tragedian of
unheard-of fame, who appeared under the special
patronage of St. Patrick, and was said to be in-
spired, but seemingly he had mislaid his inspira-
tion at the critical moment, and the patriotic
fervor of the original Robert Emmet didn’t burn
within his breast.
** * *
George Ireland’s forthcoming benefit show
at Melbourne Princess’s will include three acts of
Sheridan Knowles’ play, “The Hunchback,” in
which the veteran made his first re-appearance 50
years ago. One of the lean kind, he carries his
years remarkably well, and when he takes the
stage again as Master Walter, the “ Hunchback ”
aforesaid, he will be, to all intents and purposes,
a man of not more than 45. Old time playgoers
ought to make a muster at George Ireland’s jubilee
ben., if only for the satisfaction of feeling some-
what rejuvenated by his re-appearance. Of the
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Sing a song of Melbourne Royal, where the villains formed
a plan
To part a stainless matron from her spotless married
man,
And The Bulletin reporter, in an agony of grief,
Heard his fellow-creatures roaring at the “comedy re-
lief.”
Sing a song of Melbourne Royal, let the solemn dirgey
strain
Give an adequate expression to the present writer’s pain,
As he sat in dumb amazement at the crudeness of the
plot,
And wondered why its author wasn’t crucified or shot.
But the tears that he was shedding
When he struck “The Fatal Wedding,”
Though so bitter whilst they lasted, had an ending to
their flow:
For there came a little kiddie—
Sure, her parentage is Yiddy—
And the brilliant Yiddy Kiddie brought salvation to the
show.
O, the lurid villain-lady in her satin robe of red !
O, the shrugging of her shoulders and the shaking of her
head 1
O, the idiotic conduct of the other five adults,
As they shaped their course of action to preposterous re-
sults 1
O, those wondrous comic servants doing aggravating
things
To the lurid villain-lady with the nervous pair of wings !
’Twas the sickest-looliing drama human eyes had ever
seen,
Till the kid called “ Little Mother ” took possession of the
scene.
And the plot, so tommy-rotten,
Was forgiven and forgotten
When a swarm of other youngsters, full of unaffected
glee—
Five and twenty, maybe thirty,
Clean and festive, gay and dirty,
Came and treated Little Mother to a glad corroboree.
Soon the actors went on acting, went on. talking high
and low,
And they really didn’t matter since the kid had saved
the show.
They travelled by a tight-rope—but for one it wasn’t
tight,
For the lurid lady cut it, and he tumbled out of sight.
Then the dead man, getting better, robbed the lady of
her life,
So the other woman’s husband never kissed his second
wife;
“The Fatal Wedding” climaxed in the murder of the
bride
By the resurrected dead ’un, who committed suicide.
And the public drew a moral
From the lovely tributes floral
Which were showered upon the ladies—unexpectedly, you
know.
There were tokens, large and many,
For the one who’d earned not any,
And a puny little posy for the kid who saved the show.


Which Salt?
Salt for the Bones, salt for the Brain,
Salt for the Nerves, relieves the Strain,
Salt for the Country, salt for the Town,
Salt to keep people from breaking down.
Salt for the Kitchen, saltifor the Table,
Salt for the Delicate, salt for the Able,
Salt forthe Simple, salt for the Wise,
Salt for the Children, increases their size.
Salt of the Earth, without a Fault,
Salt of Life—lt is
CEREBOS salt.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
men who played with Jefferson, Barry
Sullivan, Coppin, Harwood, Dick Stewart,
Lambert, Heir, &c., &c., in the early ’6o’s,
Ireland is seemingly the only survivor, and of the
women Mrs. Marcus Clarke and her sister Mrs.
L. L. Lewis are the last to tell the tale. Ireland
had a part in the first local production of “Hip
Van Winkle,” when Jefferson made his debut in
Melbourne (March, 1862). Later in the same
year he was one of the young supporters to Barry
Sullivan and Jefferson in what must have been a
really great series of tragedy and comedy produc-
tions, as regards the acting. Take, for instance,
a “School for Scandal” play bill, dated Sept. 13,
1862, the last night of the season. The first seven
names in the cast are Barry Sullivan, Lambert,
Joseph Jefferson, Robert Heir, Stewart, H. R.
Harwood, and Fitzgerald—and then comes
Ireland as Careless. Evidently he wasn’t as
Careless as he pretended to be on that occasion,
or he wouldn’t look so comparatively fresh and
frisky in his old age.
-* *
“ Squidge ” supplies his version of the tale
of George Coppin, deceased
Old George Coppin, after numberless farewells extend-
ing over half a century, made his absolutely final appear-
ance on any stage last week. His life was a history of
ups and downs. He grew up amongst scenery and grease-
paint, and at 15 played in the orchestra of his father’s
theatre. At 17 he struck out on his own account, and
one of his most treasured relics was a portrait of “ George
Coppin at 17 years,” in which he was shown working hard
at his first job—second violin at a provincial theatre.
From the orchestra he climbed on to the stage, and
appeared while still a youth as second low-comedian in a
tenth-rate company playing at Richmond on the Thames.
An engagement at the Queen’s Theatre, London, gained
him some amount of prestige, and, after a successful tour
of the provinces as low-comedian of a fair-class company,
he got an engagement as principal comedian at the Strand
Theatre, London. His pay was very low, and Coppin,
disgusted with the stage, gave it up and went in for busi-
ness. A series of speculations in London lost him the little
money he had saved on the stage, and he took a job as
manager of a store in Glasgow. There he met some hand
bell-ringers and as that form of entertainment had not
been exploited up till then, he scented money in it,
organised a company and got together a decent little store
of cash.
Then he left for Australia and reached Sydney in 1843.
In Sydney Coppin was starred as a comedian, did big
business, made a lot of money, left the stage and opened
a pub. and lost everything. He resolved to return to the
stage, went to Tasmania, organised a company and
opened a theatre in Launceston. He did well and in 1845
transported the company to Melbourne. J. T. Smith,
Melbourne’s famous Mayor, had a theatre in Queen-street
—the Queen's Theatre—but Smith and Coppin couldn’t
come to terms, so the comedian rented a hall behind the
Royal Hotel, in Oollins-street, and opened there. He
bumped Smith from the start and in a few months Smith
capitulated and took Coppin into partnership. He
couldn’t rest, however—within a year he was in Adelaide.
There he ran up an alleged theatre in the ridiculous time
of five weeks and did big business with a company of
which he was the comedian. He sold the theatre,
opened another pub. and started speculating in mining.
In a few years he had again lost all he possessed and
was up to his eyes in debt.
The gold rush broke out in Victoria and Coppin caught
the fever, bought a pick and a shovel, and set out to dig
up a fortune. But the gold didn’t come his way, and he
was offered an engagement and a partnership by Elmes,
owner of a theatre in Geelong. Coppin went back to
Adelaide, fixed up an arragenient with his creditors, and
accepted the Geelong engagement. Money was plentiful,
and he soon collected a good deal of it. Then in 1854,
having paid off all his Adelaide debts, he returned to
England, and tried for an engagement in London. No one
would listen to him for a long time, but at last he was
taken on at the Haymarket. Australia was in every one’s
mouth, and Coppin was starred as “ the Australian Com-
edian.” He went all over England doing well every-
where.
In Birmingham G. V. Brooke and he foregathered, and
he persuaded Brooke to join him in another attack on
Australia. An iron theatre was put together in Man-
chester, sent to Melbourne, and run up in Lonsdale-
street in six weeks. It was called the Olympic, but was
always known as “ the old Iron Pot.” Brooke,
Heir, Younge, Coppin, Fanny Cathcart, and Mrs.
Brougham opened there on Monday, July 30, 1855.
They played, to enormous business, and piled up money
rapidly. The Theatre Royal was built in opposition, but
Brooke and Coppin bought it for £21,000, and at the same
time bought the Cremorne Gardens, on the Yarra Bank.
After spending £60,000 on the two properties they
dissolved partnership. Brooke took the Royal and went
broke a few years later, while Coppin took the Olympic
and the Gardens and started speculating. He promoted
the Melbourne and Suburban railway, backed its bill for
£40,000, and only averted ruin by the sale of the line.
Then he built the Haymarket Theatre, Bourke-street, at
a cost of £ll,OOO. It was next door to what is now the
Eastern Markets. Everything went well for a few years.
Coppin got out the Keans and made a fortune. With
this he started speculating, and in 1864 was again
“ broke.”
He left with the Keans and toured the United States
with them, returning two years later to be received with
great public acclamation. He joined Harwood, Stewart
and Hennings in the management of the Theatre Royal,
but this time fire came along to wreck him. The Hay-
market Theatre was burnt down in 1871, and six months
later the Royal went. Coppin formed the Theatre Royal
Proprietary Association, got a 99 years’ lease and rebuilt
the Theatre Royal, opening it within eight months after
the fire. There he stayed as manager until 1882, when
he had a big farewell appearance (about his 20th) and
gave up active management.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has at last induced the
Moving Pictures to move out of the building, and
has started on its winter season of drama.
Manager Pollock promises that all the attractions
at present in Australia shall come along during
the cold weather. A light start is made with
Anderson’s “Sindbad” pantomime, now on its
second lap of this continent, and still going strong.
Marie Campbell replaces Miss Ravensberg as
hero, and Charles Bates has dropped out, but
Fred Graham is still on deck, and Bert Bailey is
at the wicket. The Tivoli crowd has gone west,
much regretted. Leroy, Talma, and Bosco were
the chief item that kept the house packed, but
the Carmos and others also furnished bright spots
in a programme which had very few dark spots.
“ Squidge ” writes :
George Lansell, the Bendigo Quartz King, died of
sorrow. His one daughter, Edith, the apple of his eye,
has been ill for weeks, just kept alive by strychnine and
oxygen. The old man, heart-broken, hourly expecting
the worst, gradually broke down. Silent and dour
he sat alone and refused to eat. As he became
worse, his daughter, by a strange fate, grew gradually
better, but Lansell could not be made to understand that
his trouble was passing away, and died full of grief.
That mother who was committed for
trial by Coroner Candler, of Melbourne, because
she alcoholised her baby by getting drunk
and staying drunk for months before and after
the child’s birth, was last week acquitted by
God and her country. Yet the medical evidence
went to show that the child’s death was due to a
whole crowd of inflammations in its little inside,
all caused by the big percentage of alcohol in its
mother’s milk.
Holman Hunt’s picture “ The Light of the
World may create in the minds of the easily
deluded a mild summer of multi-colored emotions.
But D.C.L. whisky is the best medium for gently
directing the mental forces into a wise and placid
direction.. D*C.L. being the whisky of the wise
exerts an improving influence upon every sort of
mind— intellectual, commercial or artistic. The
world has many lights and D.C.L. is one of them.*
A BEAR ITEM.
When the French police and soldiers vjent to take an inventory of the sacred properties in
one country church , they found that the devout peasantry had filled the place with three hungry
hears. The authorities escaped with difficulty. The church hear is a new development.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Maud Beatty, the amazingly abundant Maud who
appeared in the Rickards show some time ago, is said to
have been married to the boss policeman at Manila.
Comedian Huntley, remembered in Australia for his
sketches of vapid English Johnnies, has started on the
turf in England, and he will find that no joke. A horse
of his, Thurifer, ran an excellent last in the Surrey
Steeplechase recently.
“ Avon ”: How many of Shakspeare’s plays have
positively never been acted in Australia? I reckon
“Titus Andronicus,” “Troilus and Cressida,” ‘f Henry
V 1.,” “ All’s Well that Ends Well,” and Pericles.” The
following, though very rare on the stage, have been
acted on this continent: “ Love’s Labour’s Lost,”
“ Timon of Athens,” “Measure for Measure,” “Two
Gentlemen of Verona.”
Miss Marion Winchester, an American girl who made
£60,000 out of a deal in sugar, has paid the management
of the Gaiety Theatre £lOOO as a premium, and is singing
a French chansonette and dancing a pas seul in the
revised version of “ The Spring Chicken.” Many estab-
lished artists who were never before out of harness are
doing nothing now on account of the advent of wealthy
dabblers, combined with the present craze of putting
girls from 14 to 17 years of age into the leading musicarv
comedy roles.
Marie Narelle (who hopes to reach Australia by the end.
of May) has been having a talk with President Roosevelt,
who, according to a New York paper, “ discussed with
profound interest matters relating to the social and
financial phases of Australian life.” “ Teddy ” is further
credited with the opinion that the N.S.W. warbler is
“one of the most charming and interesting women he
ever met.” Marie, by the way, was booked to sing at three
separate places in London on St. Pat’s night.
Miss Stewart confessed to a San Francisco interviewer
—who calls her Madame —that she was born in Woolloo-
mooloo. Being so, Madame Stewart is perilously near
the half-hundred. In 1858, Mrs. Guerin, the mother,
lived at 97 Woolloomooloo-street, south side, midway
between Riley and Grown streets. Soon after, the
Stewarts and the Guerins removed to Melbourne. At the
same interview, Madame Stewart introduced her daughter
to the interviewer. “ A little Miss Stewart ? ” quoth he.
“ Oh no 1 ” was the reply, “ Miss Musgrove.”
Mr. Douglas Gerrard, the actor with the fatal beauty
and the fascinating brogue, explains that his break with
the Tittell Brune co. is not due to any unpleasantness,
but his forte is “juvenile lead,” and as plays are being
put on in which the necessities of an actor who is a
specialist in “juvenile lead” have been unfortunately
overlooked, he is not wanted on the job. The great actor
who only plays juvenile leads must be a good deal like
the distinguished author who only writes about giant
gooseberries—his opportunities are limited.
George Coppin made his actual last appearance—at
Melbourne Princess’s—when he was 82J. It was a heavy
undertaking for old George, suffering from gout at the
time, to come on as Mr. Mould in “ Not Such a Fool as He
Looks ” and remain on for an hour or so. Sitting in the
managerial room with Charles Arnold before the ordeal,
he was so agitated (and so bulky) that the floor shook
and the furniture trembled. But he got through his task
all right. The performance was in aid of the Old Colonists’
and the Actors’ Homes, founded by Coppin in 1869 with
State assistance.
The late F. W. Haddon was a good friend to R. S.
Smythe all his days. R.S.S. was around in S’Africaand
Asia at the time that Haddon became editor of the
Argus, but when the Much-Travelled returned to Mel-
bourne in 1869, Haddon “ spotted ” him as a young- man
or parts—something more than merely foreign parts—and
it was on the editorial recommendation that Proctor (the
astronomer) and Archibald Forbes passed through
Smythe’s hands. Forbes gave Smythe a big advt. in
London by speaking of him as the Moltke of Managers.;
Died in England recently playwright Benjamin Charles
Stephenson (“Bolton Rowe”). Among other early
occupations, Stephenson was for some years secretary of
Lloyd’s, and wrote a history of the “A 1 ” institution. In
1872 he supplied Alfred Cellier with the libretto of the
successful musical comedietta, “Charity' Begins at
Home” ; and in 1886 the pair turned Out “Dorothy.” In
London “Dorothy” had 931 consecutive performances,
and that opera and the rollicking “ Charity Begins ” are
still sure draws for occasional revival. Stephenson helped
Clement Scott to adapt “Diplomacy” from Sardou (it
was played here by 7 Brough and lioucieault), and he
collaborated with Haddon Chambers on “ The Fatal
Card ” (produced by Bland Holt when Hilda Spong was
the heroine of his co.). Stephenson was responsible for
various other dramas known in Australia.
“0.K.”: A Poverty Point par attributes the death of
strong man Hajek, from cancer of the stomach, to
the fact that his performance included the placing of an
anvil on his naked abdomen, upon which anvil blows were
struck. The cancer may have been caused as stated, but
for that Hajek, either from carelessness or lack of know-
ledge, had only himself to blame. Before the Sandow era,
professional strong men gave little or no attention to the
development of abdominal muscles, and feats which de-
pended entirely on the strength of those parts, were per-
formed at great risk, owing to the enormous vibration
when a blow is struck, and to the comparative weakness
of the muscles in play. Clarence Weber has performed
the “ anvil ” feat, on and off, during the last three years,
and on several occasions before medical men, who all
agreed in the opinion that if the abdominals are fully
developed, and tensed at the moment the weight is placed
in position, and kept so during the feat, there is no risk.
The performer must have complete control of all muscles
employed, in any trick attempted. It is the half-finished
strong- man who suffers for his foolishness in attempting
feats which his fully-equipped rivals can perform w 7 ith im-
punity.
Great is the stage management of the Salv’army. Miss
Eva Booth has been lecturing to huge audiences in New
York about the horrors she witnessed in the slums of
London. By way of realism, she lectured in rags, while
her orchestra wept at intervals. If it hadn’t wept it
would probably have lost its job. Towards the end of
the address the lights went out suddenly, and the gloom
was like a black cat at midnight. Then a huge cross on
the stage burst into a glare of electric radiance, and Eva
was seen clinging to the implement in prayer—just like
the soap.advertiseinent of the lady who clutches the rock
in the middle of a raging- sea. There was a pause while
the thing soaked in. Then Eva heaved her arms heaven-
ward, and the collection was taken up.
“Chrysos”: In Poverty Point (8/3/’O6) you ask for a
contradiction of the rumor that Bland Holt had tried to
get Julius Knight and Miss Jeffries for his production of
“ The Prodigal Son,” but that J. C. Williamson put a stop
to the negotiations by demanding an enormous rental -for
sub-letting the artists aforesaid. Here is the anticipated
contradiction. Bland Holt never had any idea of offering
a special engagement to Knight and Miss Jeffries, or of
omitting any of the leading members of his stock co. from
the cast of “The Prodigal Son.” Moreover, if he had
wanted to engage J.K. and M. J. it was not in the power
of manager Williamson to make any terms for sub-letting
their services, seeing that they were under engagement
to Meynell and Gunn at the time, and will not he released
from their present contract until Easter week, or there-
abouts. Strange that Bland Holt should have been
credited with all sorts of plans for which Rumor
had no foundation. In Melbourne it is quite generally
believed that Bland’s co. was disbanded last week, that
he and Mrs. Holt are going to England at once with a new
co. in view, and that Walter Baker and Miss Ross have
hooked passages for foreign parts. All these notion*
originated, seemingly, from the fact that Holt happened
to break the long continuity of his Melbourne-Sydney
season by giving himself and co. a four weeks rest, during
which time Meynell and Gunn will play “ The Fatal
Wedding ”at Melbourne Royal. He resumes business as
usual (in Sydney) at Easter. Next year at Easter he will
exchange theatres with Anderson in the ordinary way,
and return to Melbourne for six months. His present
lease of the Royal expires in November 1907.
“ Melb.” : The late George Coppin’s first wife was Mrs.
Watkins Burroughs, widow of a well-known English
manager and actor. Her powers as a leading actress
w'ere considerable. In England Coppin was for a time in
the company of Davenport, the original of Vincent
Grummles, and Ooppin knew the Infant Phenomenon, a
highly-talented, amiable little lady, who afterwards did
well in America. The toss of a penny decided Coppin on
shifting to Australia, instead of America. W. S. Lyster,
as a midshipman, heard him sing “ Billy Barlow ” both in
Dublin and Sydney. In 1845 Ooppin brought his
company, musicians, and effects per schooner Swan,
from Launceston to Melbourne. Coppin’s Com-
pany included Mr. and Mrs. Ooppin, Mr. and Mrs.
Rogers, Mr. and Mrs. Thomson, Mr. and Mrs. O
Young, and nearly all the others were husband and wife.
Their opening play in Melbourne was “ The Lady of
Lyons,” followed next by “The School for Scandal.”
Cast of “ Lady of Lyons ” : Melriotte, Young ; Beauseant,
Thomson; Damas, Rogers; Glavis, Coppin; Pauline,
Mrs. Coppin. The Melbourne Public Library has a bill of
the farewell of Mr. and Mrs. Coppin, in 1846. The pro-
§r amme included “ The Ambassador’s Lady,” “ The Four
isters,” and “The Turnpike Gate.” Coppin first met
G. V. Brooke in England when they were both very young,
and Coppin acted Osric to Brooke’s Hamlet. In 1854 they
met again. Coppin engaged him for Australia. Coppin
returned in the steamer Argo, with his Olympic Theatre,
the “ Iron Pot,” made in Manchester. Brooke came with
R. Younge and Fanny Cathcart in the steamer Pacific.
They opened at the Melbourne Queen’s, in “ Othello,’
February, 1855. The Olympic opened with Wizard
Jacobs, ” and Brooke did not act there till
later. Coppin had been long a widower. His courtship
of Fanny Cathcart came before the public through her
marrying Robt. Heir, and an embroglio ensued. The
Heirs went to the Theatre Royal. Brooke represented
that Mrs. Heir treated him unfairly by breaking her pro-
fessional engagement, which was as his pupil in charge
of Mrs. Brooke. The public took sides, but there was soon
a happy reconciliation all round. Playgoers gloated over
“ The Honeymoon," with Brooke, Coppin, and the Heirs
all in the cast. Coppin married Mrs. Hillsden, a widow,
and afterwards married her daughter, the mother of the
large Coppin family ; one of the daughters married Geo.
R. Ashton (brother of Julian R. Ashton), who was
for some time The Bulletin’s Melbourne artist.
(I am only filling gaps in the obituaries which
have been published). Coppin and Brcoke, as
partners, got the Theatre Royal in 1856. It had opened
in April, 1855. The partnership lasted till 1858, when
there was a rupture. Brooke disastrously carried on the
Royal by himself. In 1860 they were friends again.
Brooke farewelled for England as Virginius. Ooppin’s
next important venture with stars was with the Keans,
in his new Haymarket Theatre. They opened (1863) in
“The Gamester.” Another star of his was Dillon, the
great Belphegor. Coppin went to San Francisco with
the Keans and Cathcart. It is said that, on
the voyage, they were reduced to living on potatoes.
His next great scheme was fetching out Brooke again,
but he did not take final steps in this till he had returned
to Australia in 1865. Barry Sullivan meanwhile kept on
at the Royal, since 1863. He advertised that he had sent
a liberal offer to his old friend and comrade, Brooke,
which could not fail to bring him to the Theatre Royal,
but this was all “ guiver.” Brooke was under engage-
ment to Coppin, who heard the awful news of the wreck
of the London when he was in Capell’s bookshop,
Collins-street. His most notable stars afterwards were
Anderson, Celeste and Mathews, successively.
“ N.” : Like a man with a tune in his head, I have been
trying to think what the little girls on the stage are like
off the stage. They are like biltong, the Boer meat, hard
as wood, and cut into strips. Especially “Sang-and-
Da-a-nce Gurls.”
“ G.”: The most ridiculous feature of the ridiculous
last act of “ Leah Kleschna ” is the English North Country
dialect put into the mouths of the peasants working in
the Austrian cabbage-garden, where Leah lives down her
acquisitive past. Surely the Yankee author was not
responsible for this banality ? Premier Bent was present,
the other night, and beamed over the cabbage-garden
scene. Fat Thomas saw a replica of his youthful self in
the bucolic lover who was scorned by Leah, and nodded
his head as if satisfied that the tiresome young man would
some day be Prime Minister in Vienna, making inter-
national complications off his own bat.
“ Alba ”: Charles has been a big favorite and failure
in Australia. Williamson and other managers have
imported him in the bulk. A few: Charles Ryley,
Leumane and Kenningham come to mind. Charles
Godfrey, Santley and Warner have kept the name to the
fore, while Holloway, Faning, Cartwright, Turner (of
Turner and Montagu) and Arnold have taken Charles
across a lot of land and water. Bill seems to have gone
in for play-writing, while Charles took the limelight—on
the stage.
“ Hamer ” : The reputation of “ East Lynne ”is mighty,
and there are quite a number of people who impute it to
William Shakspeare. When first I struck this idea I
thought it a chance delusion, hut, on telling a country
magnate, in return for a drink, how a woman had
informed me she “ had heard a great deal of 1 East Lynne,’
but didn’t care for Shakspeare,” he remained quite
serious, and said, pompously, that he always supported
the classic drama, and would be at the show that night.
Other people have treated the anecdote just us seriously ;
but one woman laughed at it, and remarked that she’
would know Longfellow’s work anywhere I
THE “GODS” OF GREECE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder if the gods of Greece, in ages long ago,
Ate peanuts and then dropped the shells on baldheads
down below.
I wonder if they whistled loud, and stamped upon the
floor,
When Homer J. Buskinius refused them an encore.
I wonder if the gods of Greece, like our gods, had
a taste
For watching high-class “drammer ” with an arm around
the waist
Of a much-befeathered female, who just thought the hero
slow.
And did they howl the villain down in Athens long ago ?
I wonder if they sympathised with all the wronged one’s
cares,
And if they murmured “ Bosker ” when coming down the
stairs;
If each girl hung upon her bloke, and each bloke on his
“ piece,”
And if they supped on peas and chips, those giddy gods
of Greece.
N.S.W.
J. F. DWYER.


Send now for “ llome Study,” post free.
Stott & Hoare's Business College,
MOORE ST., SYDNEY. [lO
IT 15 BETTER TO HAVE
&
,«7JN
a little practice to ensure obtaining a
fine interesting collection of Photos,
at Easter.
SO DON'T
leave it until the last day or two before
you get a Camera.
You can’t go wrong with . .
HARRINGTONS
VICTOR
1905
Model
CAMERA.
There is positively no Camera offered at the price that is so simple to operate and will take such nice Photos,
in the hands of a novice. For these reasons and the superior quality of the Lens, The “ VICTOR ” is the
most popular Hand Camera in Australasia. Takes Photos. 4J x 3Jin. Carries 32 Plates in the Magazine.
LATEST STYLE CAMERAS from 5/- to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue—FßEE.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.
pho, °^ES:i„„,
386 GEORGE ST.,
c c p.o.
SYDNEY, -™ 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A cheerful slab of information from the
Hawker Military Inquiry, in Melbourne, was the
guileless admission that officers could obtain their
liquor from the canteen at a lower rate than
privates.
* * * *
A languid lieutenant —lately from Sydney
—came before the Majah Haw-hawker Board at
Queenscliff (Vic.), the other day, to be asked by
barrister Maxwell: “Have you any recollection
of this incident?” The lieutenant remarked:
“Ai recollect it just so far as one recollects any-
thing which he regards for the moment as being
of absolutely no importance.” Then old Senator
Styles exploded, and declared himself “able to
j udge that stamp of man.”
AN IMPEDER OF TRAFFIC.
MORTHETH MOTHETH (to small boy): “ Can’d you
move on dere! D'yer vant de whole of der
foodpath to yourself ?”
A colored brother named Sheik Mahomed,
who sells chutney, appeared last week before
N S. W. Justice Simpson and applied for a divorce
from his white wife, on the ground that she was
an habitual drunkard and had neglected her
domestic care of Mr. Mahomed for over three
years. His Honor might have established a valu-
able precedent by deciding that the fact of a white
woman being married to a person named Sheik
Mahomed was enough to drive her to drink, but
there is nothing so brightly original as that about
Justice G. B. Simpson. He granted the decree,
and in due course the plaintiff will be free to marry
another white woman and support her on the pro-
ceeds of the chutney industry.
Hawthorn (Vic.)
owns a drain that, in a
way, rivals even the
famous Reilly - street
drain of Collingwood.
This main drain of
Hawthorn was once a
creek. It is about
three miles long, 15ft.
wide and 6ft. deep.
Strips of it, from 50ft.
to a quarter of a mile
long, are covered over
so as to form tunnels.
The drain flows under
streets and shops, and
through gardens, back
yards and sundries, and
in flood weather it runs
an adventurous course.
It once overflowed on
to a man’s property,
and cost the Hawthorn
Municipal Council
nearly £5OOO in law
costs. Also, three years
ago, it washed a coffin
out of an undertaker’s
shop and carried it
down-stream, bobbing
gaily on its muddy
tide. No one that mat-
tered was drowned in
it until last w eek, vdien
a sudden heavy shower
in the upper water-
shed of the sewer
brought down a wall of
water 3ft. high, and a
15-year old boy who
was mooning in the
drain was swept away.
Shouting and scream-
ing for help, he was
hurried along through
back yards, under
houses, and under
streets, until, after
keeping afloat for about
two miles, he gave up
and was drowned. A
dozen people raced
after him, lost him in
the little bit of tunnels,
nearly got him but
were delayed shinning
over walls and fences,
nearly got him again,
but fell against barrows
and obstructions, and
finally didn’t get him.
The body was washed
into the Yarra, where
it waited for the police to pick it up, and the
Hawthorn Council is almost thinking of covering
its amazing drain now, or of hanging life belts
near it or something.
» * * *
Premier Bent’s advice to budding ybung
orators: “Get a theme that is worthy and noble
and high, and then talk straight.” Now we know
why Thomas talks so much about himself. That
theme is worthy and noble, and if it isn’t high it
is thick.
* * * •
The other day the Geelong branch of the
“Women’s NationabLeague” held its inaugural
meeting, when it was treated to
inspiring addresses by Janet Mrs.
Clarke, Grace Watson (the organising
secretary), and other fervid Reidites.
There was a large attendance at the
refreshment room, the establishment
of which was a distinctly bad innova-
tion for the cause of anti-Socialism.
This room adjoined a solicitor’s office
in the same building, and some of
the anti-Socialists, with their tea and
ice-cream, took possesssion of the soli-
citor’s waiting-room. A clerk, passing
through the room after filling an ink.
pot, left a large picturesque blot of ink
on the elegant train of a prominent
member of the league. Then George
Reid and anti-Socialism were com-
pletely forgotten and the ladies took
to talking of a subject of real in-
terest. The sins of the Labor Party
faded away before a considera-
tion of the “outrageous clumsi-
ness” of that unhappy clerk,
and the meeting dispersed talk-
ing dress and the relative merits
of salt and milk to remove ink
strains.
The Commonwealth regula-
tion about advertisement matter
in'imported magazines does not
seem to have affected Uncle
Sam’s publications to any serious
extent. M'Clure’s for February
runs 128 pages of advts. to 102
pages of reading ; Cosmopolitan
for February, 114 pages of advts.
to 118 pages reading ; and Harper
for January, 140 pages advts. to
162 pages reading. Blackwood’s
and the Fortnightly of London
enter with only about 20 pages of
advts. It is said Uncle Sam pub-
lishers have a way of getting over all difficulties.
* * * •
The Bulletin, the other day, re-printed
from the Sydney Herald the advertisement of
the ISlorthern Wairoa doctors, warning brother
medicos not to accept posts at the local hospital.
It now learns the facts of the “strike.” The
Wairoa Hospital—founded, we blush to say, by a
trades union—pays its doctors £3OO a year “ with
the right of private practice,” but anyone can be-
come a “ hospital member ” by the payment of
265. a year, and a member has the right to free
attendance for himself and his family in his own
home if he lives within a radius of eight miles of
the hospital. Operations, major and minor, are
included in the free attendance. Practically,
therefore, there is no hope of private practice, and
a doctor has to work like a galley slave for £3OO a
year, bare, serving not only a hospital, but a big
district as well. It’s about the worst case of
medical sweating that this paper has ever heard of.
* * * *
The landlord of Selborne Chambers, Mel-
bourne, where the. devil’s brigade nails up its
plate, is thinking of raising the rent of one or two
chambers which seem to possess a mascotte. The
room once occupied by recently-elevated Judge
Eagleson was previously occupied by two barristers
who both reached the Supreme Court bench, so
that room has three Judges to its credit. The
last new County Court Judge, Box, had a room in
the south-east corner of the second floor ; and, on
his elevation to the bench, barrister Cussen took
it. Now Cussen goes to the Bench, and there
is a rush for the empty chamber.
A KINDLY SOUL.
“’ Earin' as 'ow the young man was took ill, I called to see if I can
’elp. I ain’t any good at nursin', but I’m real good at layin’ out! ”
This quaint and rather unaccountable
statement is from S. M. Herald’s woman’s page
(14/3/’OG): —
If you state an age in an obituary or other public
announcement, and it does not agree with the age of the
person from whom you would inherit (particularly if it is
through a benefit or insurance fund), the money is legally
forfeit. A hospital nurse has just lost £567 through a
discrepancy of this sort.
It would be almost worth spending 6s. Bd. on a
legal opinion on this matter.
• * * •; *
A British medical journal (the Lancet)
comes out with a declaration against the barmaid
because of the “moral and physical dangers”
of her calling. What work-conditions are
for barmaids in London The Bulletin
does not know, though it has sus-
picions, but in Australia
there are no more
“ moral and physical
dangers ” to be
met by the girl
behind the coun-
ter in a respect-
able hotel than
by the average
woman - worker.
She has to meet
more temptations
than the girl who
stays at home, cer-
tainly ; but not more
than the shop-girl or
the housemaid at the
Temperance Coff e e
Palace; and, as she is
far better paid than either
of those skirted toilers, she
is to that extent better able
to resist temptation. There
is a vast deal of cant talked and
written on this barmaid question. But practically
there is no more reason why a woman should
suffer harm from selling whisky-and-soda than
from selling ribbons.
* * * •
A police sale by auction of confiscated
liquor was held lately, at the Central Police
Station, Sydney. There were over 1000 bottles,
consisting of Chinese spirit, whisky, beer, and
champagne. The liquor was admittedly of an
inferior quality; in fact, the alleged “champagne”
was regarded as so inferior that it fetched less
than the current rate for plain “tanglefoot.” A
publican selling such stuff would probably hear
from the Law. Why shouldn’t the Law itself be
run-in when it is found trading off bad grog?
The inquiry into the Gembrook (Vic.)
railway break-up, which seems likely to stretch
almost to eternity, has now developed into a
dispute between the different departments, each
one trying to throw the blame on another. But
last week John Sloss, of the one-time well-known
Yarra-side engineering firm of Campbell, Sloss
and M‘Cann, threw at the board a theory which
had hitherto escaped the notice of the depart-
mental experts. He showed that in the broken
wheel of the first truck was a fracture,
caused by defective casting, extending from
the rim to the boss, and this, judging by
appearances, must have existed some considerable
time. His idea was that a jolt caused by the
slight—and admitted—depression in the road had
caused this wheel to break, and that the truck had
thereupon canted down and lifted its front wheels,
which, on descending again, did not find the rails!
Sloss’s suggestion seems feasible, but, putting that
aside, what sort of exainination are Tait’s trains
subjected to if excursionists are sent out in vehicles
with cracked wheels when a simple tap with a
hammer should find out the defect? Has the
hammer been sold in the interests of economy ?
• * * •
The engine that left the Gembrook (Vic.)
narrow-gauge line, caused the smash, and made a
job for Bent’s friend Croker, has had an interest-
ing history. It was built at Newport workshops,
and started running on July 13,1900. It shunted,
it ballasted, and it drew trains to such an extent
that by December 31, 1905, it had run 64,000
miles. Never once since it left the shops has the
engine gone back for repair. In March, 1903, the
wheels had become grooved and worn. They
were taken off, trucked to Newport, and turned
afresh. When anything on the engine broke it
was repaired at Fern Tree Gully. A fitter'was
sent up and he patched the job somehow. The
work was done out in the open, for there is no
engine-shed at Fern Tree Gully. Always, summer
and winter, rain or shine, the loco, that wrestles
with the most dangerous line in the State
stands outside braving the weather. That is the
sort of treatment Tait the economist gives his roll-
ing-stock and that is one reason why his
rolling-stock is so often breaking down some-
where or other. A superintendent, after
telling the past history of the fallen engine,
estimated that the department would spend about
£5 in repairs and then put it on the job again. He
considered it “ good for another 7000 miles.”
# * * *
One of the saddest things about the alleged
journalism of these days is the “Children’s
Letter,” or “ Aunt Polly’s Postbag,” or “Talks
with Uncle Tom,” in which youngsters are en-
couraged to send on for publication profuse
accounts of how many chickens “Topknot” had
last time, and descriptions of how father drowned
four kittens, and fed Poley’s new calf. Poor
kiddies, everything is “so nice,” and they never
have anything but a “ pleasant day ’’—even when
father drowns the kittens. The other week a
bush laborer was charged at a Gippsland police
court with indecent assaults on girls of
eleven and nine, and was committed for trial.
The prosecution says he professed to be giving the
children an outing, took both of them across the
lakes, and camped out with them. And then
somebody dug up a “ Polly’s Postbag ” letter
which those kiddies had written about the
allegedly horrible proceedings, and in which they
said they had had “a pleasant time.”
SEMPER IDEM.
SWEET: “ Before we were married you used to
threaten to tell your mother every time 1
kissed you.”
BIRDE: “ Yes! And now that we are married,
I'll tell her every time you don't.”
The alien imported to Australia keeps his
native vices and loses his native virtues. A
Turk, before Melbourne City Court for vagrancy,
was said by the police to have been “ina drunken
condition for the past two months.” Now this
renegade son of the teetotal Prophet must be
supported in gaol by Victoria for six months.
THE KING’S MESSAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Admiral Rawson wrote to say that at his first audience
with the King, His Majesty asked many questions about
the people of Australia and their welfare. His Majesty
commanded him to apply for a second audience before
leaving for Australia, and at the second audience King
Edward told him to say that he wished that he could
himself have visited Australia, but that, not having been
able to do so, he had sent first his two sons to visit this
great and important part of the Empire, and then the
Prince and Princess of Wales to represent him at the
opening of the Commonwealth Parliament. “He wished
me to say, also,” Admiral Rawson wrote, “ that to do
honor to the State, and to show his affectionate interest
in its welfare, he had specially given me this second
audience.” —Report of Sydney Mayoral Banquet.
He thinks of us !
How kind of Royal Ned to treat us thus !
Australia never saw his placid face,
But still, he’s quite aware there’s such a place.
What ho, let’s make a fuss !
We’re growing large ! We’re getting on apace 1
Ned’s noticed us !
He thinks of us 1
And so we haven’t wholly missed the ’bus.
At Lord Mayors’ dinners tears run down our cheeks,
The while in tender words His Gracious speaks—
Gor—save—His—Gra-ci-ous !
And loyalty in every tear-drop leaks 1
He thinks of us !
He thinks of us !
He sent his son on journeys perilous !
His Royal Not-too-Highness yawned a lot,
Shook hands, and vanished from this grateful spot;
We saw him well —oh, yus !
We know just what we think of him, and what
He thinks of us 1
VIC.
LAM.


3 Guineas.
An “ R. C. HAGON ” SUIT for the
Nominal Price of Three Guineas.
Fashion Plates, Patterns, Self-Measure-
ment Forms on application or post free.
These perfectly Tailored Suits have been sent to every
part of the Commonwealth.
They embody the essentials of perfect cloth craft.
Merchant
Tailor,
R. C. HAGON,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY.
fs
Quinlan, the strange freak-murderer, kept
a cheerful and unclouded countenance through all
the investigation of his squalid crime. He was a
polite little boy to the last. “Thank you !” he
said to the constable who opened the dock trap-
door to let him go to the condemned cell. It is
hardly likely that the N.S.W. Government will
allow him to be hanged. He is obviously insane,
a rare mental accident who puzzles all the
alienists; they can only take refuge in the
dictum that he is at least not sane.
Quinlan seems to have no moral sense, no
idea of remorse, of shame, of sorrow. His
mind is clear enough, but it lacks something of
the human ; it is more akin with the mind of
the ox, which does not “lie awake at night
weeping overits sins.” An uncanny phenomenon —
Quinlan, whom the community must, for its own
sake, keep from future crime, and yet more a vic-
tim of Nature than a criminal. Among other
strange side issues he was religious in a way, or
else he was afflicted with religiosity ; and at the
same time he read. Deadw'ood Dicks. He had
about 13s.' 6d. a week, and out of that he partly
supported a brother and says he helped to pay off a
money-lender with whom his mother was involved,
and something went in tram-fares when he
went to see his brother in a monkery.
Also he intended to go to sea. Perhaps if he had,
the. sea-breezes would have blown a soul into him.
It is difficult to be a lift-boy and have much soul,
especially when one’s mother is in debt to
money-lender Booker.
MONEY COVERS MANY THINGS.
SHE: “ These capitalists have no principle.”
HE: “ When you have capital it is unnecessary
to have principle.”
Sydney’s Dill Macky paper has been
speaking very severely about Miss Ena Batten-
berg’s mercenary conversion to Rome. But, after
all, is the difference so very great ? She was con-
verted to Roman Catholicism for the sake of a
crown in Spain. It would have been all right if
she had been converted to Protestantism for the
sake of a crown in Paradise, and a share of the
golden streets, and the pearly gates, and the
jasper sea. The church is always talking about
gold, and its strongest spiritual influences are
derived from the garish wealth mentioned in
Revelation.
* * * *
Professor Anderson Stuart, heading a
deputation of Sydney Zoological Society to ask
the City Council to grant an extended lease of the
Zoo premises:—
' This continent was not a great distance from the more
ancient and more fully peopled parts of the world, which
made it necessary’ that if the people of Australia now
growing up were - to have the education which brought
thenrto the peoples of the older lands, they should have
such facilities as the Zoological Gardens to help in their
education.
Perhaps the Professor didn’t mean his confused
statement that way, but Sydney Zoo is justly
proud of its fine collection of monkeys, and the
small kiddy ought to be taken to see Britain’s new
ally.
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
B ILL: “ I'm ’ave to be gcttiri now, Ginger. Got
the donah wiv me.”
GINGER : “Bli’me, Bill, why don't yer marry
that girl an' leave ’er at ’ome.”
“6xB” writes : Rumors still persist that
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley will retire at the
end of this year, and that his staunch friend and
colleague, Judge Owen, will also seek repose from
his arduous labors. Wise being out of the way,
it is safe for the Chief to retire. The prospect of
Wise succeeding him would—and once did —recall
him from the brink of the grave. Pilcher, if he
likes, may, it is said, have the Chief Justiceship.
Sly will have a puisne Judgeship. Gordon, K.C.,
who has now the largest practice in all appeal
courts, and who is as experienced a Common Law
as an Equity practitioner, is well in the running
for anything going in the shape of J udgeships;
but his health is not too robust, and he will
probably decline.
* * * *
“Alec. Zander”: The Chinaman
mated to a white woman is a wonderful multi-
plier of the birth-rate. I know a case in
Surry Hills, Sydney, where the family
l resulting from this cross numbers
eighteen, ranging in ages from 40
years down to three. Nine of the
progeny are married, some to
Chinese, others to whites, and these
have families ranging from nine
to one, with the promise of a
prolific crop in the future. Several
of the grandchildren are now of
a marriageable age—they marry
young in the bottle-gathering
suburb—and'more birth-rate is ex-
pected. So far, this one old China-
man’s descendants number 59 pie-
bald Australians.
■Jr *
The duties of the police in
Victoria sometimes take a peculiar
turn. The local “John Hopkins”
had to act recently as auctioneer
in the disposal of the effects of a
deceased old-age pensioner. Among
other property was a coffin, which
was knocked down for Is. The
deceased —an old lady —was re-
solved that she should pay for her
own burial, hence the coffin. It
was kept under the bed, and as the
mattress was simply of bag, and
sagged a bit in the middle, she had
been lying on the implement for
months. Unfortunately, she was
removed to the hospital a week
Before her death, and as the box was not for-
warded with her luggage, the hospital authorities
arranged for her burial.
# * * *
The disease of squire worship—the bob-
curtsey and hat-touching complaint—is spreading
fast on the big estates in Victoria’s Western Dis-
trict. Even the State school children are taught
by sycophantic teachers to regard the local land-
grabber (the landlord of their parents) with the
sort of humility that might have existed in the
Middle Ages. So it is not surprising to find Mel-
bourne Argus publishing a long par from Camper-
down, describing how W. T. Manifold and his
wife visited the school, how they were fawned on
by teachers and scholars, and how they received a
“ silver-mounted brush and comb” that the young-
sters’ pennies had gone to buy. Then the Mani-
folds, who are going to Europe, promised that
they would not forget to send Christmas prize-
books, “as usual.” In years to come you will find
the district peopled by horizontal male beings,
who, as they go along the lanes on all-fours, touch
their hats and say “ Sir” to everybody they meet,
and by crushed females who make the bob-
curtsey and wear the abject bonnet. And you
will know them for the people who bought the
land-grabber a hair-brush in their childhood.
* * * *
The diminutive weatherboard structure at
Nunawading (Vic.), where the “Nunawading
Messiah,” Fisher, use to “talk” to his disciples,
was burnt down lately. It stood concealed in a
clump of gums, and it is supposed a casual swaggie
had been boiling his billy too adjacent.
♦
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where-six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
This is the season
of the year when the
Vic. Lands De-
partment noti-
fies selectors
of their arrears
of rent, etc.,
and intimates
that a trifle on
account would
not be amiss.
As a conse-
quence, the
Lands office
letter-box drips
with the tears
of the “poor
farmer ” who
has had deaths
in the family,
sickness, and a
rush of store-
keepers’ bills.
But the depart-
ment knows
what the har-
vest has been,
so it solemnly
winks to itself
and makes in-
quiries. One
selector men-
tioned that the
heavy funeral
expenses in his
case had been
on account of
the death of his
father. The
local State lands
bailiff being re-
ferred to, re-
plied that if the
old gentleman’s
funeral had only
recently taken place it seemed to have been
unduly delayed, seing that he had been a corpse
some 17 years. Now another poor farmer is
bellowing about the Government’s Socialistic
leanings, and how it drives capital out of the
country.
* ¥ * *
A horrible story of an American ship with
a lunatic on board was told lately in South Mel-
bourne Police Court. The narrative was to the
effect that a sailor went mad soon after the vessel
left the free and enlightened shores of “God’s
country,” and was put in charge of the second
mate. The second mate’s nursing is said to have
consisted partly in chaining the lunatic up every
night, and he was also alleged to be given to kicking
and standing on the patient. He was fined 10s. by
the usual awful Bench of Victorian honorary
magistrates for assaulting and biting a French
sailor who said he tried to prevent him standing
on the lunatic, and who was supported by other
members of the crew, who also said they saw the
lunatic being stood on. Of course, the deranged
mariner can’t be landed here, and it isn’t likely any
life assurance institution would care to issue
a policy payable if he doesn’t get back alive to
“God’s country.” Whatever may be the merits
of this particular case it is certain that American
sailing ships have a horrible reputation for
brutality, both in fiction and in police-court
reports —a reputation that would almost justify
the hanging on spec, of at least one American
mate, as an example, at every civilised port on
earth. The American judge who sells justice and
the American sea-officer who “lays out” the
crew are two good, reliable stand-bys of U.S.
fiction, and if these individuals are really desir-
able characters they have a case for large damages
against somebody.
* * tr *
Already it is believed that another case of
anthrax has been located in Ballarat, and the
patient is under observation in the local hospital.
There is some doubt about the case, but if the
patient is not suffering from the disease he is
accused of then he is a very lucky man. He was
at the same old game —skinning a cow that had
died of anthrax—and he contracted some form of
blood poisoning. It is this economical skinning
habit that keeps the disease moving, and the man
who takes the hide off such an animal and sells it
is a menace to society. The fact that he is a
menace to himself is little more than a side issue
under the circumstances, though if a man wants
to commit suicide there are pleasanter weapons to
cut his throat with than a deceased cow—especi-
ally that kind of deceased cow.
* • * •
There was something humorous in the
selection of Minister for Education Barnabas B.
O’Conor to open the Bangalow (North Coast,
N.S.W.) show. It is essentially a dairy-cattle ex-
hibition, Bangalow being the centre of the Big
Scrub dairying district, and consequently of the
infamous child-slavery of the North Coast. This
is the district where many children are too weary
to join in games at school, where they doze over
their lessons because their poor little bodies must
have the rest of which they are robbed by having
to rise at 4 a.m. to worship the Cow Joss ; where
schools have almost no attendance before 11 o’clock
nor after 3, all by reason of the Cow Curse;
where teachers do not expect home lessons done,
because they know the children fall asleep over
their tea, utterly worn out by Cow, and where the
birth of champion Bluebell’s calf is a more im-
portant event in the domestic circle than an addi-
tion to the human population. It is a continuous
battle between Cow and Education, and Minister
Barnabas B. O’Conor, who represents Education,
is found wallowing at the shrine of Cow.
THE LIPERTY OF THE SUBJECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An official notice stated that if the men shaved the
upper lip it would be regarded as disobedience and
punished. —Report of Military Inquiry, Melbourne.
There are various moustaches. There are some that droop
and drip
Every time their careless wearers take an appetising nip.
There are others badly needing the improvement of a
clip,
Not a barbarous curtailment, but a neat tonsorial snip.
A moustache, of course, needs training; ’twouldn’t do to
let it rip
Till it bristled like a hedgehog with a lizard in its grip.
But a neat moustache looks manly as a mark of soldier-
ship,
Though the old-time Tommy Atkins had to shave his
upper lip.
Wellington preferred a whisker—just a little narrow strip
From the ear across the cheek-bone —and a shaven upper
lip ;
While the dear old Duke of Cambridge (if my memory
doesn’t slip)
Liked a face all over whiskers bar a patch below the lip.
With immensely large moustaches it is difficult to sip,
Let us say, pea-soup, for instance, and to land it every
trip !
Every time you take a spoonful it requires some skill to
tip
At the scientific angle with a bushy upper lip.
Regulations may be needed on a British battleship,
Or in fashionable regiments which they stylishly equip ;
But for volunteers I’m thinking (this should have them
on the hip),
If the skill and drill’s efficient, what’s the odds about the
lip?
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
ALWAYS BILIOUS.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Just at the beginning of Summer my health
started to break down. Every morning I woke
with a splitting headache,” said Mrs. Gf. Cheese-
man, Mockton, 94 Morehead Rd., lied fern, Sydney.
“ Often I was too sick to lift my head from the
pillow. I would lie the whole day long, and never
have a bite to eat. My stomach was too weak to
keep down even a cup of tea. I was utterly worn
out with vomiting. I never wanted anyone to
come near me. When I tried to speak, my head
ached worse. The rattling of the carts going by
made my brain feel as if it would burst. Many a
time I went off in a dead faint. I spent pounds
trying to cure my Headaches, before a very old
friend got me to give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People a trial. When I had finished half-a-
sovereign’s worth, my Headaches were gone, and
my appetite was three times as good as ever it
was before. To-day I couldn’t ask for better
health.
“For weeks my health had been going from
bad to worse,” said Mrs. Cheeseman. “All
through the day, I was heavy and drowsy. Try
as I would, I simply could not rouse myself. I
never felt like starting my work. There were
pains in my arms and shoulders, and my legs
felt too heavy to lift. I wanted to drag my feet
all the time. If anyone called on me, I left orders
to say I was too ill to see them. It was no use
for me to try to talk to people, for I couldn’t
think what to say. Some days I hadn’t a scrap of
memory. No matter what I picked up, I did not
know where I put it five minutes after. And
when I had one of my bad Headaches, I was fit
for nothing.
“ When I woke in the morning, all up the back
of my neck felt stiff and sore. There was a dull
throbbing pain behind my ears, and the top of my
head was ready to lift off. Wherever I looked, I
could see sparks of fire, and my head burned like
fury. As soon as I started to dress, my brain
began to swim, and everything in the room seemed
to go round and round. I knew the only place
for me then was bed. There I had to lie from one
end of the day to the other, too sick to move. I
had to have the room pitch dark, for the least
light hurt my eyes, and made my head ache worse.
My brain felt on fire. I couldn’t find a cool spot
on the pillow to lay my head. I would get hot
and cold in turns, and break out in a cold sweat.
My throat was dry and parched—yet if I took a
drink it set me vomiting. I was as weak as if I
had been laid up for months.
“For days after I had one of these bilious
Headaches, I was wretchedly down-hearted,”
added Mrs. Cheeseman. “ Gradually my whole
health went to pieces. At night I couldn’t sleep,
and soon I was nothing more than a bundle of
nerves. I could never look on the blight side of
life. There seemed to he nothing but trouble
ahead of me. I felt that no one wanted me, and
I was so short-tempered that I hated anyone to
speak to me. Nothing pleased me—l found fault
with everything that was done in the house. Yet
I couldn’t do the work one-half as well myself. If
I tried to sweep the verandah, the blood rushed
to my head and turned me dizzy. It was just the
■ same way if I stooped to take the meat out of the
oven. A mist came before my eyes, and every-
thing went black. Many a time I would have
fallen into the fire if someone hadn’t been near to
catch me. I hated to go out alone, for fear one of
my dizzy turns would come over me and I would
drop in a heap on the ground. My heart was so
weak that I never knew when I would faint.
“ For months I kept on taking all kinds of pills
and medicines. They made me weaker, and
never eased my Headaches for an hour. At last,
to please an old friend, I started Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. She said if anything
could cure me they would—so I bought some from
my chemist in Elizabeth St. They suited me
from the very first. They did my head a world
of good, and gave me an appetite that fairly
surprised me. Gradually I grew stronger, and
began to gain in weight. I picked up heart, and
kept on with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. My
nerves grew steady, and my head was no sooner
on the pillow than I was fast asleep. Every
morning I got up able to go through iny day’s
work. I never remember having such good health
as I have now. It will soon be two years since I
left off Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, but I have never
had a headache all that time. That shows that
I am cured for good.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t act on the bowels. They
don’t tinker with mere symptoms. They contain just the
elements that actually make new blood. That is why they
are the surest cure for all blood diseases like anaemia,
biliousness, ind'gestion, rheumatism, lumbago, kidney
and liver troubles, and skin troubles like pimples and
eczema. And, for just the same reason, they are the
greatest help in the world for growing girls who need new
blood, and for women who are troubled with irregular
health, especially those of forty-five or fifty, when the
blood becomes deranged again. But you must get the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—price
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 155.3 d., from all chemists and
storekeepers, or direct by mail from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney. If you are in doubt about your
illness, write to the same address for free medical advice.
Sydney, so far as civic administration goes,
is undoubtedly the frowsiest, most unkempt city
of the Commonwealth. Its natural beauties are
great, but man does much to spoil and little to
enhance them. At Circular Quay is a triangle of
land which used to hold an old, gone-to-the-devil
sort of hotel —now condemned and destroyed. It
was proposed to make a little park on the spot,
but for more than a year now it has remained a
mud or dust patch and an eyesore, and it seems
likely to so remain for another generation.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appl| asmces pr OP | T|T> 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
RORFV Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
iiwwbi 1 f or Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR L£PLASTRI£R) Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Representatives of the Victorian fellmongeries
and tanneries told the Tariff Commission a gloomy tale
lately. In the Geelong (Vic.) district alone there were, a
few years back, some 700 hands ; now there are lessthau
SO. Prom 1901 to 1905 inclusive'more than 32,000,000
sheepskins and hides, to the value of nearly £1,000,000,
were exported from the Commonwealth, mostly to Ger-
many, France and Belgium. If those skins and hides had
been worked in Australia they would have employed, on
an average for the five years, 1282 men, earning some
£120,000 a year, independent of other trades that would
have benefitted indirectly. Hides are frequently carried
as ballast, and so keen are the European Governments
to create remunerative work for their people that they
subsidise shipping companies for conveying raw material
from Australia, and also give bonuses to those bringing
the largest quantity in a given period. If these countries
wanted all these pelts for themselves, there could be little
excuse for Australia’s folly in thus losing so much needed
work ; but it not only exports hides and bark, but in the
last three years actually took back £1,500,000 worth in the
shape of leather. Australia grew the skins and the bark,
and those 1282 men badly wanted the work of converting
the skins into leather ; yet this fool country let the jobs
go to France and Germany to be done. Said the tannery
representatives further : “ The number of foreign buyers
of skins increases yearly. Directly a local buyer
goes into the sale room the foreign buyers
form a ring to crush him out. ... What little
he does buy he pays outside prices for, and
as soon as he is crushed and his works closed down the
price of skins drops again.” The tanners asked for an
export duty on raw 7 hides and skins of from Id. to ljd.
per lb., and they proved that such a duty, being neces-
sarily paid by the buyer, will not only raise considerable
revenue, but also give a large amount of work to local
tanners. In the last 10 years the price of hides has
steadily risen from ljd. and 2d. to 6d. and 7d. per lb.,
chiefly due to the enormous demand and the scarcity of
supply. If the foreign buyer can’t get our hides he will,
therefore, have to take our leather at Our price ; if he
determines that his own people shall have whatever fell-
mongering and tanning work is available, then he will
have to contribute to the Australian revenue in order
that they shall do so.
k * * *
That section of the A.M.P. Society which is
bent, on pursuing business to Europe and Africa won
again at the confirmatory meeting. But the majority
was reduced; and there doesn’t seem to be any doubt at
all that if the opponents of “ extension ” had had the
same facilities as its supporters—including the run of
the society’s cash-box —the result would have been
“No,” as it had always been previously. However, the
A.M.P. is a democratic society, and it has a perfect right
to govern itself badly if it wants to. It is tolerably cer-
tain that the present trouble will lead to the affairs of the
society being more closely scrutinised, and that will bean
advantage anyway. The bad workman habitually quarrels
with his, tools, and Australia is the A.M.P.’s tool; and
a whole lot of members will watch to see whether it is
Australia that has something wrong with it or the
management—in other words, whether the tool is at
fault or the men who have to use it, and who have been
grumbling that it is no longer good enough.
* * * *
The Mutual Life Association of Austkal-
asia
Added
Written tc
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1895 .. £195,361 £107,747 £38,114 £10,721 £38,782
1896 .. 197,722 97,286 41,912 10,530 47,994
1897 .. 208,576 102,635 41,676 9,832 54,433
1898 .. 216,197 100,088 42,502 6,196 67,411
1899 .. 233,525 83,348 44,117 4,301 101,759
1900 .. 244,076 111,442 50,183 4,202 78,249
1901 .. 268,334 112,552 53,571 6,130 96,081
1902 .. 287,399 123,926 56,026 2,200 105,247
1903 .. 322,329 133,102 57,508 2,059 129,660
1904 .. 308,581 145,012 61,661 1,733 100,175
1905 ~ 314,649 159,843 62,200 2,005 90,601
Taking everything into account, this office has had a
rather better year than might have been expected ;
though that isn’t very high praise. Early in the year it
issued notices to policy-holders from which most of them
appear to have gathered, not only that no additions at
all had been made to members’ bonuses during the last
five-year period, but that they had actually shrunk. The
whole explanation was that the society had lately adopted
a more stringent valuation basis, so that, more reserves
being required to earn the amount necessary to provide
for policies falling due according to expectations, there
was less money available for bonus additions. But it
isn’t easy to argue with a man who was told he had £45
of bonuses five years ago, and now is told he has only
£4O ; it isn’t much use even telling him that his widow
would have got the £45 if he had died meantime, and
that it is simply his obstinacy in living on which has done
her out of £5, So a bad year for the M.L.A. was ex-
pected ; and it isn’t as bad as it might have been.
There was talk of large reductions in the
M.L. A.’s expense rate ; but they are not conspicuous so
far
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1896 .. £2l 3 11 per cent. 1901 .. £l9 19 3 per cent.
1897 .. 19 19 7 „ 1902 .. 19 910
1898 .. 19 13 2 „ 1903 .. 17 16 0 „
1899.. 18 17 10 „ 1904.. 19 19 7
1900.. 2011 2 „ 1905 .. 19 15 4 „
This isn’t what it ought to be. In 1895,. when the rate
was £l9 10s. 2d., the funds were only £1,087,768 ; they are
now £1,959,375, and £30,000 more interest, which costs
very little to collect, is coming in. Therefore the expense
rate ought to be less now than it was. Certainly, on the
other hand, a somewhat larger proportion of new business
is now being done; but then Australian conditions are
better. The cost is extremely high for a large office.
Charging 5 per cent, on renewal premiums, 3 per cent, on
annuities, and reckoning the balance of the expenses as
chargeable to new business, it cost £52,002 to get £26,059
of new premiums. That is to say, the new business cost
(on this basis of calculation) almost exactly two years’
premiums to obtain—the cost was 199 and a fraction per
cent. This is distinctly an unsatisfactory showing, both
absolutely and as compared with the record of other
Australian offices of standing; and the A.M.P. share-
holder who looks at his own 112 per cent, and at the
M.L.A.’s 199 per cent., and then reads that the M.L.A. is
pursuing business outside Australasia, may be inclined to
begin to feel a little sorry for himself for deciding to take
the same course.
Like a good many other offices, the M.L.A.,
though it tells the amount of new business done, does not
tell the number, &c., of policies lapsed and forfeited;
so the real value of the new business cannot be
judged. But it looks as though the M.L.A.
has had to argue a good deal with its members during
the year. In 1903 the surrenders paid out were £11,937 ;
in 1904, £10,014 ; in 1905, no less than £15,188. Again,
after the previous quinquennial investigation, £2943 was
paid in cash bonuses; last year, £10,501. Much of this
was unreasonable, no doubt—the circumstances have
been mentioned already. There, however, are the facts
of the case, reasonable or otherwise. But there is a
brighter spot:—■
Interest Earned on Mean Funds.
1896 ..£4 18 2 per cent. 1901 ..£4 8 9 per cant.
1897 .. 418 7 „ 1902 .. 4 7 4 „
1898 .. 414 11 „ 1903 ..470 „
1899 .. 410 0 „ 1904 ..4 7 1 „
1900 .. 49 0 „ 1905 .. 4 7 2 „
The rate isn’t what it was, but it shows a steady improve-
ment lately, though there has been little change in the
forms of investment. In mortgages the tendency is to
add a little to the proportion held (51 p.c. of total assets,
against 49& p.c. in 1903); this is a trifle above the Aus-
tralian life assurance office’s average. In public securities
the office has about 20 p.c. of its assets, which is under
the average; but its freeholds (foreclosures included)
amount to about 19 p.c., which is at least 10 p.c. too
much, and is one of the weak spots in this office’s posi-
tion—a weak spot which the present safe and conserva-
tive management probably regrets more than anybody
else.
* * » *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Ltd. (Sydney):—
Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. off. Funds.
1895 ..£36,367 £11,706 £10,697 £2683 £11,281
1896 .. 38,826 14,615 9,900 2433 11,878
1897 .. 41,079 11,460 9,422 996 19,201
1898 .. 46,112 20,531 10,396 2082 13,103
1899 .. 50,291 22,890 11,023 1581 14,797
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901 .. 61,979 19,435 15,997 2209 24,338
1902 .. 63,552 31,850 14,717 1555 15,430
1903 .. 63,732 34,877 14,142 1468 1
■ Assets written up, £3071 /
.1904 .. 65,619 29,610 14,227 1586 20,196
.1905.. 70,242 27,515 15,615' 1971 25,141
. These figures show a remarkably steady and consistent
. increase of business, accompanied, on the whole, by a
substantial decrease of expenses. As to the latter point,
these are the figures for 10 years :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1896 .. £25 10 0 per cent. I 1901 .. £25 16 2 per cent.
1897 .. 22 18 9 „ |1902.. 23 3 2
1898 .. 22 10 11 „ 11903.. 22 3 9 „
1899 .. 21 18 4 „ 1904 .. 21 13 7 „
1900 .. 29 311 „ |1905.. 22 4 7 „
With the increase of funds, producing comparatively
cheaply-earned interest, the expense-rate on this basis
should, of course, automatically fall; just in the same
way that, on this basis, a large stagnant office should
show a small rate compared with a progressive office
searching after new business—which is the thing that
costs the money. One real test of efficiency is, what is
new business costing? Following an arbitrary rule (be-
cause there is no other to follow), and charging renewal
premiums with afixedsper cent., and debiting the balance
of the expenses to new premiums, it is found that £10,538
of new premiums cost £13,353 to get in, or 127 p.c. This
is by no means unreasonably high for a small office ; on
the same basis, the A.M.P.’s figures show 112 p.c., and
the National Mutual’s 121 p.c. ; while among smaller
offices the figures stretch out to 250 p.c. In 1895 this
society issued policies giving an annual premium revenue
of £6908, and the renewal premiums were £23,642 ; and,
though the form of the accounts has since been altered,
making an exact comparison impossible, apparently the
cost of the new business at that time, reckoned in the
abovementioned way, was 131 p.c. of first year’s pre-
miums. Though the difference between that and the
present rate is not large, still there has thus been some
cheapening of a rate which, all things considered, was
already low in 1895.
But whether the City Mutual’s business sticks is
another matter ; and this seems the weak point. The re-
port is, unfortunately, silent on the matter of lapses and
surrenders. As stated just now, the form of the accounts
has been somewhat altered, and some of what were for-
merly reckoned as renewal premiums are now’ included as
new ; but going back to 1904, the renewal premiums were
£46,835, while in 1902 they were £45,260 ; so that the two
years’ increase was only £1575. The new’ business written
in 1902 and 1903 should have brought in during the two
following years £16,477 ; and the loss in premiums through
maturity of policies could hardly have amounted to half
that amount. It looks, therefore, as though the lapse rate
must be high. Last year’s account contains the item—
“ Surrender values exhausted, policies now lapsed,
£5792,” which equals 21 per cent, of total claims ; in the
A.M.P. the corresponding item represents only 10 per
cent., while in the National Mutual “ surrenders to repay
loans and premiums advanced ” stood last year for only 6
per cent, of total claims. But this not-very-satisfactory
experience of the City Mutual is mixed up with another
—the disposition of the funds. The City Mutual
lets out its funds largely in small loans, to some
extent upon the security of policies, and this almost
inevitably means a high surrender and lapse rate—the
advantages attract that sort of policy-holder. On the
other hand, it undoubtedly means high interest earnings;
the rate on mean funds earned last year was £5 3s. 7d.
per cent., as against an average Australian rate of about
£4 9s. per cent. The difference betw’een this office’s rate
and the average means an extra £2lOO on to the revenue,
available either for wu-iting down assets or for the advan-
tage of policy-holders in some other way. But the
lapses ought to be shown, since they, as well as the
extent of the new business, have a most important
bearing on.the expenses; for obviously 121 per cent, spent
on business that sticks is less of a burden than 121 percent,
spent on business much of which fades away after a year
or two. It makes all the difference, in fact, between a
remarkably satisfactory rate and a moderate one.
* » « *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. (Melbourne):
Dividends Added Nominal
on Capital to lte-
Profits. actually paid. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1901 ..£16,701 12£ p.c. =£3750 £12,951 £80,695
June, 1902 .. 16,015 9£ ~ „ 3000 13,015 93,710
Dec., 1902 .. 15,090 13j ~ ~ 4500 10,590 104,300
June, 1903.. 10,501 17J ~ „ 6000 4,501 108,801
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 „ ~ 3000 4,885 113,686
June, 1904 .. 12,881 12 ~ ~ 4500 8,381 122,067
(£47,067 reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.)
Dec., 1904 .. 13,374 10 ~ ~ 3750 9,624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ „ 3750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905 .. 8,767 10 „ „ 3750 5,017 21,658
The directors “regret that the financial result is not
more comfnensurate with the heavy risks all shipping
undertakings must necessarily incur.” Of course the
directors are looking at the matter on the basis of a
£lso,ooocapital. Still the £75,000 of capitalised reserves
were as much the shareholders’ money as capital itself,
and ought to be earning just the same profits. Certainly
it is quite possible that some of this £75,000 should not
have been capitalised, but should have been written off in
spite of the fact that £47,067 was written off at the same
time. There is a popular idea that inter-State shipping
co.’s are stuffing their profits away where the public can’t
see them. The Melbourne Steamship Co. probably
wishes it was one of those co.’s. The simplest plan is, of
course, to write down shipping property’, But this co.
keeps its shipping property in its balance sheet at cost
(to the new co., that is, formed 18 months ago), and only
£3OOO a half-year has been put aside for depreciation,
which means less than 5 p.c. p.a. ; and either some co.’s
greatly over-estimate what is a fair allowance for depreci-
ation of ships, lighters, &c., or this co. greatlv under-
estimates it. This depreciation fund, now £9OOO, is in-
cluded in reserves above. The true reserves are, therefore,
£9oooless, and probably they are much more than that less!
In the past 18 months gross profits have been £32,908. if 71
p.c. p.a. were charged for depreciation, which seems
to be a fairer average, the net profits would be reduced to
£18,733, and the present true reserves would be £7483
assuming that the assets were sufficiently written down
when the new co. took possession, which isn’t at all
certain. Apart from floating assets, the co. has very
little ; after meeting current debts, all forms of liquid
assets (including stores and debts due) amount to
£44,333; and when the accounts were made up only
£3431 had been paid on account of the new steamer just
about to be handed over in England. Altogether the
position isn’t by any means what might be expected of a
co. which but lately puffed out its chest and doubled its
capital out of reserves; while the profits have fallen so
seriously that it- would seem to be a very fair thing for
the co. to publish a profit and loss account by way of
explaining how it has happened. Is it loss of revenue,
increased expenditure, or what ?
The Emu Bay Railway Co.—railway in Tas-
mania, office and most of the shares in Melbourne and
debentures in London :
_ , , Pre- Deficit
Debenture Loss liminary (goodwill
OrJ. and Capital on and items not
Pref. and accrued Busi- Debenture reckoned
Capital. Interest. ness. Expenses. assets)
Dec., £ £ £ £ £ :
1868 263,061 1395 104 404
1899 298,410 100,150 5078 39,055 148 537
1900 337,172 200,000 9181 61 157 779
1901 360,000 205,234 8078 165’857
1902 360,000 205,039 4255 170112
1903 360,000 210,052 4SBI 174993
1604 330,000 214,866 4703 179 696
Profit.
1905 360,000 214,6C8 3528 175,868
This looks better ; it is almost the first streak of hope the
shareholders have had since the prospectus flashed out in
1897, baited with the names of the most successful Broken
Hill and Lyell men, and dangling - with the promises of
another rich Silverton Tramway monopoly. But the
streak is such a faint one that it is probably not visible to
holders of ordinary shares, some of whom, it is almost
cruel to recall, “ got in ” at a heavy premium a few daj's
after the share lists closed, and have hardly seen their
shares within coo-ee of par since. This, briefly, is the
order of things :
(1) The co. rents a few miles of line from the Emu Bay
and Mt. Bischoff Railway Co. ; and the first £7500 over
working expenses must go to it.
(2) The co. owes £200,000 on debentures. The second
£7500 must go to the debenture-holders as interest.
(3) The rent of the line is £10,370 a year, and the inte-
rest is £lO,OOO. The balance between £7500 and those
amounts has to be made up next; if profits won’t run it,
then debentures must be issued for the deficit.
(4) There are £lOO,OOO 8 per cent, preference shares,
and 4 per cent, of this 8 per cent, is cumulative. The
accumulations amount to £23,206. That is to say, already
future profits are mortgaged and ear-marked to that
extent.
(5) And then the ordinary shares come in ; they stand
for £260,000.
The profit last year was £3828 ; even if it jumped up to
£BOOO, and nothing were written off that profit to wipe
out preliminary expenses, &c.,it would take five years’
profits to overtake the accumulating preference dividend.
Even then, as long as the profit only stood at £BOOO, the
preference shareholders would take it all. But the co.
has a paper asset of £37,125, representing “ registration,
expenses on issue of debentures, &c.” ; and, as the direc-
tors see the only honest thing is to wipe that out as soon
as possible, there is another sponge waiting to suck up
profits.
Looking further into Emu Bay figures, these
results show up :
Available Proportion
for Rent, Expenses
Working Interest, Re- to
Earnings. Expenses, newals, &c. Earnings.
1899 .. £24,548 £14,786 £9,762 60 - 2 p.c.
1900 .. 26,625 17,475 9,150 65 - 7 „
1901 .. 39,005 25,957 13,030 66'6 „
1902 .. 42,131 25,289 16,842 60 „
1903 .. 40,818 23,264 17,554 57 „
1904 .. 42,365 24,382 17,983 57 - 5 „
1905 .. 50,829 24,731 26,098 48 - 7 „
The earnings constitute an easy record; but that,
unfortunately, is based on metal traffic, and the larger
metal traffic is mostly based on nothing more substantial
than the abnormal state of the metal markets ; so though
future figures may be better than they have been in some
past years, there is no strong reason to expect that the
advance in profits will be continuous.
* * • *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1900 £7,727 6 p.c. =£6ooo £1727 £24,364
Dec., 1900 10,307 6 „ „ 6000 4307 28,671
June, 1901 4,305.{{£*•« ” » gs} - 27,726
Dec., 1901 8,844 6 „ „ 6000 2844 30,570
June, 1902 2,147 Nil 2147 32,717
Dec., 1902 2,653 j 1 | [ - 27,870
June, 1903 6,859 6’’ ” 6000 859 28,729
Dec., 1903 5,516 6 „ „ 6000 28,245
June, 1904 7,438 6 „ „ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904 5,685 «” ” Jgg} 435 30,118
June, 1905 6,1021 ®” » j- 852 30,970
Dec., 1905 5,879 ’6 ” ” 6000 30,849
The formal reserve fund is now £29.648. This fund moves
up and down without explanal l ' ; uncompleted con-
tracts are said to account for it. Going on profit and loss
account only, the co.’s record of profit has been lately :
June, 1901 .. .. £5354 Dec., 1903 .. .. £5971
Dec., 1901 .. .. 6149 June, 1904 .. .. 4868
June, 1902 .. .. 4410 Dec., 1904 .. .. 6169
Dec., 1902 .. .. 2859 June, 1905 .. .. 5201
June, 1903 .. .. 6392 Dec., 1905 .. .. 5934
The published accounts are a mere skeleton, and what
amount is written off for depreciation is not at any time
disclosed. “ Property, plant, and stocks on hand ’’ stand
now at £369,527 ; at December 31st, 1900, they stood at
£327,758, or £41,769 less. Of course,' this doesn’t mean
that the co. is not writing down its decaying assets ; but,
all the same, if it has written latter down sufficiently, and
still has increased these assets by £41,769, its purchases
during the past five years must have been very heavy, in-
deed. Still hardly an.ythingdefinite can be read out of this
co.’s published accounts except perhaps that, in addition to
the capital, the £150,000 of debentures are still in full
working order ; and when there are £150,000 of deben-
tures, and £50,000 of pref. capital, and £369,527 of perish-
able assets which may or may not have been written down
sufficiently out of profits to cover depreciation, and when
there is also a fool of a non-Protective tariff hindering
business, the ordinary shares are not very alluring.
* * * •
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co.
Profit. Dividends. Written De-
off. licit.
July, 1904.. _ £l9l
Re-
Jan., 1905.. £8,858 { Xrad'e "Bonus, SI
Premium on new shares, £6094 7448
Jan., 1906.. 27,679{ -grade Bonus, £90ol(?)} 4000 W?
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate. A
distribution of profits was made as at July last, when
3s. 7d. per share was paid, or at the rate of about 80 per
cent., shares being then, it is understood, paid to about
9s. per share. This absorbed £4885 ; and a trade bonus
of 7s. 6d. per hogshead absorbed £4923. Now, on an
increased capital, and with the old shares split into two,
Is. lid. per share is paid (£5295 =76 percent, per annum),
and 6s. bonus per hogshead. What this bonus will
amount to there is no way of saying definitely, but
it has been estimated in the foregoing at £4077,
though The Bulletin doesn’t know any better reason why
it should be £4077 than £6900. Anyhow, the success o
this co-operative beer factory has been amazing—the re
suit (1) of dispensing with a vast amoun t of the unnecessary
expenses to which those brewers are put who have to go-
out and buy business, and (2) of not having to carry a num-
ber of unnecessary pubs on its back. Assuming that, apart
from the bonus, the customers got their money’s worth in
beer, the first half-year’s profit, after providing for de-
preciation, was at the rate of over 125 per cent, per
annum. During the past year the co.’s capital—which
was formerly £15,000 in 30,000 10s. shares, of which 22,525
were issued and 2s. 6d. paid upon them in cash—was
altered to £15,000 in 60,000 ss. shares, of which 55,259
were issued and ss. paid upon them. Besides this money,
£6094 has been received in premiums on new shares. Even
assuming that the whole of this capital and premium has-
been available all the year, the net profit upon it was at
the glittering rate of 120 per cent. Yet, in spite of this,
and even before the payment of the half-yearly dividend
and bonus, the co. had managed to acquire an overdraft
of £7250 ; while sundry debtors have increased during the
year from £6783 to £11,396. Certainly one can’t judge;
the size of this last item until one knows the size of the
turnover ; but it is an item through which a lot of leakage-
is liable to occur, and it seems to be growing very
rapidly, considering that this is a co-operative business.
Further, the showy figures have led to a demand that the
price of beer be brought down ; and that has been done—
to £2 17s. 6d. per hogshead. It was a start of dazzling
magnificence that the co. made ; and, even allowing that
it drew pointed attention to the advantages of co-opera-
tion, and also to some of the glaring absurdities and
extravagances of the ordinary brewing and wholesale
beer-selling business, it is a question whether it wouldn’t
have done the co. itself more good in the end if it had
had to struggle a bit.
The Wallaroo and Moonta Mining and
Smelting Co. (S.A.)
Written Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves.
1902 .. £29,957 Nil £24,973 £11,652
1903 62,999 2£ per cent. = £BOOO 22,469 44,182
1904 .. 518 2£ „ „ „ 8000 20,760 15,940
1905 .. 51,354 2* „ „ „ 8000 20,646 .38,648
Considering the price of copper (though the best of the
market has been only towards the end of the year), the
year’s results are not what might have been expected.
But, then, no less than £66,256 has been paid out of
profits on account of the fire which occurred at the mine
two years ago. This fire provided a handy pretext
for a badly-needed reconstruction of mine methods.
Therefore, the whole £66,256 can’t be put down as lost;
nevertheless the profits would certainly have shown up
to something ahead of £lOO,OOO but for the fire. And if
only £64,000 had been available for divs., the distribution
would have been equal to 20 p.c. As it is, Is. was paid
in January, 1906; another 2s. is to be paid at the end of this
month ; total £24,000, or 7£ p.c. for the first quarter of
the year. So the old mines pay 3s. per share in three
months ; and only 18 months ago the £2 stock was down
to 18s. The special expenditure through the fire is not yet
over ; but the costly part of it is. The amount charged
to profit and loss in 1904 was £78,368 ; last year, £66,256 ;
total £144,624. But, as said just now, it doesn’t follow
that it was all loss. Still, this amount does not include
the whole cost of the new machinery which has been
installed; thus on the power plant £19,418 has
been spent and charged to capital. The financial position
has been steadily improving ; at the end of 1901 there was
a surplus of liquid assets over current liabilities of
£58,679 ; next year the surplus stood at £65,309 ; at the
end of 1904 it was £79,247 ; and on December 31st last it
was £118,087.
Standard copper averaged £69 12s. during the
year ; in 1904 it was £59 os. 7d. The production at Moonta
and Wallaroo was 6501 tons fine and 15 tons blister cop-
per ; but an unknown quantity of this was produced from
purchased ore. But, though standard copper averaged
over £lO per ton better than in 1904, the profit (on smelt-
ing ore) was only £lllBs. 9d. per ton of metal as against
£4 ss. lOd. per ton in 1904. Part of the explanation lies
in higher costs. Following figures are per ton of copper :
1902. 1904. 1905.
Mining Costs .. .. £36 3 3 £4l 15 7 £42 16 8
Smelting Costs .. .. 13 17 6 13 18 5 17 6 8
Profits (smelting ore) .. 210 2 4 510 11 18 9
Cementation Costs .. 18 12 2 14 4 8 23 3 3
The copper recovered by cementation (or salt-water leach-
ing) has to be smelted at a cost of £7 2s. Id. per ton.
Part of the striking increase in costs is due to the sliding
wage-scale ; wages rose 10 per cent, in January, 1905, and
another 5 per cent, in February, and kept at that all the
year.
• • • •
Site of the principal works of the new Austra-
lian Smelting Corporation is now being settled ; there
was a gathering of the clans in Sydney latter end of last
week, and a search party went off down to the South
Coast, leaving Lionel Robinson in Sydney, where he put
in some of his time advising London to pick up the
Broken Hill Prop, shares that a panicky market had begun
to throw out at 595. This Australian Smelting Corpora-
tion followed on the heels of the Zinc Corporation, and,
like it, has a capital of £350,000, and, like it too, has
8., M., and Co. for managers. The Smelting Co., besides
taking over the works, &e., of the Smelting and Refining
Co. at Dapto, has the New Caledonian copper properties
of the Caledonian Copper Co. ; it has made a contract
with the Zinc Corporation to handle the latter’s output
of silver-lead concentrates ; and, besides, it has some sort
of agreement with the Broken Hill South as to that
mine’s silver-lead concentrates. Its Australian directors
are W. L. Baillieu, H. J. Daly, Hertzig (of 8., M. and Co.),
and F. C. Howard ; last named is managing director of
the B.H. South, and went on the board in view of the
just-mentioned agreement as to his mine’s output.
Baillieu and Daly are directors of the B.H. North ;
Hertzig and Howard are directors of the South Blocks ;
and the latter’s output, anyway, will be available —when
the co. gets to the output stage.
This smelting co., prima facie, deserves a warm
Australian welcome ; for it is after work which hitherto
has been done mainly in Germany. For a few years, in
the days of oxidised ores, B.H. South ran its own smelters
on the mine ; but since it got on to the sulphides, over 12
years ago, practically the whole of the output has been
shipped to Europe—sold on the mine mostly to German
buyers. Same thing has taken place with regard to Block
10, the British, Junction, Junction North, and North ; and
ever since T. J. Greenway left Block 14 that co. has also
sold its output to the foreign smelter. Thus the only
Broken Hill mines that have smelted in Australia for years
past have been the B.H. Prop, and the Sulphide Corpora-
tion ; and both these —the latter especially—have
occasionally sold concentrates for shipment. At the
lowest the smelting or “ returning” charges on sulphide
concentrates have been £4 10s. per ton ; and they have
been as much as £5 7s. 6d. On top of that have been
numerous deductions and penalties. But it has probably
cost the Australian mining co.’s much more than this;
for they found it impracticable to send their output to
custom works, and so they have almost always sold it
straight-out, either on a sliding scale or at a fixed
price for metals. The German Government, to stimulate
the highly profitable smelting- business, hassubsidised ship-
ping co.’s carrying this class of raw product ; so the Aus-
tralian workman has been paid, say, 11s. per ton for
mining the ore (and even that includes the cost of the
imported timber and the imported stores ; the Broken
Hill Prop., anyway, burns Rangoon candles), and another
4s. for dressing the ore ; another 2s. or 3s. probably re-
presents the Australian labor spent in freight arid hand-
ling- ; and the foreigner has got all the rest. The foreign
labor spent on smelting, refining, manufacture, and
freight amounts to at least 275. 6d. or 30s. per ton of ore,
against the Australian’s 16s. or 17s. The new Smelting
Co. isn’t a philanthropist, and its object isn’t to get most
of that extra 275. 6d. or 30s. for the Australian workman ;
but if it can do what it aims at, that will be the effect
of its operations, nevertheless.
Returns published by the B.H. South for last
half-year are affected by zinc dealings ; so those for pre-
vious half are best to figure on. In that term the
concentrates contained 11,896 tons- lead, and 382,4210 z.
silver, with 1245 tons zinc. Lead averaged £12135. 6d., and
silver a trifle under 2s. 5Jd. Total value, £198,574. But
the co. only got £137,490 ; and that was reckoned a most
favorable contract. In the same half-year the Broken
Hill Prop, spent on mining £150,524, and on concentrat-
ing £37,676 ; total, £188,200. On smelting and refining,
including slime-sintering-, and coal, coke, and fluxes, it
spent £220.497. That, roughly, is the proportion in
which Australian and foreign workmen now benefit from
all those Broken Hill mines which sell their concentrates
to foreign smelters —£188,200 (plus a little for extras) to
the Australian ; £220,497 to the foreigner,
* # * *
Sulphuric a«id and superphosphates are pro-
bable by-products from the Smelting Corporation’s works.
Production of sulphuric acid is necessary for zinc treat-
ment. The Carmichael-Bradford process was intro-
duced five or six years ago for desulphurising the
sulphides. At that time the B.H. Prop, had the
Huntingdon-Heberlein process under test, and the
big co. eventually adopted it. It or something
of the sort was indispensable during the last metal slump.
When the imported process had been adopted for desul-
phurising, the C.-B. people experimented with the pro-
cess to produce sulphuric acid, and succeeded. Cost is
£3 per ton at most ; under favorable circumstances it is
alleged, acid could be produced at the dirt-cheap price ot
£l. The B.H. Prop., meantime, acquired the sole right
to use the process for acid production ; but later on it
sold back part of this right, and allowed the co. to make
a contract with the Bewick-Moreing-Robinson people,
■who control the new zinc and smelting concerns. The
B.H. Prop, is apparently not wholly satisfied with the
Carmichael-Bradford process for acid manufacture ; and
it has lately erected works on another principle—and
these, by the way, are no great success either. But the
new zinc and smelting concerns are well enough satisfied
with the process to have got hold of a large interest in


nSffIEBSSS
dfd
The Best
Tobacco
on
Eartht
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St, Sydney
Hi
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
the Carmichael-Bradford Co., with the object of using
the process both for desulphurising and for the produc-
tion of acid, to serve as a basis for a chemical-manure
industry.
There was a fine, healthy bear in the market
last week, and it squeezed down Broken Hill Props, to
595. using - the fire as a lever. The fall for the week
meant £800,000; and other mines, where there wasn t
anv fire, gave in proportion. It is possible the mine was
over-valued before ; but to knock off £SOO,OOO was absurd.
Like the other two fires, this one has been built in, and
must burn itself out. Probably that means a big fall of
ground, sooner or later; but it doesn’t seem likely to do
the mine any serious harm.
* * * *
Concerning mine fires. W. H. Patton, the first
of the American managers imported to Broken Hill,
owed his appointment largely to a reputation he made
at Comstock as the man who fought and beat the greatest
of the fires in that underground Oregon forest. Block 11,
where the present fire is, had the biggest bunch of
oxidised ore in the B.H. Prop., and probably in the
world ; it was taken out with square sets, stayed (after it
was found that square sets alone could not resist the
diagonal pressure) with solid bulks of the same soft,
resfnous timber. Just south of this the big creeps
occurred, and the ore that was left above 300 ft was
taken out by opemout—the work on the mine with
Which John Howell’s term as general manager is
associated. The work relieved the pressure and pre-
vented further creeps; but down to 400 ft., and
occasionally deeper, the ground is much disturbed,
and there is a vast quantity of splintered timber for fire
to feed on. Very little ore remains in the shallow levels
in that neighborhood. It is some comfort for the share-
holder that where there is most timber there is least ore ;
and the biggest practical danger is from creeps affecting
shafts. It has long been the policy of B.H. Prop, and
other Barrier mines, however, to make themselves inde-
pendent of shafts sunk in the lode or in country liable to
be disturbed. Ever since the previous big fire the co. has
had its own fire brigade and equipment, under the con-
trol of Hansen, formerly superintendent of the Broken
Hill town brigade. But a fire underground isn’t work for
an ordinary fire fighter. At the first outbreak, 12 years
ago, Deputy Superintendent O’Brien, of the Melbourne
Brigade, was whirled up in a special train, but a very
brief turn underground satisfied him that all he had
learned was no good to him in that case. Later
on, as the difficulty always is to locate the fire (it is im-
possible to get near it for smoke and gas), various smoke-
jacket contrivances were tried; and it was understood
that, though it would be impossible to work in them,
they would be kept on hand in the hope that they would
be some use for exploring purposes. But nothing has
been heard of them this time ; general manager Delprat
relies on the blowers to clear the drives more or less and
thus beat a way up to the supposed seat of the lire ;
but there are obvious disadvantages about making a
current of air underground when you don’t know where
there are embers waiting co be fanned. *
What appalling rubbish some of the dailies call
mining news ! This, for instance, alleged to have been
wired from Broken Hiil ’last week :—“ The fire at the
Proprietary mine continues very bad. Both the mine
and hill are now idle, and will probably remain so for
some time. It is impossible to ascertain the full extent
of the fire, Which has, no doubt, spread greatly in the
direction of the Junction. Arrangements are being made
to attack the fire from Junction North.” The Prop, fire
has spread greatly in the direction of the Junction, and
arrangements have been made to attack it from Junction
North ! Between Junction North and Block 11, where
the fire is, lie blocks 11 and 12, Block 14, the British (two
blocks), and the Junction.
* * * *
A second generation of Delprats has arrived at
the mine-managing stage ; a son of the general manager
of the B.H. Prop, has taken charge of the North
Extended—one of the long shots born of the current high
metal prices.
r * * * *
Rolker has finished his work at Cobar, and if
that extra-cautious engineer’s report on the mine is
satisfactory, Australia’s biggest. copper-gold mine will
pass to J. Bull; for the necessary capital has been under-
written in London and Paris—mostly London ; Paris took
up the balance promptly when it got the chance. Kolker
inspected the mine some years ago (for Wehrner, Beit and
Co., the S’Africans, it was supposed), and then had an
idea that it was over-valued ; but copper at £BO and
copper at £4O odd are different animals.
Surface improvements at True Blue, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), will run into £lO,OOO when completed—which
shows the change Wyalong is undergoing. The Home-
ward Bound is getting in the machinery formerly on the
Forget-me-not.
° ★ * * *
Specimen Hill, Bendigo, was the hero of last
week in Melbourne, (hough chasing at its heels was the
New Argus. Co. is an example of the maxim that it is
hard to kill a good mine. New Hopeful, between New
Argus and Specimen Hill, failed to get the Argus shoot;
and Specimen Hill, too, was unable to show up tdl
Januarv, when'it got gold in the west leg at 1835 ft.
First crushing of 47 tons gave 37^0z., and since then a
total of 738 tons from the new formation has yielded
1020oZ. This has put the co. in funds, and allows of a
shilling div. to start with. So far the 1835 ft. level has
been driven 200 ft., and the yield stated above came from
there. South face of the level is all stone, but north, as
work gets lower on the leg, thestone is pinching sharply.
Co. has a big area of ground, and is opening up what is
really a new mine. Hence the rush after shares.
The shutting down of the pumping plant at the
Southern and Prentice shaft of the Prentice and Southern,
Rutherglen (Vic.), is bad news for the Creat Northern
Extended Consols. Prentice and Southern is thought to
have been draining the Murray River from its Southern
and Prentice shaft; but this is hard to believe, in view of
the reduction of water at the Great Southern, the
Extended Consols, and at its own North Prentice shaft.
How long will the co. be able to keep water under at the
last-named shaft after the pumps stop? Even if it can
keep the water down sufficiently to allow of shaft-sinking
and reef-driving, much more money will be needed to get
the water out of the gutter, when once it has again to
be entered, than if pumping had been kept on. Beggars
cannot choose, though ; and with money going out at
every stroke of the pumps, the directors have no alterna-
tive except to stop. *
Allan H. P. Stoneham, of the Australian Gold-
fields, London, who tried to get into the British
Parliament on a semi-Australian ticket, ■ has apparently
got some funds for the Junction Deep Leads mine. This
claim was one of the old Bull floats at Moolort (Vie.).
Junction Deep owned a quarter interest in the povyer
station which supplies electricity to the Charlotte Plains
and the Victorian Deep Leads, and it also is
the proud possessor of a shaft and a drive
which was reported in the London annuals to be going
ahead in 1604, but which certainly was stopped long
before that. Plant has already been erected, so that all
that has to be done is to go on with the drive, get under
the lead, and take the water out of the gutter. But there
isn’t much cash for this work, as all the capital
subscribed and guaranteed amounts to £14,000. This is a
mere drop in the ocean compared with what is wanted to
float a deep lead co. into a haven of security. Berry
United to reach the same stage has put up about £40,0011,
and there isn’t a co. on the far end of the Moolort lead
that has made headway with an outgoing of less than
£50,000. Apparently what has been done is to get some
cash in the hope of raising more.
* * * •
New Loch Fyne, Matlock (Vic.), is hung up,
except for four men who are scraping - up what quartz was
left in the old stopes. It is about two years since the co.
took out a payable crushing ; there is plenty stone m Nos.
3 and 4 levels, but none is payable. No. 5 shows very little
stone, and that little is irregular. From below that bot-
tom level they lately took out a trial crushing from an
underhand stope ; but 100 tons only gave 19Joz. It was
folly, anyhow, to drive the No. 5 level 2000 ft. double
width in order to obtain 80ft. of backs. A shaft from the
surface would have been of much more use, as it would
have proved the dyke to a greater depth. Co. is now
trying to get money enough to rise some 270 ft. to connect
the lower level with the surface, where the dyke outcrops,
then work the dyke by open cut, sending* all leaders and
quartz seams to the battery. It is a large undertaking,
but only the battery can tell whether it will pay.
* * * *
Callide Railway and Coal Syndicate (Q.) dies
quietly by forfeiting £2500 deposit put up as a guarantee
under the provisions of the Act granted by the Queens-
land legislature. The syndicate was originally formed to
exploit the undoubted coal deposits at Callide, about 70
miles south-west of Gladstone. Its scheme was no
wild-cat in the accepted sense. Coal is there, and of good,
clean quality. No less than. 50,000,000 tons of it
are certified to by State Geologist Rands, and the Ad-
miralty’s test in ‘H.M.S. Torch was favorable, although
the 50 tons used indicated that the steaming capaoity was
30 per cent, below that of Newcastle coal. The pi opo-
sition necessitated 70 miles of railway—ss mu es
easy grades, and 15 full of engineering difficulties.
This and the reduced capacity of the coal tested
killed the business. In 1902 the syndicate was
given an amending Act, providing an extension of time
until 31/12/’O5 to construct the line, and permitting grades
of lin 18. John Bull did not “part up,” so the line was
not constructed, and the State resumed the leases, and
£2500 goes into the Treasury. Despite all this the day
may come when Callide will be a profitable field. Just at
present Queensland has no reasonable market for the coal
already opened up ; but G. H. Reid and his followers do
not seem to care much about that, so long as hats and
calico come regularly from foreign parts.
* * * *
The recent record of the Vulcan tin mine,
Irvinebanlc (N.Q.): —
Stone Black . .
crushed tin (tons) Gross Divi-
(tons). Produced. Receipts. dends.
Aug. 1902 .. 3733 278 £12,687 £4,400
Feb"’ 1903 .. 3206 287 . 10,651 4,400
Au- 1903 .. 4834 326 17,839 6,600
Feb 1904 .. 3656 287 12,627 4,400
Au«\’ 1904 .. 5438 432 23,231 4,950
Feb ’ 1905 .. 4884 466 18,581 11,000
Aug.’, 1905 .. 5805 589 35,095 15,400
Feb., 1906 .. 5514 526 38,934 23,100
Since 1890, when the present co. got to work, 78,379
tons have been crushed for 8170 tons tin, which
has been sold for £428,240, or £52 Bs. 3d. per ton
of black tin; while the average realisation for the
past six months has been £74 os. sd. per ton.
Thus on the half-year’s output, the difference between
the average price realised by the co. and the price
realised in the past six months has been, worth £10,500
clear profit to the Vulcan. After paying dividend duty
the profit was £25,198 ; so that the recent high market
has been responsible for pretty well half of the profit.
In other words, given the average tin-price of the past
14 years, the co.’s profit would have been £14,698 instead
of £25,198. Even in the previous half-year (to August,
1905) the average realised was only £59 11s. Sd. per ton ;
in the half-year before that (to February, 1905), it was
£39 17s. per ton. The outlook for tin seems, no doubt,
remarkably good ; hut, all the same, it is a tiicky niaiket,
and it is just as well to keep posted up on the bedpost
the fact that for very nearly half of its profit the Vulcan
is depending on the present excess of the market value of
its product over the average value of the past 14 years.
It is still worked in a primitive, or rather per-
haps patriarchal, fashion, this Vulcan, even though it is
the most permanent-looking tin line in Australia and
the deepest lode-tin mine in the Southern Hemisphere.
In some respects no doubt the shareholders are the
gainers For instance, “Directors’ and audit fees,
£BO Bs. ” I and the half year before that it was £4O 4s. Think
of it, London Stock Exchange ! On the other hand, con-
sider this item—“ Tin stone cartage, £562.” The co.
hasn’t even got its own mill; the Irvinebanlc Co. crushes
for it and the Vulcan hires horse-teams to laboriously
dra o- ’ the stone to the battery. Last half-year,
besides cartage, &c., crushing charges amounted to
£4830, or about 17s. 6d. per ton. Possibly it couldn’t he
done for less than that, but. after carting coal and fuel 300
odd miles by rail, and paying from 3s. 6d. to ss. per 1000
gallons for water, the Broken Hill mines can do mill work
for 3s. 9d. per ton ; and 17s. 6d. is a longdistance from 3s.
9d At one time it probably didn’t matter much. John
Moffatt owned the big slice of the Vulcan and the biggest
slice of the dressing works, which he manages (it is prac-
tically his) ; but now that shares have run up to £5 ss.
they have been getting into many hands in the south,
and the call for theco. to own a battery, and to modernise
the whole system of work, will soon be heard.
* * * *
Unless something wholly unexpected happens
to the tin market, Irvinebanlc is in for a brisk time.
Vulcan has over four years’ work in sight of 10 per cent,
grade on a crushing basis of 1500 tons a month ; and,
despite archaic methods of transport to mill and high
crushing costs, with tin where it is, it will pay 9d. a month
on the split shares-four for one. The Governor Norman,
a Moffat-owned mine, now being equipped with its own
mill has an immense tonnage of high-grade ore
■Droved • and the Vulcan Consols, which lias up to now
been pig-rooted for 8 and 10 per cent, stuff, has a big
tonnage of 5 per cent. ore. And there are others.
Reid’s Creek tin shows (N.Q.) wait the tardy
erection of John Moffatt’s mill. Dalziel’s Tin Co. has a
lot of 8 per cent, ore in sight ; and the Adelaide, another
Moffat-owned property, and the Denford and the Titama
(owned by E. B. Torpy) are opening up big payable lodes.
Torpv’s properties, especially, are developing well enough
for Torpy to propose erecting a reduction plant. In the
Titania there is proved a big lode of 6 per cent, ore ; and in
the Denford there is a shoot of 30 per cent, ore 50ft. from
surface driven on for 15ft., and still in the face, besides a
great deposit of 3 per cent, stuff proved over a length of
130 ft. * * *
Croydon (N.Q.) has been struck with another
patch of bad luck in the shape of a cyclone ; and for the
time being, the local miner has knocked off looking for
the gold beyond the granite and is prospecting for his
house and the lost, fled, vanished frying-pan. Mean whi e,
in case he cannot again pick up the domestic lode, the
philanthropic public of Queensland is building up a solid
little fund to help him. # , "
Latest move in Cloneurry (N.Q.) properties is
the reported purchase, by a Knox-Schlapp syndicate, of
Kennedy’s Duchess mine for £15,000 cash. When one
considers “the mine” and the cash said to have been
paid for it, and the people said to have given it, one is at
first inclined to merely say “Rats. But perhaps they
“ know something.” Melbourne is taking very kindly to
Oloncurry just now; similarly Knox-Schlapp are not
averse to Cloneurry. Duchess is, anyhow, a good mine
to gamble with. But as to Cloneurry in general it has to
be always remembered that the railway has to be built,
and either a genuine sulphide zone has to he opened up,
or the capacity of the carbonates has to he proved.
• * * *
At Charters Towers in February, Mills United
headed the list with 3024 tons l for 12050 z.; Brilliant
Extended was a good second with 3000 tons for 1124PZ. ,
Brilliant Central scraped up 2400 tons for 11470 z.; Block
and Wyndham, 18ltf tons; 1004 oz. ; Brilliant St. George,
1692 tons 9820 z. ; Brilliant Block, 685 tons, 2360 z. ,
Marshall’s Queen, 617 tons, 4650 z ; New Queen, 508 tons,
3050 z. • Victory (from three shafts), 601 tons, 3950 z. ,
Carrington’s lion P.C., 325 tons 4930 z and a second
parcel of 296 tons for 5830 z. ; Tuckett s Victory tribute,
76 tons, 2260 z. ; Ruby, 57 tons, 1220 z. Concentrates and
■ residues are not included.
Brilliant St George, Charters Towers, is going
to speculate in a property hitherto looked on as doubts,
the Identity and Hope. Lease contains 50
situated at Millchester, within half-a-rmle o .
George crushing mill; whereas the co. s pres -u s
two miles away? The old show is about done the: pillars
now maintain the tonnage, and parte of it haie b
given over to tributors. As a rule, tnbutois are
iud»es of ground, and are not hampered by
few of them tackle the blocks of the Id ent 'tyandHope
One narcel from there went 7dwt. ; anothei lot returne
4dwL Shareholders on the field will yet erect a memorial
to the manager who makes half-ounce stone and
there is a difference between that and 7dwt. To redu
costs to the lowest it is proposed to connect the shaft ana
the mill, so that all stone shall reach the mi'L by grav
tation. A large compressor is to be “
which is to supply the winder and
with compressed air. Everything is to beautomatictne
directors say ; but what will happen wh .en the directors
enthusiasm cools is a different matter. Anywaj, tnere is
an opening for manager Carroll, even if 7dwt. amounts to
only a small opening. # *
Although Brilliant Central, Charters Towers,
keeps a bold front, the workings are not too gay.
Recently at a vertical depth of 1420 ft. in the straight
shaft, a start was made to lookforthcreefwirlcedby
the Phoebe, and now being developed by Kelly s Block.
Appearances could not have been promising when sinking
the straight, as no frame set was placed above the torw
ation ; and that is usually done on the slightest provo
cation. A little higher up, at 1318 ft., another formation
is being tested ; but neither place looks encouraging. _
crosscut was put into the hanging wall from No 8 level
this was to meet the reef overhead, and It did 2rt. or
stone But it is within 50ft. of the Bonnie boundary,
and has pinched to 6in. in the level. The lease is a net-
work of leaders that junction anywhere and form bunches
of stone, then break away again.
* * * *
Many Westralian gold shows have been found
by natives; only the other day a gm strolled into a
miner’s camp at Tuckanarra, on the Murchison, with
several rich quartz specimens. These she passed oyer for
a plmr of tobacco, and afterwards guided the miner
the ; . f from which they came. It was only a couple of
miles from the town, which is 10 years old, audit doesn t
say much for the prospecting that that distnct has had
that a rich reef should have been ht erall y to
unnoticed scores of times, and be left fora black gin t
find. A 12-acre claim has been pegged, and coarse gold
is being raised. „
* * *
The Fenian, about the best show so far worked
at Meekatharra, which is Westralia’s richest spot at
present, belongs to six men, two of whom own half of the
mine between them. Stone has yielded, so * ar » &ioz per ton,
and although the reef is a little less than 2ft., it is we
defined, and at water level (150 ft.) looks like goiiig down
rich. Spite its name, there is only one Irishman in the
party, and three of the others are Scots. Lease*contains
17 acres, and £30,000 has already been refused for the
show. The country north and south is being worked for
a total length of a couple of miles, and several of the
shows are getting rich stone. There is a Government
battery, but water is scarce and stone is accumulating.
Winter rains will soon set in, but no attempt is being
made to conserve any of the supply.
* * * *
Perhaps the oldest mining company m
Australia was wound up a few days since at Perth by
Justice M'Millan. The West Australian Mining Company
was formed in 1840, and was one of the first in the State.
It was worked until 1857, and sunk shafts near Armadale
in search of some mineral or other —name of mineral
almost forgotten. At. one time nearly everyone in the
State, was a .shareholder. The capital was £J),000 in
10 000 shares of 40s. each. The co. has not done any
dieting for 49 vears, all the directors are dead, there is
no office, and the assets consist of a few patches of land,
which are to be sold.
* * * *
As the result of the Westralian Goldfields water
scheme, the Kalgoorlie co.’s save on the average 3s. or 4s.
per ton in costs ; and yet they successfully resist a pay-
ment for the service which will allow the State to wipe
off anv of the debt. The co.’s themselves write off an
annual 10 per cent, or more from their plants ; but they
have had the spineless Governments of Westralia so com-
pletely under their thumb that the State can t
write off even £ per cent, out of profits. Before
the scheme was completed, fresh water (condensed)
cost about. 655. per 1000 gallons; now it costs ss.
On the average, water costs the mines Is. per ton of nre
treated ; it runs from 7.86 d. per ton on the South KaL
o-urli to 18.84 d. per ton on the Associated. Although
both these mines use practically the same process, and
treat almost identical tonnage monthly, the former uses
only £240 worth of water against the latter s £590, a
difference of £4200 a year. But the South K.algurli gets
its power from the Kalgoorlie Electric Power Go., and
that accounts for most of the difference.
* * ■» *
Associated Northern is doing well for a mine
that was nearly worked out years ago present reserves,
by the way, will last two years on the conservative esti-
mate of G. M. Roberts. Co. is earning a profit of £ll,OOO
monthly, has in hand £132,000, and has written down
equipment and development to £36,000. The western
lode which has been tested in shallow ground is to be
exploited from below by a crosscut right through to the
Kalgurli boundary. This western lode is low grade in the
oxidised zone, hut may be better at a depth. As costs
are only 28s. a ton, what would not have been looked at a
short time ago is good enough now.
* * * *
Lancefield, Laverton (W. A.), which closed down
at the end of November, will not move again for some
time yet. After testing 25 tons at the South Kalgurli
mill, and obtaining an extraction of 83 percent., a similar
plant with slight modifications, has been ordered ; but it
.will take time to get. The ore at 300 ft. contains arsenical
pyrites, and is valued at 48s. per ton. With this g?rade of
ore, and treating 10,000 tons monthly, a profit of nearly
£lO,OOO is looked for. Well, it won’t do anybody any
harm to look for it; but finding’s another matter.
« * * *
A prospectus issued in Adelaide ought to have
the attention of the Stock Exchange there and of the S.
Australian Mines Department. The thing is called the
Golden Gate G.M.00. ; property situate near Angaston.
Capital is £21,600, in 10,800 shares of £2 each. Of these,
1200 fullv paid go to C. H. Angas and H. Johnston (ap-
parently they own the freehold) ; 7600 fully paid go to the
Angaston G.M. Syndicate ; and a whole 2000 are offered
to the public, the £2 being payable on application. Public
has the privilege of putting up all the capital and getting
less than one-fifth of the alleged mine; further Angas
and Johnston take £250 of the money that the public puts
up There is no plant on the property ; there are only
three shallow shafts, from which a few tons of the richest
stone have been gouged ; and the public’s £3OOO or so is to
provide machinery. There is a big irregular clayey forma-
tion with leaders through it. The prospectus says, on the
authority of “ the present mine manager,” that the lode
matter is 175 ft. in width, with neither wall showing, and
gold bearing and highly payable for the whole width.
Prospectus also says —“ The directors ” (of the syndicate,
apparently) “ have sent to the Mt. Torrens Government
battery a parcel representing an average bulk sample
from the mine for treatment ”; and the result is 640 z.
from under 41 tons. And the manager says the mine
consists of two bodies, one of which is over 175 ft. wide.
These statements are put forward as a basis on which the
public is asked to put up its money. If they are true,
what does the syndicate want to raise a paltry £3OOO or
£4OOO for, and what is late millionaire Angas’ son and heir
doing to hand over an interest like this ? Two practic-
ally unknown men report on the property ; apparently
neither of them sampled it; and two shafts that were
120 ft. apart when one “expert” reported had come
together to 75ft. within three days, when the other
expert reported. But this is a side issue. Here the pub-
lic is told that “ an average bulk sample” from the mine
of 41 tons showed 640 z. ; and as the mine consists of
“lode matter 175 ft. in width and highly payable all
through,” it is up to the S. Aus. Mines Inspector to
report whetherjiis State has about the biggest gold mine
in Australia, or whether Adelaide has just had put before
it something extra-outrageous in the way of prospectuses.
It ought to be the duty of the Adelaide Stock
Exchange to urge the Government, in the interests of
mining "and legitimate Exchange business, to find out
which°of the two it is.
* * *
“ Melb.” : The shell of the superb new building
of the A.M.P. Society, at the corner of Collins and
William streets, Melbourne, is finished. It is in dark-
yellow stone, reminiscent of Hobart and Geelong. A
tablet is to be fixed up, stating that the site is that of
Batman’s house, the first building in Melbourne.
Sydney Evening News announced the other
day that 'you could buy pure gold from the Mint for
£3 17s. lOd. per ounce. But, alas for this writer, s hopes of
making a fortune, it turned out that the Noose had mis-
informed itself as usual. It was in an article on gold-
minino' on the coast ; the Mint, they said, was giving
pi -ig 0 per ounce for this product, therefore it must
contain “other valuable minerals, probably iridium
or platinum.” But, in the first place, the -Mint doesn t
buV iridium or platinum at all; in the second, the tact
of the Mint giving this good price denoted that it was
buying gold, and not an impure, alloy ; and,. lastly,
brethren £3 17s. lOd. per ounce is the standard price for
22-carat gold, which isl-12th dross.
VG • Question unanswerable; no office is best
in everv respect. But, for general purposes, your own
State’s Life Department is as good as any..... Asia :No ;
£3500, the last £2OOO being for goodwill... .Valde T. .
Adelaide S.S. Co.; but you can’t force that market.
The pumping difficulties which many mines
have to contend with sometimes develop into a scare which
tends to knock shares out of the market. The A. S.
Cameron Steam or Air Pumps have saved many
precarious situations by their ability to handle water,
even gritty or aciduous without fear of the pumps getting-
out of order. Broken Hill Mines, the Mt. Lyell, and other
leading coys, have recognised the great value of Cameron
pumps in their simplicity, strength and durability under
all conditions, whether driven bycompresscdairor
steam. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne—the Sole
Agents—are continually supplying Boilerfeeding, Piston,
Horizontal, and Vertical Plunger Pumps from their
stocks. Mining requisites are specially catered for.
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record, (Melbourne), of 20th June, 1905, wrote with
reference to the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited The transactions of the Society are on a
lar«-e scale, the income approaching half-a-million sterling.
Each year the addition to the funds is of considerable
magnitude, and the total for the last three years exceeds
, * *
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
vear hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and Re" 6™
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine, managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading' mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse P°werper
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Unright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd\ Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
Important Notice to Mine Managers and
Users of Concentrators.— In the recent action for In-
fringement Wiifley v Card the decision of the Supreme
Court of Victoria did not merely refer to a Card top
which was altered without authority, but it didrefertoa
Card Concentrator manufactured and worked at the New
Chum Consolidated Mine, Bendigo under the supervision
and control of N. Guthridge Limited, and to a Caid Con-
centrator exhibited at Long’s works, .Poot#^ which
was officially pointed out as the trim Card construction
during the trial, and which defendant used for exhibi
to customers and making tesus, and on which they gave
exhibitions to witnesses for the purposes of this tual. Ine
Judo-e specifically decided that the substance of the
Footscray table and of the No. 38 (New Chum Consolidated
Table) was the same as that of the plaintiff Wiifley and
4ere infringements. N. Guthridge Limited were ordered
to pay damages and costs, the costs were taxed and the
Sheriff seized the goods of N. Guthridge Limited in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, but as they were all claimed by the
receiver for the debenture holders the execution wa s re-
turned unsatisfied. Bankruptcy proceedings have been
instituted in the Supreme Court of N.S. Wales to wind up
N. Guthridge Limited. As N. Guthridge Limited are still
offering to indemnify purchasers, take notice that all
users o*f Card tables which.infringe the Wiifley patent will
'•be proceeded against: The user is liable to an action as
well as the manufacturer.* # „
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere. „
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware andapparatusofall
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bouike-
street, Melbourne.* # *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagli-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Mana e er.
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 hp. Superheaters chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm This now makes 40 b< e s
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. V herever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed J Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Naw.*
* « * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
anv si°n of decay, and may last as long again, bpnal
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fiuming, refrigerators, bolts, puts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.
•* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Micro*
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton,
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest inform**
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
w s to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will he advised in due course.
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
. Est., 1894. t ,
» * *
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Pull particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* # ...
Commonwealth, and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne ' (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors Guide.
♦
Definition of a gentleman recently given
by a Vic. State school teacher to Ins scholars:
‘ ‘ A man with plenty of money. ’


Hotel
Australia
HATES:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Largest, Coolest, and
Best Appointed Summer
Hotel in Australasia.
SPACIOUS, COOL
DINING HALL
LOUNGE BAR.
f
During- Summer
Months the Winter
Garden is the Coolest
Place in Sydney for
Afternoon Tea, &c.
A Balcony Dining- Room has been
added to main Dining- Ilall.
Guest Night Every Thursday.
J. UllE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereajjh-st., Sydney.
FISHINQ NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & sYo££% ee st -
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewei-y, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
Grib : Recently met an old dame push-
ing a wheelbarrow loaded with swags, &c. Her
old man ” and she used to travel Queensland in
this way but she always wheeled the barrow
ihe old chap dled at Te nterfield (N.S.W.), a few
weeks back, and left his widow to continue her
travels alone. They had been “on the road’’ for
years.
„ ® an : It always hurts me when the
shadow of doubt is cast on an “ Abo.” par. Some
weeks ago,'a writer stated that he had charmed a
snake by whistling to it across a waterhole, and
the snake waited there at the bank until the said
writer had found a big stone and bashed it on the
head. Next week, another “Abo.” man wrote
slightingly of the snake’s intelligence, and, I took
it, cast insulting doubts on the story altogether.
The question was : Has a snake the sense of hear-
ing ? Well, last Saturday, I was called in to
prosecute a large black snake that had been found
coiled up on my neighbor’s verandah. The snake
did not wait for the ceremony, but, before my
arrival, was seen to crawl under the veran-
dah floor through a hole. For half- .
an-hour I waited with a nice
straight bit of tree. ' The
waiting was tedious, and
soon I found myself softly
whistling. In a minute, a
the small devilish-
looking head ap-
peared in the hole,
and—stayed there.
Calmly the near-
side eye met
mine and held
my gaze. For
half-an-hour
longer I kept
up the spirit-
ed airs, only
pausing for
wind, but
not the
eighth of
an inch
would the
reptile
budge.
Bull ants
were run-
ning up
to his
nose con-
tinually
and clear-
ing out
again in
a hurry,
but he
took no
notice. Then N
I took a
saucer of milk,
which was handy,
and put it beside
the hole, thinking that
thirst might induce him to come out. No good ;
he was offended, and not even the “Bull and’
Bush would fetch him from his seclusion. Only
he cursed me with his eye all the time. There is
nothing else on earth which has such a cold
bitter curse in its eye as a snake.
* * # #
“ Uckle ” writes :
A.S. (B. 15/2/’O6) asks has any Aboriginally person
reared a kookaburra. My mother reared three (not
including us). We kids had to feed them. Having had
practical expenence in that line, am of the opinion that
A.b. has not. Our kookas fairly cackled with delight
at the sight of raw beef. They didn’t bolt their food
before we suspected their intentions, like the birds of
A-f: They used to belt the beef on the ground about
99£ times before eating it. “A.S.’s” kooka bolted a
lizard alive, leaving its hind legs kicking. That jackass
was either a thundering idiot, or “A.S.” is a thundering
(missing word). Whilst we had the jackasses, we never
saw a worm in the garden. The kookas met a sad end.
Our nearest neighbor killed the three one day. He had
the d.t.’s, and got a loan of the birds to killhis snakes.
He got angry because they didn’t kill his snakes. My
mother told him afterwards that as the snakes were
imaginary he should have borrowed imaginary kooka-
burras to kill them, and he admitted that she was right.
A WASTED LIFE.
LITTLE JIM (full up of milking); “ Well, if I
could have me time over agen I wouldn’t be
at this blooming game.”
“ ** assan ”= “ W.P.8.” (B. l/3/’O6) seems
uncertain as to the why and wherefore of a wasD
dragging a dead spider. He suggests that Hir
wasp was about to dine. Incorrect The wasp is
a honey-feeding beast, but it lays its eggs on pa
LaHy dead insects so that the la?fae, when
hatched, will had the meat which their souls
crave, lurther on he asks: “Was the spider
killed in a heated argument ? ” There is no argu-
ment in such cases, and the spider is not killed
Ihe wasp dropped upon the spider’s back and
stung it, whereupon the spider went into a sort of
cataleptic trance. Dead, it would dry up or rot
before the wasp’s eggs hatched, but in this state
of coma it keeps nice and fresh. What horse is if
tnL ? ab r e t 0 b f° k Wlu i n a j lornet m eets a taran-
tula. lam always pleased to meet anybody will-
ing to back the spider. The wasps do not hesitate
to enter the holes of the large and ferocious ground
spiders, so they haven’t much doubt of their own
prowess. And some ground spiders build a tan
door over their shafts to keep out the wasos
showing that they too consider the odds
against them. One large wasp, Prixnemis Bi-
color preys on the noisy cicada, usually singling
out the biggest double-drummer as its victim To
e J h - Se Sf 3 ** ™f s P s straddling across their game,
dragging it to they shafts, and burying it is a
sight worth watching The shafts vL/from IS
to 24 inches deep and contain, when full, from 10
*Ol2 cataleptic double-drummers. I have never
been stung by this species, but should imagine it
would be something to remember.
FIRST AID FOR THE DEAD.
MOTOR FIEND (cheerily): “ It’s all right, old
hoy. Don’t he at all alarmed. I always carry
a medical kit with me.”
W.P.B. ’: The suction power of greasy
wool is extraordinary. It is only necessary to
place a bale of the “great natural resource’’ over a
bucket of water and this will be illustrated. In a
few hours the water will have entirely disap-
peared from the bucket. This has nothing to do
with any vacuum, and the experiment may be made
equally effective by putting a bale near a puddle.
Also wool, after being shorn, grows. Why it
grows, and whence it draws its nourishment, I am
unaware. Hair and wool draw nourishment from
the scalp and skin of animals. Can anyone
account for the fact that the hair on dead persons
still persists in growing ?
* * * *
Though so far there isn’t much to show for
it, in a commercial way of speaking, the S. Aus-
tralian Forest Department has, up to date, given
away something like 0,200,000 trees: This free
distribution began on a small scale 23 years ago,
and nowadays about a quarter-million a
year go out—gums, Remarkable pine (for
box-making), N.S.W. swamp oak, and
American ash principally. It is the
same department that has for years been
nursing the date-palms along the over-
flow waters of the far northern bores.
The biggest plantation, containing close
upon 3000 palms, is at Lake Harry ; but
the ultimate idea is to scatter palms in
small clumps at intervals where they
will do the rare travellers in those part?
most good—to serve much the same pur-
pose as the melons and pumpkins
scattered by early explorers on far-in
sandbanks, and still, after these 40 or
50 years, bearing the squashy vegetable
in season. So far, however, the date-
palm hasn’t taken as well to its new
home as the transported pumpkin
did ; especially the cool changes that
have a habit of dropping-in during
February and March affect the ripening
of the fruit. It didn’t seem possible that a cool
change could drop in too often during February
and March ; but it seems that, till it gets acclima-
tised, anyway, the stranger from mid-Africa has
its own views on that subject.
* * * .
“Bricky”: Joe was watching a spider
climbing up the post. That started a conversa-
tion about different sorts and sizes of insects •
finally it came round to fleas. Said the man with
a cap on the back of his head “ Yer can’t beat the
West fer fleas. Biguns? Why yer can stand ten
paces off and fling ’em at the wall and hear ’em
drop on the floor. Sleep? No yer can’t get no
sleep, they’ll sit on yer chest and pick their teeth
and fairly howl at yer. But strange ter say after
two or three nights they leave yer f’r a spell
Discovered the cause. When a whistle sounded
and announced the arrival of a fresh boat, they’d
be off ter meet it.” Then a gust of wind lifted the
roof off the smithy and we had to flee.
‘ 1 O’Fipp ” : I was present at the breaking
of all long-distance and sprint records for bullock-
driving profanity in a Gippsland (Vie.) township
the other day. Two men, driving a waggon with
18 bullocks, came to the township for a load of
goods. After getting their load and spending
some hours on a lovely jag, they decided that it
was time to leave. When they reached the
railway gates they found them shut, as a train
was due. But, full of Gippsland tanglefoot,
Bill and Jim declared that they wouldn’t wait no
’arf-hour for no train, so they opened the gates
and started the bullocks through. Just as the
leaders got fairly on to the line the whistle of the
train was heard. Bill rapidly fled down off the
load. Strenuous swearing got the bullocks half-
way across the line, when the nave of a hind
wheel struck the gate-post, and stuck fast.
Then began a simultaneous cussing mission
such as would have moved a team of
hippopotami, let alone bullocks. An accompani-
ment was rendered by two old dames, standing at
the door of the store, who had their hands over
their eyes, and squealed continuously—“ Don’t
look ! Don’t look ! Oh, the poor men will be
killed ! ” The train was pulled up just in time,
and, the bullocks hauling solidly, the wheel
skidded off. Bill and Jim let the bullocks go
and each rushed for a gate. They met half-way,’
and used another beautiful batch of profanity in
an argument as to whose gate was to shut first
while the indignant engine-driver threatened to
run the train over them if they didn’t get off the
line quick and lively. When I left, the bullocks
were tangled in the railway fence lower down,
and Bill and .Jim were going back to the township
to try to bring their shattered nerves together
with another of the same.
v « * *
The sort of farmer who, as an instructor
of others, ought to be worth £lOOO a year to any
State, strolled into the Vic. Agricultural Depart-
ment lately with a sample of maize, 7ft. Gin. high,
luscious and green, grown near Dandenong. This
is poor country, and the season has been dry ; yet
the crop had thus matured without a drop of
water artificially applied. It was planted in drills
3ft. apart, with 9in. between each plant, and lewt.
of superphosphate per acre was run in the drills
with the seed. A cultivator was run through the
rows every three weeks. If that man’s experience
holds good elsewhere, it seems as if this country
could do with a lot less irrigation than it is getting
—with less rains and more brains, in fact.
* ♦ « #
“Jim. Pan.”: T'other day I watched
fourteen camels come to the Darling to drink.
It was my hour for Nature study. I timed the
performance. ■ It lasted just fifteen minutes.
Abdul Jam Turn marshalled the camels side by
side on the sandy bank. The ungainly beasts
drank very deliberately, lifting up their heads
high m the air (fowl-fashion) every now and then,
as though to give the water a better chance to
settle down into their storage tanks. When
finished with absorption, they marched in stately
fashion up the bank and over the red sandhill,
with A. J Tinn hanging on to the tail of the
last. An hour later the local ferryman gravely
told me that “the river had fell somethink
terrible since mornin’.”
NEW VERSIONS.
MILLIE : “ Yous oughter been in our class in
Sunday school ter-day, Johnnie; our teacher
told us a story ’bout a farther wantin’ his
son ter come ’ ome an’ eat a poddy car ft”
JOHNNIE : “ That’s nufin’; our teacher told us
erbout a feller called Joner swallerin’ a whole
whale!”
: Will the naturalists who
afnrm the impossibility of the cat-rabbit cross
kindly assign to its place in zoology the animal
with a cat s body and rabbit’s legs, that eats both
meat and grass, and sits in an upright position ?
It has been found in most rabbit-infested dis-
tricts, and writer will land one in Sydney for any
enterprising person who will deposit £5. Here is
a chance for some budding naturalist.
THE BOMBAZINE ARTILLERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
For full dress occasions it was decided to allow each
corps to retain, if it so desired, its old pre-Federation
traditional uniform, or to adopt the gorgeous dress
■ordeied by General Hutton. The various corps could, in
short, please themselves on full dress occasions. . . .
splendid artillery uniforms . . . costly gold and silver
chevrons—-sometimes costing £l6 or more each.— The
JfxGE, 14/2/ O.
The papers talk a lot of rot;
They say our army’s gone to pot!
Which simply proves there’s quite a lot of things they
don’t get on to—
For instance, ever since the war
They’ve been a-cuttin’-up the corps
For things they might have known before—but then they
didn’t .want to.
They used to say “the country’s proud
Of you ” ; and used to say it loud ;
Eut now we’re just a useless crowd that “ lacks organisa-
tion ”;
And everythin’ is in a mess—
We “ don’t know' even how to dress ! ”
Oh, blow your “ free, unfettered Press it’s ruinin’ the
nation.
It’s—“ One for the Infantry!” “ One for the Horse! ”
We look for it now as a matter of course ;
We all get put in the pillory.
They rate us, and slate us, and disintegrate us
Without any shame or remorse—
All, exceptin’ the Pride of the Force—
The Bombazine Artillery !
Yes, that’s where they have to stop ;
Where.we get ’em on the hop ;
Where the Force comes out on top when they start
a-skitin';
That's Australia’s starry hope,
1 hat s what makes the papers mope,
That’s the corps ’ll make ’em slope when it comes to
fightin’!
You should see each golden gun,
Glitterin’ like the flamin’ sun,
When they swing to “ Action-fron’! ’’-though they
seldom makes ’em ;
You should see the limbers, too,
White and silver, picked with blue,
An’ the harness bright an’ new—that’s the thing- that
takes ’em !
There s nothin about ’em that’s vulgar or coarse,
They re alwa3 7 s looked up to as men of resource—
Fit to defend a Distillery !
They chide us, deride us, an’ some can’t abide us—
A feelin’ the papers endorse—
But nobody flouts the Pride of the Force—
The Bombazine Artillery!
You should see ’em on parade—
That magnificent Brigade !
Officers in gold brocade, trimmed with silk an’ laces ;
Aiguillettes, and all the rest,
Gleamin’ on each dazzlin’ breast,
And an ostrich-feather crest settin’ off their faces !
Pale-blue trousers, striped with gold,
Perfect cut, an’ crease, an’ fold—
Beautiful, as well as Bold ; lovely and alarmin’.
And the han’some rank an’ file,
All arrayed in similar style,
With the Band in rose-pink voile, lookin’simply charmin’
It’s hard for the Infantry, Hell for the Horse,
To rough it in uniforms hairy an’ coarse,
But they’re unworthy of frillery ;
They jeer us, an’ fleer us, an’ never will cheer us,
Stuck dowm in the scrub an’ the gorse ;
But, hear ’em yell for the Pride of the Force—
The Bombazine Artillery!
Then their service-dress is neat:
Satin, with a double pleat—
What the Staff calls “ re-al sweet ’’—frills of bright blue
“lustre”;
Picture hats, an’ brown, tan bools ;
Gloves just what their fancy suits ;
When the “ Stables ” trumpet toots you should see the
muster 1
Nice, enamelled mops and pails,
Gold paint on the manger-rails,
Ribands in the horses tails, manes done up artistic ;
While for years the rule has been
That no gunner shall be seen
Without pants of crepe-de-chine— cut idealistic.
So, rail at the ,Infan try, pooh-pooh the Horse,
We look for that now 7, as a matter of course—-
WE are quite used to the pillory !
Yes, flout us, an’ scout us, an’ say things about us
Without any shame or remorse.
But don’t “ sling-off ” at the Pride of the Force—
The Bombazine Artillery!
vie.
O. C. CABOT.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT,
nr- Buy Whole Bottles.
£10 10s.
Gent's Watch .
Heavy 14ct. Gold Hunting
J— plate Lever.
15 Jewels. Expansion Balance.
15 Years’ Guarantee.
Profoundly accurate. Rarely strong.
The “Fx. & R.” Levers are uneclipsed.
Special Presentation discount.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX L ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER ST.
1
N-
m
Gent’s 14 ct.
Gold Hunting
Lever, fully
jewelled—
£io 10s.
“Hamer”: Be drastic methods with re-
fractory horses (B. 8/2/’O6). A man who was
proud of his horsemanship told me that his
procedure with buck-jumpers was to spring
into the saddle with a very thin glass bottle full
of water in his hand, which, at the first symptoms
of trouble, he brought down weightily between
the horse’s ears. Then he looked out for a soft
place to fall. The water trickling over the horse s
head after the blow gave him the impression that
he was killed or something, and if he didn t drop
he would stand trembling, and would never after-
wards run the risk of having the operation re-
peated.
• * * *
“ Homo ” sends this as a true bill: —
It was race-day at Fillemup. “ Slogger ” Samson had
come down from the shearing with a cheque as big as a
blanket, and was “ shaking it up.” Things were, m fact,
prett\ r willin* all round, and the wooden box that seivecl
as a lockup was bulging'. The race-night dance was
coming on in the hall next the Travellers Rest, and the
social pulse of Fillemup was quickened by the dread that
Slogger would violently disturb the evening’s harmony,
as he had done many times before. So a council of war
was held, and Slogger was chained to the log that held
the overflow from the lockup during festive periods.
Then Fillemup gave itself to the delights of the dance,
and nothing occurred to mar the proceedings till close on
midnight. Then, above the revelry, arose the noise of
an escaped menagerie. When Fillemup was sufficiently
recovered to inquire the cause, it found that the row was
merely Slogger, with his prison on his back, demanding a
drink.
And another true bill from “ P.X.” to match it
When “Ginger” Clarke and Francis Abigail were
Ministers they were sent out to make things a bit more
solid for their boss (Parkes) in the Far West. Broken
Hill was then a mining camp ; lookup, a couple of corru-
gated-iron shanties, with the iron nailed on not many
times. Saunders, then sergeant there, now superinten-
dent in the same district, had run in two diggers (more
or less diggers) in the morning. Broken Hill knocked
off digging to have a drink—even Abigail is excuse
enough for a drink in a Broken Hill dust-storm. Later
on, when the drink began to talk and make strange
noises, the prisoners couldn’t resist it any longer—they
put their shoulders to the side of the prison, and walked
through it. Then they joined the crowd that gave what
the Sydney papers said was an “ enthusiastic welcome ”
to Parkes’ Ministers. Within a few months, by the way,
the same Broken Hill turned out to follow its one hearse
carrying Abigail’s effigy to a stake, where the effigy was
burned with the same sort of liquid enthusiasm.
* * * *
Copy of a notice on a gate-post at Croy-
don (N.Q.): —
NO T I O E.
All persons found trespassing or shooting in
this paddock will be prosecuted by Thomas Q .
Please put up the rales.
Do not forget to put up the rales as the hoarses are
always getting through people not putting up the
rales.
(Sined) Thomas Q
THE NOMADIC BARD AND HIS FREE BEER.
WOMBAT WALKER: “ Yus, you give it ter ’im, but yer won't give it to me!”
MR. PUBLICHOUSE: “ Well, you see, I believe in encouragin’ Australian literachoor.”
A peculiar trouble has struck a number of
towns in N.W. Victoria. Some time ago there
was a plague of mice there, to cope with which
cats were in very great request. The farmers
begged, borrowed, or stole all the cats and kittens
they could get in the towns or elsewhere, and the
mice were at length got under. Then the trouble
was to keep the cats down, and now every farmer
that visits a town brings with him a bag contmn-
ing several or more pussies of all sorts and sizes.
These he lets go, and the towns-people can
scarcely stir out of doors without falling over six
cats. The Mallee people will probably have to
import tigers to get rid of the new pest.
“ Brolga ” : During the Northern Terri-
tory wet season—November to March —the
lagoons and swamps swarm with black geese,
and the niggers collect the eggs in thousands,
stack them in a huge, common heap, build a
skeleton pyre over the stack, and set fire to it.
Most of the outside eggs are broken, and others
charred to a cinder, but those nearer the middle
of the stack are baked hard, and the remainder
are fairly well cooked. Then commences the
feast; and the number of eggs each nigger can
stow away is marvellous. Very few whites have
witnessed these feasts, as no bushman w'ith any
sort of a nerve ever gets into the sw 7 amp-country
in the egg-season. The “ smell ”of a wild black-
fellow is bad at any time ; but, after a couple of
feasts of goose-eggs—phew !
* * * *
“Flabby Paul”: Be smells. The worst
smell I ever struck is dead carpet snake. When
lie’s alive and has had a gorge a fortnight before
he’s not exactly lavender. But when he has been
dead a fortnight, the air around him has a faint
green tinge, and it’s possible to cut pieces out of
it. Dead native cats don’t come within miles of
it. There is also a tree, appropriately named
“stink wood,” that grow'S in the scrub. It can
hold its Own against amateurs when freshly cut.
Wild banana—that has got water in it—is a pro-
fessional, and can even knock the “stink wood
endways. But the worst vegetable smell comes
from a fruit (like a custard apple) that grows on
our seashores up North. When ripe this fruit
falls from the tree and bursts on striking the
ground. Then every living thing within a hun-
dred yards shifts quickly. The bushmen here
have a name for that tree, only it wouldn’t look
well in print. But a fortnight-dead carpet snake
holds the belt!
* * * *
“D.S.M.”: Be the aboriginal appetite.
About a year ago I missed three yards of Ruberoid
from the store, and never could make out what
had become of it, until, one day, I stopped at a
blacks’ camp for a drink. Noticed one of the
lubras chewing something with evident enjoyment.
I asked her what she was eating, and she replied,
“ Dunno, but him blurry nice.” It was Ruberoid!
You can bet I was astonished. I inquired if she
had eaten much of it, and she informed me that
she and her buck had eaten the whole three yards.
It had evidently agreed with them, as she wanted
more. I was too flabbergasted to try to find out
how they had managed to get hold of it, and I
climbed on my horse and rode away, thinking out
the problem : If it fakes two blacks to eat three
yards of Ruberoid in a month, how long would it
take them to get through 2\ sheets of galvanised
iron ?
“Curlew”: The Victoria and Grampian
Ranges (Vic.) still offer partially inaccessible
haunts for the native fauna, and are well stocked
with emus, wallaby, and a few “ great reds ” in
spite of the exertions of the rabbit scalper and the
station hand to exterminate them. In the same
district, on top of the Victorias, at the North
Western, is a plateau consisting mainly of swamp
—an ideal refuge for wild fowl, and so sequestered
that few, if any, of the powder-shot-and-trap
maniacs have even seen it. But on the plains or
in the lower scrub a native bird or animal is very
rarely seen, and, at the present rate, extinction
of certain species is only a question of a few years.
SOMETHING DURABLE.
FARMER: “ Think this weather'll last, boss?”
Shepherd ( heavily): “Nothing in this world does last.
FARMER: “ Have you ever tried bird’s-eye? I’ve bin smoking it now this 50 year, and never
known it go off yet.”
“ Hassan ” : lie those “ fishing notes ” of
the Sydney newspapers. The cream of the joke
does not appear in your correspondent’s par
(l/3/’O6). One finds in these columns that “ Mr.
Jones informs us that the fish are biting greedily
at worms or prawns,” or toasted cheese, or what-
ever fish do bite at. And “Mr. ‘ Bill ’ Smith, the
popular and well-known sport, reports from Cowan
that a party from Sydney, fishing half-an-hour be-
fore slack water, bagged 18 dozen schnapper, all
sizable fish.” The true inwardness of these things
appears when the guileless tourist is told, upon
visiting the places named, that he can get boats
from Mr. Jones at ss. a day, and that Mr. ‘Bill’
Smith runs the boarding-house.
* * * *
“Cinder”: The excellent little N.S.W.
Government “Tourist Bureau Guide to Kurnell”
mentions that Forby Sutherland was the first
white man buried in Australia. Hardly correct.
A lot of Dutchmen were lost on the Westralian
mainland at various times very long before Cook.
* * * *
“ Butler ” : I heard him tell it in a pub.
at Clyde (M.L.)
Me an’ me mate wuz blasting a rock on the Cromwell
road wunst. Me mate fixed the cap into the plug (’twuz
dynamite we wuz usin’), an’ ’e threw it ’cross to me.
Rover (the dorg) wuz standin’ by me side ; ’e must ’ave
thought it wuz a bone me mate wuz throwin’, an’ ’e
opened ’is mouth an’ caught it. ’E must ’ave bit it
mighty ’ard, ’cuz w’en I woke I wuz covered wid blood
an’ bits o’ dorg.
• * » *
“ Quandong ” writes :
“Jimmie Pannikin’s” par (B. 22/2/’O6) re the once
magnificent cedar forests of the Tweed and Richmond
rivers being almost a memory of the past, is not at all
exaggerated. Apropos, many years ago the younger son
of an upper-class English family settled on the Tweed
and engaged in the cedar industry. Once he had several
logs on the creek bank out of flood reach. He refused to
sell these to the timber-buyers at the current rate, ex-
pecting a rise in the price of cedar. Before the rise even-
tuated, he received a letter—the contents of which were
never disclosed —which called him to England in such
haste that he made no arrangements to dispose of his
timber. Though years have since elapsed he has not
returned. The logs lie in the same place, almost rotten ;
and last time I saw them a swaggie was cutting chips out
of the soundest of them to boil his midday billy. They
represent most of what remains of the cedar industry.
+
Householders will find that for universa-
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &0., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
“ Wyoming ” : Am just now slogging-in as
assistant to the secretary of an Agricultural Show.
It is one of the greatest games on earth. The
secretary (who has to cultivate a genial manner
towards even the greatest bores in existence) lives
a joyous life in being interviewed by every con
ceivable kind of crank, from the man who want-
to know why there is no prize for white ants or s
locusts, to the woman who insists on entering a
knitted quilt in the darned sock class. Each hour
of the day assorts itself, and finds a different species
of men arguing and wrangling in the office. The
horse men come early, and it would raise your
scalp to hear their language. Those owning
trotters are the worst. The dog men are amusing.
I had an idea that a dog was a small, hairy animal
of some intelligence. I now find that this earth
was created for dogs in general, and for
each individual’s dog in particular. If
Brown’s brindle pug terrier doesn’t receive
every attention and a bushel of blue ribbons,
well, the whole scheme of Creation is a failure.
The dog men are not as many as the horse men, but
they make up for this by staying longer and talk-
ing louder. But, for a curiosity, give me the hen
men. Here I want to air a grievance. The only
hen that has any value for me is the bird that lays
a large, frequent egg, and is edible when properly
decapitated and cooked. I don’t care twopenn’orth
of gin for the animal’s color or shape, or the
number of feathers in its liver-wing. But the
bird that attends to eggs seems no class at all, and
as much out of place as a society woman with a
baby. At least, that is the impression hen-
fanciers’ talk gives me. The cattle men are fat
and jolly, and reasonable. The canary men don’t
gather in the office to rhapsodise about the length
of a bird’s toe-nail, but, if they commence, I
intend to fall upon them and brain them with the
entry-register. After hours of this sort of thing,
the suicidal ferocity of the infuriated printer, who
demands “copy ” for the catalogue, and threatens
to expire on your doormat unless it is forthcoming
instantly, is a mere circumstance. Besides, I
don’t mind printers; I’ve met them before.
They’ll wipe any insult out in beer.
* * * *
“Drifter” : It’s a serious matter for the
gate to be left open, after a big estate has been
wire-netted, in a rabbit-infested district. An
appeal to the gentlemanly instincts of old swag-
men and others is thus writ large on a sign over a
gate-post in the Yarraman district: —
“SIR.—
KINDLY SHUT THE GATE l”
* * * *
“ Nym ” : Next to the brown snake give
me the gohanna in the bush-beauty ballot. There
is no more graceful reptile in the bush, and why
Aboriginaliars hurl their inkpots at the creature
licks me. The average “go” is a splendid insect
exterminator, and gets no credit for it But if he
licks a frying-pan placed outside a tent, the Abo-
liar writes to The B. about it, and earns beer
money. Whaffor ?
* * * *
“Orthos”: Recently surprised a “go.”
which took to the river, where the water was
about 18in. deep, and so clear that I could dis-
tinctly see the reptile crawling about on the sandy
bottom. I kept it back from the bank, and it
stayed under water for an hour before I let it
crawl out.
A DISCOVERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stood upon the quaking kerb,
And watched the lights go up and down,
His peace no discord could disturb,
He watched the world with smile superb,
As though ’twas something: he did own,
And he had built it stone by stone.
“ I had been told that it was true,”
He said to me with look profound,
“ But disbelieved it as did you,
No doubt, but yet the fact I view,
The world is really going round ! ”
And then he fell upon the ground.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


DfAKih(tb ReiJ, is a^rewncl
to catch S 6n ie o| 'life, nyore
Conservative. Protactjonist' J]f *1
: ~**t \gr,
I I Apß[ *'
jjf? |>eo|>U
Cow id be brou^b^
Abowt" 1/y nA^Cib^
'tlyem Screws in 1 j
sA+e ,|P
[(j.H.l?ti<lJ A/A%s
rfi^e|/ A \?le. '
ICJW,
fs(o Vt"
into -fged 'jpr SA*d
migb'T do Some ,£b .W?>*f ,
Wlyaf I llKe v»
is'tfaT if is
V* yn-fnolisb wrftf
Ifc I. Perty oJ''tl]e Subject^—.
Cou|d»>f be 'trus'fec! '{© Se<? tljey oef ffjeir
, -
Vfhen H« tnoibrlvid atsKj qi/<sjfTet,t
We niusfgive *fr«e */
A L% S J
A s€rl<rj prefabs
tS -jourjo calves
a ©lection a^a^st-
'tuberculosis Argus"
°^ e j °f !^"
" £re s
Calves fer 'closls IVe -fb<?
* I “
its si /ore
'team ajl Sorf^
’"^V : [Ay]
?& My+ryiw-tofell
% U'ivV'Tisticd .Tru+t," -fe
ATxN
So"? tOYje f© ifl— 11
Someone -fo CcoK it*_
ys>o*r,e. O YKt 0 fa-rift in lj !s *
A LOOK BOUND.


(2) And while we throw away our own trade
we are always bunting for foreign outlets.
The cable teljs us that a Mr. Sacbse has been .
visiting a wild black potentate in Abyssinia
to see if any business can be done.
(1) These are some of the £40,000,000
worth of goods which Australia imports
annually, and which we; might make for
ourselves.
(3) You land your goods on the sand.
Ports are primitive. There Is very
Uttle trade in Abyssinia and no roads.
(4) The country is enormously mountainous.
(6) There Is also the two-horned rhinoceros,
•which treads on the goods.
(5) The country Is In-
fested by the spotted
panther and other ani-
mais. .
(71 Most of the trade is in the hands of a
race who say they are descended from Jews
who emigrated in the days of Rehoboam.
These people always say they have
mfinish.”
(8) \es, there are many drawbacks to opening up business with l
Abyssinia. The merchant is fortunate if he gets away with his life.
THE ETERNAL "TRADE” PROBLEM.— (See also “Plain English.")


A
MHI
m
mm
♦
IST
>£
SO
1
Do you
realise
the immense importance of the unique superiority of Odol ? While all other preparations for
cleansing the mouth and teeth are effective only during the few moments of application, the
antiseptic and refreshing power of Odol continues gently but persistently for hours afterwards ,
Odol penetrates the interstices of the teeth and the mucous membrane of the mouth, to a
certain extent impregnating them, and leaving an antiseptic deposit on the surface. In this
manner a continuous antiseptic effect is secured, by means of which the whole oral
to the minutest recesses, is completely freed from and protected against all fermenting
processes and injurious bacteria. Owing to this characteristic, feculiar only to Odol ,
fermentation is absolutely arrested and the healthy condition of mouth and teeth assured.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol , lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6), Of all Chemists,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Another record ? Wm. Boardman, having
got 12 months’ “hard” from a Bench of Vic,
honorariums, lately interviewed Justice Hodges
and Judge Chomley on the one day, and accepted
a further instalment of two years from the former
and 18 months from the latter.
Thbmas Fitzpatrick, ex-M.L.A., goes on a
world tour. He is a pioneer squatter, represented
Murrumbidgqe in N.S.W. Parliament for ten
years, and was one of the most consistent of the
little band of Protectionists who fought many
hopeless battles against Calico.
Interviewed by the Pall Mall Magazine,
John Burns, M.P., says his attention was first
turned to politics by finding a torn and soiled old
copy of Smith’s “ Wealth of Nations,” buried in
the sand at Akassa, West Africa, when he was
digging to get a foundation for a piece of ma-
chinery.
The Dowie slump is complete, a cable
announcing that the Zion deacons have taken over
control' of the city. Something of this sort was
looked for when recently Profit Howie’s chief
elder preached before GOOO Howie communicants,
in the huge Shiloh Tabernacle, on the failure of
Howie as a leader, and created a sensation by
declaring that the long-haired fakir hadn’t “mea-
sured up to the fullness of the great vision
vouchsafed him.” “Let no man attempt to
trouble me. Mispah,” cabled Howie, from the
West Indies, next day; but the elders merely
scribbled “Ichabod” across the paper and pro-
ceeded to business.
The late F. W. Haddon, quondam Argus
editor, had a claim to notoriety as chief instigator
of Fitcliett’s “Bleeds that Won the Empire.”
Fitchett’s fancy had not lightly turned to thoughts
of gore till Haddon suggested in 1896 that he
should write an occasional anniversary article on
British battles. Both were rather surprised when
numerous anaemic curates and schoolboys who
were prohibited from reading Headwood Hick
yarns started to call for more of the red, raw stuff.
However, Fitcbett continued gallantly to seek the
human entrails at the cannon’s mouth, and his di-
gests were made a weekly feature. They ran for
16 months, and ever since then the Aegus has
shown a fondness for the “penny dreadful” type
of serial. As for Fitehett, the trouble has become
chronic with him.
THE LATE GEORGE COPPIN , Comedian,
Theatrical Manager, Politician, Philan-
thropist, dc.
The daily paragraphs about Colonel
Ricardo in the Melbourne papers begin to grow
tiresome. One could manage to exist without
lumps of information concerning his youthful
experiences.at Rugby school, or even without the
knowledge that he got out of bed early a day or
two ago to test a drawing-slate notion obtained
from an American magazine. • Some people
wouldn’t care if the gallant colonel stayed out
of bed all night.
Nicholas "Willis appears to have got the
loan of the Natal press, and the impression that
Nicholas owns and runs Australia is growing very
strong. Already, the Natal press is pretty solid
on these five points : (1) That Nicholas appeared
before the Lands Commission before his departure
from Sydney, and cleared his character till it was
whiter than the unblemished snowball. (2) That
he came away by direct permission of the Judge
who ran the Commission. (3) That he is being
persecuted chiefly on account of his political
importance. (4) That he personally, and off his
own bat, supplied GOO Australian troops during
the Boer unpleasantness. (5) That he is prepared
to find 1000 more Australian troops if the South
African natives continue to create trouble, as they
have been doing of late.
C. B. Stephen, the latest N.S.W. King’s
Council, who lingered for 36 years at the junior
bar before taking the plunge into “silk,” and who
is said to expect the first vacant puisne Judge-
ship, was once offered the Chief Justiceship of
N.S.W. It was at the time when, upon the death
of Martin, Salomons was appointed, but resigned
a few days after acceptance. Darley, the present
C.J., had declined the office before Salomons
accepted it, deeming the sacrifice too great.
Want, Attorney-General, would have appointed
Owen, then at the bar, but Owen was travelling
in Europe and could not be found. After fruitless
endeavors to find Owen, Want offered the position
to C. B. Stephen, who declined it, on what ground
is unknown. Now Stephen would probably be
well content with a puisne Judgeship, but Sly
seems to have the inner running.
An ancient settler, Mrs. Creswick, of
Hawthorn (Victoria), on the 13th celebrated the
70th anniversary of her appearance in Port
Phillip. She arrived when eight years old (in 183 G)
with her father, Dr. Alexander Thomson, from
Van Diemen’s Land. The population of Mel-
bourne was then fifty souls. Her father at the
first land sale bought the half-acre at the S. W.
corner of Elizabeth and Flinders streets for £46.
It was valued in 1888 at £428,000. In the first
Parliament of New South Wales, Dr. Thomson
represented Port Phillip, his colleagues being C.
H. Ebden, Thomas Walker, Charles Nicholson,
and John Dunmore Lang. Henry Condell was
the sole representative of Melbourne. In the
first Parliament of Victoria, consisting of one
House, partly elective, the doctor represented
Geelong, and in the first elective Assembly he
represented the same unobtrusive locality.
Charles Smith M‘Phillamy, of Orton
Park, near Bathurst (N.S.W.), has joined the big
camp of squatters at the fair age of 85 years.
There were three brothers —Robert, John, and
Charles —large, stalwart Hawkesbury natives,
who crossed the Blue Mountains in 1833. Some
years before that Mr. Robert Smith was managing a
property in the West for Parson Marsden, the great
flogger and indifferent preacher. He afterwards
took upland for himself, and when he died he left
all he possessed to the M'Phillamys. They added
to the original estate until the M'Phillarny family
became about the biggest land-grabbers and the
worst obstacle in the way of settlement at
Bathurst and further out. John M’Phillamy,
one of the three, at one time represented West
Macquarie in the Legislative Assembly, and was
succeeded in the seat by his son-in-law, C. E.
Pilcher, K.C. A daughter of the recently
deceased married a brother of the K.C., solicitor
Pilcher, of Orange.
A man who knew him writes :
Old George Lansell, the gold-mining boss of Bendigo,
passed out last Sunday, after 83 strenuous years. At the
age of six years he had to climb out of his bed at Margate
(England; to get to work at 6 a.m. in a soap and candle
factory. He got sick of the labor conditions in the un-
speakable “mother country,” and came out to this land of
milk and honey, yet he always maintained a hostile
attitude towards labor unions. Perhaps it was because •
he became rich and a large employer of labor. Old George
was a model of energy and pertinacity, but, like a good
many more of his kind, lost sight of the fact that
a great portion of his wealth was due to the
accidental luck that put him on a good wicket.
About 12 years ago, when a labor dispute was on, the
conference secretary wrote to Lansell, inviting his
attendance. The Quartz King replied : “ From my youth
up I have always avoided all such organisations as that
to which you belong, and 1 trust you will take this as a
sufficient answer to your letter.” Lansell was remarkable
for his pluck in the struggling days. If he put his money
into a mine he would hang on even if he had to sacrifice
his household goods to keep the game going. Only once
did he ever get an attack of “ funk,” and drop his shares.
Almost immediately after they went up with a bound,
and Lansell took it as a reproof, for he never afterwards
lost his nerve. It was a depressing drive out to
his home, “Fortuna,” among the red sandstone
hills, but when the visitor had passed through a gate in a
brick wall, he found himself in a Garden of Eden. The
choicest fruits and shrubberies surrounding a fine
bungalow gave him an impression that he had
stepped out of the desert into an oasis. There were
underground cave-like rooms where, in the hottest
weather, an enjoyable chat could be had over
choice claret that the Quartz King had stored in
his cellars for over 20 years. The old man looked an
impressive warrior amidst his great machinery, with the
stampers beating out fortunes for him, and in liis home,
with his beautiful wife to assist him, he was a splendid
host. Last time I was there he said: “If I’d
only cut the painter years ago, I would have been a
millionaire. It costs too much to get the gold now.”
Anyway, his perseverance has been a good thing for
Bendigo district.
Thomas Bent, Victoria’s quaint Premier,
has been reminiscing some more. This time
it was to a church crowd for whom he was
opening a fete at Elsternwick. It was a
wild Saturday afternoon. The thunder
growled, muttered and roared. The
rain fell in masses the size of a boot-
trunk, and Tommy, inspired by
the elements, told, in a voice like
that of a banshee, this tale of
the dim, dead, dark, dread-
ful past. “Not far from
here, it was dangerous
to travel in those
days. I myself have
been shot at when
passing from here to
St. Kilda by the
bushrangers. I was
one of 40 men who
were taken from the
main road to Sar-
good’s paddocks and
robbed by the bush-
rangers. You ill savw
we were not very brave
men to allow them to rob
the lot of us ; but, you see,
they had pistols ; we had not.
So we had to let them do it.” Accord-
ing to Thomas, there never was a
hold-up, or a cricket match, or any
sort of unusual thing anywhere in the
State, that he was not connected with
in some formidable manner. This is
the secret of Tommy’s power. He
knew when to be on the spot. He
still knows when to be on the spot, but
he can be on a larger spot now than he
could 40 years ago.
Peter Brennan, a trades-union
stalwart, who died the other day, was
the first Labor candidate mentioned in
N.S.W. It was intended to run him
for West Sydney, but the late J. D.
Young “jumped” the claim. Bren-
nan was also a member of the first
Arbitration Court —under Barton’s volun-
tary Act. He was always a sturdy Protec-
tionist and a practical man.
N.S.W. Blue Book shows 13 William
Smiths in the civil service.
About the late George Coppin as a poli-
tician :
George Coppin, comedian, was before the public in
many other guises than that of theatrical entrepreneur,
though stage business was the only thing he ever made
money out of. He was an ardent politician and was
always years ahead of his time. In 1858 he entered the
Richmond Municipal Council, and organised a committee
to urge on local government. It was this committee
that induced Parliament to pass a Bill giving municipali-
ties the right to tax unoccupied private lands, a measure
that caused the prompt breaking up of big city and
suburban estates that had been acquired for almost
nothing in the first instance. In addition to putting in
a spell in the Assembly Coppin was a member of
the Legislative Council for five years, and saw clearly
what a cumbrous, useless business was the House of Rich
Landlords. He advocated a series of reforms tending to
lessen its Toryism, and if they had been carried out
at the time Victorian legislation would have been 25 years
further advanced than it is. He brought in a Transfer of
Land Bill, which was rejected, but three years later vir-
tually the same Bill was passed into law, and still forms
the basis of the Victorian land transfer system. Coppin
advocated the establishment of Post Office Savings Banks,
and it was through his efforts that they were ultimately
created. It was Coppin who broke down the monopoly
of the Melbourne Gas Co., by the formation .of its first
suburban rival, the Collingwood Gas Co. He" instituted
the Royal Humane Society out here, and the Old
Colonists’ Association. He was the founder of Sorrento,
and the originator of Bay excursions. In everything that
is good—mechanics’ institutes, fire brigades, citizen
soldiers, benefit societies, and all manner of other things
—Coppin’s hand was at the helm in their beginnings.
The people of Victoria owe him a huge debt of gratitude.
AN OLD
FEMININE
SORROW.
HER UNCLE: “Did you enjoy your birthdayl”
LITTLE GIRL: “Not too much, unsle. That rude
boy, Charley Thomas, he runned after me all
round and round the lawn. He wanted to
kiss me. But he didn’t catch me.”
HER UNCLE : “ Then why worry.”
LITTLE GIRL : “ But, uncle, I’m sorry I runned
so hard.”
Someone proposes to erect a memorial to
Henry Parkes. There is already one. in Sydney
Arcade. It is a marble bust, ordered by the late
Parkes from sculptor Sani, and it represents the
equally late Critchett Walker. It is net paid for.
It stands there a mark for the admiration, or
otherwise, of the passers-by, and that is Sani’s
share of it. He was “done in” even for the
material.
Schoolmaster Chas. Hedgelong, for 43
winters at Brisbane, will winter there no more;
aged 84. As a boy he belonged to the choir of the
famous St. Mary’s Church, which stands in three
parishes of the Cold Country—France, Tun-
bridge, and Spendhurst. A good tenor voice
secured him some prominence in later years. His
education was provided by the Dukeof Wellington,
by whom his father was employed. He voyaged,
to Queensland during the days of Herbert’s
premiership, in the Soldana. When the ship
reached Moreton Bay the yellow flag was hoisted
by the shore authorities, but the captain pulled it
down, sent the pilot about his business, and sailed
for Rockhampton. Hedgelong head-mastered the
C. of E. Giammar School at Brisbane for 14 years,
but when Griffith’s Education Act came he joined
the State service, and put in 29 years pouring
erudition into the young Bananalander.
Everybody knows that the late Geo.
Lansell, the Bendigo Quartz King, was by
trade a soap-boiler, but only a few remem-
ber George’s original boiling-down establishment,
which, in the absence of noxious trades’ restriction
laws, was situated right in the centre of what is
now Bendigo city. In those days Lansell was a
man of small pretensions, and pushed his own
barrow about the field collecting scrap-fat from
thrifty housewives. When he’d collected enough
fat he would work, and convert it into soap,
filling the atmosphere with perfume. Presently,
as Bendigo grew, there arose a fierce popular aver-
sion to George, and efforts were made to shift his
odoriferous mill, but Lansell fought hard and
clung to his site. Then compensation was offered,
and the soap-miller said that made all the differ-
ence. He took his rank fat and his boilers and
planted them further out, and the compensation
went into a mining venture and laid the founda-
tion of a exeat fortune.
TO BILLY SQUIRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re living in an Educated Age,
We can order Culture daily at the door,
The cheers that round the ring-side nightly rage,
Are tilings right-thinking persons must deplore.
For the fascination of your fighting face
And the elemental passions that it fires
Are a civilised community’s disgrace ;
Still—l’d give a bit to be you, Billy Squires.
Your gory tale of battle makes one sick ;
You shouldn’t for a moment be endured ;
And we blush before the lift-boy’s rhetoric,
When we go to get our fingers manicured.
We nerve ourselves to see a brutal bout,
That all the finer human instincts kill,
And find that we’re in frenzy yelling out,
“ You’re a blooming, blessed, blazing boshter, Bill.”
And so you are. And merchants fat and staid
Who pass along the plate in sanctity,
Read up your fights, and, were they not afraid^
Would own they’re thinking just the same as me;
While literary blokes, who loudly quote
To show how superfine their point of view,
Would give up all the poems that they wrote
If they could only swing a left like you.
Vic.
C.N.


Games of Chance fa Games of SKill
Both, the LUCKY and the CLEVER will find an AMPLE SCOPE for
Exercising' their Abilities in OUR. GAMES SECTION.
ROULETTE MARKER
Winds up like an Ordinary Watch, beauti-
fully finished mechanism, in stout OxYOISED
Case, 4s 6d each.
*r*C'd*
f
W
m
%
%
BILLE,
A Popular Game, 3 Balls, Tape, Pool Pins, Cue and Scoring Card, 10s.
A FEW POPULAR GAMES are given in this Advertise-
ment, FULL PRICE LIST of Sports and Pastimes
POST FREE on request.
< -
■
Straight Crib Boards
Triangle Crib Boards
!♦*»
CREB Boxes—
Is, Is 3d, Is 9d,
2s 9d.
CRIB Pegs—
-2d Set of 4.
6(3, 9d, is, Is 6d.
9d, Is, Is Gd, 2s, 2s 6d,
PoKer Dice;
4s 6d set of 5.
Ordinary
Dice —
3d set of 3.
Dice Clips-
6d, 9d each.
DOMINOES-
Bone—ls, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s 3d, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 4s, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s set. Wood—3d, 6d set.
apgjjjg ''' '" '
BOBS, the New Table Game, with Folding sides —
With Cue and Marbles, ss. With Cue and Wooden Balls, 6s 3d, 11s, 12s, 13s 9d.
Wood Balls for the Game —ljin., Is 3d ; lfin., Is 6d ; llpn., Is 6d ; 2s set of 7.
Compo. Balls — ~ 7s 6d; ~ 9s 6d; ~ 11s 6d; ~ 17/6 „
Lignum Yitse — ~ 3s Od; ~ 3s 3d; ~ 3s 6d; ~ 4/3 „
PLAYING CARDS, &c.
Bound Coknees.
Steamboat ... ... 3s 9d doz. packs
Leader 64d pack ; 6s Id „
Bicycle 2nd... ... 6Jjd ~ 6s Id ~
Bicycle Ist 10d ~ 9s 3d ~
Bicycle Ist, gilt edges, Is ~ 11s 2d ~
Superior quality, gilt edges ... Is sd, Is 9d pack
Trophy Whist—plain, Is 4d ; gilt edges, Is 8d pack
Bezique-
Set of Markers, Cards, &c., for two players, 2s 3d
Whist Markers ... 3s 3d, 3s 9d, 5s 6d pair
Progressive Euchre —
Adhesive Wafers, Hearts, Clubs, Spades, &c.,
5d box. Cards for same, Is 6d, 4s Gd per 100.
PLANCHETTE
NO SKILL REQUIRED at the Popular Game of ANTHONY
HORDERN’S FAMOUS LOW PRICES . All Prizes !No Blanks /
and
Anthony
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS &
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
AiSK YOUR GROCER
11,
For a 21b. of H.O.
BUCK WHEAT
Hakes DELICIOUS PANCAKES. H.O. BUCKWHEAT is used in all good American Homes. x
Use neither Salt, Yeast, nor Baking Powder. If your Grocer has not got it, send to
Fresh Stock received by each Boat* 437 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“ Spring ” : I have witnessed some gory battles
in the ring, one railway smash, and a biograph picture of
a Spanish bull-fight, but for thrill give me a big old
smash on a bicycle track. In the ring the thrilling
sight of gore is tempered by the haze of par-
tizanship. The railway smash comes unexpectedly.
But a bike smash 1 Ah ! Under the ghostly glare on the
other side of the track 13 forms sit waiting on frail-look-
ing wheels, some near each other in front, two well back.
The track is wet, greasy, and unsafe. A shrill whistle,
and the muscles tighten. A pistol-shot, and they’re off.
All lights but those on the track vanish, and 13 silent
spectres appear to be fleeing under the moonlight from
fiends of darkness. As the wheels race over the wet track
muttering sounds come up from it. Suddenly one back
man sits up as if shot, and glides into the inner pit of
darkness. A fiend has him—the fiend of fat and
want of condition. The other shoots along in terror, and
gradually overhauls the forward lot, now dangerously
bunched and timid. The mob staggers, opens, falters,
and the onlookers experience a thrill of expectancy.
Riders at the back seem to clamor for room —room. Those
in front turn their heads anxiously from side to side,
waiting for something. At the back of the
track the troop struggles .and leaps like sheep
taking a shadow. A collision? No! They’re safe. The
bell rings for the final lap. The pace increases. Riders
call forth their hidden sprints ; and the ghastly wet
track grins in front. Twelve athletes throw caution to
the wind, and the crowd gasps. Then it happens. There
is the thud of falling flesh, the rattle of twisted machines.
Four weird spectres speed silently on as if fleeing from
the scene of their crime—the back-marker (and favorite)
last. With a splendid sprint the favorite smothers the
three and wins amidst applause. The silent figures on
the track are dragged off to make way for the next race.
* * * *
Stated that Joe Darling intends forsaking Aus-
tralian cricket altogether to try his hand at sheep-breed-
ing, and bought a big estate at Mt. Barker (S.A.),
t'other day, as the first step. But Darling once retired
to a station in the wilds of Tasmania, and, a few years
later, had a place again in representative cricket —a place
that younger players had eagerly sought.
# * * *
A sensible suggestion has been made to the
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen that bike riders should be
compelled to wear skull caps for protection against
accident to the head. Such caps have proved very
helpful to jockeys in hurdle races. Of course, it may
interfere a little with cycling “ gates ” if extra provision
is made against fatalities.
* ■» * *
“ Outsider” Writes : One of the most promising
cricketers west of the Blue Mountains is Clarry Edwards,
who has just Won the averages in the Oarcoar District
Union competition. His batting average was 45‘33, and
his bowling figures 2'82. In one match he secured 10
wickets for 15 runs, taking six wickets with consecutive
balls ; and he is only 18 years of age.
* * * *
Quite a crowd of new craft, some of them freaks,
will make their appearance at the Sydney Motor Boat
Club’s regatta on April 7th. Although the boats are
being built locally, the huge majority of the engines, sad
to say, are imported* If we had a few local foundries all
doing well, the inventive genius of our people would, in
all probability, produce a boat that would break the
world’s record, as we have broken it in other things, but
under present conditions we must always lag at the tail
of Europe and America. The Canadian Government,
which keeps armed cutters on the great lakes to prevent
Yankee fishermen poaching, recently replaced compara-
tively new coal-driven boats with motor craft of tremen-
dous'speed. The Department had received word that the
Yankees were fitting out poachers of considerable swift-
ness. The result was an exciting chase. The Canadian
armed boats poured a fire of Jib. shells round the fleeing
poachers from a Vickers-Maxim gun, worked while the
craft was running full speed. The Yankees replied with
a Colt automatic gun, and strove to keep the revenue
boats off till the dividing line of British and American
water was reached. The Canadian boats, however, were
too fast, and the poachers were overhauled just on the
line, where a Yankee cruiser was waiting to protect them
once they got across. The engines of the Canadian boats
were of local manufacture, and the firms that made them
are now doing a booming trade,
-ft « ft ft
They have set to work to deal it out to the jug-
germote in Germany. All cars have to be numbered on
sides and back, and when the scorcher runs over and kills
a bread-winner, he has to support the widow and
all dependents in the state to which they have
been accustomed —the widow for life, the children
till they are able to take care of themselves.
This is equivalent to saying that the single motorist shall
always marry the widow of his first victim. If he only
injures the breadwinner, he has not only to pay the
victim’s expenses, but to also maintain wife and chil-
dren till the b. w. is able to get to work again. This sort of
thing is calculated to make running over people beastly
unpopular.
* * * *
The petrol cars were hopelessly beaten at the
great speed meeting on Florida Beach (U.S. A.). Marriot,
as before mentioned, covered the mile in his Stanley
steam car in a little more than 28sec., or at the rate of
over 127 miles an hour. The highest speed a petrol car
could make over the same distance was 30 2-ssec., ora
little over 118 miles an hour. A curious feature of the
business was that the same drivers often failed to get the
same speed out of the same cars over the same track, and
Marriot was several times unable to make up to his own
record. The Englishman, Clifford Earp, covered 100
miles in 75min. 40 2-ssec., equal to 80 miles at hour.
This shows how the speed drops when it comes to
travelling the long distances that are so glibly worked
out to show the enormous speed of these short dashes.
And the question that the steam car has to settle now is
whether it is as reliable for the long run as the petrol car
it has beaten for speed. Earp, in a Napier petrol car,
also won the five miles championship, getting over the
distance in 2min. 68sec., or at the rate of less than 108 J
miles per hour. With such high running gears the
secret of serial navigation is practically solved ; the only
question is how to apply the power.
• * • *
E. H. Flack, the Victorian cross-country
runner, who competed in the Olympian games in Greece
10 years ago, lost the big 23 miles race from Marathon to
Athens principally owing to the tactics of a patriotic
horseman who met him on the road, a mile or two from
home, and told him that the winner was already getting
rubbed down. Flack eased off, and was passed by
several Grecian peds. previously behind him, one of
whom, he subsequently found, won the race, q The
present Australian runners have been carefully instructed
not to take advice from kind gentlemen on horseback
who speak to the footsore and weary and take them in.
* * » *_
Defeated pugilist Fitzsimmons is still in the
limelight. When he was reconciled to Mrs. Fitz. (really
it was the other way about, but the male supremacy must
be upheld) he went to a neighboring smithy to turn a
horseshoe for luck. He was accompanied by 250 people,
and the floor of the smithy gave way. The anvil and red
hot iron went down first. Then came Fitz. and on top of
Fitz. 250 people. When they hauled him out he was
badlj cut, and a good deal singed. Now he has struck
more trouble —the landlady of the premises which
collapsed wants 500 dollars for damages to her floor.
* * * *
One thing for which the Sydney Motor Boat
Club deserves well at the hands of the community is its
effort to instruct its members in a knowledge of the
engines by which their boats are driven. At present the
slightest mishap on the water me£CKs a helpless boat
drifting about till some Samaritan tows it home. In the
majority of cases a very little knowledge of the engine
would enable the driver to rectify the trouble, and thereby
avoid being a sort of general nuisance,'to say nothing of any
mischief he may do by unintentionally kedping a lady out
long after her husband has arrived home. These lectures
on the carburetter, electric ignition, high and low tension,
and all the rest of it, will do a lot to popularise the sportc
A little risk gives a spice—too much burns the mouth.
(Continued on pane S/,.)
It is claimed that a Gippsland woman
walked 12 miles to look upon Thomas Bent.
Asked what she thought of him, she replied :
“ Pooh, I’ve seen fatter!” Evidently Thomas’s-
Gippsland reputation is based on his bingey.


Be Sure you get it.
(PeterF. Heering's)
Cherry Brandy.
EST. ISIB.
When
Your
Husband
has purchased that
bottle of “CAPILLA”
see that he uses it
according- to the
simple directions on
the label. Then
watch the “down”
gradually grow into
good strong healthy
hair. All that nasty
looking dandruff is
cleared from the
V
scalp—all irritation ceases—and premature greyness
cannot obtain. It would do. YOUR hair an infinite
amount of good also if you were to use it.
Buy a Bottle TO-DAY. All Chemists 26,
posted 3/- ; full course (6 Bottles) 1713 frbm
THE CAPILLA PROPRIETARY,
166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
_____ QUALITY and AGE.
L_
Dress fftßßies
Are Stocked by the
£/ f Leading Drapers. v
varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Arini,—
Sydney, March 20, 1906.
To every evil there’s a recoil of good. Mrs.
Allen Taylor, Sydney’s Mayoress, has gastric
influenza, and was so saved from attending the
first Flag Flap of the year given by the British
Empire League women. The meeting was further
. prostrated by the absence of Bruce Smith, but
non. sec. Mrs. Farrell rendered first aid to the
sorrowing with the news that, next Thursday, at
Randwick, Bruce, all dressed up in a light new
Autumn overcoat, and sprayed with bay rum, and
rubbed up with brilliantme, will give them vibra-
tions on duty to the Empire and Flag-flapping. So
we are warned. On the night of the lecture we
shall be crabs. One luminous hole in the meeting
was that knocked by Julian Ashton’s paper on
“Artin Australia.”
“Who is Mrs. Norman Shelley?” half this
State has been asking. The other half probably
knew already that she was a Miss Pell (sister of a
once well-known man-about-town, Reggie Pell
and daughter of Professor Pell, a great mathe-
matician, who drafted the A.M.P. Society’s
first tables of rates and things), and that
she married a wine and spirit merchant,
Norman Shelley. Her case against a Baronet
Charles Ross, who rented her flat in Park-lane at
12 guineas a week, and then broke into a sealed
room and destroyed her lovely gowns by bad
packing, has advertised her (amongst women at
least) better than if she had solved the riddle
of the Sphinx. The flat had seven bedrooms
and two reception rooms and the secret chamber.
Sir Chawles saw, presumably through the key
orifice, what looked like bodies suspended from
brass rods that stretched across the apartment.
The bold baronet forced open the door and dis-
covered that the dangling bodies were calico bags.
In each bag was a gown masterpiece including :
A white chiffon and lace evening frock that cost £520
at Callot Soeurs ;
A black chiffon frock, beautifully embroidered with
gold, on which Paquin had lavished his skill;
A white accordeon-pleated evening frock ;
Masterpieces from the Maison Rose.
And heavenly hats. All these the baronet
crammed into boxes and sent to some old address
to await Mrs. Shelley’s return from the Conti-
nent. Packers and male modistes from great
London houses gave evidence in court, and the
reports say that Mrs. Shelley gave the retort
brilliant several times to a hostile Bar. She
was awarded somewhere about £3OO damages.
Mrs. Shelley, when here, was a very smart
dresser, dark, of the buxom type, and lived for
some years at Edgecliff-road, Woollahra.
Miss Zaida Ben-Yusuf is the Arabian-sounding
name of a young lady now visiting Sydney.
American press notices mention her as a contribu-
tor to well-known magazines. She lived for eight
months in Japan, as much as possible after the
style of a native woman, studying the people,
their domestic life and their art and education,
and after returning to America, she lectured to
various audiences on “Unfamiliar Japan.” When
Sydney absentees return to town from mount and
stream and sea. Miss Ben-Yusuf. may give them
drawing-room samples of her chrysanthemum-
ming, illustrated with lantern slides.
“Am considering the flotation of a company
for the manufacture of ‘ Silver Photo Frames for
Wedding Presents’ right here on the spot where
the raw material comes from.” That from a cor-
respondent at Broken Hill. It seems that the
friends of a fashionable pair who married lately in
Melbourne gave them 24 silver photo, frames.
Captains Balmain and Fitzpatrick were amongst
those who sent silver frames to the honey-bun
pair. So doubtless the Frame is the thing,
Although the givers don’t enshrine their own
faces in those frames, they are secretly hopeful
that the bride will do so, and when later they call
and see Julius Knight or .Eugenie Duggan looking
out from the silver of the hollow square they are
secretly mad.
Dr. and Mrs. Chisholm Ross left for a trip to
Japan and Canada by the Prinz Sigismund on
Saturday. Other Monday departers were Mr.
and Mrs. Ebenezer Vickery, who go by the
American boat on a belated honeymoon. A lot of
brides and grooms seem to like to spend the first
weeks of their life sentence in the neighborhood
of the place- where they were sentenced; and,
later, when a bit tired of looking love to eyes that
speak, again, they go.planet-worrying and scuffling
over the masterpieces of Nature.
Another treatise (the first chapter is appended)
which I shall write in the days when I get a nib
to suit me, will be one which I shall call
The Unwrinkled Beast.
Mrs. Flores, a very pretty woman, whose fair fame and
taste in dress are unassailable. I do not describe her
“ beast ”in the gross sense of the word. I might substi-
tute “animal” for “beast”—the Unwrinkled Animal;
but that would pre-suppose for Mrs. Flores the possession
of a soul. Humans who have souls are still animals.
Humans who have no souls are beasts. Mrs. Flores has
no soul. ...
The first time I heard Mrs. Flores’ voice it was giving
directions to a waiter about “ the caviare sandwiches . . .
and soup in a jelly . . . mind the salad dressing . . . the
cream . . . the hamper . . . the carriage . . . my fur
cloak. . . . We can have a late dinner when we return.”
She was speaking behind me at a luncheon-table at a
grand hotel, and her voice was clear, rather thin and
very staccato. It was not ail unpleasant voice, yet it
made me think of parched peas dropping on a tin plate,
and I turned in my chair to look at its maker. O, but she
was a cunning, cast in clay ! Large grey-blue eyes with
long brown lashes looked out of the cat-shaped oval of her
face, and the cheek had almost the pure outline of girl-
hood. Light-brown hair beautifully coiffed on a head that
left no room for brains, a small straight nose, and a narrow
forehead, with which the big eyes were nearly level. Al-
most they gave the impression of not being socketed. Her
small ears—in each was a three-hundred-guinea pearl—
seemed to encroach on her pink dimpled cheeks, and her
mouth seemed fashioned to say “ cream,” “ fur cloak ” and
“ caviare sandwiches.” When the moist red lips were in
repose they took an expression of material satisfaction as
if the thinking apparatus of the Beast was signifying that
“ the salad dressing was just to my liking.” Usually Mrs.
Flores kept the short fingers of her well-manicured hands
extended, being mindful of their jewelled condition. But
when she closed them into the palms and laid the hands
on her silk and lace lap, they suggested kittens curling
themselves up for sleep and seeking the softest bed. Her
figure was very good aiid, though full, was without a
suggestion of grossness, and her neck was a piece of
columnar perfection.
At first sight I took Mrs. Flores to be about 26 years of
age, with perhaps one infant. After-knowledge proved
y ears and five children, the eldest a boy of
16. All five were at boarding-schools in Europe. Their
parents principal home was in London, but Mrs. Flores
was Australian-born, and to this continent her husband
and his beautiful Bedst paid prolonged visits. Mr. Flores
was a fleshy, sallow man of about 50, who used to boast,
in a North of Ireland voice, that his wife never had an
hour of anxiety, worry, or sickness in her life, and that
. f fiad gratified her every whim. His children he
idolised, but regretted that his sons should show no apti-
tude for enny wark that brings in the monny.” Most
of their studies, he said, were useless, and he was filled
with exasperation that he could find no school of note
where the masters did not place money-mailing on a
lower plane than mind-making. When Mr. Flores was
introduced to a woman not really middle-aged or old, he
looked her over slowly, his scrutiny starting from
her knees, then travelling upwards, and ending
with her hair. It never got as far as her hat. She knew
it was not her dress but her figure he was scanning. He
was making pertain.“that his article was better than the
one before him.. When he joined his wife in the corridor
of the hotel for lunch or dinner he never failed to eye her
closely. She would be talking—she talked incessantly
after the manner of empty vessels—either to him or to a
neighbor, but he would be deaf until he assured himself
that the Beast showed no sign of deterioration in condi-
tion or gowning since he had left her three hours pre-
viously. . One noon when he came in, his wife, in a 30-
guinea pink silk muslin gown, was sitting' under a stained
glass window, through which the light came greenly. Mr.
Flores saw the greenish pallor, and mistaking the cause,
stood horrified. He declared that she. had been over-
tiring herself. She took no notice, but continued in her
parched-pea-and-tin-plate voice an account of a difference
she had had at a glove counter with a saleswoman. A
magazine was lying open near the pink silk elbow. Flores
pounced upon the book and read aloud in his own Doric
the name of the article, “The Stellar YVurruld.”
“So this is what ye have been knocking yourself up
with,” he exclaimed. “Madge, d’ye mean to tell me ye
have been reading this 1 Who set ve on ? Haven’t you
all you want in this wurruld ?”
“ I never even saw that book before,” replied the lady,
and continued her glove-contest recital.
When she rose to go in to luncheon he saw the cause of
her discoloration, and, in his relief, kissed her rapturous]y.
Once someone spoke in Flores’ presence of a certain
man as being broken-hearted through the death of his
wife. Flores seemed interested, and asked if she had
been a “ comely woman.” When it transpired that she
was 50 years of age he smiled unpleasantly and began to
talk of something else. \
The Unwrinkled Beast was accurately mated.
Mrs. Flores filled, her life to overflowing with shopping,
appointments with dressmakers, and the theatres. She
delighted to drive through crowded streets, to dine at
the table d’hote in evening dress, and in card-playing.
Like many otherwise stupid persons, she was a capital
Bridge and whist player. She craved noise, light, move-
ment, and luxurious environment. The preservation of
her physical condition by' means of baths, massage,
and hair-shampoos took up considerable time.
She never read a book, or, in fact, anything
but personal journalism. She rarely spoke of
her children, and if she did it was in such remarks as
“Bertie has blue eyes like mine,” or “ Juliette’s hair is
the most beautiful copper shade—like mine was at her
age.” She hated to entertain, for that would mean some
self-sacrifice, or loss of ease, or the practice of tact.
Entertaining requires some brains. And she cared little
for entertainment that was not directly bought and paid
for. She would sit out a Wagnerian concert with
pleasure, and without a yawn, if there was a crowded
and fashionable audience, and if she were accompanied by
several friends with whom she would, later, have an
expensive supper.
Every man would glance admiringly at Mrs. Flores.
Many sought her acquaintance, looking as if they would
like to make the relations friendly. She received
them brightly, and lavished attention on them and
chit-chatted them blind, but presently they drifted away
not to return. Perhaps her husband was too much with
her to suit them ; perhaps she talked too much. Pos-
sibly she lacked the emphasis of sex. But she would
frequently glance around the crowded dining-hall, com-
ment on the best-looking men present, and remark, with
a certain complacency, that all the fortune-tellers had
prophesied for her early widowhood. She, baffled study
of her for the reason that “ into the depths of emptiness
no one can see far.” Now, whenever I see a sleek cat
sitting on agate-post and intently watching the traffic in
a busy street lam reminded of Mrs. Flores. The outlook
on life of woman and cat is of about the same depth and
breadth.
A correspondent writes me from Queensland:—
, Brisbane was probably the greenest city in Australia
last week. The 17th of March is a great day in that capi-
tal. Shop windows were specially dressed in grass and
emerald hues. Some were in tableau style with maps of
Ireland hanging about, while one place displayed a square
foot of brown-looking stuff, labelled as peat from the bogs.
The night (Friday) before St. Patrick’s Day, the mem-
bers of the local Irish Association banquetted on
fish and cakes and a certain amount of whisky.
The day of the procession Queensland left off work, and
for the most part Brisbane went forth to see the sight.
An array of vehicles, with horses and bullocks hitched on,
and a great procession in green hangings and decorations,
made up a good but ordinary kind of show. But there
was one startling feature. A trolly representing the
Garden of Eden carried a youth and maiden attired in
flesh-colored tights and fig-leaf aprons, and between them
stood an apple-tree laden with rosy fruit. There ought
to have been a stuffed python trailing behind to repre-
sent the Serpent, but that lengthy deceiver was absent.
After all, what had Adam and Eve to do with St. Pat-
rick’s Day in Brisbane? And they didn’t even tuibble off
the waggon once to represent the Fall.
A recent Leichhardt wedding notice, Ramsay-
de Mestre, recalls a couple of ancient Australians.
The grandfather of the bride, Prosper de Mestre,
was amongst the wealthiest of Sydney merchants
and ship owners as far back as the twenties and up
to the late forties, when he retired to his estate at
Shoalhaven. The father of the bride was well-
known on the turf for many years, as breeder,
owner and trainer of some of the best race horses
that have competed for big prizes hereabouts.
Ex-army Chaplain Brindle, now R.C. Bishop of
Nottingham, who stage-managed Princess Ena’s
’version, shows in his pictures as areal “Hand-
some Harry,” with seven decorations on his
chest and an irresistible peaked cap above his
aquiline features. If the R.C. Church could lure
a confessor of this bijou type out here many
society women would ’vert, and a lot of Bridge
tables be left as permanent stands for the potted
palm.
Mrs. Lovely, who lived in “Cranbroolc” pre-
vious to the Rawsons, and gave lavish parties,
and wore rare jewels and hurrah clothes, is stay-
ing at a hotel in Johannesburg, a friend writes
me.
One of the surprises of Sydney Society last week
was the re-marriage of a Randwick lady to the hus-
band whom she divorced a year or so ago.
Miss Newton, of kindergarten fame, left by the
Sonoma on Monday for what, in journalese, is
known as a well-earned holiday. With her went
two Sydney girls—Miss Carlyle Thomas and Miss
McPhee—to study kindergartening at Chicago.
The Maori is still evoluting. A certain borough
in a M.L. province has been memorialised by a
Maori church committee for its patronage for a
combined Maori and pakeha concert: —
Having exhausted all efforts, besides giving up large
portions of our lands, in the maintenance of our houses
of worship, we are finally compelled to practise and adopt
the ways and means of our pakeha friends.
Henceforth the prettiest wahines will be called
upon to sell button-holes whilst their fathers and
brothel's look to the raffling of sweet-potatoes,
pigs and pumpkins. It’s a pathetic thing to see
the noble Maori compelled by poverty to work for
his halo along these lines.
Artist Souter has done the design for a post-
card to advertise “The Glass of Fashion,” to be
played at the Criterion by the Histrionic Society
on April 7, in aid of the Thirlmere Home for
Consumptive Women. There are said to be 500
poor women in Sydney suffering from phthisis,
and no room for them in any < ire place. Thirl-
mere Home committee has £2OOO in hand. If it
can get another £4OOO, it will enlarge its premises,
and accommodate most of those unhappy five
hundred.
The “Light of the World” picture, now in Syd-
ney Art Gallery, is drawing bigger crowds than did
the original Messiah in the days before Imperial
Caesar was turned to clay or Pontius Pilate asked
jesting questions. Parsons come in groups and
gaze bareheaded, working men and women,
typists in bunches, parties of ladies from the
Piper, Potts, or Darling Points, mortgage sharks,
clubmen, office boys—they come as only people
come to a free show. Mr. Charles Booth, Jhe
owner of the picture, is certainly an altruist, for
he has sent the canvas on its travels for the good
of humanity with a staff of two—the redoubtable
Mr. Mack Jost and another. Great majority of
the gazers are quite sure to see in the picture what
Ruskin has told them is there. But the minority
just side-track Ruskin, and criticise the brilliant
and deep-toned emotion-and-moral canvas, and
the criticisms are not all the essence of admira-
tion.
Milliners would learn a hat or two by see-
ing West’s pictures at the Palace. The coy
hat, the skittish hat, the hat to which one would
lose one’s heart and money ; hats of many lands
and eras, shading oi displaying the most start-
lingly life-like girls’ faces. The Martenengo
girls, who. are part of the Brescian troupe,
are much alike—regular-featured, plump, star-
eyed and black-haired, with very pleasant voices.
At the Victor Daley fund matinee, Margaret
Thomas will sing the poet’s “ Love is a Fadeless
Flower,” which has been set to music by May
Summerbelle. Lauri, who will give his “Gar-
dener’s Dream,” is working like a beaver for the
success of the programme in conjunction with
Edwin Geach, who is working like three beavers.
Mrs. F. Aronson has, up to date, sold about half
the circle’s worth of tickets.
The Mark Sheldons (she is a daughter of the
late Thomas Dalton) are back from earth-girdling
and have with them a-jewel of a motor-car. The
car that gilded Willie Lawson is escorting to Aus-
tralia is a steam Gardner-Serpollet, arid will be
(when it arrives) the only specimen of its kind
out here.
Baritone Roberts, whom Sydney rather liked in
musical comedies, will return to Sydney and work,
before the flowers that bloom in the spring are out
of their little underground travelling cases.
At the bazaar in aid of the Lewisham Hospital,
to be opened on the 28th, Miss Asche, whose re-
putation as a Fine Artist in cookery equals Hol-
man Hunt’s standing in his art, will organise, cook
and manage the delectable mountain of refresh-
ments and sweets that will rear its bulk among
a world of other attractions. Mrs. Bohrsmann,
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and other ladies will assist
Miss Asche.
Sydney society has a grievance against Mrs.
Willie Mitcliell-Godwyn, It says she doesn’t look
younger than when she went away, and that her
gowns are no longer highly specialised and daring,
and that she has ceased to say smart things.
Ethel Turner’s eldest Little Australian took
part in a schools’ swimming contest at the Spit
aths last Saturday. Two little (Dr.) Arthurs
also swam like fishes. The child is, I suppose,
nearer the tadpole than its parents, for the
readiness with which youngsters take to the
water amazes the full-grown woman, who,
after fooling in the briny deep for six years,
spends a summer (with an instructor’s exclu-
sive services) trying to get the right stroke.
Little Marjorie Williamson, after three lessons at
Manly, can swim over-arm or breast-stroke, float
and dive. Which reminds me that the last-named
small girl’s picture (from Longstaff’s painting)
forms the Christmas supplement to London
Graphic.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENRHI.
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating • single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We ad vise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
POOR THING.
IT: “ Awfully annoying, don’tcher know, dcah
boy. Had to see the — aw— doctah to-day,
don’tcher know. Spwaincd my—aw—fingah
buttoning my collar this morning, don’tcher
know.”
Victoria’s new Supreme Court Judge, Leo
Finn Bernard Cussen, is a comparatively young
Australian, born at Portland (Vic.) 47 years ago ;
and into those 47 years he has crowded a bit.
Finishing off at Melbourne University, he passed
in Civil Engineering in ’79, and gained an exhibi-
tion in engineering and a scholarship in mathe-
tics. For the next four years he surveyed for the
Railway Department, between times studying for
his 8.A., which he took in’B4, and then for his
LL.B. and M. A. degrees, gained in ’B6, in which
year he was admitted to the Bar. Since then he
has built up a valuable and well-founded practice,
besides lecturing at the University on the law of
obligations and international lay. His salary is
£5OO less than that of the other puisne Judges,
viz., £2500, with pension rights. The Cabinet’s
choice finally lay between him—the best available
man for the position—Mitchell, K.C., and under-
study-Minister Mackey.
The movement in the lowa (U.S.A.)
Legislature to legalise the painless killing of hope-
lessly incurable patients at their own instance is
not the novelty some of its critics suppose. A law
authorising that much, and a good deal more, was
in operation in Greece before the days of Chris-
tianity. Not only were persons afflicted with
disease permitted to plead for extinction,
but persons who felt themselves unequal
to the battle of life, or who regarded them-
selves as irretrievably ruined, could go before the
Areopagitica, or High Court of the time, and on
satisfying the Judges that the case was as repre-
sented, they received a certificate sanctioning
self-destruction. The certificate had a use.
Ordinarily the property of a person committing
suicide was confiscated, and the body buried
without funeral rites; the certificate excused the
remains from those penalties.
“ Mahlsfcick ” writes :
The droves and hordes of gaping people are under an
illusion that Holman Hunt painted his first “ Light of the
World” in Palestine. Not so. Hunt was born in 1827
and got hung in the Royal Academy at 19, but for some
years his pictures did not sell well, and he thought of
emigrating to Australia as a farmer. However he tackled
the “ Light of the World” in 1852 and 1853. It was ex-
hibited in 1854 and made its furore. Then he went to
Palestine. I think his finest thing is the face of the young
Jesus in the “Finding in the Temple.” The Jews who posed
as his models were threatened with excommunication.
His first replica of the “ Light of the World ” was smaller
than the original; the second, now in Australia, is much
larger than the original. The three are exactly alike, so
far as he could make them, and yet the original is the
most beloved. The eyes are said to possess a magnetism
not in the others. There is considerable variation in his
two paintings of the “ Triumph of the Innocents.” The .
first, painted on linen in Palestine, was supposed to be
spoilt by the material, but a restorer made it all right.
The second was done on canvas when the first was thought
to be doomed.
A PRETTY WOMAN fades early unless she gives
careful attention to the preservation of her complexion.
Every sign of wrinkle, sallowness, or blemish should be
arrested with the least possible delay. A few applications
of Dr. Lykuski’s great discovery—Valaze—removes all
imperfections and brings the lilies and roses of youth to
the oldest face. Is the most exquisite preparation for re-
moving wrinkles, freckles, tan and all other facial dis-
figurements. It is delightfully pleasant, and makes the
skin beautifully soft, white and smooth. A scientific
product of blended, fragment herb essences and healing
balsam to promote the beauty of the skin. Specially use-
ful in allaying the dry and parchment-like skin caused by
Australian hot winds. Price, 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d.
extra. New importations from Vienna. Oomtesse
Potocka’s “ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar)to be used with “ Valaze ”
Herbal Soap, (2s. cake). Adelightfulpreparation. Oomtesse
Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor entertain-
ments, 3s. Cd. per jar. A wonderful beautifier. “Valaze”
special “Blackhead and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed,
3s. 6d. per jar. “Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in
your home. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service,
Sydney, leading chemists all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubin-
stein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to
Beauty Free


POST
FREE
M
{HERE I
beauty
kvijiv i
SARAMA
i Jl?f lOIM. ls\u: CUE All . SKIS FOOD
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at SADtKR’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon & Niciiolls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
LL
i
PERFUME
OE LiCATE. * PLRSISTENT
- WHOLESALE only
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON*
Importance: °J figure,
A.Well Drgjed Lady Mvjf
Havfe &Good Figure, • * •
Wk*rii\§
m
D
I
m
nsss
r '*X
.'■ i*
o
0
s
COM
y ASK.
FOR THE
• AW’D a
J
THAT YOU
l GET
kTHEM.i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 20, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The “off to Europe” craze is raging so furi-
ously that, till the extreme end of the cold season,
every sort of outward-bound ship is booked from
hatchway to forecastle, and wealthy passengers
are camped on the rigging or hanging on to the
anchor. Even the hot season at the terminus of
’O6 is heavily marked off by voyagers. On the
cheap route the hooking continues right up to the
Easter of 1907. Some of the outgoershave booked
their pet dogs. One madame has marked off deck
and barking-space for .two terriers. The shipping
clerk has some queer yarns to tell of the travelling
craze. Every voyaging female demands informa-
tion of her cabin mates. “ Don’t put me in with
a cat,” moans the skirted one. And the official
solemnly promises to personally study the amia-
bility of her cabin mate. At least he does that
if he is at all sensible. It saves discussion, and
makes no difference in the end.
A batch of beauty ships to the Cold Country by
the Mooltan this week. Mrs. Turnbull and a
spring chick, Mrs. Niall and a similar consign-
ment, and all the banker Urquhart’s flock get
aboard this Tuesday. Toorak will turn out in
full force to wave its lace hanky at the pilgrims.
Rupert Clarke, his brother Ernest Clarke, and
Robert Clarke, the veteran stock-breeder, were
humming along in a motor-car, a few days ago,
between Kangaroo Ground and Eltham, when the
wheels skidded and the whole party was thrown at
the ground at a fearful number of miles per hour.
The only one badly hurt was Robert Clarke, who
broke his arm and had to be taken to a
mending establishment. Rupert the gay was
shaken up, and billed next day as suffering from
shock. Ernest, the silent naval man, escaped
without a scratch, The motor was brought back
to Melbourne in a number of bags.
Justice Barton, with a pocket edition of himself
in the form of a curly-pated son, and the eldest
son of Justice O’Connor, held one box against a
full house at the frolicsome Princess farce on
Saturday. In the box opposite was perched
Rupert Clarke, convalescing after his motor spill.
With the sport was a honey-tressed Miss in
gorgeous raiment. In a third pen a very decollete
dazzler made eyes. A fourth pen had for chief
star Miss Margot Gavan Duffy.
A great sensation was created at one of the
race meetings by the sight of a long-severed
husband and mate terracing it together. The
surprise sent a thrill from one end of the gaping
stand to the other. It reminds me of the day
when a much-detached couple made a joint
appearance in Menzies’ eating-room. The spoons
fell into the soup, the knives rattled to the table,
and an attack of acute lockjaw seemed to have
seized the whole assemblage as the temporarily
reunited couple passed together down the room.
New Justice Leo Cussen is no social light.
Despite a fat income and large popularity, the
Chamber lawyer hugged the hearth in winter and
limited his outlook to a garden hedge in the hot
season. He looked the while like a thoughtful
farmer, in town on a matter of the transference of
some grazing earth or in search of a new harrow.
He drives a ramshackle phaeton, in which he
packs as many of the young Cussens as possible.
There is an octave of sons and one ewe-lamb.
Music is worshipped in the Cussen household, and
the new Judge has a brace of nieces who are great
in song and somewhat addicted to the violin.
Justice Box, the other recently elected, is a Mel-
bourne Club lion, but he has the early-Benedict
horror of the frou-frou sex and avoids mixed com-
pany. Society has gained nothing by the election
of either Unsociable except such facility as the
extra judicial strength will give for the hearing of
its divorce cases.
At a suburban kindergarten, young White Aus-
tralia occupies by day the benches and desks
graced by a school of Chows at night. The marms
who run the establishment hold evening classes
for the cabbage John who is training to make
love in nicee Engleesh and to break the Ten Com-
mandments like a Clistian.
The “Voice That Breathed” suddenly broke
the Lenten reserve on Wednesday last and accom-
panied five or six mating-pairs to the starting-
rails. The couple of most stylish interest were
Miss Annie Bullivant and Mr. F. W. Baily, who
were mated for better or worse by the parson
with the unpropitiousname, Rev. C.*Drought. St.
John’s Church, Toorak, was given a festive air by
a great scheme of arch and bell decorations.
Ivory satin and leagues of Honiton lace formed
the bridal array. A trio of maids, Misses Flor-
ence Bullivant, Kitty and Gerty Austin, added a
touch of splendor to the scene by novel turn-outs
of foamy silk and chiffon and 18-carat gold coatees
in lustrous galon. Crowning their three thatches
were gold wreaths. The festivities wound up to
“Bull and Bush” strains at “ Larundel,” the
snug Toorak home of the Bullivants.
At another Wednesday knot-tying—that of Miss
Kathleen Husband and Mr. Charles Kirby-
four groomsmen were on picket duty. All
last season one groom sufficed. But the old order
changeth. By the way, Miss Husband was the
beauty bride of the day. She’s a piquant
brunette.
One local man of the Bar has been “ best man ”
nine times, but at last comes the turning of the
worm. He refuses to stand again. “I’m sick to
death,” he explains, “ of ‘ seeing fellows through,’
as they facetiously call it. And I hate the very
thought of weddings. I’m dog-tired of best-
manning it, of kissing the blushing bride, and
making a fool of myself when the speeches start.
I’m tired of looking after the ring, of fastening
the nervous groom’s collar-stud, of finding his hat
and his watch and his courage for him. I’m dead
sick of getting drunk the night before, and of.
wiring love and kisses for the idiots every hour of
the fatal morning. I’m nauseated with the
ecstasies of the maniacs over the commonplace
bride-elect. I’m full up of propitiating the
relatives, and practising wiles and tricks and
telling lies for both parties. If another so-called
Eal asks me to ‘see him through,’ 111 punch his
ead.”
The gown worn by the bride at the Oliver-
Murray wedding boasted four skirts. The nether-
most was made of pale-pink glace, above that
came white chiffon, over that again white crepc-
de-chine, and on top of all a gauze woven of spun
glass. The ivory satin train had a lining of blush
color.
Some of the she sex take their joy curiously. A
charming dame went into raiment of great glad-
ness as soon as her spouse was out towards the
Heads on his lonesome to the Cold Country. This
was probably to disguise her sorrow. But he re-
turned a month or two ago, and ever since the
lady has sported habiliments of woe. Now,
can it be to dissemble her joy?
Mummer Gerrard takes his sombre brow and
boot-trees, his gay vests, his stays, and his other
adventitious aids to beauty to a sheep-station for
a few months, to recuperate. Meanwhile, the
worship-fever drops 40 degrees. There was so
much beautiful promise about the gorgeous
Gerrard and so little performance. He complains
he never had a fair chance. It’s no use making
eyes at Douglas. He talks shop or horse or
pantomime with gusts, and has no tender theme
for the sighing Eve. This came as a great blow
to the first feminine swarm that crowded round.
Now Douglas is allowed elbow-room, and the
sigping of photographs has fallen off to two or
three a day.
All the Scotch and a considerable swarm of the
Emerald element attended Miss Maggie M‘Gann’s
off to-Yankeeland benefit concert. She is the
best burr balladist the State owns, and by per-
sisting exclusively in Highland ditties has estab-
lished herself as the local Jessie Maclachlan. The
benefit resulted in a fat sum that should take the
cheerful lassie well on her way. She now sheds a
smile and a tear on the rural audiences that know
her best through this Bent State, and goes a-war-
bling through Maoriland to further swell the
travelling fund. In Uncle Sam’s Land Miss
M‘Cann thinks to make dollars by the lorry-load.
The Caledonian Societies offer a welcome —hence
the trip.
The dog cause (I speak particularly and with no
reference to the Dry Dog) suffers considerably by
the death of Argus Editor Haddon. He started
exhibiting nearly forty years ago and persisted in
dog-fancying till he died. The Kennel Club was
F. W. Haddon. A wife and daughter are left to
help the dog cause along. The fad for fancy-
doggmg runs through the family.
Captain Crichton—the new Talbot caddy—
landed by the Marmora the other day, and
entrained for the Pivot to start to heel in the
Governor’s wake. He is a younger son of Lord
Erne, a not too wealthy Irish Earl who has a
reputation as an ancedotist and is as keen as your
Rev. Dill Macky or our Rev. Fierce Canary about
the Walls of Derry. Mr. Crichton himself is an
officer of one of the Foot-guards regiments; his
clubs are the “Marlboro’ ” and “The Bachelors” ;
and his intention in coming to Australia is pro-
bably the strictly honorable one of economising or
marrying.
Miss Gertrude Alger, who fiddles more than
cleverly, gets a trip-to-Europe benefit presently.
Her supporters draw dazzling pictures of plat-
form fame in store for the young lady, who up to
date is an artist only as far as her violin is con-
cerned. Some calm, cool, well-balanced friend
might quietly pass a-slab of advice to the effect
that she, like every other gifted musician, should
cultivate a charming address and gather some
brain and soul together as well as some additional
skill at music-making. That ad vice was ladled
out to Miss Una Bourne —the most brilliant of all
Melbourne pianistes who have gone Europewards.
What’s the use of technique without a savor of
personality—the secret magnetism that should
flow out from a performer and wrap itself round
the feelings of an audience? One wants the vital
spark every time. And the aspirant who goes off
to further cultivate a musical gift has no hope of
ultimate success unless she can also develop the
temperament and give it a chance.
An Australasian scribe has announced that an
extremely stylish politician is at present in London
with his wife. The particular husband is still in
Australia attending to business, and he will pro-
bably send along inquiries as to the cause of the
trouble. That’s how the forward, anxious scribe
makes trouble. A few years ago a Justice from
another State was interviewed at a shade beyond
the peep of dawn, and, the scribe seeing a bright,
youthful person in the room at a matutinal egg,
there resulted a touching story in a weekly of the
elderly Justice and his young wife, and the bloom
of health and happiness on her cheek, and her up-
to-date clothes, and her obvious devotion. The
sorrow that followed that story when the elderly
authentic wife read it is not ended yet. It was a
disastrous case of forward journalism.
Mrs. Reggie Morrison looms at present as a
most attractive frivoller. Her brunette coloring
and general sparkle, joined to a pretty wit, place
her easily top of a sadly depleted list of local
charmers.
The death of artist Ramsay, at the age of 28, is
a loss to the brotherhood. At 18 he did some
promising things as a Gallery student, and later
sailed for London. Work and the frightful fogs
affected bis health. Two or three years ago he
come back invalided, with a great collection of
portraits and life studies, which were shown at
“Myoora,” Toorak, during Melba’s season in
Australia —shown there through the kindly in-
terest of the Diva, whose life-size portrait was at
that time about three-quarters finished. A few
more years and young Ramsay might have made
a stir with his skill at portraits. As it is, some of
his best have the true line, the flesh-tint, and
actual expression.
Magistrate Panton passed an impressive bless-
ing on the picture show of Isaac Cohen, the
winner of the 1905 National Gallery Scholarship,
the other day. All along, the autocrat of the City
Court has espoused the cause of that artist. The
canvas that secured for Isaac the travelling ticket
has for its subject, “Reconciliation.” It deals
with the return of a beautiful sinner of the
“Magda” order to the arms of a careworn,
poverty-stricken mommer. The radiantly-decked
Magda is on her knees in a sea of frou-frou at the
feet of the old lady, who casts a downward bene-
diction of love on the coppery head of the repen-
tant daughter. A small-slcirted innocent stands
at the foot of a hastily-disturbed tea-table, contem-
plating the reconciliation with stupidly wide,
child-like eyes. The story is cleverly told in well-
applied paint.
The Cohen Show has several interesting ex-
hibits in pastel, oil, crayon, and in color-sugges-
tions. There’s one strenuously-drawn figure of a
Sandow student, the muscles like wharf ropes
drawn taut along the upper arm and chest. One
portrait, that of Herr Louis Hattenbach, suffices
to demonstrate the Hebrew youth’s skill at repro-
ducing a face and an expression to life, two half-
nude studies, showing the back of a girl, are
good in their truth to Nature in line and color.
In one, the girl of the 'back has her face reflected
in a mirror in the Velasquez “Venus” manner.
Mr. Cohen trips off to Paris in a few weeks. By
the way, he might give the picture-fancier some-
thing other than his Hebraic brethren in oil and
chalk. Nearly all his present portraits represent
the Chosen. Of course the Chosen have the
money to buy pictures with.
Director Bernard Hall is not always in full
accord with the decisions of the National
Gallery Board. The present Cohen case is an
instance. The Director thought he saw traces of
lack of originality in the young man’s interpreta-
tion of “Reconciliation,” and said so. But the
Board thought otherwise. Prom this forth com-
petitors at the Gallery are to be allowed to select
their own stories for illustration. This causes
satisfaction. The limitations of a set subject
narrowed the students woefully. “Reconcilia-
tion,” for instance, suggests only two or three
situations, and these didn’t, perhaps, appeal to
two of the whole team of starters.
Mrs. Seton Williams and Mrs. Tom Staughton
feasted a great shoal of Toorakites last Friday at
St. Neots, the domicile of the elder Staughtons.
A gay programme of fancy dancing (with graceful
Miss Green directing things at the pianoforte), of
palmists, bridge, tinned strum, canned song
and brass band made the time fly gaily. It was a
novel bill for a private show, and went down like
a spiced scandal. Mrs. Williams appeared to ad-
vantage, as the dramatic critics say, in ivory satin
with saucy decorations of gold (to match her
sovereign hair) and dawn-pink touches. A dawn-
pink posy crowned the picture garb. Mrs. Tom
Staughton’s rig ran to a demure black chiffon
velvet, and she sported a chaste white bouquet as
a foil.
Miss Florence Lloyd has lots of big strong
teeth, a frank “ What-ho ” sort of smile that
seems a permanent decoration, and a long sweep
of festive limb to carry her through the part of a
costly siren in “ There and Back.” The chiffons
are of no account. They’re no aid to the Lloyd
looks. Skirts seem to hang awkwardly on the
form that rollicks and shapes so well in tubular
male costume.
Bendigo rushed to congratulate its Dolly
Castles when she returned the other day as a
leading member of the Gilbert and Sullivan Co.
There was a mayoral reception, and the officials
of the Austral Society, at whose competitions
the Castles sisters first achieved local fame,
turned out to do honor to the fair one with the
golden locks. The company put in six nights at
Bendigo, producing a fresh opera every night.
And the ’Gonians, whose little theatre seldom
accommodates this dainty kind of show, felt com-
forted with Gilbert, and soothed their savage
breasts with Sullivan.
Saturday saw the first inter-State ladies’ cricket
match in Australia played at Victoria Park, Mel-
bourne, between Tas. and Vic. The latter boasts
a score of girls’ cricket clubs, the former eight—
mostly around Devonport—and the players were
selected from these. Asa matter of fact, women’s
cricket soon palls on a spectator —it isn’t cricket,
neither is it a figure show, while as a joke it grows
wearisome. Both sides wore dark blue, ankle-
deep skirts; theTassies had white blouses and sailor
hats, the Vies, white jerseys and blue caps. The
Victoriennes had dispensed with corsets while the
Islanders had not, thus keeping themselves less
supple and limber than their opponents. The
home team possessed a couple of comparatively
decent over-arm bowlers, a girl who could throw
in as far and as straight as a lad of 16,
and the only batswoman who had mastered
that pretty stroke, the cut. The Tasmaniennes
fielded smartly, batted daintily, and possessed a
little, long-haired, 15-year-old wicket-keeper who
took the balls bowled and those thrown in cleverly,
without gloves; but altogether they were out-
classed, scoring but 49 in their first innings to the
Vies.’ 60 for four. Pleasing diversions were
afforded at times by the advent of copious draughts
of lemonade and other intoxicating fluids; the
concussion of a ball on a fieldswoman’s nose,
causing that delicate organ to weep copiously;
and the coming undone of a batswoman’s shoe-
lace, whereby the game was stopped for a few
minutes. But it was a calm, placid afternoon’s
amusement. Women formed the majority of the
500 or 600 spectators.
Rita Hope writes of the first pianoforte lesson
that she got from the great Leschetitzki, at
Vienna: “I am glad I did not go before I was
ready. There is an American girl staying here,
and she went a few weeks ago. Frau Bree, who
is Leschetitzki’s vorbereiter , said she should not
have gone for another two months, but I suppose
her mother made her hurry up. Well, Leschetitzki
told this girl she had no talent, and said
he was tired of listening to the Nocturne (I guess
he is) and would not let her finish it.... Frau
Bree arranged the first lesson for Miss Spaeth and
myself on January 20th. We felt rather shaky
from what we had heard. We went into a very
large room with two grand pianos and were intro-,
duced to the ‘ dragon,’ who is a little white-haired
old man. He smoked a cigar sorneof the time and
spoke with it between histeeth, which did not make
understanding any easier. We were fortunate
to find him on one of his good-tempered days.
He even came out with a word or two of English
—all he knew, I suppose. He sits at one piano
and the pupil sits at the other, and he plays little
bits to keep time. We have to play from
memory, though the music is there if we need it.
Miss Spaeth was the first to take her lesson, and
she got on very well. I played a Czerny
study, then the Chopin Nocturne and a
Chopin study. He showed me a number of
finger exercises, said I had a good hand
and would in the future have a good tone.
I believe he was pleased. When Miss Spaeth
said she was surprised he was so nice, Frau Bree
said, ‘He is not always so. Oh, no ! ’ The only
thing that spoils my pleasure at learning from
Leschetitzki is the price—25 gulden (£2 Is. Bd.)
for each lesson. This year he raised it from
20 gulden because he did not want any more
pupils. I wonder there are so many people
(myself included) who pay his price. Still, it is a
great thing to say ‘I am a Leschetitzki pupil.’”
Unlike most actors, the late George Coppin
preferred to sometimes dodge the limelight. He
always said he wanted to be buried on the quiet,
that Death was merely a transition—nothing to
make a fuss about. The old man meant what he
said, and impressed his wishes so emphatically
on his family that, when the end came, they
stood firm and declined public obsequies, though
Mayor, Councillors, Freemasons, and others were
most pressing in their offers of a co-operative
funeral pageant.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
A MIGHTY HUNTER.
Mr. Deakin says George Reid is whistling for a policy.
G EORELE: “ Gerrcut, you beast! I wasn't whist-
ling for you! You aren't any good against
an animal like THAT”
They breed poetical police in Melbourne
nowadays. Spake one Constable Cartin, in an
obscene language case : “ The stream of foul lan-
guage uttered by Lacey floated in the air like the
dense smoke from a bush tire.” Lacey got “£7 or
six weeks.”
“Dick” Sly, K.C., the newly-appointed
N.S.W. Acting Supreme Court Judge, is a keen
and learned, though not a very fluent lawyer, and
was a painstaking and reliable Judge when acting
some years ago. He is a mild-mannered little
man, but a good fighter, and rams home his points
with tireless persistency. Judges know that when
he raises a point of law he is probably right, and
juries (so satirical brother sharks allege) say to
themselves—- I 'There’s poor Dr. Sly. We know
he must be right, though he can’t quite explain
how. We’d better give him the verdict.” When
he gets his verdict he generally manages to hold it
in the higher Courts. The Privy Council has
more than once justified this belief on points
raised by “Dick.”
The siege of Sana, little as was the atten-
tion it attracted at this distance, seems to have
been one of the prize horrors of the age. Sana is
in that long western strip of Arabia which Turkey
swallowed some time ago; Mukhtar Pasha —
whom the London newsboy always alluded to in a
friendly way as “Murky” Pasha when he was be-
fore the public in the war of 1877-78 —did a lot to
enlarge the Turkish dominions thereabouts. But
the Arabs rose, as they have been doing ever since
Abraham’s time, and wanted their own again. The
Turkish forces were few, and there was no
Mukhtar Pasha to lead them. Sultan Abdul
Shylock, the terrified miser with the long nose,
sent little assistance, and Sana became an
Arabian city once more ! But the Turkish garrison
lived on the flesh of dead Arabs before it gave up
the defence and broke through and fled from the
premises, and the famished Arab inhabitants ate
dead Turkish soldier surreptitiously, and out of
the 70,000 people who were in Sana when the
siege commenced only 20,000 survived to the end.
The Turk isn’t too nice an Asiatic, taking him by
and large—still he is an Asiatic, and Bruce Smith
doubtless loves him for it.


and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
' ) in the city.
' IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artietio Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
'REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
sdf
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 6/- Fine
assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
L Pis
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frgd. Nagel), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
132 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTIE & SONS, BRISBANE.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
sdf
sd
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.l
( ovp. Hunter St.) j
at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
sdf
The proposal to return to gilded grandness
in Federal military uniforms and trappings sug-
gests the reflection that caparisons are odious.
“ N.” : A boss printer tells me the propri-
etors of the Encyclopedia Britannica can only
sell in America such copies as are printed there.
So the new English edition is to be printed there,
too. A double-shotted anti-Freetrade moral.
Last year, saj r s Melbourne Age re the
famine in Japan, the total Japanese rice-crop was
17 per cent, below the average. Well, in 1903 the
wheat crop in N.S.W. and Victoria was 80 per
cent, below the average. That was something
worth calling a fail ure.
If, as is stated, the N.S. W. Agent-General
is seeking toinduceEnglish shop employees to come
out here as immigrants with the promise of higher
wages, that ought to be stopped. There are far
too many of the shop employee type in the com-
munity already. Any addition to the ranks of
wan ribbon-rollers would be a calamity.
It is reported that the Yictorian Labor
party will make a great effort in
December to capture the seats now
held by Senators Zeal, Fraser,
and Styles. The necessity of
getting rid of Zeal and Simian
Fhraser is obvious enough,
but Styles has always been
a good Protectionist and
as good a Democrat as
any Labor man, and to
attack him is sheer folly.
If Styles and three Labor
men four in all are
standing for three places,
it can only result in a
splitting of the Democratic
vote, for a great many
Labor men will not support
the party while it sinks the
fiscal issue, so long as there is
a good man with definite fiscal
views available. The Democratic
vote might win all three seats (per-
haps by narrow majorities) if no
suffrages were wasted. The same vote, split
up among four candidates, might just lose the
whole three seats by narrow majorities.
The new British Labor party has given
notice that it will accept, for one session only, the
explanation that financial difficulties stand in the
way of payment of members and old age pensions.
In other words, it will give the Bannerman
Ministry one year in which to find a way out of
these alleged financial difficulties. After that
breathing space, if the Bannerman Government,
which is a painfully ordinary old Government,
hasn’t got over the difficulties, the Labor party
will begin to shake things up.
The Major Haw-hawker inquiry drags
long at Queenscliff (Vic.). Later evidence was
largely concerned with the borrowing of coal by
officers from the regimental stores —it is said to
have been an established practice with the re-
splendent officahs to have the run of the Govern-
ment coal. At all events, the testimony as to the
borrowing was much more distinct than the evi-
dence about the prompt return of the coal. In
the latter days of the inquiry, the millinery chair-
man of the Board (Col. Waddell) developed a
habit of sitting rather heavily on barrister George
Maxwell, who was bringing out the unpleasant
alleged facts of the case. Mr. Waddell’s conduct
of the inquiry has been such as to relieve him of
some of the hostility with which the Vic. military
clique regarded him when he accepted the ap-
pointment. The report of the Board is now being
awaited without much interest.
George Reid’s anti-Socialism campaign
recalls M‘II wraith’s in Queensland in ’93. Mac’s
battle cry then was : ‘ ‘ Return the Labor party
and the banks will close up.” The election
returns were barely in, giving M‘IIwraith a
majority and the Labor party a bad defeat, when
the banks shut up with a bang which was smelt
all over Australia. Heavens, what a narrow
escape Labor had that time !
Royal Commission on the Tobacco Trade
published some figures which must make the
mouths of Treasurers water. “ From the tobacco
monopoly Fiance, in 1902, obtained a net
revenue of £13,297,464; Italy, 1902, £6,419,237;
Austria, 1901, £6,107,000. Japan last year made
its tobacco monopoly the security for war loans to
the extent of £60,000,000.”
Said stodgy Allan M‘Lean, the ex-other-
half Premier, to the Yic. Women’s League at
( Janet Mrs. Clarke’s : —
5 He desired to be fair to those who conscientiously held
Socialistic views. The great majority of the Socialist
, party in the Federal Parliament were sober men, of good
repute, and good personal character.
Watson will be much obliged, no doubt. In
. return, perhaps, he won’t mind saying that, so far
as he knows, there are comparatively few of the
. anti-Socialist members who ought to be in gaol.
There is talk of running Charles Atkins,
i President of the Chamber of Manufactures, as a
Victorian candidate for the Senate at this year’s
election. He should get the A.N.A. vote in con-
sideration of his persistent barracking for local
manufactures, and his good work in spreading the
gospel of Australian Goods for Australian People,
and in trying to persuade the manufacturers that
Labor legislation has come to stay, and must be
met by them in a friendly commercial spirit. The
Freetrade Argus will be bound to snort at Atkins
if he candidates, and the curse of the Argus
availeth much towards a man’s election.
The sugar districts of Bananaland look
vastly more prosperous since the clays of the bonus
on white cane than during the full blast of the
kanaka curse. At Mackay the cookies who lived
in humpies a few years ago are now domiciled in
neat cottages, and begin to be blessed with
furniture, and the growers of nigger cane are
manifesting a desire to break their agreements
■with Tommy Tanna and cast Thomas into outer
blackness. It is quite a while now since anything
very large and loud was heard about “ the ruin of
the cane industry.”
“Eros ” : A great deal has been said about
the decline of George Reid, who proposes to de-
bate Socialism with W. Holman in order to keep
himself before the public eye. But the man who
has really declined is Bruce Smith. He has got
into that condition that he would travel 30 miles
to address an infant school on the advantages of
nigger labor. Ho is constantly hastening long
distances to hold forth to women at bun-struggles
(or struggles where there is no bun) on the horrors
of White Australia. He would almost rather orate
to a caterpillar about the blessings of Chinamen
than not orate at all. I believe if B. Smith were
coming down the fire escape from a burning house,
with nothmg on but his night-shirt and his curl-
papers (if he wears curl-papers), he would stop
half-way down to address the excited crowd in the
anti-Socialist interest.
IN WESTRALIA.
CASEY : “ This paper has an extensive article on
the Yellow Peril in the East. Be cripes, ’tis
a little afraid I'm beginning to be !”
TRACEY : “ Yez needn't be, Casey. Oi've fought
thirn Orangemen meself in the Eastern States.
And if they get interfering wid our procession
on the Sivinteenth I'll show yez that the
question is a combattible wan.”
One State Ministry had a great cleaning-
up in a department the other day, and sailed over
the heads of numerous droning seniors in order to
find a new chief. Whereupon three of the seniors
woke up sufficiently to write a joint letter, point-
ing out their long experience, and protesting that
they ought to be consulted before definite action
was taken. To which, so runs the yarn around
the corridors of that department, the Government
replied in two brief sentences :
Yours of received. When a man is draining a
ditch he doesn’t consult the frogs.
Yic. Railway Commissioner Tait to the
Shipping Services Commission :
Having been 20 years with a privately-owned company,
and three years with State-owned railways, my ex-
perience is that the public receive fully as great accom-
modation and services as they would from private com-
panies under similar circumstances, if not greater. There
is no need of competition to keep the railway manage-
ment and staff up to the mark, for the critic is always
with us, day and night, in all parts of the State.
Which is a tough bit for those to chew who
always say—“ But, cf course, Private Enterprise
could do better.”
THE VISIT OF THE DEPOSITORS.
Dr. George Brown , veteran missionary, to
N.S.W. Methodist Conference on the progress of
Christianity in the South Sea Islands : —
He asked his audience what they thought of a Fijian
taking out an insurance policy on the lives of his children
for £1000? Gould they imagine, also, an ex-cannibal
having a bank account?
Sydney Morning Herald, alarmed at the
near prospect of a series of strikes coming to
blight the returning prosperity of the State,
practically urges (13/3/’O6) an amendment of the
N.S.W. Arbitration Act to make it more effec-
tive :
The Government is, no doubt, to blame for playing with
the question of amending the Arbitration Act. It would
and it would not —talking boldly enough, and then acting
like Mark Twain’s pilgrim when the Bedouins were
announced —and disgust has been added to disgust. But
no good purpose can be served by rushing to strike
weapons at a moment’s notice.
The evidence of Queensland Trade Com-
missioner J*>nes before the Tariff Commission was
a hard blow to the Foreign-trade advocates.
Fortified with Japanese official blue-books, Jones
gave exact rates of wages and hours of labor
(which had been much in dispute), also conditions
of life ; incidentally he proved that the present
industrial position of Japan was largely due to
heavy Protective duties. Senator Pulsford was
aghast, and wrote to Brisbane Courier com-
plaining that Jones’ appearance was “ very inex-
plicable,” “ deeply regrettable,” “destructive of
the best instincts of civilisation,” with other wild,
raving, hair-clawing remarks. Pulsford’s love of
the foreigner who smothers Australian industries
amounts almost to a mania.
The “ Hello Central ” bureau still refuses
to budge from its intention of installing the toll
system of telephones, despite the frenzied opposi-
tion of the Sydney and Melbourne business people
and some of the angry suburban population that
wants to ring up its best friend and talk for half-
an-hour about its new hat. It is wildly declared
that “had private enterprise been running the
system, the change would not have been made ”
(which is true, for the generous ad lib. system
would never have been started). The proposed
charge of £9 a year represents a daily rate of 6d.
If a business subscriber demanded the right of
posting as many letters a day as he liked, because
he had paid for six, he would be laughed at. Yet
that has been the position with the telephone
service.
The late William M‘Quade, of Bomera,
Potts Point, Sydney, vested his property in the
Permanent Trustee Company of N.S.W. on
behalf of his heirs. Four years ago the N.S.W.
Government wished to resume part of the pro-
perty for wharf extension ; but the resumption
was objected to unless the whole property was
taken, and the Equity Judge, in September, 1902,
made a decree to that effect—that the State must
resume the entire property or none of it. The
Ministry of the day appealed to the Full Court
two months later, and the Full Court confirmed
the decree of the Judge in Equity. The Govern-
ment decided to appeal (at great expense) to the
Privy Council. Last week the Privy Council
decided the appeal against the Government, so,
after four years of expensive litigation, the per-
sistent “Crown” finds itself exactly where it
was. If the N.S.W. Parliament ever opens again
—and as the much-needed unification of Australia
seems a little distance off yet, that public misfor-
tune presumably will re-open—somebody ought to
ask just how much of the people’s money has been
spent in this one little scrimmage.
Sydney Telegraph writes glibly enough
of “ recovering lost public property” when it is a
question of getting back the harbor foreshores for
the pleasure of the city. But it shrieks “ confisca-
tion ” when there is talk of getting back from
monopoly ownership the big agricultural areas
necessary for the very life of the State.
Australian naval expert Cresswell, in his
latest report on Australian maritime
defence, suggests a mosquito fleet
of torpedoers and destroyers
to defend the ports. As an
instillment, that would be
well enough. But for any
sound system there must be
a number of swift cruisers,
and there ought to be
two or three of the
best battleships that
money can supply. The
mosquito boats would
be tied to their harbors
by, say 100-mile long
ropes. They couldn’t
circumnavi-
gate the
continent,
nor even
safely
run from
port to
port in
all weath-
ers. There-
fore, they
could not
be mobilised at a
crisis. The Aus-
tralian Navy should
have at least half-
a-dozen vessels that
can be anywhere
at any time, and
which can, by
giving them es-
cort, extend the
effective range
of the mosquito
fleet.
The new Canadian
national paper, Canada, is
beginning to agitate for the total
exclusion of the alien immigrant. One writer
records :
In the course of a summer’s tour I found that the
tiny historic towns of the eastern provinces, which I
remembered as “ calm and clean with the calmness and
cleanness of England,” have been invaded by a pestilence
of squalor and meanness and vulgarity as a result of the
appearance in force of the low-grade foreign immigrant.
. . . “ The commonest London loafer has more of decency
in him, of suavity, of inherent reverence for order, of
love of fair play, of humor, than any of the alien immi-
grants who are'now flocking into the Dominion.”
Suggested form of advertisement for use
of importers :
■vyANTED, a CUSTOMS CLERK, must be well-up
’ ’ in “ oversights.” Apply, •
S.A. Education Department has a curious
quarrel with that of Tasmania. The Director of
Education in the island was till lately an inspector
in Adelaide, and he is now writing to the best
juniors he left behind him, offering them increased
salaries if they will follow. So says Premier
Price, who considers it “ very unfair.” Six have
gone already, and the Tasmanian teachers, who
don’t get billets accordingly, are not likely to
approve of the plan either. S.A.’s particular
grievance is that several of the departed teachers
have received a high-class education at Adelaide
’Varsity, the fees being made nominal with the idea
that they were going to devote themselves to the
service of the State. It seems a queer grievance,
however. Fancy Bent (for example) moaning
publicly because Melbourne men were getting all
the fattest billets in some N.S.W. department!
Sydney Telegraph is engaged in the
manufacture of another Ma State grievance. It
notices that N.S.W. has a land-tax. It doesn t
seem to know that S.A. has a heavier land-tax,
and that Victoria and Tasmania also have land-
taxes, both of the State and Local Government
variety ; and it argues that if J. C. Watson’s pro-
posed Federal Land-Tax comes into operation a
terrible injury will be done to the Ma State :
In this way the Federal tax would fall with such special
severity on New South Wales as to amount in a substan-
tial degree to discrimination between States.
Even if the statement were true, instead of
being the paper’s usual parochial lie, there is
a simple remedy. When the Federal land-tax
comes in force, the State one can be abolished. If
there is any difficulty about that, Carruthers can
be abolished. Also it wouldn’t do much harm if
the Telegraph were abolished.
“Robert Hap ” writes :
On a recent Monday a withering branch of the ring-
barked Liberal League hired an excursion boat and nearly
filled it with George Reid and other people who are sup-
posed to ’ave the cause at ’eart. They had a tame little
outing down Sj’dney harbor. There was nobody of much
importance present, or the daily press would have men-
tioned it. Also there was a lamentable scarcity of
refreshments, and as the day waned many of the merry-
makers roamed about the boat jabbing their gamps at
tool boxes, patent life buoys, and at any enclosed space
that looked like a larder. Just as the murmurings
were beginning to make the organisers look haggard,
George Reid got up and delivered a speech off Clark
Island. When he said that he believed “in the great
Socialism whose law was, sacrifice yourself for others,”
every eye was turned on the brief bag at his side; but
when he pointed out that the other Socialism meant sac-
rificing others for yourself, there was a general exodus in
the direction of the suspended water-bag. Altogether,
it was a dreary turn out, and if George w'ants to keep
before the public whatever political name he has left,
he will have to devise a better scheme than delivering an
address to Clark Island from a moored pleasure boat. Let
him try a few remarks from the Post Office tower, or a
stirring address from the top of a tram car.
»
“Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup.” You may
just as well fill it with the purest spirit available.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest and best tonic
known for mind or body. If your back aches it
may be your kidneys— Wolfe’s Schnapps cures
kidney diseases.*
THE MAN WITH THE PUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Williams has the skill. Squires has the punch.”—
Notice posted before the fight.
To the cheerful Oyclorama, up the crowded Eastern Hill,
All the population hurried to the Squires and Williams
mill.
There was biff, bash—holy thunder, the catastrophe was
o’er,
And Ed. Williams lay all huddled in a heap upon the floor.
So, ’tis not the clever “stopping” that removes the hair
and skin ;
Nay, ’tis not the fancy dancing, but the push-power that
can win.
When Bill paused and Edward rested at that half-round’s
sudden crunch,
Sober Science tossed the towel up to the man who owned
the Punch.
Now, Australia needs some strong man more pugnacious
than polite,
Some Gehenna of a cyclone with a death-dispensing right.
It requires no verbal buckets to be sprinkled on its hopes,
But rude blokes who’ll bash importers into wreck across
the ropes.
Neither clowns, nor dancing Johnnies, learned pens nor
canting choirs,
Only pugs who’ll deal out Shcol and disaster like Bill
Sauires.
For of coves who’re merely clever we’ve an overloaded
bunch,
Yes, there’s space for politicians with a paralysing
punch.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


'
V
IS
m
m
V v
y
■’
ilfr
as
-
. ■
■ '
V,‘- <
Mgl
’
••:* ??:■ ■ -
.. •
Mi
1
feSSE®*!
r 'X".S v '
-
! / v' *
■
''-I ■: :
Si
mm&m
, H
H&wi
v gfaSgS
• -1
rara
'
Sola on
Easylerms
Ifed
Besimli
Leas/Mois
msm,
3K.r
'»;fc
IfSSs
TD
T
W
9
• 9
>• • • 9
***•■'• •
. . ■
■■-■■■■
An Electric Pocket Lamp for 3/9.
I
Marvellous value. Gives a
brilliant light simply hy
pressing the button. Fitted with
Battery, which is charged simply
by pouring water into the three
cells. THE BATTERY IS RE-
CHARGEABLE, consequently
there is a great saving in the cost
of Batteries. One Battery will
last many months. Get one of
these Lamps now and you will
never be without it. Think what
a boon it will be to you, going
from room to room, getting up at
nights, going on lonely walks, for
camping-out—and there are
dozens of other uses which will
suggest themselves to you when once you have the Lamp,
and there are uses which it will be put to which you never
dreamed of. EVERY LAMP IS GUARANTEED. No
other firm will do this. Read these testimonials :
Mr. Chas. Courtney, Goldie-street, Wyn.vard, Tas. : “ I
have received your Lamp safely, and am very' well pleased
with it. Kindly forward another.”
Mr. F. Brunsdon, Namoi Echo, Wee Waa : “ Electric
Pocket Lamp to hand, and I must say I am very well
pleased with it.”
Mr. D. Campbell, Millicent, S.A. : “ I am very well
satisfied with the Pocket Electric Lamp procured from
you.” And dozens of others.
THE PRICE OF THE LAMP, complete, is ONLY 3/9
post paid to any address. Extra Batteries, 1/6 each.
We have a superior quality also in stock, which is the
BEST POCKET LAMP IN THE WORLD. It is fitted
with Rosewood’s Electrolyte Battery, and will give a most
dazzling, almost blinding, light for over 100 ft. Price,
7/6 post free. Batteries, 2/6. One Battery lasts over
six months.
ELECTRIC TORCHES.
Preferred by T many on account of the convenient shape,
and the very much wider circumference. Also fitted
with Rosewood’s Electrolyte Batteries, Price, 8/6 post
free. Extra Batteries, 2/6. Others at 10/6, 15/-, and
17/6 each.
ELECTRIC RUBY LAMPS FOR PHOTOGRAPHERS.
We are the proprietors of a new device for Electric
Pocket Lamps, viz., a Ruby Glass Bulb Attachment for
dark-room work, changing plates while travelling, etc,
A nominal charge of Od. is made for fitting this on to any
of our Torches.or 7/6 Pocket Lamps, as illustrated above.
Obtainable only from —
A. J. SM/TH & CO., 6 Macro St„ Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will be taken o f
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
~ . . ,
address must appear on MS. A o liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; aiul no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Jonas M. : Take no interest in your denuncia-
tions of suicide What harm has suicide ever done vou?
tions or suicide. Wbat harm lias suicide ever done you i
Present writer often reckons that he will make a pictur-
esque end by cutting his throat on top of a heap of unread
tales and verse, having first left written instructions for
hi. successor th.t the blood is to be ..lowed to dr, on the
contributions... .H.O.J. : The Murderers Bridge a
promising title, but it headed some of the tamest and
most harmless “ poetry ” we read this week. Please don’t
. . , . , . , , , ~ , „ v., I. _ .
indulge in such shockingly deceptive headings... .Nulla
“National Gamble ” hardly skilful enough... .F.H.R. : A
good prescription for Australia : “Less horse-play, more
horse-sense.”... .L.G. : A poor parody... .Eli. H. : Good
idea, but versification faulty....M. Cairns: Sorry can’t
find room for an article which re-echoes one of our own.
The saddest part of Bulletin editing is casting to the
W.P.B. the nicely-written yarns of people who agree with
us so entirely that they repeat what we have already
said... .Two Roads : Allegorical verse needs to be very weil
done. Your matter rather too thin generally.... W.P.B. :
We don’t attach nearly as much importance to Bishops as
to Premiers... .Cosmos : No, thanks ; no special interest...
Edith M. W. : Geo. Shenton is aged 64 (not 62). He was
36 years in Parliament (not 35). He was 11 times (not six
times) mayor of Perth. When you are so loose in your
statements we can’t accept anything you say as reliable.
C.F.S. : Never heard that insect pow'der was any
good to kill dead telephones with... .Eileen Marcella:
“Unrest” rather unimportant... .Hamer : Your stuff is
desperately hard to read. Have given up “ The Church ”
as a bad job : it may be very good, but there are words
which no one could possibly decipher. First line seems to
state that religion doesn’t go well with “ hash and sunken
nomads.” Have made out most of the “ Laying of Ago ”
or the “ Saying of a/c”or the “ Hanging of or what-
ever it is 1.M.G.: Little more than a catalogue of
agriculture in rhyme....N.E.D. : Not very good, and
such wild rhymes as “ worked for fame ” and “ never
have fame” are impossible Moody Sanky :“ Auditors”
is full of crude swindles. The man who couldn’t doit
better than that deserves to be honest... .The P. :
“Night of Love ” hardly up to your usual standard....
Ruby O : “Song of Songs ” is a pretty thing—with an in-
definite kind of prettiness... .J : “ Polly” has good points.
“ The Cost ” rejected. Poems about men who died in the
bush are 0ff....T. Owser : Bark hadn’t enough bite....
F.C. : Amusing in its way, hut subject doesn’t suit....
Oomba : Prose sketch rather good, but out of our line,
Verses very weak... .H.H.H. : Short item, spirited but
clumsy. Other, much too prosy and didactic for u 5....
J.F.J.VV. : A puerile production Kia Ora: Your
literary hand is too heavy and awkward H.H. : Much
too late in the day for a whoop over that affair.... J.
Batten: All feeble and ineffective Drifter: Hardly
well enough done Iris R. : Both too roughly slung
together... .W.L.D.: Clever in spots, but overdone as a
whole, and disfigured by the continual pun-snatching....
Carolus: Not enough in it for print... .Lushington L. :
Realistic, hut too scrappy and inconsecutive... .J.M S. :
Sorry to say they are all much below standard. ...Kooka-
hurra : Crude and shapeless.... I alder : Interestingin its
way, but has too much detail for Bulletin. ...Cory don :
Spoilt by a perfectly needless violation of historical
accuracy W.A.D. : The prose item is endurable, but
you are a calamitous versifier... .San P. : In the first
100 words there are seven blunders in syntax, and 11
wrong spellings ! You want to build from the t0p....
JM‘P\: You would have to give a more precise date.
Ethelbert K.. Too vague and lhetoncal.. ..C.B.H. . All
very fine and large, hut there would be nothing noble in
staying at home to starve. A dead patriot is of no
more use than any other cadaver H.l'.C.: Both
quite impossible .. .C.E.G. : Unexceptionable sen-
timents in ruinous verse....O.S.F.: The Bus.i razz’.t-
dazzle has been so often done that only really
brilliant treatment will carry it now....Orea: Your
literary wheels are too creaky for such a light
and airy subject Henry F.M. : Probably they
didn’t suit, but that’s no reason for not trying again....
almost scored ..Jas. Hoyle: for the
4000th time or more—it was his son’s portrait
L M D . He .. tho%rht it was a bird,” is 25 years old at
i eas t Wyung: Yarn about instinct too long for
interest Homo: “Why does the right boot always
wear out first ?” It doesn’t. Writer goes in the
left boot Pilgrim: We couldn t fix last verse of
poem.” It wants a new verse, also a new poem....
J.W.M.: Very poor quality —A. Bardi: Well-worn
theme, rather weakly handled... .G.L. : Hardly worth
pr j nt _ ..otto Z. : You haven’t quite grasp enough of
English.... W.R.G. : Good idea inadequately dealt with
... . A.T.R. : Too stiff and formal... .The Lad : Scrappy
an( t unsatisfactory.... Mrs. T. : Not skill enough....
feebly presented.... Premo : There’s a gleam of humor in
the prose atrocity, but the verses are simply hopeless,
You don’t send your address... .One who Knows : Ex-
aggeration of that kind requires to be backed with humor,
Qf that you don , t t 0 have a g l immer ... .incog :
Returned accordingly... .Old Timer : Sorry, quite unsuit-
able Afrikander: Indifferent workmanship Cer-
care : Pathetically bad verse... .Rex S. : “ Prospecting ”
doesn’t pan out enough... .C.T.J. : Unfortunately, it is
too everyday a tragedy to call for presentation in print
....H.W.W.: Racy, but style too hasty and jerky....
Casino : Weak and uninteresting... .M. Grail: Nothing
special about it.... “ Madelon ” (Can’t make out your
signature, but guess at it): Mildly meritorious....
G.P.B. : Tolerably well versified, but not of our
line... .Mimi: Yery feeble literary flutterings as yet....
C.O.W. : Ho you really think it was worth while writing
a ii that historical and other distortion for the purpose of
making the meddlesome and excited German Emperor
l°°k bke a saint ?... .P.S.E. : No one here remembers
“ Rulers.” No time to write letters about the merits of
contributions... .Quandong : ‘Planters Surprise ” de-
dined. As a bard .you have drawbacks... .W.M.M. :
Fancy you were answered, items being unsuitable, as
“ My Guide ” is... .Violet T. : Sorry no chance of taking
a regular letter. Verses hardly up to the mark....
H.M.K. : Not sufficient merit.. . Ylanod : Hardly bright
enough... .Ralph Rodney: If you ask it seriously of
course there is no claim for trespass.... VI. H. Lee (1)
Thanks, but we regard Reynolds s Newspaper as being,
80 to speak, of a friendly tribe, and so far have taken
no . action. (2) Yes. By action through our London
solicitors we compelled one publication to cease
its wholesale thefts from Tiie Bulletin ..G.O.M.
(New Guinea): Sorry cant trace. Diomed :
Why should a Broken Hill man wish to throw bad verse
a t Westralia because of its sand? Cast the sand-storm
from your own eye. Verse generally not up to the mark,
....The Cockney: Oil the Corner doesn t read real.
Y. : Wanted not wanted... .W.L. : Don t want
P a rs that will amuse a village, hut ones that, will interest
Australia.... H. B. W. : Ycu haven t skill enough to tackle
so big a subject in verse... .A. B. (Collie) : In your deadly
anxiety to be funny you have made the whole Rason thing
incomprehensible Scientist : Received, another weary
yarn about Buddha, the basic principles, the music
the spheres,” “ the never-dying nectar,’ Pythagoras,
Henry George, Orinuzd, Nirvana, &c... .Didd : You say
that you hope your anecdotes of animals are not of the
chestnut order. We|l> one was originally written in
Latin about 1800 or 1000 or -000 years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Allmadge : You surely didn’t expect any paper to
p r ; rd that picture. An infant school could do better....
x>. Lloyd : You say you “can’t draw.” Quite true
x.M. : “Misunderstood” and “Wrecked” are rather
primitive and scratchy art W.J.M. : Picture of man
folding up lamp-post declined Tinny: A very old
alleged Irishism... .R.K.F. : Picture humorous, but only
sch Solbov art after a 11... .L.E.W. : Meek-looking sketch
of city organist declined... .Larra Keeyah : You can’t
draw.... Rosa O’K. : Picture of two nightmares, two
ca i ves an( j a striped bandbox declined C.C. : Jug and
bottle sketch rejected Harold D. : Picture of drunken
g en t quite useless. No stamps enclosed for return, so
we nt into basket... .Harry R. M‘D. : Ordinary—not to
sa y dull.
“ Thou shalt not be stolen from. •
Caklyle.
Australia imports enormous quantities of
dairy machinery which could easily be manufac-
tured locally. If the duty was robust enough, the
manufacturers would come here with their patents,
since Australia is one of the largest users of their
goods.
A remarkable and most amusing poster, adver-
tising that well-known and popular hair tonic “ Capilla,
is at the present time appearing on the hoardings of
Sydney. The arguments and controversies heard on the
trams in reference to the possibilities of “ Capilla hair
growing properties must prove a very profitable advertis-
ment for the preparation which is now in its sixth year,
wjth ever increasing sales.*
Conventional Lies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas at dusk that a figure sped past me,
All wretched, unhappy, and wan;
One look of mute suffering he cast me,
Then fled down the street and was gone !
’Twas Humanity, stripped of pretences,
All naked beneath the cold skies;
Aye, reduced to his primary senses,
He scurried with woe in his eyes,
And demanded, with anguish immense, his
Conventional Lies !
“I am naked !” the figure howled, faintly;
“ Pray, fetch me my ancient beliefs.
Deck me out like a hypocrite saintly
With baggy-kneed morals and griefs.
Let me walk in the paths I am used to,
Dress me in my customed disguise;
An you heed not my prayer, or refuse to,
Poor Humanity sickens and dies !
In my weakness and woe I’m reduced to
Conventional Lies !
“ Through the ages I’ve covered my carcase
With paltry pretences and shams ;
Now I howl in despair through the dark, as
The door of Pretended Things slams !
I’m forlorn; and I stumble and falter,
For I hear me no priestly replies;
No clerical finger-posts palter,
No sycophant’s sermon denies.
Let me shelter myself at thy altar—
Conventional Lies !
“I was nurtured on wiles and evasions,
And I yearn for my natural food ;
I was guarded on mental occasions,
So my brain was a dank solitude.
Now sceptic suspicions assail me—
I grope through a vast maze of whys ;
Dread doubts and perplexities flail me,
And none heed my moans and my sighs.
Will the Ark of my Covenant fail me—
Conventional Lies ? ”
Lo, the howls of the wretch checked my laughter,
There was death and despair in his voice ;
So I sped on my motor-star after,
And I bade the poor insect rejoice !
With a pitchfork I reached him his raiment,
Which he donned in the eagerest wise ;
Aye, he clutched his drab creed as if payment
Could never obtain that pale prize.
And I knew in that hour what thy sway meant,
Conventional Lies !
’Twas at night that a figure sped past me,
Complacency’s tallow-faced son ;
One look of thanksgiving he cast me,
Then fled up the street and was gone !
’Twas Humanity, clad in pretences,
Quite at home now beneath the cold skies;
He had strangled his primary senses,
And scurried, with joy in his eyes,
Clutching tightly, with gladness immense, his
Conventional Lies !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Cable Address —
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersall’s Club,
SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST HARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations •
Price Lists forwarded on Application,
■ ♦
Telegraphic Address —
MOLONEY, TattersaH’s,
SYDNEY .
fdf
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Bek\v:;:;y and Offices:
BOWLING- ST., E3DFERN, SYDNEY.
The postponed Skutliorp-Martim contest took
place in Martini’s ground last Saturday night, and the
grounds were not large enough to hold the people
who surged up, so hundreds were turned away.
The terms of the contest were that Willie Waite should
ride three of Skuthorp’s horses, including the famous
Yellow Bay. Skuthorp was to ride three of Martini’s
horses, including, of course, the terrible Bobs. Waite,
looking about list., strutted round the ring in a white
riding suit and green sash. Skuthorp was a sketch.
He wore tight riding pants with the ends inside his
socks, a sac coat and vest, and on his head, above
all things, a motoring cap. Mr. Tom Watson
having declined to act as judge, three others were
selected on the spot, and they tossed to see who
should ride first. Skuthorp won, but when he produced
his saddle, Martini objected to it because its knee-pads
were backed with strips of steel. The Professor put on his
coat and vest and declared that he would ride in that saddle
or none. The crowd took Skuthorp’s side, and threatened
sudden death. A long wrangle took place. Sku-
thorp endeavored to tell his family history, holding
one hand behind his ear. Martini tried to argue
with the crowd, but was called objectionable names.
He retired with his men to a corner where they could
fight with their backs to the wall if it was necessary,
Then Skuthorp’s manager dispatched a cab for another
saddle, and when it arrived Martini announced that
Waite would ride Skuthorp’s horses right off. Yellow
Bay is a beautiful animal. But he appeared cowed by
the crowd and the artificial light, and worn out
by a 35min. struggle to get a bridle on him and
another 20min. fight about saddling’. There was not
much bucking left in him when Waite mounted him.
Then Dargin’s Urey was brought in, and as there was
apparently only one bridle in Martini’s show, there was
another half-hour’s delay getting it and the saddle off Yel-
low Bay. The saddle was finally removed by cutting the
crupper. Waite was as big as the grey horse, and
after one round rode the poor little animal full
tilt into the fence, cutting its head and dazing it. It was
a shocking piece of horsemanship Skuthorp’s third horse
was a failure from a bucking point of view. Then the
shout was “ Bring in Bobs.”
All this time Skuthorp had been taking off and
putting on his coat, as he alternately made up his mind
to ride and not to ride. He was apparently in a rage,
and the crowd said things. Some of these things roused
the Professor. He fastened on his spurs, and strode over
to where Bobs was being held by the ear till bridled and
saddled. Hardly was the Professor in the saddle before
they let go. Bobs went off bang. He swung round, re-
volved on his own axis, propped suddenly, reversed,
sprang into the air, stood on his hind legs, and raged
generally. Then he stood up on his front feet and
tried to kick the stars, and bounded in a series
of savage pig-jumps from one side of the ring
to the other. Then he got his head down
between his knees and gave an elegant exhibition
of all-wool buckjumping. The professor used the spurs
on him, and the animal settled down to buck all creation.
Up above, the man in the motor-cap never moved, just
sat as though he grew out of Bobs’ backbone ; and at last
the exhausted horse slowed down, and hung his head in
token of defeat. Then Skuthorp dismounted. How
fierce a struggle it had been was evidenced by the fact
that he was hopelessly sea-sick, right there in the ring.
There are few pluckier riders anywhere
than William Waite, but for graceful, elegant riding he is
not in the same street as the older man. There had been
a long’, undignified, hideous wrangle ; and the show that
should have started a little after eight did not commence
till after ten. Many people lost the star part of the
exhibition on Saturday night because the last boats and
trams left while Bobs was still unridden.
* * * *
At Richmond (Vic.) unregistered meeting the
4.year-old 12-3 pony Little Jack won easily the 3j furlong
handicap, carrying 12st., or nearly 4st. more than any
other horse in the race. The little wonder went out at
even money in a field of seven, and humped his burden
over the distance in 48J seconds.
■* * * •
If the V.R.C. stipendiary stewards are not too
proud to learn from Jack Wren, they might do worse
than follow that gentleman’s officials’example in “deal-
ing with ” blackmailing owners. At Richmond (Vic.)
pony races last Thursday a steward, strolling casually
round, overheard a pony-owner say to a fairly-heavy
punter, “ A fiver's no good to me ; you’ve got to make it
a tenner.” The pair were promptly invited to the
stewards’ room, and a searching cross-examination re-
sulted in the owner being warned off for life ! It was all
over in 10 minutes, and was sudden enough to be stagger-
ing.
* • * *
When N.S.W. Pioneer Motor Cycle Club affili-
ated with the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen, it was under-
stood that the League would do its best to see that the
club got a fair showing at whatever carnivals were run
under League auspices. Admirers of the whizzers
were pleased, and the first night the Summer Nights
Syndicate put on a motor-bike race at Sydney Cricket
Ground there was tremendous enthusiasm. Then the
motor-cyclists were apparently forgotten, and they got
angry and talked secession. When the League heard
this it rushed in and arranged a race for last Monday
night, but by the time the handicaps were published the
Pioneer Club had seceded. So far the League, like
the Law, had proved itself a hass, but confronted
with this situation it showed amazing energy. Right on the
ground, out under the stars, it formed a new motor cycle
club, assumed sole control of motor-biking in the State,
and managed to seduce some of the best racers from the
parent body, and brought off its contest. Said that it will
now proceed to declare the older club “ illegal.” This
prompt action may command admiration, but it would
have been more to the League’s credit if the position had
never arisen, and the old club deserves sympathy. If the
league triumphs it will be the victory of a bully who wins
by brute strength, and without a shadow of right.
* * * *
How is this for form ? In the third heat of the
semi-final of Sydney Thousand on March 10, A. J. Clark
had 25yds. from Rutt. At the bell Rutt was well in front,
having caught and passed Clark and the field. At the
shilling-stand Rutt sprinted away and led by yards to the
first members’ stand. At the ladies’ reserve Clark had
closed on the German after being passed badly, and on
the line he beat Rutt by inches. Time, lmin. 59sec. In
the special semi-final the following Wednesday Rutt won
easily in lmin. 55 l-ssec. In the Kent Plate final, Mon-
day night, a scratch race, Clark was leading Rutt at the
ladies’ reserve and racing on the outside of Pye, when
Mayer bumped them and upset the applecart somewhat.
Rutt finished second and Clark third, owing to the bump
(Maver was disqualified) ; time, 2min. 15sec.
* * * *
A letter from Africa :
The League of Sahara Wheelmen recently promoted a
cycle meeting at Timbuctoo, but it looks as though the
predatory instincts of the natives will kill the sport. The
night the mail leaves here the big’ race will be held, and
there is considerable excitement over some remarkable
developments. As in most other places, except Aber-
deen, the Arabian bookmakers laid odds in a disjointed,
haphazard manner, and it was left to an amateur sport to
come along and practically get the whole field in his bag.
He said he had his own fancies, and would lay the odds
against any combination that did not coincide with his
own. He invited the Timbuctootans to back men not
only to win, but to get a place, or to finish in any posi-
tion up to 11th, and the Timbuctootans responded gaily
till it was whispered that he owned the field and it
would finish in whatever order suited him best. It
was also discovered that the state of the market
suggested that a middle distance man was the one
he had decided to make winner, and then operations
slumped somewhat. About a week before the race, how-
ever, Timbuctoo was thrown into a state of wild excite-
ment by the news that two of the riders had got out of
the bag, and one had backed himself to win, staking EOO
shekels of his own good coin in a3to 1 wager. The other
rider who escaped from the bag with him also backed
him to the extent of 200 shekels. But as the amateur
speculator is still laying the odds cheerfully against them
it looks as though he had something up his sleeve. Every-
body in the desert expects that there will be a great
smash on the night of the race, for if the man who pro-
poses to win when he isn’t wanted to is really going to try
and break up the ring, there is sure to be a tremendous
tussle. General opinion here among camel-drivers and
others is that the swift man who says he is going to win
when he isn’t designed to do so will go down somehow.
* * » *
After all, there is something very appropriate
about the present degradation of the bike. The pedal
mode of propulsion was the invention of a French
mechanic who had given up toil for burglary, and used
the machine in connection with the plundering of coun-
try mansions. It is still a predatory machine, now much
used by the Jews who have given up hod-carrying to
burgle the pockets of the Gentiles who follow the sport
of bike racing.
• • * *
They are a simple people, the Dutch. They
don’t want any sounding title for a motor car. They are
content to call it “ snellpaardelooszoondeerspoorwegpit-
roolrijtung.”
* * * *
The “Polite Hundred” of Melbourne have been
simmering in a state of suppressed excitement lately over
some blushful escapades in motor-cars. In spite of the
difficulty oi identifying automobiles, a number of the
ungodly” manage to make out to whom the cars belonged,
and the news that one, the property of an irreproachable
citizen, had been seen at midnight whisking along the
road with a carload of shrieking, high-kicking girls of joy
shook society to its foundations. However, it has now
leaked out that the expert drivers have been making a
practice of rushing round on their own in the pale moon-
light. Madame Toorak would find when she required her
car for a certain evening that the carburetter was work-
ing spasmodically, or the high tension was twisted, or
something of that sort, and, after working all the after-
noon on the trouble, the car at the time of requirement
was still obstinate. When Madame had departed per cab
the driver would get the thing going spasmodically,
and take the car out for a good run to put it in working
order again. Either Melbourne society is afflicted with
shocking judgment in the choice of its drivers, or it has a
pretty faculty for wriggling out of a tight place.
* * * * *
W. E. Samuelson, the Yankee bilcist who came
to Sydney with quite a host of performances, left for
Uncle Sam’s land this week. Excepting in one event in
January, Samuelson wasn’t a howling success ; still his
winnings for the season totalled £52 for three firsts, five
seconds, and two thirds, which, together with £6 Es.
appearance fees per programme, more than paid expenses.
The fact that nothing has been heard from
Daytona Beach of Mr. Vanderbilt’s 250 h.p. car, which
was to do the mile at the rate of 150 miles to the hour,
indicates that Barney Oldfield’s prediction that the freak
would turn out a failure has been fulfilled. Oldfield also
prophesied that whoever drove the contraption would be
blown so high that he would never come back to the
United States ; but that part of the prophecy was appar-
entlv not inspired.
* * * »
South Australian League of Wheelmen will
expire in June next. The recent carnival was a financial
failure, and left the League in debt. To clear off the
liability the League will sell its club-house and all its
other assets, and then dissolve, after a 10-years’struggle
to make the game pay.
* • * *
The god of winter is beginning to show his
bright-colored jersey and knickerbockers in Sydney parks
on Saturday afternoons, and to practise kicking. The
Rugby Metropolitan Union does not start the season with
alluring prospects. Although it opened the year with a
credit of £3OO, and raked in another £1619 at the gates,
it contrived to spend the lot and finished up with an
overdraft of £39. On the other hand, the N.S.W. Union
owes it a sum of £372 95., and, if it can rake that in, it
will come out about square. In the meantime, the St.
George club, that wanted to be admitted to first grade, is
very wrath over the recommendation of the committee
that its application be refused. It has got the active sup-
port of Newtown club, and will put up a stiff fight for the
rejection of the committee’s recommendation at the next
meeting of the Union. In the event of the first grade
door being slammed in its face, the club, it has announced,
will hold a special meeting to decide whether it will play
second grade or borough Rugby, or cross over bodily to
the Australian game.
The British Association game is going to loom
very large this winter. Four clubs from the North Coast,
and the same number from the Southern littoral will
compete with the eight metropolitan teams for the
Gardiner Cup and premiership; so the Soccers will have
no less than 16 first-grade clubs in full blast this season.
For some years —since the start of district football, in
fact—the country clubs have been excluded from the
Gardiner Cup contest, but the ruling body has decided
that such exclusion is not in the best interests of
game. Last season the best football seen in Sydney, p-as
that played bv the Soccers.
* * * *
Two of the “ All Blacks” have arrived in Sydney-
on their way back to the awful amount'of public food that
awaits them where Seddon rules.” Ever since the tour
ended the footballers have b£eli dreading this wel-
come home, for they take football very seriously in Maori-
land, and the whole country has been known to go stark,
staring mad over one victory. What will happen to a
team returning with a record of 35 out of 36 games, and
1025 points against 72, is almost too terrible to think of.
And yet the Sydney footballers rushed those two unfor-
tunate Maoriianders and “entertained” them at the
Arcadia! Some people have no consideration. 11 ■'
* * * -»
Admirers of the All Blacks are enthusiastic over
the defeat of Wales by Ireland. The rushing Irishmen
scored a goal and two tries, while the prancing little
Taffies only secured a couple of tries. When the Maori-
ianders were in America they played a team from British
Columbia at San Francisco for the edification of the
Yankees. The U.S.A. sports all admitted that Rugby
was a pretty game, but a number put it down as too mild
and only for freshmen, cripples and invalids. It seems
that what the U.S. footballer loves is “ line-bucking,”
which is a sort of wild, mad scramble, in which anything
is legal, and after which the whistle is blown till the dead
and injured are removed. Still, it is said that the spec-
tators were worked up to ii much wilder pitch of en-
thusiasm by the passing charges of the Rugbyites than
has been known in the memory of even the oldest inhabi-
tant 1 at the Yankee game. Certain it is that there is a big
reaction setting in against the brutal inter-collegiate
game in the States, and as it undoubtedly has to give way
to something, that something will, in all probability, be
Rugby, or a modified form of it.
* * * *
Saturday saw a fresh round started in Sydney
first-grade cricket. It was a perfect autumn afternoon,
with hardly any wind, but the crack Waverley team came
within an ace of completely collapsing before Glebe. The
first wicket fell at 10, the second saw 17 added, the thiid
went when the score was at 49, and two more followed
without a single run being added to the score. Even?
tually the side was dismissed for 205, and that was a mar-
vellous recovery on the opening of the game. Carter
batted excellently, but was caught at 91. Two of Glebe’s
wickets were down for 39 when stumps were drawn.
Bowden was Glebe’s particularly deadly trundler, taking-
three for 27 runs. But on the afternoon’s play Newell, c.f
Waverley, had the best figures ; three overs, one maiden,
two runs, two wickets. Out at Burwood “Sunny Jim”
Mackay made 102 for the local team against North
Sydney, smacking 14 fours and two sixes. Balmain
astonished the Camperdown natives considerably and
itself more by scoring 360 for the loss of eight wickets
against University. It was an amazing innings—for Bal-
main. Whitting, one of the not-out men, carried his
willow for 117, and E. Jansen garnered 105 runs before
Stack caught him off Harvey. And yet there were no
reports of fires from Wilks* suburb on Saturday
night.
* * * »
Matters concerning the Board of Control for
Australian cricket are at a standstill. The Melbourne
Club has refused to nominate its representative to the
Board until S. Australia’s position is clearly defined.
The Board, on the other hand, has given the Melbourne
Cricket Club a month in which to make up such mind as
it possesses; after that date, presumably, the seat
reserved for the representative of the M.C.C. will be
otherwise disposed of. As a matter of fact, this repre-
sentation of the M.C.C. on the Board at all is a huge
blunder, and the Board is treating the club with absurd
leniency. The S. Australian Ass. has moderated its
demands, but to accede to them as they are defined at
present would be to ensure a huge squabble every
time a team was picked to go to England.
The S. Australian Association and the M.C.C. stand for
the perpetuation of the bad old system under which a
trip to England was a mere boodle hunt on the part of
the “active players” and there was more than a sus-
picion that Test matches were thrown away in the in-
terests of gate. And the Board of Control, being formed
to bring about a better state of affairs, should meet these
boodlers’ representatives with an axe and not an olive
branch. The position taken up by the S. Australian Ass.
and M.C.C. is only maintained by bluff, and sooner or
later must fall to pieces because of its innate rottenness.
There’s little danger of any team coming from England
under the auspices of the M.C.C., and it doesn’t matter if
one does. That threat of disqualification for life W'ill
make its tour a hideous failure and smite the M.C.C. hard
on the pocket.
* * * *
The financial success of the Australian Eleven
inspires sonne of the members to exploit the idea in a new
direction. Intention is to select a team for a tour of
Queensland. Moving spirit, selector, and prospective
captain is Victor Trumper. The programme includes
visits to Charters Towers, Townsville, Mount Morgan,
Rockhampton, Bundaberg, Maryborough, Gympie, Bris-
bane, and Toowoomba. Tour will cover six W'eeks, and
exes, are reckoned at £lOOO.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association is changing its
constitution. Hitherto each component first grade club
has sent delegates to the council, which has elected a
small executive. The council was practically in the hands
of the executive, for although it met monthly to review
the executive decisions, it was found that the inner body
was too strong to be properly controlled. The new con-
stitution provides that each club shall send two delegates,
the senior of whom will represent his club on the execu-
tive. The council is to meet only four times a year. So
though the new proposal makes the executive absolutely
supreme, it democratises it, making it as representative
as the council. In fact, under the new proposal, there
seems but little need for the council at all.
* * « *
In the first four-oared boat race between Sydney
and Melbourne Universities, as well as in the first Crick’S
match between these institutions, Richard Teece, of the
A.M.P., and Edmund Barton, of the High Court, took
part, being on the losing side in both events. The con
test tookp!ace at the and of 1870.
* Hr *
S.A. Champion Eights, rowed on the Port
River in a gale of wind, saw three of the four boats
engaged fill with water. The Adelaide crew escaped and,
of course, won easily. The disaster to the Port men hap-
pened early and in shallow water, so they emptied out
their boat and went on again. As they were pegging
along, a bad third, they saw the University men turn and
row for the bank to avoid swamping ; so they made a
dash. The students got rid of the ballast just as the
Ports came level, and won an exciting struggle home for
second place. It is rarely that a crew has gone for a walk
on the bank during a race and then finished second.
* * * *
Of all the freaks of wanton wealth, that pro-
posal to hold an international University eight-oar race
on the Zambesi River, East Africa, somewhere above the’
Victoria Falls, is the wildest. The £lOOO prize of the
winners might certainly pay their expenses getting there,
but it would be rough on the losers, and among the slave-
stealers and coffee-planters of Nyassaland the “gate”
would only just about pay for native or banana beer.
There are no special points about the Zambesi as a rowing
water. Above the falls it is wide, and flows smoothly
with a gentle current, but there are hundreds of sheets
of better rowing water.
* » * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association has, so far, only
succeeded in scraping together £BO of the £250 required
to send that eight-oar crew to Westralia. So, in all pro-
bability, the State will not be represented tn the Swm
River." Curious how the wealthy State of N.S.W., Ih.lt
is allegedly bearing the whole cost of Federation, and
keeping the lame ducks of the Commonwealth afloat,
cannot get a paltry £250 together for such a purpose,
while poor, old, broken-down, half-naked We6tralia has
been continuously represented in the championships in
eastern States since 1902.
* * * »
After many weeks and herculean efforts by the
Sobraon boys, the Kieran memorial fund has climbed to
£199 Is. lOd. The master of many world champion-
ships—£l99 !
r * * * *
According to Sydney daily press, the platform
that the divers sprang from at East Sydney “ Olympic
water contests” was 70 feet high. The display is said to
have been the most attractive given this year. Once
more, this high-diving craze is dangerous, and should be
prohibited. It is only a question of time till some one
makes a mistake—and then there will be a shocking
exhibition. It might also be worth the while of those
who promote these shows to find how they stand legally
if anyone gets killed in one of their ridiculous diving
exhibitions.
* * * *
The money now being collected by the N.S.W.
Swimming Association for the purpose of sending Austra-
lian swimmers to England after the Olympian Games are
concluded, is now known as the Healy-in-Grease Fund.
■*(■*•*■*
Just at present foot-racing is booming in Wes-
tralia, but the third “ Kalgoorlie Hnndred ” saw a regu-
lar debacle of the favorites, and, as the betting was the
heaviest on record, the skinner means that several book-
makers have made quite a haul. This sort of thing is a
mistake—the bookmakers ought to arrange for a few
favorites to win occasionally. They get it all back in the
end, as the fools who win aiways come again, and bring
their friends with them.
* * * *
Champion professional ped. A. B. Postle brushed
aside any doubts as to his brilliancy at Kalgoorlie, t’other
day, in winning the 300yds. Australian championship. At
the start, Postle stumbled and almost fell, but, picking
himself together, won easily in 32£sec. Postle has
scooped in 70 races and over £3OO prize-money in six
months.
* * * *
Dr. Sharp, the ’Varsity tennis player, is the
proud posseesor of both the challenge cups presented for
competition by the N.S.W. Association. The Singles
trophy was inaugurated in 1893, while those for the
Doubles started in 1885. Conditions were that both were
to be w'on outright three times running - before being
finally the property of the winner. Sharp, singly, and
paired with Wright, won both competitions in 1903, ’O4
and ’O6. (There was no contest in ’05.) Sharp is sup-
posed not to be in Brooke’s “class,” and as is often the
case, is held up to disparagement in comparing him with
Ben Green (who won the doubles four times), Webb, and
other heroes on the shelf. Still the fact remains that
Sharp decisively beat all his opponents now’ in flannels,
and w’hat he w'ould have done had the has-beens been his
contemporaries is an idle thought.
* * * •
A wrestling contest, in the catch-bold style,
between tw’o heavy-weight amateurs, Bob Cooper
(12st. Ill) and H. P. Phillips (13st. 4), took place at
Clarence Weber’s rooms (Flinders-street, Melbourne), on
Friday evening before a select number of enthusiasts of
the ’rastle. This struggle proved the most interesting
event of its kind seen for some time. The men got
straight to work. The first fall was scored by Phillips,
with a bar nelsoq and arm hold, applied from the front,
after 56 minutes’ strenuous struggle, with two short
spells. Resuming, the brawrny ones occupied the mat,
except for a single spell, exactly 38 minutes. Phillips
eventually securing his former hold levered “ Bob ” over
and won the match with two out of three falls. The
work displayed may be described as Graeo-Roman catch
hold, on account of the absence of leg work, w'hich is con-
spicuous for its absence in all local struggles. The
Y.A.A.A. has decided to initiate W'restling competitions
during the coming winter, and, provided amateur contests
of like calibre are presented, the pros, are in for a rocky
time.
* # * *
In California the bruising industry has got into
the hands of a Trust, which managed to secure all the
licenses to give exhibitions of boxing for a period of one
year. And now' both pugs and public will bleed —the
latter at the pocket, the former at the pocket and the
nose also.
SCIATICA
Caused by Uric Acid in the Blood, Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills Get at the Cause.
Sciatica is the name applied to rheumatism when
affecting the sciatic nerves, which are situated in
the region of the hips. It feels as if the pains
were in the bones, gnawing the very life out of
them. Sciatica, like rheumatism and lumbago, is
a disease of the blood, and can only be effectually
cured by purify-
ing and cleansing
the system. Mrs.
E. Bailey, o f
F a irf owl-street,
off Yule-street,
Dulwich Hill,
Sydney, says :
“I beg to acquaint
you of the fact
that Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills
areour sole family
medicine. They
were first brought
under our notice
when my husband
was suffering
severely from
sciatica. He had
been away from
work for over six
months, during
which time he
tried all kinds of
physics. Dr. Morse’s Pills, however, entirely
cured him, enabling him to again follow his occupa-
tion, and he has had no return of the complaint.
This happened four years ago, so that the cure has
been permanent. My daughter also derived
much benefit from them after trying many other
pills, which had no satisfactory effect whatever,
and she is now perfectly well.” Those who suffer
from rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, or neuralgia,
will find Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills very
successful. Much immediate relief, however, may
be obtained by the use of Comstock’s nerve and
bone liniment in coni unction with the pills.
This liniment has been thoroughly tested and will
be found invaluable in all cases of nerve, bone,
and muscle pains. Obtainable at all chemists,
stores, or will be sent post free on receipt of price.
Pills, Is. lid. (6 bottles 6s. 6d.); liniment, 2s. 6d.
(6 bottles 13s. 6d.) W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
58 Pitt-street, Sydney.*


<£so
IN F 0U p ]EIIZES ,
£5O
IMMIGRATION LEAGUE COMPETITION.
NOW OPEN.
Pull particulars may be obtained from League’s office,
or from advertisement in Woman’s Budget of March 20.
Tickets and full particulars are obtainable on and after
March 21st at anv newsagent, or from IMMIGRATION
LEAGUE OP AUSTRALIA, 11 Terry’s Chambers,
Castlereagh St., Sydney. Telephone, 4505.
To be Obtained from —
SAML. McCARDLE, 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
J. R. BROWN, Box 494, Wellington, N.Z.
GILLETTE RAZOR
YOU CAr#
coT
SHAV£
IA
HORSI
■wfc
O
o
Send for Descriptive Circular. 80 Days’ Trial given.
Money refunded if not satisfactory.
52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 143* Melbourne. Box 404. Wellington. N.Z.
ANDREW McGEE, 5 & 7 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ED. H. LINDSAY, Charters Towers.
HEAD OFFICE:
FRANK COFFEE, 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
MOTHER'S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
purest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer —P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
Legal Notice.
BE CHARLES WILLIAM ELLIOT
DECEASED.
CHARLES WILLIAM ELLIOT, late Dis-
penser at the Mt. Morgan Hospital died
there on the 17th January 190 G intestate. The
next of kin of deceased, or any person knowing
their whereabouts are requested to write to
J. R. GAIR,
Local Deputy Curator of Intestate Estates
Rockhampton, Queensland.
r*
**
t:OS
<*s** fsA-r ,s -
Ty^ount^Aß“*
rtH l '” j
1
. n on e
, y .nC
SP eC '! y P ufj g^iO° sSed
» u * jc h “ re
*' h
t (,§s V**
im
Peall, ex-champion of billiards, who retired
when the spot stroke on which he chiefly relied was made
unlawful, played an exhibition match in London last
month, giving Cook, a promising junior, 1000 in 2000, and
beating him. The veteran made, in succession, 103 of the
Strqkes that are now not recogriised as “ match ” billiards
at all. It was John Roberts whose great influence got the
spot-stroke ruled out, and so ruined his chief rival, and
London Punch said one of its few bright things when it
suggested as a motto for Roberts, the passage from Mac-
beth, “ Out, d—d spot!"
• * * *
N.S.W. National Rifle Association proposes to
clip the wings of the rifle shots who wander about the
State in search of the big prizes, by grouping the State
into districts, allowing only residents in each district to
compete in the sectional rifle competitions. The big
Association meeting is an open affair, but even there the
secondary shots are to be as well looked after as the
cracks. The policy of giving encouragement to the poorer
shots is certain to help the defence scheme on which the
subsidising of rifle shooting depends.
* * * *
Another keen disappointment to Melbourne
Eatrons of boxing was Mallv Jackson, of Tassy, v. Bill
ang, the shapely Richmond footballer. There was a big
house, in spite of the recent Williams v. Squires fiasco, and
the mighty Mally got going like an energetic windmill,
evidently thinking to finish Lang as he finished Fennessey.
But Lang knew enough to evade his unscientific elbow-
out deliveries, and got under and around them five tries
out of six, leading himself with a straight left that
reached the target every time. Jackson was not nearly
such an energetic bullocker in the third round, but he
put an Ugly screw on Lang, and pitched him clean out of
the ring amidst howls of execration. The referee
couldn’t possibly do anything else, and Lang was given
first cut of the gate. This display of mimic warfare ex-
cited the local Women’s Christian Temperance Union past
bearing, and its meetings have been expressing “ horror
and indignation ” over the “unrighteous and disgusting
show.” This writer has seen a “berruther" of the Wesleyan
persuasion do himself more hurt rastling in prayer than
happened to either Lang or Jackson on the occasion in
question.
• * * *
After Bill Squires knocked out Ed. Williams in
lmin. 25sec. (21sec. of which Williams spent on the floor),
a pressman followed the Newcastle earthquake to his
dressing-room. After much battling he was admitted,
and set to work to interview “Bill.” “Yes, it was a
quick sort of business,” Squires agreed, and waited for
the next question. “ How did you knock him out ? ” the
pressmah asked. Squires looked at him in a puzzled
fashion, then drawled, “I hit him on the jore with mb
’and.” The pressman’s questions stopped, and he retired
to “ fdke” his interview, while Bill proceeded to lace up
his boots.
* * i »
When Melbourne middle-weight Robert Fraser
Stepped into the ring at Sydney National Sporting Club
last week he found soldier John Thompson in good fettle.
Fraser was fairly hard-looking himself, but immediately
the scrap started it was seen that the Sydneyite had ail
the skill. He planted a shower of clean' quick blows on
mouth and ribs, and blocked all reprisals in a manner
that roused much enthusiasm among his backers. It was
not till well into the second that Fraser smote Thompson,
and then it was over the eye, and while Thompson tried
to make out the shape of the constellation, he caught
another across the forehead. The soldier looked out
through the fireworks and swung a heavy right across
Fraser’s kidney region, which made the unfortunate
Melbournian writhe with pain. But he managed to keep
on his feet till the bell saved him. Thompson’s obvious
superiority made him careless, and getting away slowly
he was smitten across the jaw, ripped in the vvind, and
forced to take seven seconds on the floor. This was
unexpected, and revealed the Melbournian as a
hard hitter. Fraser caught one where the chicken
caught the axe, and for some time afterwards seemed to
have trouble straightening his neck. Then Thompson
fell upon him, roughed him to the boards, punched him
when he clinched, and knocked him down when he tried
to get away. When he got up, Thompson landed him on
the jaw and sent him down again, and when he rose once
more he was belted across the ring till the bell rescued
him. It was a bad time, but he stood it, and four more
rounds of heavy battering found him still fightingabrave
but apparently hopeless battle. In the 11th round
Thompson seemed tired ; the battered object before him
came at him, smote him three times running on the ribs,
and then hooked his jaw. They clinched and went down
together. Staggering up, Thompson hurled himself at
the exhausted Frazer, who responded with a wild left
jab. It took Thompson in the throat, and rolled him
over. It was the random shot which takes science sud-
denly when science isn’t looking, and Thompson was out
—struck down in the very moment of victory after
winning all the way on points.
* * * *
Citizen John Wren has arranged a bruising
match between Tim Murphy, who killed McColl partially
dead for the championship and then went all the way to
S’Africa to serve as a chopping-block for Mike Williams,
and William Squires, who recently caused deterioration
in the carcase of Ed. Williams. Wren puts up a purse of
£3OO, and the men have each agreed to find a Side stake
of £2OO. The disturbance will take place in Melbourne
the first week in April, and the duration thereof shall not
exceed 20 rounds. Melbournian bruise lovers have had a
series of keen disappointments lately, but unless Michael
of Jew’burg broke the spirit of Timothy, they ought to
see enough gore to make up for recent milk and water.
* * * *
The tide of success still flows with the Mel-
bourne bruiser brigade in Sydney. On top of the vic-
tories of Fraser at the National and Moodie at the Gaiety
Club came Ted Whiting’s defeat of the sturdy Sydney
fighter Joe Walcott. Walcott is, this paper believes, a
West Indian native, and a man of beautiful chest develop-
ment. He is a slow, steady, reliable fighter, who takes
his punishment standing up, and batters away grimly at
whathe considers the weak spot. Whiting rushed him,
got in close, and hustling and pushing turned to account
the fact that the white man is tougher in the fibre than
his colored brother. But it was not until nine rounds of
roughing had left their mark on Walcott that his second
dropped the moist, clammy towel of defeat into the ring.
The present N.S.W. Commission of Inquiry
into the relations of the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners will cost a heap of money. The Fehon
Inquiry of 1889 cost the public £4BB, and the
Schey-Eddy Inquiry of 1892 ran into £2454.
Then there were a couple of intermediate Tram-
way Inquiries which piled up a bill of over £lOOO.
The daughter (and only child) of Fred
Archer, England’s leading jockey in the eighties,
has j ust come of age, and the Court of Chancery
has handed over to her all her father’s estate.
Archer was understood never to bet, but he was a
rider of the “superior” order, and the owners
who made a pet of him gave him enormous
presents, which he did not throw away in
foolishness. He was also canny enough to marry
the daughter of Mat Dawson, the famous trainer.
Sheer carelessness on the part of the attendants
while he was delirious with fever (incurred in
“wasting” to ride) led to his taking his own life
nearly 20 years ago, but his estate has been better
nursed than he was, and Miss Nellie Rose Archer
has the handling of £50,000.
The N.S.W. Statistical Department has
ceased the publication of the “ Seven Colonies ”
(more recently known as “Australia and Maori-
land: A Statistical Record”), the most valuable
work of its kind turned out in this country. Of
late years the Australian Government has paid
most of the cost of the work, but the Carruthers
Ministry is aggrieved as usual; it objects to
Federal postage stamps not being printed at the
Sydney Government Printing Office, and it
objects equally to a statistical work which deals
with the whole Commonwealth being printed
there. Under the circumstances, the Australian
Government proposes to consider the question of
appointing a Federal Statistician, who will advise.
the Government about the re-issue of the work in
question. But surely neither matter wants a
minute’s consideration. A Federal statistician
and a complete Federal volume of statistics,
published annually, are absolutely essential, and
the fact that the Australian Government has
lingered so long over the matter is a disgrace.
INTIMIDATION AND SENTIMENT.
GENTLE TRAMP : “Ah, good lady, ’ow like you
are to my pore dead wife wot I murdered 14
years ago!"
Henry Somes, late South Kensington
student, has painted in oils an excellent portrait
of the late Victor Daley. It is pronounced by
friends of the poet to be a speaking likeness, and
is on view at George Robertson’s Book Store in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Captain George DorwaTd, who recently
died in Melbourne, was a Very early Victorian
navigator. In the early 50’s he and Captain
Cadell pervaded the Murray River in the Lady
Darling, the first steam vessel to reach Echuca.
He owned the Naverino estate near Moama
(N.S.W.).
The point of view ! When Archbishop
Redwood, of Maoriland, lately denounced So-
cialism, S.M. Herald called him a man of singular
force of character. “He is dispassionate, and
strikes a clear note,” says the Herald. But
when, a few years ago, he said that Protestant
marriages were not, in the sight of heaven, mar-
riages at all, the Herald pointed out that he was
passionate, and struck a very muddy note.
Mother thinks I am rather
thin, and ought to go in more for athletics. So
one night after toil I climbed a flight of stairs
in a Bourko-street building, and got into a place
all full of dull thuds and hopping men in singlets.
I suppose I looked a bit lost because, as I was
gazing round, a man with a face that suggested
the necessity of local option came up and asked
me what I was after. I said that mother had
sent me to learn boxing, and immediately his tone
softened, and he became the most calm and
obliging man in the world. He robbed me of a
hard-earned guinea and said “seeyafter,” and
went to a corner, and started to knock about
with his gloves a poor, thin fellow, nearly as thin
as me. The rapidity with which my turn came
round was cruel; but when I set to work on my
instructor I got some lovely hits on to him. I
didn’t know the technical name of the hits, but
they were good ones, and I thought I was getting
on splendidly considering that it was my first
“go.” I went home proud, very proud, and when
I told mother she was proud too. The next night
I tramped up those stairs with a firm, confident
tread, and strode into the gymnasium with that
“ air of possession ” we read about in ladies’ books.
I put the gloves on and shaped up to my in-
structor, who, considering the hiding I had
given him the night before, smiled with
a friendly, fatherly smile upon me. Then
we started. Was it earthquakes? Had all
the motor cars in Victoria plunged into me?
Where was the thunderstorm ? Whence came
the multitudinous stars? Where was the floor?
I would have given two bananas (or more) for a
little bit of something that I could stand on.
How dark everything got, and what beautiful
colors shot through the darkness! —but all the
time there was a fearful rumbling and a sys-
tematic piston-rod pounded at my frail form till I
knew no more. You should have seen mother’s
face when she saw mine ! I won’t be able to go
out now for three or four Sundays, and Lord only
knows how I am going to ever eat anything again.
Even if I had a tooth left, my mouth won’t open
wide enough to let a peanut in. My instructor
can keep that guinea ; it’s worth ten to keep
away from him. They say that boxing instructors
always do this. It saves them giving the full
complement of lessons. I don’t care so much
about the guinea ; but my face—do you think my
face will ever come straight ?
A man who says he has done six months
in gaol writes, suggesting that The Bulletin
should start a Children’s Column, and sends along
a tale with which to open the proceedings. Tale
herewith :
Marjory Blessing-ton and her brother Tom were very
fond of each other. They were left orphans when quite
children, and were very poor. Happily, the good vicar
of the parish was very kind to them, and sent Tom out to
sea with his friend, the captin. Marjory he treated as
his own child, and because of her pritty blue eyes she was
called “ Blue Peeps,” and the clergyman taut her to read
and sent her to skool. She was so clever and lerned so
much that when she was older she became a skoolmis-
tress- herself. She- grew into quite a charming young
lady, and she was very kind to childeren and to all
animuls. So thought Sir Charles Jones, the squire, to
whom she was married. Just at the wedding her brother
Tom came home from abroard, where he had made a large
fortchun. Marjory, who was now Lady Jones, was
delited to see her dear brother. She and her husband
lived happily together for many years, and were much
beloved by all in the parish.
As for Tom, he became an Admirull.
The End.
That tale has all the ear-marks of the Children’s
Column, which is an undermining institution, and
calculated to soften the brain of the rising genera-
tion.
Curious admission by “ General ” Booth at
a big Mansion House (London) meeting : “ Some
times, when they are drunk, we are able to sober
them, and get them saved. In fact, not in-
frequently we have no chance with them unless
they are in a state of intoxication, for there are
some people who are never religious except when
they are intoxicated.”
“ It is a difficult matter to determine the exact position
of the Infant Phenomena upon the stage. They occupy,
perhaps, the neutral ground between the amateurs and
the monstrosities, without belonging to either class—or to
Art.”— Laurence Hutton.
The inwardness of the Reid desire to
debate Socialism now becomes apparent. Extract
from a recent interview :
The Cardinal says I am tilting at a windmill, and Mr.
L.yne says that it is a bogey lam fighting. Well, I
think it more significant than anything else he may say
that the Political Labor League of New South Wales has
put up, in the person of Mr. Holman, a champion to
defend the Socialism of the Labor party’s State and
Federal objectives.
In short, Reid desperately argues that the fact of
the debate shows that he is still to be taken
seriously.
While N.S.W. Divorce Justice Simpson
was away on holiday, Justice Walker, acting in
his Court, made an excellent rule forbidding the
publication of nasty details in divorce suits. Most
of the newspapers objected. “In the public
interest ” they wanted to goon reaping the harvest
of coppers which a sensational divorce case brings.
Now Mr. Simpson is back and has been asked if
he intends to continue the rule. And, very
characteristically, Mr. Simpson says “he knows
nothing about the rule.” Probably Mr. Simpson
isn’t even aware that Mr. Walker acted in his
august place for some months, and has a vague
sort of notion that the Divorce Court was shut up
in his absence. At any rate, he couldn’t dream of
taking any cognisance of, much less following, the
action of a brother judge, for there’s no wisdom on
the Bench when our learned brother Simpson is
away.
A witness before the Tariff Commission
explained that local importers are indenting
American buggies (said to be prison-made) at £BO
per doz. (as if they were bananas) and retailing
them to unsuspecting Australians up to £25 each.
Freetrade Labor-man Fowler was aghast at the
idea that any importer of shoddy would be so base
as to allow two unsuspecting Australians to drive
round among the local unemployed coachsmiths
in a buggy which cost £6 10s. But he did not
express an opinion on the wisdom of a policy
which, while insisting on paying the local coach-
smith a living wage, takes every precaution to see
that, owing to cheap imports, there is no work
for him to do.
Up to the time this issue went to press
the latest outbreak of plague in Sydney had got
as far as six cases. They were all traceable to the
old plague region down by Darling Harbor, which,
despite all cleaning and fumigating, and boiling
and disinfecting, seems just about incurable. The
trouble began with Margaret Mair and Amelia
Jones. The other day, Divorce Judge Simpson
did a lamentation on the Bench because, as he
said, the good old plain names were dying out,
and the modern girl had a dreadful habit of being
named Gladys, or Marie, or Louise, or Victoria.
Surely when the plague, swiping blindly at a
population of 500,000, hits at the first attempt
Margaret Mair and Amelia Jones, it should bo
proof that the old simple names are not quite
extinct. But perhaps Mr. Simpson wants every
girl to be named Sarah Briggs.
V. J. DELEY FUND.
rpHE treasurers acknowledge, with thanks, the following:
•*- donations :
£ s. d.
Lady Northcote 10 10 0
Sir John See 2 2 0
Souter, D. H 110
Leston, Fred .. .. .. ..110
Quinn, P. E ..110
Whitelocke, N. P 110
Curlewis, Ethel 110
Dr. MacCarthy 110
Dr. Doyle 110
Dr. Henry 116
Hynes, O. V. 10 0
Blundell, J 10 0
By an, J. D 10 0
Coleman, M. 10 0
Mrs. Brady 0106
Lewis, W. .. .. .. .. 010 0
Kearney, S. J 0 10 0
Maggie Sullivan .. .. .. 010 0
Anonymous 0 10 0
Parsons, J. J. .. .. .. ..050
Buckley, A 0 2 6
T.B 0 2 6
B.P 0 2 0
W. .. ..010
Bev. J. Hebblethwaite .. .. 010 6
D. H. Eogers 0 5 o
Professor McCallum 2 2 0
J. Taylor, M.A 10 0
X. 0 2 6
B. Woodley .. .. .. ..050
“ Never Never Land ” .. ..110
M.N.D 0 10 0
New Zealand (per J. Edmond) .. 212 0
A.H. (Junee) .. .. .. ..100
Thk Bulletin 25 0 0
Bev. Father Ginisty .. .. ..100
Angus & Itobertson 10 10 0
J. J. Smith .. .. .. ..110
F. Jones 050
John Bussell .. .. .. ..100
F. Gurnard 0 2 0
Collected by Mrs. Kendall .. .. 212 9
Miss Maisie Maxwell .. .. ..100
Per Mrs. Illingworth .. .. ..200


d
THAT’S THE
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising 5 pieces.
Other Styles.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
in Silk-lined Case, 7s Gd.
Other Styles, 8s Gd, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Sterling Silver mounted.
First-class Timekeeper, 15s.
Extra Quality, 20s.
5^
252
m
BBS
IbhE
i
■ • n
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak INK STAND, Nickel Mounts,
Cut Glass Bottles, 15s Od.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s Cd, 10s Od, 12s 6d, to £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver, comprisirr;
articles, 15s 6d.
Larger Size, ISs 6d.
jJg
r\
*<
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL GASKET, Pure Silver Plated,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined, 15s Gd.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s Gd, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
Save by Mail.
Personal service in
our Mail Order
Department
enables
us to
serve you by Mail
anywhere,
as perfectly as if
you visited our
Showrooms.
All Goods sent
Post Free to any
address.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SAFETY VESTAS BOX
HOLDER,
Richly Embossed, 7s 6d.
Cherub Design, 8s 6d.
Free to All.
No matter
where you live,
if you have a copy
of our Illustrated
Catalogue,
you can obtain the
latest goods delivered
to your own home,
at City Prices.
Write for our
Catalogue
to-day. We send
it Post Free
to any . address.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH and COMB,
In Velvet-Lined Case.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s,
Solid Silver,
15s (>d.
255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Eine White Bristles, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s Od, 8s od, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted
PIN CUSHIONS,
Heart Shaped, 2s 6<L
Larger, 3s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Self Rolling RAZOR STROP,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand-
somely Embossed, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 13s 6d,
17s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s MILITARY HAIR BRUSH
Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles, 15s.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, Ss Gd, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 20s.
B¥s
X*mtW
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR PIN BOX, Solid Silver Top,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass, Size 6in. x ljin.,
IQs 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU-l
DE-COLOGNE BOTTLE,
Cover and Stopper, 30s.
Larger. £2
w f im-
Kii
n
£m*
ssx.
MWm
fX
Sfc
m
1U&
Vs£?
A. SAUNDERS.
Pine Hobnail Cut Glass
TOILET BOTTLES.
Richly Embossed. Solid Silver Tops, in 3 sizes
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile LEATHER PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
fdsd
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather
CHATELAINE BAG,
Sterling Silver Mounts
and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather
LETTER CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Without Shield, 10s Gd.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH,
Pure S.-ver-l iated, Real
Badger Hair, 5s 6d.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
Comprising: 2 Richly Embossed HAIR BRUSHES and
COMB, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, £3.
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SERVIETTE CLIP,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Leather Wallet
POOivET BOOK,
Silk-lined, fitted with
every convenience, Cs 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted Head
SALTS BOTTLE, 3s od.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hobnail Cut Glass Head
SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Top, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Fine Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, Ss 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver CARD CASE,
Handsomely Engraved, 15s 6d.
Without Lid, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
Gent.’s Gold-Mounted Amber CIGARETTE HOLDER,
in Solid Silver or Plain Cases, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CIGAR Size, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
am
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass TOILET BOTTLES,
Richly Embossed, Solid Silver Tops, £2 ss.
Larger, £3 10s, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather PURSE,
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 17s 6d, 20s.
!!lj!“l»?!jj»!!!M!!l!!»!!H»!»»»»!!!?!!»?jjjj»»;iiii|^jijijmnnijiiiiliinii»iiniii»jniniimiii?huriiiH
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver SHAVING SET,
Comprising Shaving Brush, Soap Holder, and
Powder Jar, in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


"
■
“
I■ ■ ‘
' : ■
■
m
¥
m
&WSft 1 S&SSfcsr
w
■--■■■■ i
'mr
• :■ ■ UAfeAffi :i
(/ . '
\ft . •
A
mm
&3S>
Sffll
w:
s&s
■
si
Si
m
m
m
m
S
1c ;
m
m
■
IVdv's-'-j J - N'/c* flo ,
One whiff of a CAPSTAN Cig'arette makes
the whole world Kin!


VITADATIO
Bc Great Australian Healer
and Health Restorer, jz?
It is a pure HERBAL preparation and essentially a most powerful BLOOD PURIFIER, curing
all diseases of the Blood and Skin. It is aromatic stimulant, stomachic and tonic.
OIXVdVXIA jIO 3NOM 3HX
M
**
i.i ■
A*
me***
m
Fame came in the wake of Worth—Vitadatio is famous.
VITADATIO has been established for nineteen years
and to-day is in as GREAT DEMAND AS EVER.
EMINENT DOCTORS in England ADVISE Hr. Palmer to proclaim its virtues from the house-tops,
DOCTOR AGNES WESTON, LL.D., The Sailors' Friend, says: 11 I have proved it personally
as a wonderful cure for Rheumatism and Lumbago, and I have also known it to cure Kidney
trouble and very acute Rheumatism in various forms. It is an invaluable Blood Purifier, and
requires only to be known to be widely used."
ftT doubts fly in the face of these statements.
To those
in ill-
health
we say:
Do not Hesitate, but start taking Vitadatio
right away. s* It is just wbat you need.
Send for Book
of GENUINE . .
Testimonials .
All enquiries
PROMPTLY . .
ANSWERED. . .
The price of the Medicine is 5/6 (EX 3/6 reduction for quantities. SOLD EVERYWHERE a
5. A. PALMER,
439 FLINDERS LANE Melbourne.
Agents for New South Wales:
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.


:
wm
:
- •
m
'
’%Sg
; :
#5
iH
£a
\ i
m
mm
wg
-
w
■'■ ,'v
■ ■•
H
I®
i ii
■ ;
111
m
.
sii
i
fcv-
••
V
m
a
*
;<••• •
wl-
V. ■ •
«s*
■
.
S3&S.
. t /
_:'y "• •/ 1
*'» ••-•'. - "•*'»!. - • V v , ■ . ,*fi
.
IN THE HOT SUMMER-TIME * *
FLIES ARE SWARM INC.
IN THE ROOMS ....
INSE.CTIBANE
should be dusted on the window and picture frames or diffused in the air, with closed
doors, when |T V O|»y Fl y will Fall DeacL
Blowers for diffusing the Powder can be purchased from all vendors of Insectibane.
No other Insect Powder possesses the qualities which render
XNSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Proprietors—Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.
Wholesale—Elliott Bros., Ltd.


CITIZENS’
Life Assurance Company
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :
CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLEEEAGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES :
NEW SOUTH WALES : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLE-
RE AGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 281-283 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND: CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 381-383 QUEEN
STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 131 KING
WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA : 241 ST. GEORGE S TERRACE,
PERTH.
TASMANIA : LIVERPOOL AND MURRAY STREETS,
HOBART; 66 ST. JOHN STREET, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND : LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.
UNITED KINGDOM : CITIZENS’ HOUSE, 24 AND 25
KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Assets at 31st December, 1905 - £1,547,790 9s. sd.
and Municipal Debentures
Mortgages, etc. ...
Foreclosed Properties
Mortgaged Properties in Possession
Doans on Policies (within their Surrender Value)
Freehold Property
Office Furniture and Fittings
Outstanding Premiums on Policies in Force
Deferred Instalments of Annual Premiums
Interest Outstanding
Interest Accrued—not yet due
Agents’Balances...
Sundry Debtors ...
Cash in Bank
The Bulletin, 2 2nd February, 1906, said: “ The increase in the holding of public securities—which
means safety Is notable. No other A-ustralian office of first or second rank has so large a proportion.’’
The Company’s Consulting' Actuary, Mr. R. P. HARDY,
F.1.A., F.F.A., in his Report on the 1904
Valuation, says:
Directors are fully entitled to claim that the Security they offer, bothTto the present
ssured and to the Public generally, for the redemption of their contracts is of the highest
possible character.
They should use every means to educate the public to appreciate, not merely the great
protection afforded by estimating the Liabilities upon the basis of only a 3 per cent. yield, but
such prudential course has the additional advantage of providing a Bonus fund that
vvt grow as the Company grows in age, and will enable compensation to be made to those longer
livers whose contributions will have helped to build up the Company.”
Actuarial Valuation.
Tfie valuation of the Liabilities of the Company, at 31st December, 1905, was again made
on a per cent, net premium basis. A gross surplus of £71,217 was revealed, of which £20,572
Was wr/tten off Securities; £45,019 was divided, and the balance, £5,626, carried forward. The
amount divided permitted the allocation of Bonuses in accordance with the following scale
Specimen Bonuses
In resped of the One Year 1905, per £lOO of Policy.
WHOLE TERM OF LIFE.
POLICIES IN FORCE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE MATURING AT AGE 60.
POLICIES IN FORCE.


“Drifter”: Nothing short of an earth-
quake will make some people start work before
the last stroke of the bell. Know of two Sydney
laborers who got a job, during harvesting time,
on a farm in the Quirindi district, a couple of
seasons ago. One morning, at daybreak, the
cook rushed excitedly into their humpy, yelling,
“ Turn out ! Turn out ! the haystack’s afire ! ”
“Haystack’s on fire, is it?” said one of them,
sleepily ; “ why, what's the time ?” “ Come on ;
buck up, men, and lend a hand! ” yelled the
cook. “It’s about half-past four.” “Ah, that’s
all right, then,” sighed the laborer, thankfully ;
“we don’t start work till half-past six, Jim and
me.” Then he turned in his blanket and snored
on.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
ill William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & 00.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street,
Banking.
TIIIC—s
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. .Burns-, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Rorerts, C.M.Q., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461— assuring £29,270,925,
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head OfHoe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . • £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. • • • • 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— YV. V. RALSTON.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0
i, 000 0 0
Murray
UItCLtUIO . £ . XV.
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.,
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office —HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessol’, E
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A.
Farouiiar J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors
2,000,000 0 o
1,425,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles Iv. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esc]. t _
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
laondon Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throuchont the iw Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Snipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (Under cover) to any part v
of Australasia or New Zealand. 1
SOlb Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAOQ and AIfKEN,
N. S.W. J3*rWi Supply House,
654 QGorge Btreet, SYDNEY
sdf
TN€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE^
•MARATHON
SALAMIS
SOPHOCLES
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.Ii.
R. M‘Killiam
Noon, April 3
Noon, April 21
Noon, May 19
•Twin Screw. Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
sf
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
23rd MARCH,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 30 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
-A-. «Sb a -
T.TIvnFS (via BAH FRANCISCO).
L ““ rio ”' y E,ul, " >ed T “
-
R.M.S. VENTURA. 6200 TONS SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 9.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or apply ™ . Ao-ents
Diip\ic PHILP and CO., Ltd., ilanaging Agents,
5 GORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific?
ISLAND
CRUISES
- Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most qt , q „„
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Dai— that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS,
PHILP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banicing. Public Companies, &c.
CJpon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST
EASY TERMS.
40
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'W.
(flout de pete D. *ll.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
the Royal flank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,81- 10 o
Reserve Fund( invested in Government Stock) Ufa,OOP 0 u
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edvvd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. •• ■
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
1,000,000
500,000
500,000
Total Capital - ..- £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
April 16, IVlay 14, June 11.
The Turbine Steamer,
MAHEIMO,
SAILS 16th APRIL.
A Luxuriously Appointed Vessel.
Spacious Promenade Decks •
Roomy Cabins . Up-to-Date Baths.
&3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
A Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of lauglitei),
Rnok of Coniuring Tricks (containing over 1W
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character- very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Jokers Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the \\ izard s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6a.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,080.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
| Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. U. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
The South British
" PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, >
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, March 23.
S.S. Gran tala, March 31.
S.S. Marloo, April 6.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. YVollowra, March 31.
jiest and Cheapest lloute to Oold/ields .
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling’ at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
JT 2100 JNIY VxJLJLIO UUUIYCU. 10 uuinuar ,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES, ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
"VrEWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of tile Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at —
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
1 the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
.Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
HENRY SKINNER,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10! t 3. R.
Mr Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
n f various Sizes Supplied.
y J Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
rVortrait ; price, 4s. 6cl. from all booksellers. Post
Free from Bulletin office, ss.


“ 0.K.” writes :
Am struck by The Bulletin’s recent statement that
Mrs. Clem. Hill doesn’t want her husband to be a dis-
tinguished cricketer any longer. It sounds so very true.
Thq average girl is a hero-worshipper until she has got
her hero for a husband, and then she soon begins to pout
disdainfully at his bachelor friend Fame. Fame takes a
man out of his wife’s society a good deal, and doesn’t
bring her any compensating pride worth mentioning. It
requires him to remain absorbed in the work by which he
is distinguished, whereas she would prefer to be the
principal object of his attentions. The satisfaction of
being wooed by a popular identity is all very fine and
large, but the state of being wedded to him entails so
many drawbacks that the girl is apt to wish his popu-
larity to the dickens. The rule applies to all sorts of
notables. A young man who has made something of a
* name ” for himself in one line or another, talks to his
outwardly romantic, but inwardly practical, girl on the
subject of Himself and his precious personal triumphs
and the glory he is going to reflect upon her‘by making
her bis wife. And she listens—like a darling little hum-
bug—with an air of feeling greatly honored, by being
ask ed to partake of his Career. She is just pulling his
leg. She knows that as far as his Career is likely to unfit
him for commonplace domestic virtues she will blow cold
upon it —after marriage. And in many cases she blows
bitterly cold.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
" Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by
the Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 24, CAMILLE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
0 R IT ERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough mid Flemming-.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LAST NIGHT of
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company
in an “ Uncomfortable ” Plav, in 3 Acts, by J. M. Barrie
LITTLE MARY.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 24, DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2
EVERY EVENING, Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Famous Farcical Musical Comedy,
THE SHOP GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. jW PRICES AS USUAL.
HALL (THEATRE), SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. J. and N. TAIT. ‘
COMMENCING, THURSDAY, 29th JANUARY, ’O6.
The Latest in Moving Pictures,
LIVING LONDOH.
An enormous Moving Picture sent out direct from London
by Mr. J. Nevin Tait, takes you all over London, shows,
you all its Streets, its Parks, its Bridges, Institutions,
’Busses, Markets, Waterways, Docks, it's Wonderful Traffic
and. hundreds of other Interesting and Educational
Scenes.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
F. STETSON, Manager.
JOUVN HALL, MELBOURNE.i
The Latest in Moving Pictures—LlVlNC LONDON.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 22.
SPECIAL MATINEE, SATURDAY, MARCH 24. I
Box Plan at Allan’s. J
Synopsis of Pictures Obtainable on Application at
Box Office.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mil. Harry Richards
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of
THE THREE LEE 4, THE GILBERT SISTERS
Unique Performances of MARTINETTI and GROSSI
Great Success of the MILES SA VORDALE QUINTETTE
BARNARD’S MARVELLOUS MARIONETTES.
FRED. BLUETT, Australia’s Greatest Comedian
MDLE. ADA OERITO. THE SISTERS WARNER
LEONARD NELSON, BABY WATSON, HILDA LANE
ROCHFORT and HART. ETHEL PRESTON,
OPERA0 PERA HOUsl, MELBOURNE
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
TAMBO and TAMBO, Tambourine Spinners and
Comedy Artists.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Comedy Glee Singers.
ETTIE WILLIAMS, Serio Comic.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
ALICE RAYMOND, Cornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor.
Plan at Allan’s. &3f PRICES—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is.
N
EW THEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBO
BLAND l.
.VIE.
i/r.
EVERY EVENING, Marvellous Success of .
Messrs. MEYNELL and GUNN’S
Sensational Transatlantic Musical Dramatic Success, j
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand. '
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL BRUME,
—in—
LEAH KLESCHNA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays!
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Direction of Messrs. Clyde Mey nell & John Gunn. *
EVERY EVENING, ji
THE STRAND COMEDY CO., including
Mr. J. J. DALLAS and. Miss FLORENCE LLOYD, in
Geo. Arliss’s Farce Comedy. <i
THERE AND BACK. j
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. t’SSt Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
BUCKJUMPING*
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. New Railway Station).
EVERY NIGHT AT 8 O’CLOCK,
MARTINI'S
BuckjumpingShow
14th WEEK CROWDED
IN SYDNEY. NIGHTLY.
BIG CONTEST,
SATURDAY NIGHT, 24th MARCH
(By arrangement with Mr. Castles.)
PROFESSOR SKUTHORP1 v " ANGLIS, the
) Melbourne Outlaw.
JACK SIMPSON (Skuthorp’s best rider) v. BOBS.
JIGGER LAVELL v. SKUTHORP’S GRAY.
BILLY WAITE v. THE BOWRA OUTLAW.
DICK SKUTHORP v. THE LISMORE OUTLAW.
ELECTRIC LIGHTS. GOOD SEATING.
Prices .. .. 4s. 3s. 2s.
Box Plan at M. A. Lazarus, Tobacconist, Market St.
DARGIN’S GRAY WILL BE EXHIBITED
EASTER WEEK.
Professor Skuthorp’s
“Boys from the Bush.”
UNDER ROYAL AND VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
OPENING SYDNEY,
Ground to be Agreed Upon,
BEGINNING OF APRIL.
PRIZES FOR RIDERS AND HORSES.
Professor SKUTHORP offers the following: prizes :
£loo—£7o first, £2O second, £lO third, for the best
Roug'hrider. Open to ail-comers.
£2o—£ls first, £5 second, for the best Buckjumper pro-
duced. Open to all comers.
CONDITIONS.—For Roughriding Contest are The first
round to be ridden in ordinary roughriding or stock-
man’s saddle ; second round iii a 4in. kneepad rough-
riding saddle ; third round, Sin. kneepads ; fourth
round, 2in. kneepads. All horses to be balloted for
by each rider each night. All horses to be ridden
with a bucking rope. This applies to both contests.
In the event of horse falling or tackle breaking, the
rider to be allowed another trial. None of Skuthorp’s
employees allowed to compete in either contest.
NOMINATIONS, £1 (riders producing own horses free)
to be made with the Secretary, Skuthorp’s Show, Hay-
market Hippodrome, on or before SATURDAY, 31st
March, at 4 p.m. Approved nominations genuine buck-
jumper’s fare will be paid to distance 150 miles ; also
stabling' accommodation and feed.
Two Judges and one Referee to be mutually agreed
upon.
Nominators are respectfully requested to nominate
earlj'.
All Nominations must be in by the 31st MARCH.
For further particulars, apply to the Secretary.
Professor Skuthorp is prepared to buy all champion
buckjumpers produced. Price no object.
Deposits to be held by Sportsman and Bulletin.
“ Oh ! Woodman, Spare that Tree.”
Great Axemen’s Carnival antl Sporting
Demonstration, Dayiesford (Vic.)
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 16, 1906.
Some of the Plums Handicap Underhand Chop, 50
sovs. ; Handicap Standing Chop, lOsovs. ; Maiden Chop,
5 sovs. ; Sawing Match, 5 sovs. ; and “The Invitation
Championship Underhand Chop,” 20 sovs. ; and Cham-
pionship Medal, 5 sovs., net value. Tug-of-War, 20
sovs. ; Sheffield, 20 sovs. ; 220yds., 10 sovs., etc., etc.
Write or send at once for all information. Entries close,
March 28, to p. K MEERE. Secretary.
Music, ■s* %
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
O'
Edison Gold-Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
& SON,
137 King Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
A
BATH HEATERS
Sisxd por Catalogue. “®(g
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood.
BRANDT BROS*., 236 Pitt st., sydimey
anti t&7, 422, ana 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
WELSBACH
MANTLES *
Made in Australia l>y
Australians for Australians.
“ The house
that* Jack
Built.”
!>£
**S
W
mA
iiiiuimi
s< By day it is a lovely sight.
At night it looks so grand and bright,
9 Tis Hooded o’er with Welsbach Light—
Inside the house that Jack built.”
Note the
w
in
the
*£p E MAq
£
w
9
0
Trade Mark.
Steering
Wheel.
'. .
X ' - •' • : , -
m
„
<3-
fWm
warn
*l+
- * - .
x,« : * *;✓ . ■**■
. . Vw»*v ■
■r-i-'i ?*« '■
"•t: -ii'•
■ W'
, 's*. !-’J
tF-f
E. <&. A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large airy
two-berth cabins all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking at Special
Rates to Canada, United States of America
and Europe.
_ Agents in Australia _
Gibbs, bright & c?
ADELAIDE. MEIBOURNE, SYDNEY BRISBANE.
GRENFELL STREET 34f QUEEN STREET. SE VITTSmiI EAGIE STREET.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, &c.,
forwarded to any address on application. £?


“ A.P.8,.” : “A treat,” as used by local
“ blokes,” is saving many cubic feet of swearing.
In lieu of “ ’E roused on me like blanky blanky,”
he now says “’E roused on me a treat.” Said
one to me lately: “See that Tom over there?
Clobbered up a treat, ain’t she? By gum, it’s
hot; and ain’t the dust blowin’ up a treat? Makes
yer drink a treat, don’t it ? ”
“ D.J.K.” : Over this way (Gippsland,
Vic.) some of the well-to-do settlers employ
Indians as milkers and calf-feeders. One man
lias his milking altogether in the hands of the
aliens. An Indian took the contract at Id. a
gallon, and 2s. 6d. a year for each calf that sur-
vives. From 300 to 500 cows are milked daily, so
that a nice little penny passes into the black-
fellow’s hands, he employing only other Indians
at his own price. They cater for themselves, and
as they can live on part of nothing, save money
quickly. In other parts of E. Gippsland the
swarthy ones have bought farms and go in for
dairying or sheep-rearing.
“Bricky”: What strange places some
drunks get into (and, by the way, what strange
faces some drinks get into !). Self and three mates
were camped among the mountains of Gippsland.
Arthur was the beer-sparrer of the party, and
although the pub. was three miles away, he spent
his evenings there, drinking with the flies. On
one occasion, with the aid of the windlass-rope,
we hauled him out of a 30ft. shaft, where he’d
been standing up to his teeth in water. Another
time, he’d been drinking Jimmy Woodsers, and
didn’t come home. Next day we saw his under-
standings protruding out of a wombat’s hole, and
we hauled him out on his ear. Found him
smothered in a slimy substance that we couldn’t
identify. He blinked, opened his eyes, yawned,
sat up, and said, “Where’s the bottle?” Just
then a huge tiger snake wriggled out of the hole
and slithered away. Arthur had been sleeping
with it.
Two Classes
or
F air
Women
Some are fair because they happen so,
others attain the clear, rosy complexion,
soft skin, clear eyes, easy, graceful car-
riage to their healthful bodies because
they are careful what those bodies are
made of—in other words, they select
food that will nourish. They don’t eat
“everything that comes along.”
Every woman should read the little
book in each pkg. of
Grape-
Nuts
for “ The Road to Wellville ” is the road
to healthful beauty.
“ There’s a Reason.”
[lO.
r T
BE
fcu
■the^
DEAF
mtSd
By using- the Wilson Comi
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
| tressing- head noises writ*
! for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress —Star Novelty Co.
229-231 Collins-st., MeV'
FUSSELL’S
FULL CREAM 'mjff’T Tr
CONDENSED ITLIIsXY
IS THE
CREAM OF MILKS j
BURNS, PHILP & GO., LTD., Sole Agents. I
y>7
Qcr
M
Eight Years’ Suffering
A PERMANENT CURE.
The Case of MRS. A. WEAVER.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
No one can tell the self-denying work which good men have done in the early days of this
county, neither can we exaggerate the nobleness of spirit which animates present-day people in a
desire to ameliorate distress as much as lies in their power. Therefore, the public should be
informed of some of these efforts, one of which was made by Mrs. Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis-
street, Redfern, who replied to the reporter by saying:—
“ About this time last year I was living in Telopea-street, and it was just before I left there for
this place chat I was fortunate in casting aside a complaint that had worried me for no less than eight
years. What a fearful life of suffering mine had been all that time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in tire world could benefit me made my spirits droop lower than they will ever be again,
I hope.”
“ What made you think that nothing could benefit you ? ” queried the writer.
“ I arrived at that conclusion because nothing had done me good so far, and I believe I tried
every medicine going. At the time my second child was born I was under a doctor who did everything
he could for me, but still my health remained as bad as it could be. Indeed at that period I was nearly
dead with indigestion, although I dieted myself and did all that could be done to keep my
torments in check. It was of no avail though, for when I ate anything I could hardly breathe
owing to a feeling which came like a lump in my chest, from which place a sharp
pain went right through to the centre of my shoulders. I then remained in the utmost agony until
the food was vomited up again, after which I felt so exhausted that I could not think of doing a thing
in the house until I had had a good rest. It would surprise you if you only knew how poor my
appetite was. You would wonder how anybody could keep alive with it, and as for my head —
oh ! my sufferings with it were awful. The most piercing pains at one time, and the
most depressing aches at another. Really, I think it was a marvel how I kept my
senses with the agony I endured in the head, and it’s strange that I didn’t meet with many a nasty
accident through the giddiness which used to overtake me. I was a misery to mySelf and everybody
around me, and, to tell you the honest truth, I never thought I would live through it all. My eyes
used to feel heavy enough to drop out of their sockets, and I was affected in the mouth by such a
bitter taste that it made me feel sick of a morning after putting in the usual restless nights that had
done so much towards making a wreck of me. Even in the daytime I was always imagining something
terrible was going to happen, and these were just the very things that Clements’ Tonic,
which I had commenced to take, showed itself to be master of, for it sent such a vigor
through my whole frame when I had been taking it a couple of weeks that I could
not help feeling joyful in the belief that at last my health had taken a, beneficial
turn. I got more Clements’ Tonic, and as each bottle was finished so did my prospects improve, for
I commenced to take my meals with a degree of heartiness which astonished my people as much as
it pleased them, and to my own satisfaction and delight the former discomforts attending my meals
were quickly out of existence. Oh, dear ! what a changed woman lam now to then ! My limbs do
not ache from weakness like they formerly did, and I can go about my work as cheerfully and as
actively as any housewife in the country. I do not spend any restless nights now, never dream
during my sleep, and the pains that used to abound have long since been driven away from every part
of my body. Well, Clement’s Tonic made me the healthy woman I am, and for the sake of other
sufferers I trust you’ll publish this interview in any way you think best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ALICE WEAVER, of No. 7 Louis-street, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements —which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment ; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900. (Sgd.) ALICE WEAVER.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this sixth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four, befor®
me, L. BREARLEY, J.P.
ANDRADE for BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d,
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLINC CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Js j posted 1/3.
&
s\
wr
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God andMy Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test; engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How ro Maks Ur, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. Nsw Thicks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. L)r. Foots’s Plain Homs Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, '» 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dtnamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives' Handbook. 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Cloo PaNfiNQ, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks »'im Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. I.ovsr s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Reason, Is 3d. Ingkrsoi.i.’s Works, 9d. Hush
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Snow, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer., Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
MadeEEast,y t , Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOR YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address..
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to"cure them. Worth £.lO for its infcrmation, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
FEATHERS
GIVEN AWAY
2000 Ostrich Tips,
nine inches long,
will be given away
this month to
advertise our
Feathers from
South Africa.
Write For
Coupons.
✓2*
ZsSJiVt
m
ffM
m
Z//7f,
Miller’s Feather Shop.
Corner STRAND ARCADE, PITT STREET,
SYDNEY. (Mention The Bulletin).
MEMORY.
A COURSE OF
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories: therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
The Pelman-Foster System
Scientifically trains the natural memory, and enables
anyone to remember names, faces, facts, figures, business
details : to speak without notes, to follow lectures and
conversation. .
It is easy and interesting, and the oldest and youngest
can learn it. No matter what your life work may be,
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM will make you more
successful.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet, “ MEMORY,
AND HOW TO IMPROVE IT.”
The Secretary, The Pelman-Foster
School of Memory Training,
Box 402, G.P.0., Melbourne.
ENGLAND : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.O. FRANCE :
109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris. SOUTH AFRICA : Lynn
Buildings, Durban. AMERICA : 901 Whitehall Building,
New York. GERMANY : Prannerstr 13, Munich..
LINOLO
CLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
To soothe
the Skin ,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
This
Trade
Mark
&
AERTEX
feONDOW
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’^cTcHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Solk Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
REMOVING TO
94 King Street, Sydney,
BETWEEN GEORGE & PITT STREETS.
sd
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
I* non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups of
an? ordinary cocoa.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPON DE NCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, tree oZ charge, to any-
-o nAddrels s eA: MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


M'S AWFUL
ITCHING ECZEMA
Sores and Scales All Over Face and
Body —Could Not Tell What She
Looked Like—Unable to Sleep
Grew Worse Under Doctors.
CURED BY CUTICURA
IN ONE MONTH
A grateful mother, in the following let-
ter, tells of another of those marvellous
cures by Cuticura: “When my baby
was four months old her skin broke out
with a humour. I took her to a doctor,
who said it was eczema. He gave me
medicine to give her, but she kept get-
ting worse all the time. Her little face
and body were so covered with sores and
large scales you could not tell what she
looked like. No child ever had a worse
case. Her face was being eaten away, and
even her finger nails fell off. Then it
itched so she could not sleep, and for
many weary nights we could get no rest.
At last we got Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment, first bathing her in warm water
with the Soap, and then spreading on the
Ointment with soft cloths. I saw a change
in a week. The sores began to heal, and
she could sleep at night, and in one
month she had not one sore on her face
or body. Any mother having children
with eczema or humours will find a friend
in Cuticura Soap and Ointment, (signed)
Mrs. Mary Sanders, 709 Spring St.,
Camden, N. J., Aug. 14, 1904.”
INSTANT RELIEF
For Baby and Rest for Tired, and
Worn-out Mothers
The foregoing statement justifies the
oft-repeated assertion that Cuticura Soap
and Ointment afford instant relief, and
permit sleep for baby and rest for tired
mothers, and points to a speedy, perma-
nent, and economical cure in the most
torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning,
bleeding, scaly, crusted, and pimply skin,
and scalp humours of infancy and age,
when all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue cle
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Lrug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, Sole Props.
wyMailed Free, “ How to Cure Baby Humours."
tShoes that are
brightest,
Boots that look best,
are those which have been made
to shine brilliantly with
Hauthaway’s
Crozine
Blacking
which not only puts shine on them, hut soft-
ness into them. Thus, in addition to making
the surface of the leather look more beautiful
than it could he otherwise made to look, it in-
creases its -wearing qualities, renders it pliant
to the foot, and altogether more pleasant and
comfortable to walk with. Boots never look
so ornamental, and are never so useful, as
when treated with this acidless blacking.
Can be had at all Boot Stores.
See that you get Hauthaway’s.
None else is half as good.
PRESERVES AS WELL AS BEAUTIFIES.
L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress Street,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Biitf-
UL&igsfcßt
j —~—
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM kor Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND B3ANQH
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOYVS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building', Perth.
in your office
PERFECT?
BUT IS IT
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH,
* Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
IALiPOpiM
mmp°*Yms ,
df
m
vS
OF
m§
An Agreeable
Mild and
‘Efficacjpus
Laxative*
Gentle
Prorngp-
in ActiOQ* : v
Yt
mmsam,
v
acts pleasantly and promptly, cleanses
the system gently and effectually when
bilious or costive.
California Syrup of Figs is a positively reliable and at
the same time the most agreeable family remedy for
Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Depression, Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Headache,
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits. California Syrup
of Figs is strengthening and invigorating—not weaken-
ing and lowering, as most ordinary pills and purgatives
are. There is no discomfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are
healthful regularity and freedom from dangerous
impurities in the system, Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng,
ill
f
*C2
2**
M
“FEELS GOOD ON THE FACE
Sold by all Chemists and
Perfumers
Mailed on receipt of 1/ if
your dealer does not
supply you.
Williams’ Shaving Stick
(Trial size) mailed on
receipt of 2d. in
stamps.
You owe it to your face
to get all possible comfort, convenience and safety
in shaving. The creamy, soothing lather of Williams
Shaving Stick guarantees these.
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO., 65 Great Russell St., London
Head Office and Factories Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Just at present the American motor factories
cannot turn out cars fast enough to supply the home
demand, although last year no less than £4,600,000 worth
were made. Now the steam car has proved that it can
travel faster than the petrol-driven machine, so thereissure
to be a boom in the odorless creation. Hitherto the
trouble has been that only the most careful watching
prevented the burning of the boiler, but that risk has
been done away with by an automatic arrangement
which will keep the boiler full as long as there is water in
the tank. The steam car has the advantage of being
absolutely noiseless, and when used for absconding with
the boodle to Canada it leaves no smell behind it to guide
the sheriff’s posse in the high-powered cars they keep
especially for chasing embezzlers.
* * * *
A woman who is making good money nowadays
moves from boarding-house to boarding-house selling some
patent brand of skin-food. Her method is simple. She
has a skin like velvet herself. She patronises only large
boarding-houses With lots of women in them. First night
at dinner her skin is admired and envied. Second day, at
afternoon-tea, she confides the reason—the alleged skin-
food, of course—and offers to supply all with it. Third
day she spends visiting the rooms of the various ladies
making cash sales. Then she leaves for another estab-
lishment.
•:.* *:> * * -
“Drifter” : Australia is the home of the cheap
excursion. Was up on the Clarence River (N.S.W.)
during Christmas, and took a trip from Yamba to
Grafton (a distance of 80 miles return) on the river
steamer. A truly delightful trip. The charge was a
shilling return, with a cup of tea for the girls thrown in.
* * * *
“ G.S.” : Melbourne suburbs are just now being
exploited by a photographic “joint.” Man calls and asks
for a photoi, which he will enlarge free of charge, only
stipulating that you shall hang it up for your friends to
see, and thus advertise his firm. Fortnight elapses, when
his partner calls to inquire what kind of frame you will
have for the enlargement—prices 30s. to £2 2s. No order
for frame, no enlargement, and you can’t even get your
photo, back unless you go to their office and worry them.
* ♦ * *
“Koko” : What swindlers are the registry-
office sharks who claim to supply squatters with all sorts
and conditions of labor, from rouseabouts to married
couples ! I knew a case of a station-owner out back who
wrote to a shark in a large western town for a good mar-
ried couple. Shark replied that he was fortunate in
having just the required article on hand. Satisfaction
was guaranteed, and he would be pleased to despatch
goods at once, fares to be paid by squatter, and service to
be entered under six months’ agreement. Fee payable
to shark, two guineas in advance. Terms and couple
were accepted, and in the course of a few days there
arrived by the mail coach a slatternly great hulk
which was the alleged better-half of a five-foot
nothing, eight-stone-seven, bleary-eyed, beer-sodden
apology for a man (guaranteed able to groom,
milk, kill, and “general useful”). The pair was
accompanied by a miscellaneous assortment of rags
and baggage, and it breathed like a distillery. After the
two had recuperated for a couple of days with the aid of
some bottles they possessed, the boss considered it a fair
thing for Mr. Married Couple to give an exhibition of his
abilities in the labor line. He therefore approached the
bleary one, who was reclining in the shade of the kitchen,
and suggested the advisability of slaughtering a sheep.
Mr. Married Couple wearily advised the boss to kill a
sheep himself. The boss called him a “good-for-nothing
weasel.” “Weasel yerself,” said Mr. Married Couple.
The boss grew angry, and called him a white elephant.
The married couple said in a thick voice, “ Elephant yer-
self.” “I suppose you want whisky and cigars and a
hammock to lie in,” yelled the boss. “ Whisky and cigars
yerself,” said the bleary one. Just then Mrs. M.C., who
was lying inside on the kitchen floor, shouted out to her
better half—“ Give it to him. Jack, for bullying a man
when he’s down.” As I said before, registry offices are
sharks.
* * * •
Way back in the fifties boots known as “mis-
fits for Royalty” were all the fashion. The maker’s
name was Lehocq, and his agent in Melbourne, was a man
called Mould, whose shop was in Swanston-street, almost
exactly opposite the Town Hall. The foot-gear was
advertised as being quite new, and as having been ori-
ginally designed to cover the corns of European kings
and such like—“some slight misreckoning in the
surement alone accounting for their non-acceptance.’
The sale was tremendous, and every Johnnie of the
period had his pair of Lehocq’s, and took care on very
small provocation to turn down the flap of the leather
tops, so that the curious might read thereon, “ King of
Saxony,” or “ Hospodar of Wallachia,” or “ Prince of
Wales,” or “King of Prussia” (no empire then), or
“ Emperor Napoleon III.”
“Drifter”: Some men are born dealers. Har-
rison missed his true avocation by being cast by the
jugglery of Fate into the Civil Service. When any man
in his branch wanted anything, from a cheap second-
hand mangle to a glass eye on time payment, Harrison
was the man to scent it out, for a small commission. He
was familiar with every second-hand shop, pawnbroker
and dealer in the city. One day Brown casually men-
tioned that he wanted to buy a watch-dog, as the burglars
had been round. The dav after Harrison appeared with
a flea bitten, half-starved tyke beneath his arm and
button-holed Brown on the landing. “ Here’s your watch-
dog, Brown, and you’ll find there’s not a better one in
the country ! He’ll keep the burglars off all right. S’elp
me ! I’d never part with him, but I’m afraid he’ll eat some
of the children at home one day. I’vercared himfrom apup.
You can have him for five bob ' Well I’ll sav four seeing
as he’ll be In good hands There’s a bi" of rope fn my
drawer 3'ou cantiehim up with till knock-off time. Say half
a dollar, then!” The dog here fell asleep, and
snored peacefully on the dealer’s bosom. “Look here,
then, you can have him for two bob ! Lor’ love me, my
wife cried when I brought him away for you ; she loved
lum. Will you go a bob, then ? ” “ No ! ” shouted Brown ;
“ I wouldn’t have that mongrel around my place at any
price.” Harrison dropped the sleeping- cur with a duil
thud, and sent it howling dismally down the stairs with
a disgusted kick. He afterwards confessed that he picked
up the faithful hound which his wife loved from under a
man ° Wn * n ar^n aCe " artason was a g rea t business
1 ‘ * , * *
“Huffin-Guffin”: Went into my barber’s shop
for my periodical shave to-day. My eye caught a card
containing- some chalk-liKe sticks—astringent pencils for
razor cuts—and the card was already half empty. The
barber finished me safely, but I noticed that he cast
yearning eyes at the card each time he cleaned his razor.
I am going to let ’em grow now. But the man who
doesn t know his business better than that barber should
«S£BBS«3SSSSm , 3SSmSB
his coat pocket.
* * * »
The Suez Canal, in which the British Govern-
ment has a large proprietary interest, is to lose £400,000
per annum through a slight concession in rates this year,
It is estimated that a quarter of this sum will be saved to
the mail companies, British and foreign, trading to Aus-
tralia. Even then the canal administration will make a
stupendous yearly profit, which recoups the British
Government in a large measure for the subsidies granted
to mail steamers trading through the canal. This fact is
always ignored when the subsidies granted from the Eng-
is and Australian ternfini are compared. *
-Si-K* 1 a szasi eft
’splosive fern, Missus. Yer jist pours worter on it, ’n it
goes off in vollums.o’smoke. Give’s a cup er worter,’n
I’ll show yer.” Laying a leaf of the fern on his hand, he
poured over it the “ worter,” and smoke certainly did
come in a tiny column. The explosion came later, when
the missus—after using gallons of water on the two ferns
she’d bought for 4s.—didn’t produce a hint of smoke. She
“goes off’’now whenever ferns are mentioned. Now,
was the smoke up that business-man’s sleeve?
* * * *
“F.C.” : The average undertaking ghoul is a
thrifty individual, or is it the rage for outward show that
led to this piece of hypocrisy? A “respected resident”
was buried from our street lately, and the “funeral
cortege” consisted of hearse, two mourning coaches, one
private buggy, and four waggonettes ; but no sooner had
the procession turned the first corner than two of the
waggonettes transferred their half-loads of passengers to
the others and pulled off homewards. Thus for an extra
shilling or so the deceased —and the neighbors—were
treated to a really imposing funeral.
“ Janor ” : Solved the other day what had
long been to me one of the small mysteries of the
bush. Often had I searched in vain for the plant
which bore that grotesque yam-like growth known
as “ blackfellows’ bread.” Making an excavation
recently I gouged out quite a nest of the stuff
strung together on a root of a peppermint tree
which grew near by. The root passed right
through the centre of the “bread”—which is
only a low-down parasite, and not a species of
yam, as some bushmen imagine.
“ W.S.T.” : Honey-gathering in the N.S.
Wales North Coast bush was, in the old days,
both a pleasant and a profitable occupation. You
either went into the forest and found the bees for
yourself, after laboriously cutting the trees down,
or you gave a tribe of blacks an 18-gallon cask,
which they rolled into a central locality and pro-
ceeded to fill. They got £1 for the cask full,
which brought it below Id. per lb. to the middle-
man ; and, fearful stuff though it was, it brought 3d.
a pound in Sussex-street. The blacks used to eat
the young brood as a special delicacy, with a good
deal of the honey, and used to soak the old wax,
honey, and dead bees until it became what they
called “honey beer.” The whole tribe, gins and
all, used to get comfortably drunk on this. The
advent of “black brood,” which killed thousands
of bee-colonies, broke up this promising industry.
A peculiar fact was that when the blacks’ dogs ate
much of the honey, all their hair fell out, leaving
them hideous spectacles.
A MATTER OF LABELS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ike Parkinson, of Bumpalong,
Keeps an emporium,
And tradeth on his country’s wrong
For any little sum ;
He prints “ Importer ” on his bills,
But buys his goods at Sydney mills,
For he is able,
With a label,
That pays no revenue,
To shift those mills to English hills,
New York, or Timbuetoo.
So if you ask Ike Parkinson
For plain Australian jam,
One thing you can depend upon—
Its name is not a sham ;
But if your prejudice is such
That nothing home-made you can touch,
And you demand
An English brand,
’Twill be a “ take-me-down,”
For ’tis the label costs so much ;
The jam’s from Hobart Town.
“ I’ll tell you this," confided Ike,
“ There’s Brown, of Bumpalong,
An’ there is Jones, of Hornypike,
Two jam firms going strong ;
Now, Jones has tried, but cannot win
The place he manufactures in ;
An’ neither can
Our local man
Acquire the local crowns ;
But Bumpalong buys Jones’s tin,
And Hornypike buys Brown’s.
“ At first the jams were sent by Brown
To Hornypike by dray,
An’ packed in cases from that town
Jones’ product came this way ;
Then we discussed the problem, and
We saw ’twas but the ‘ local brand ’
That caused demurs
’Mong customers,
An’ so we raised the price,
An’swopping labels, local cann’d
Just tasted twice as nice.
“ No jams now come from Jones’s town
Not e’en the tins,” said Ike ;
“ An’ nary case is sent by Brown
For sale in Hornypike.
An’ though we sell Jones’ wrappers here,
An’ Brown’s in Hornypike, ’tis clear
If Brown was there
An’ Jones was where
His jam’s disseminated,
The makers then would be too near
To be appreciated.”
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


Land For Sale.
T-A. S DVE.A. 3XTI .A..
North West Coast.
Land to be Let or Sold
THE VAN DIEMEN’S LAND COMPANY are now sub-
dividing- their Hampshire Hills and Surrey Hills
Estates into sections of from 100 acres upwards, which
they offer ON LEASE at low rents or FOR SALE on very
advantageous terms extending over 14 years. These
estates, which are well served by the Emu Bay Railway
from Burnie to Mount Bischoff, Zeehan, and the West
Coast mining field, consist principally of rich basaltic
soil abundantly watered, and are well suited for dairying
and stock raising. The Railway, which passes entirely
through the estates, connects the land to good markets
on the North West Coast and Mainland and on the West
Coast mining field. Other portions of the Company’s
estates are also For Sale and To Let on Lease. Full par-
ticulars will be supplied on application to—
A. K. McGAW,
Manager.
Burnie, Tasmania, 23rd February, 1906.
A Wind-Up
OF . . .
PANAMAS!
This is probably the last announcement
of these brilliant Panama bargains.
We have sold some hundreds of them.
The man who wants something particu-
larly good in Panamas at a bargain price
will miss these if he's not quick.
This is the Panama.
1
Usual Prices 25s 6d & 28s 6d.
WHILE THEY LAST— 21 s.
Another at 10s 6d.
Post Free.
MURPOCH’s
. . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
sdf
? -a
COLUMBIA
Gold-Moulded Records
Are BEST for Phonographs*
LOUDEST—CLEAREST-SWEETEST
Price Is 3d each.
WRITE FOR LATEST LISTS AND NAME OF
NEAREST AGENT.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE ...
Nindooimba
Dairy
Farms
Adjoining
TAB RAG ALB A, Albert River,
Queensland.
Estate
Tha First Section,
The Kerry Paddocks,
6092 acres
in areas from 118
to 1223 acres.
Situated 51 miles from Brisbane, 4 miles from Beaudesert Bailway Station by good
level road. Kainfajl, 43fin., well distributed. Splendid water from Albert Biver and
Kerry Creek. • Considered the best Dairying and Agricultural land in the famous Albert
District, having alluvial lucerne flats nearly a mile wide.
TO BE SOLO BY AUCTION
At Beaudesert , on MONDAY , 7th MAY , 1906,
At Three o’clock.
Magnetic Terms : One-Tenth Cash , Balance to 20 years
At 5 per cent.
Write for
Illustrated Pamphlet to
Isles, Love & Co,,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE,
TbcSe TEA POTS n>ake a
SPLENDIP CUP OF TEA!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now,
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value —every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s 6d
No. Fll6l.
Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 15s
No. E 3763. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
1
ii±Js
Cglllll
No. E 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s.
.
No. F 6136. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot, Full size,
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £2 10s.
No. F 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
Richly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6dl
No. E 7134. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
32s 6d
No. 367. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£2 5s
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. 368. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pols, £3 3s.
No. E 7690. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£i 10s.
No. F 6137. “Louis Quatorze” Tea Pot, Very
Massive Solid Silver, £22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
sd
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington ,
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.
Of the two best-known processes for getting
the zinc out of the Broken Hill ores, neither was
the work of a metallurgist. Both Potter and De
Bavay, the two discoverers, are brewers’ chemists,
who carried out their experiments on quite dif-
ferent lines, and right off the track along which
metallurgists had been fossicking for years.
Just like their friends the butter exporters,
Melbourne chaff merchants have been monkeying
with the article to such an extent that they have
practically killed theexporting partof the industry.
Six years ago from 30,000 to 40,000 bags of Mel-
bourne chaff were annually sold on the Sydney
wharves; now there is scarcely a bag, save those
sent by a few honest traders who have kept
their names clean and their business brisk. Just
so with oats ; crushed oats are actually sold for
less than oats that haven’t had that labor spent
on them, because they are really one part “hulls”
to two parts oats. It is practically open, undis-
guised fraud ; and the farmer is finding that he,
not the rascally middleman, is getting such a bad
name that nobody wants his produce; so he com-
mences to call for State interference and socialistic
legislation. But the ass persistently sends Tory
agents and middlemen to Parliament to represent
him; and, of course, they are in no hurry to save
him.
The biography of Hardwick’s damper :
Jest about three years ago, me, Jock Alcock, Mun-
gindi, and a nigger cook was out in Westralia. dry-blow-
ing. We had to dry-blow because the water was too
scarce to use for anything but drinking. One night Jock
roused on the nigger for drinking too much water. One
thing led to another, and they finished up with a devil of
a row. In the morning when we got up the murky cook
was gone, also our best horse.
Not a soul in that camp knew anything about cooking,
but I kidded the other two chaps I was a bosker-warbler
of a cook. You see, I’d had about enough of dry-blow-
ing. I started to cook while they dry-blew.
There was lashings of tinned dog, but only 201 b. of flour,
and no damper. “ Well,” says I, “ 201 b. of flour don’t
seem much to make the darn thing out of, but here goes.”
I’d often seen the nigger rolling the dough out on a stump.
It seemed quite easy, so I got the bag and emptied the
flour on the stump, poured some water on an’ mixed her
up. In a few minutes it was ready to be transferred to
the camp oven.
It struck me just then that it ought to have some
baking powder in. I got the tin down, but the cussed
label with the directions was tore off. I was donkey-licked.
I didn’t know how much to put in to save my life. The
tin was nearly full, so I chanced the lot, rolled the damper
round a few more times, and popped it into the oven.
I heaped the ashes all over the top and around it, an’
got-to cleanin’ up a bit. A while after, happenin’ to look
over that way, I seen the lid of the oven stickin’ up in the
air about 2ft., an’ risin’ at the rate of a mile a riiinit. In
about two shakes I had that express-train damper out on
the stump. “ Moses,” said I, “she has rose!” It kep
risin’ an’ risin’ like a live thing. You’d nearly think it
was a frill lizard.
When Jock and Mungindi came home that dam damper
was still risin’. “ Boys,” says I, proud-like, “ I thought
you’d like a bit of a change to-night, so I made a sponge-
cake for yer tea.” “ Good lad,” says they, cornin’ over to
have a look. “ Bit yaller, ain’t it? ” says Jock. “ Where
did yer git the heggs ? ” chips in Mungindi.
When we was finished Jock starts to fill his pipe and
Mungindi to smoke a cigarette, but he couldn’t finish—he
had the hiccups too bad. I began to feel terrible crook,
but said nothink. Jock arsked Mungindi what ’pendi-
citis was like. I was jest goin’ to arst him who’s horse
that was, when four buttons busted off me weskit. I
looks over at Mungindi ; he was red in the face, like a
turkey-cock. I arst him was anythink up. “ Oh, no,”
says lie, “ nothing at all.” Jock said he felt like a foot-
ball someone was pumpin’ up, an’ if he didn’t stop he’d
soon bust.
You never seen such a circus. Jock and Mungindi
kept swearin’ and cursin’ till the swellin’ got that bad
they couldn’t speak at all. Jock went into the tent.
Presently I sees him makin’ signs to Mungindi to go in
too. In a few minits out comes the pair of them lookin’
awful savage. Jack had a piece of paper in his hand, and
Mungindi had a double-barrelled gun. I begin to feel
that it was no place for me. Jock handed me
the paper, and on it I reads : “Me and Mun-
gindi wants to know what the ’ell you put
in that blessed cake. Tork quick, or y’ure a deader.” As
I couldn’t tork quick, or any other way, I wrote on the
paper, “ Bakin’ powder—all we ’ad.” They looks at me,
then at one another, then at me again. I could see they
wanted to larf, but was frightened of bustin’.
The larst I seen of them two coves that night, they was
takin’ it in turns sittin’ on each other’s bread-baskit.
Mungindi had a piece of two-inch rope tied round his.
My clothes was awful tight, but before mornin’ I got
better and went to sleep. I got up about six o’clock, an’
was just lightin’ the fire when I was informed that I was
promoted back to dry-blowin’, an’ that my resignation as
cook was wanted immejit.


“A truly delightful Thirst Quencher/' A
The Lancet writes “Lime Juice is, particularly during the ,
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMiSTS.
V,
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
Ii FURRED TONGUE.
!
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
C k There’s SECURITY In
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
•Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
f
sdf
HOME CyCLOPEPIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged, .
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lam ar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boos ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zoia’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. •
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, ' Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Puiil c
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s Gd. A Life
of pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Jistablished SO ) ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
. ....
Write for my .'
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6u.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances, 2s. Ingersoll's
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s-Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s. Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
m?.
dfgd
MELBA AGGORDEONS
df
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all'latest improvements.
Prices from 716 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rHE ZOBO.
ANYONE CAN
PLAY IT.
The Zobo is a new invention made on the same principle as
the Kazoo. It has a rawhide disc on the inside, and by
singing in and against this disc, wonderful music is produced.
Anyone can play any tune upon it; imitates fowls, bagpipes,
animals, etc. Very popular with singing club and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
dfs
A Baby with the Voice of a Giant.
Is. 6d. Each (is. Bd. post free); 2 for 3s.
A more unique merry-making- and fascinating little novelty
would be exceedingly hard, to find. It possesses real merit It
is.an intensely amusing, article .for adults as well as for children
It is not a mere toy . as many might suppose, being substantil
ally constructed and easily operated. The sweet and varied
tones possible.to be produced with this little device are incred-
ible. No tune ever composed that cannot be accurately pro-
difeed. It ; is just the thing - for duets, quartettes, chorus,
carnivals, masquerades,' serenades, parades, - etc.’ It maybe
accompanied with various other instruments wjth - very pleasing
effects, and never fails to make a hit. Remember, that if you
do not obtain sat.sfactory results the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument. Read over the directions, and persist a
little,, when you will be delighted with tire results. Best article
to be had for the money.
DIRECTIONS.
Place the stem against the lips, or hold between the teeth as in
the act of smoking. Simply HUM the air of Any Tune into the
stem. DO NOl BLOW. The notes are produced by vibra-
tion, the voice alone causing the-vibratory diaphragm to act,
reproducing and modifying any sound emitted against it. -The
tones thus produced resemble those of .various such
aS the Cornet, Clarionet, Saxophone, Bagpipes, and manyothers.
Very little practice is required by even a child to master the
instrument; there is a little “knack” to it, that’s all.
Send postal note to i ' - ’
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229-231 Collins St., Melb
[Mention this paper.]
■mows'
IMPERIAL
ointment
CURES
The first
Essential
for the preservation of th«
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties. '
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
df
Superior
to
All Others.
Jl\e Xatjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
C7?<? British Medical Journal
c :s—
-“ Denger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
s
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd the AGED.
Benoer’s fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Waste Products.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SCOTTY and I were fishing afc Wilga
when Ryan shot two of Powell’s prize
white pigs for trespassing. Scotty, who is
very practical when sober, said we might get them
cheap, and hawk them down the river in our boat.
“ They’ll be a’ richt,” he explained, “ if the bluid
ain’t set.”
Powell was laying out the bodies. He shook
liis fist reproachfully at Ryan’s pub. “ Hivin for-
give him ! It’s Jealousy wot done it, jest ’cause
my white beauties beat his black mongrels at the
show.” Scotty looked sympathetic, and offered
to cremate the defunct decently for ss. Powell
suggested burial, and Scotty said there was a quiet
spot near our camp.
Being a cook, Scotty wasn’t a bad butcher, and
before sundown the two pigs were lying, dismem-
bered and glistening with salt, on a big red-gum
log.
After tea Scotty went for a whisky. He paused
for a moment before the pork : “ Peety we ha’ na
mair, mon.”
The next morning I went with Scotty for his
morning’s whisky because he winked when he
asked me. He didn’t often wink gratuitously.
Ryan grinned when he saw us. “Oi shot wan
more of th’ ould psalm-singer’s white varmint last
noight. Go an’ hev a look at ’im.” Scotty went.
I’d seen enough dead pig. Ryan refilled my glass.
“ Sicli a boomer, he is near as big as the two black
uns Oi’ve put up for fattening. Oi sez to”
Scotty stood at the door open-eyed. “ That
dommed Powell’s a real bad un, Ryan; he’s
peented yer peeg.”
Ryan rushed through the parlor. Soon he came
back, pale with anger, and poured out a big nip
with quivering hand.
The bar-clock ticked loudly for a minute or two.
Then Scotty sighed audibly, and Ryan danced
the glasses with his fist, “Oi’ll hev the Law on
him!” He ran his fingers through his beard.
“P’raps yez two ’ll go an’ hev a yarn wid th’
ould hypocrate. He might let on.”
Scotty coughed deferentially. “Sorry to dis-
obleegeye, Mister Ryan, butthefeesh ain’t biting
well, an’ we’re shifting the day. But we’ll hae
time to remove yer peeg before the neighbors see
it for sax shillings.”
Ryan winced, and then counted out the coins.
That night we were drifting down the river by
moonlight. I was steering, and Scotty lay asleep
in the bow. The pork was stacked between us.
When I let the boat graze a snag Spotty woke
angrily. “Was ye dreaming ?” he said.
“Wondering,” I replied, “why Ryan shot only
one of his pigs. ”
Scotty frowned, tentatively. Then he winked.
“’Cos the ither black beastie upset the white peent.”-
VIO.
FRANK BELLMAN.


for^
A.
S' the name \
wOOS-MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHO'ESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgeorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
S'TT'a'HH
H'assmi
'3N.aiH
-aoo/A
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph ,
t
%
MCCBDUBNE
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
sdf
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu< stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
I Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee sate
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £J £2.10
good as new, T /V
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Latge profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c..half prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept.
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL t FIND
THAT . . •
Neale's Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handle** 1 u'aefc to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatre uiid Wharves ; and three minutes* walk
from C.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and (Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1610.
We are on the SPOT
withCrystriate Billiard Balls
■
m
AICOC/fe CfrrjM.
The •
Only •
1 Subsfifufe
for • •
Ivo^y
£55-
ZUZABETJFfST
MELn.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
"Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
& DIGESTIVE TA
VEGESALIS
1 TABLE SALT
WHICH JS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
I DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
1 USE IT WHEN COOKING
E VEGETABLES instead of
= OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
r Wholesale A^ents-
= WEST AUSTRALIA-
— WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
= VICTORIA—
= ROBERT NELSON & CO., Melbourne.
= NEW SOUTH WALES-
= W. H. ARIELL & CO., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND-
d. J. VERNEY &, Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS &. MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA^-JAMES ROBIN
m
kO
m
S
SSI
"A
m
to
gf
y*
m
Ip
Si
ONE of the strongest arguments
that can be advanced for Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is
its comparative cheapness combined
with its effectiveness as a successful
remedy. You have to buy it but
once, and it will do for use by
all members of the family. There are
no re-occurring bills for prescriptions,
no further expense than its original
price, which, considering its great
efficacy, would be cheap at four times
the amount.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is
made to cure. It is not made for
show, and the results of years of in-
vestigation have been put into its
construction to assure its producing
the effects desired. As a sufferer you
are entitled to the best that can be had.
As Specialists our duty is to give you all that we
promise. Promises fulfilled create confidence, and it is the confi-
dence in our remedy, produced by our successful application, that to-day
gives us the reputation of being the greatest healing institution in the world.
We have offices in every civilised country and see hundreds of thousands of
patients yearly. . _ , ... , .
We want you to wear Dr. .McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, because it is certain
and specific in its effect. It will cure you if your symptoms show that you are
curable at all. It is what every sufferer requires for Weakness, Lassitude,
Loss of Power, Nervousness, Weak Back, Insomnia, Indigestion, Constipation,
Dyspepsia, Sour Stomach, Diabetes, Skin and Blood Diseases, Kidney and
Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Varicocele, and Rupture. It
cures absolutely and permanently, and is guaranteed in every case undertaken.
The gentle, yet forceful, life-giving, tissue-renewing current is carried into
your body for hours at a time while you sleep. It regenerates the weak and
worn-out tissues, it creates vigorous circulation • and supplies new material to
replace the old.
We want you to use it because it is honest.
Because it is the greatest
remedy in the world. Because it has cured more sufferers than all combined
remedies in Australasia. Because it effects permanent and lasting cures.
Because thousands gratefully testify to its merits.
of Which had bothe/ed me for years. lam to-day enjoy in* perfect health.
your Belt cured me absolutely in three months. lam now enjoying the best of health.
Every sufferer who will follow our advice can be cured in from three to
six months. Write for our free illustrated book, and study our methods.
Consultation free every day between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Open evenings,
Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney
16,'8. SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
90 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford.
sd
f
AND
REFUSE
Himself Cured.
"PvEAB SIB,—I have, been cured of Weakness and
Debility by a s'mple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DE. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they inay CUKE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S"3rX)3SrjEl3r -
WHAT IS CATARRH
MEDICATOR.
sd
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining' membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures ,the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the hreath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach) causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMIJY’S MEDIATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
HeadachejNeUralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, fete.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by majl, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
ftllDCfl b y Langston’s Perfect
bUlltU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k — '
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY A CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
LLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists-and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors — FROUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Free.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., March 31
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 16 •••
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 9
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
SS. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
#
\WJVHT VEED\HG ,aAS*.W^
h Mother s'cvou\d > oe vrtfcYvoyft vt \ seut ow request..
v
Apropress/t/e c//etery adapted to t/?e promftp d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food IN? I
fro/7? 6/rf/> to3/770/!Ms
Milk Food N? 2
from 3 to 6 mont/?s
Malted Food N 93
fro/n 6 mont/is upwards.
f
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
sdf
Fon Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
sdf
" Is superior even to meat and oi
Inestimable value as a food.”
— Virchow .
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,”
Hearne’s
Core.
THCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the’throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs '’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWARE OF COUGHS ?
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong 1 .
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, I got up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —from Victoria, which had
.cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
I was able to attend to my duties as usual. —Yours faith-
fully, J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “ GIVEN UP.’’
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses. —We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, C.HATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane. ]
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
manhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that bad a distressing cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment. —Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come. —I remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydale Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, andnow recommend it to my friends. Wishingyou
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE OASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything, and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of my chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result. —Yours respectfully.
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, Nevv Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for botfi old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, SydneyN.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently sa.v it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours trulv,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria. .
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing- to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nig-hts in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every othei- treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The. first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well. —
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. I am happyXo tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth.—l am yours truly, ,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE— Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
BRAWCHPEP Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD BLEACH
ON LINEN
GOOD
GOOD
9000
oocn
eo<m
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
goo
GO
sdf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sd
THE AGGORDEON for Country Residents.
fs
HEINDORFF BROS.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . ♦
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price .£1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE BUYS THE SOAP.
LET IT BE
WRIGHT’S COAL TAR SOAP
For it has THREE UNRIVALLED MERITS s
It is delightful in use. It is absolutely pure.
It protects from all infection.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
Home-Sick.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STEERED me north by the Milky Way,
and I kept the throne in sight,
Till I came to the Gate with the jasper posts,
And the heavenly hosts in the Holy Realms of
Light. . ’
Lo ! I sat me down by Peter’s ghost, and it spake
weird words to me ;
It said : “There’s a stranger here with wings,
And he won’t play harps and he never sings,
And he does—well, really—the strangest things,
and he spits in the Glassy Sea ! ”
I says to the ghost: “ I’d like to see this chap
that you speak about,
Eor perhaps it’s a cove I used to know
In an earthly hamlet down below, and who never
was known to shout.”
So Peter’s wraith it took my arm, and we strolled
along the track;
And it talked in a friendly, affable way
About some hymns they had tried that day,
When all of a sudden I yelled “Hooray ! —l’m
hanged if it isn’t our Jack ! ”
Then Peter’s ghost it turned quite pale, and it
looked suspicious at me ;
It said—and its voice was cold and sharp—
“So you know this person who hates the harp and
who won’t be nice and agree ? ”
I stares at the ghost as hard as you like, and I
claps it quick on the back ;
“ Know him ?” I said; “ I should think I did—■
Why, many’s the time he’s lent me a quid
That he’s rose on his watch from the pawnshop
yid—why, there’s no one on earth like Jack !
“Why, we lived together for years,” I said, “and
we wrote for the self-same rag;
He’s the best old pal that ever I had—
He was always cheerful, straight and glad, and a
most reliable snag.
Excuse me, ghost,” I says just here, “ but I want
to shake Jack’s hand ” ;
So I knocks a choir right out of the way—
They were making a most untuneful bray—
And I yells to Jack : “ Hoo-blessed-ray !—so
you’re here on the Silver Strand ! ”
Then Jack jumps up and he stares at me, then
grabs my earnest fin;
And the tears ran out of his bad old eyes,
As he says: “Great Scot!”—what a great sur-
prise—it’s my cobber in earthly sin ! ”
Then I takes Jack’s arm, and I drags him back to
where the ghost stood still
And I said : “Jack’s simply homesick, ghost—
He yearns for a fresh terrestrial post—
Not out on Saturn-or Jupiter’s coast, but down in
the earthly mill! ”
Then Jack speaks up and he says: “ That’s true —
it’s exactly what I desire ;
Send me back to Australia once again—
For I’d rather live there in trouble and pain than
sing in the white-robed choir.
No disrespect to you,” says Jack, “but a man’s
own land’s the best;
For there ain’t no wattles or gums up here,
And your ways are strange and your manners are
queer—
So, if it’s the same, I’d rather clear than remain
a heavenly guest! ”
Then the ghost thinks hard, and he says to Jack:
“ Er —what is Australia like ? ”
And Jack replies, “ It’s a paradise—
If you’ll just subtract the heat and the flies it’s the
best that a man could strike !
But I don’t mind flies and I like the heat, so send
me back again ;
Send me home again on some excuse,
For I’m not the least dashed heavenly use ”
Here Jack’s orbs trickled with pearly juice, and
his face grew pale with pain.
Then the ghost says : “ Well, it seems to me that
your life is a vain thing here ;
We gave you a golden harp to play,
But your mind don’t seem to run that way, so
perhaps you’d better clear ! ”
Then he turns to me, and he says : “ Young man,
I think you’re about the same;
For I notice your halo is not on straight,
So you’d better make tracks for the Heavenly
Gate —
Yes, you and your mate must absquatulate for
the sake of our Heavenly fame ! ”
So we steered us south by the Milky Way, and
we left the throne behind,
A.ye, we left the Gate with the jasper posts,
And the heavenly hosts in the town with the
pearly rind.
We tramped through space for an age-and-a-half,
till we reached Australia’s shores;
Then Jack yelled out: “ Hoo-blessed-ray !
For this is a-land where a man should stay
It’s better for me than the Milky Way, and the
harps, and the Golden Doors ! ”
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
Brogan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were a Sydney district football
team away in the country —on one of
those pleasant little jaunts for which
the Rugby Union pays, under the impression that
they improve the standard of country football.
We didn’t worry about that. Our main idea was
to get the necessary match over and have a good
time. .
Brogan especially laid himself out for a high
old “beano,” and turned up for the match in a
divinely elevated condition. His play was some-
thing heartrending, and at half time we lost him
altogether, rather to our relief. We were a team
with a reputation, and he was making a name for
us which would take some living down. He did
not turn up to the dinner given in our honor, but,
when we were comfortably settled in the hotel
parlor afterwards, he broke in on us with much
violence and a breath redolent of country whisky.
He at once took the floor, sang us a song or two,
lectured us on forward play, gave a brilliant, if
somewhat incomprehensible, exposition of the art
of heeling, and finally tried to illustrate his theory
by forming two opposing scrums of himself. This
effort to achieve the impossible was too much for
him, and he collapsed in a heap on the floor.
When he rose, he claimed all the credit for our
victory of the afternoon, offering to fight anyone
who disputed his statements. He sparred all
round the room with an aimlessly good-natured
grin upon his hard-bitten face, but no opponent
was forthcoming. Brogan was a bad man to face
sober, and no one was anxious to try him drunk.
His sparring called up memories, and he began to
talk once more, still making feints at the tobacco-
laden atmosphere. .
“I could use me mits onst,”he said, drawing
his lips in and showing his teeth. “ When I was
a young ’un I had a scrap or two round Redfern,
an’ some blokes took me up an’ sent me to Larry
Foley. Larry, ’e was keen on me. ’E coached
me ev’ry day till ’e reckoned I was good enough,
an’ ’e put me into trainin’ for a ’eavy weight match,
I was bigger than I am now, an’ a willin’ lad too.
’E showed me all the points. I was ready for to
go with the best of ’em. And ’e was keepin’ me
dark, too—you bet.” Brogan winked solemnly.
“I’ad five hundred quid be’ind me,” he resumed,
“ an’ me talent reckoned they was on velvet.
“I was a flash young covein them days, an’
they ltep’ me in brass a treat. I ’ad plenty o’ loud
clobber —blime, it was loud—an’ when I, useter
git down the street of a night with me little black
’at and me wide pants —’strutli, I was ’ot stuff ! O’
course, me bein’ flash, like I was, I ’ad to ’ave a
girl, an’ that’s where I struck trouble. I cottoned
on to a little piece, and she took to me quite
natural. The clobber an’ the bit o’ brass must
ha’ did it, for I never was much of a beauty. She
’ad some sort of a bloke before, but I wasn’t goin’
to let that trouble me. Me an’ ’er useter go out
walkin’ every night, an’ presently this bloke of
’ers come ’angin’ about. ’E was a boilermaker,
all beef, and muscle-bound, an’ I knew I ’ad ’is
measure, but I didn’t want ter git scrappin’ ’cos
of me match. So when ’e talked fight I arst ’im,
perlite like, to wait till I’d finished with ’is
betters, when I’d be most ’appy to chew the con-
tents outer ’im. This seemed to nark ’im a bit,
an’ afterwards ’e was always ’angin’ round.
“I managed to keep outer trouble with ’im for
a long time, but one night me an’ the tart was
cornin’ by a short cut out of the park, where we’d
been takin’ the air, an’ I ’ad just got ’arf over the
fence, when I got a woodener that knocked me
inter the middle of the road. I was up again
pretty slick, an’ the boilermaker was cornin’ at me
again.
“‘l’ve ’ad enough of your foolin’ round with
my girl,’ ’e sez. ‘ You’ve got to fight now.’
“I didn’t wait to answer’im. I jus’ plugged
’im fair between the eyes, quick and lively. But
’e was ’ard in the chiv, an’ it didn’t seem to worry
’im much. Then we ’ad a ding-dong scrap, an’
the girl sat on the fence an’ looked on. > I forgot
all about me match an’ everythink else ’cept the
big lump of beef m front of me. I got all round
’im, but ’is big arms kep’ pumpin’ out like pile-
drivers, an’ I couldn’t get near enough to ’it ’im.
So I tapped ’im ’ere and there, gettin’ ’im angry,
an’soon’e began to make bull-’eaded rushes. I
side-stepped ev’ry time, but ’e pulled up too quick
for me to git to ’im. ’E moved well for a big ’un.
Onst ’e got a loose left onto me, an’ nearly passed
me out, but ’e was tirin’ fast, an’ I let ’im go a bit.
Presently ’e stumbled, an’ I whipped in quick an’
landed ’im on the point ”
Just here a diversion took place, the barman
entering with a fresh tray of drinks. Brogan
grinned a drunken grin.
“I’ll show yer just ’ow it was,” he said; and
before we could interfere he put a regular beauty
on to the barman’s jaw, and sent him down with
a crash of glassware. It took us half-an-hour to
clear away the wreck, bring the barman to, and
collect sufficient silver to salve his wounded spirit.
Brogan looked on all the time with a grin of
amused satisfaction, and, when all was quiet, con-
tinued —
“I landed ’im one on the point, an’ ’e went
down like a bullock. ’E was dead to the world,
an’ jus’ then a cop comes along, so I whips over
the fence and clears, and the girl after me. The
boilermaker was three weeks in the ’ospital, but
that wasn’t what troubled me. I ’it ’im that ’ard I
broke me floggin’ ’and, an’ I knew me match was
settled. The girl, she come round nmkin’ a fuss,
but I was too narked to take any stock of ’er. I
just cleared out and made a night of it.
“Next day I turns up to Larry, with me ’and
tied up a treat.
“ l ’Ullo,’ says ’e, ‘what’s up?’
“ ‘ Got a sore ’and,’ I says.
“ ‘ What’s the matter with ut ? ’ ’e says.
“ ‘ Broke ! ’ says I, for I knew it was no manner
of use foolin’ with ’im.
“ • Let’s see ut,’ ’e says.
“ I showed it to ’im and ’e felt the bones.
“ ‘ ’Ovv the ’ell was it broke ? ’ ’e says, quiet-like.
“So I told ’im the ole yarn. ’E never said
nothin’, but when I’d finished e took me to the
door.
“ ‘ Look there,’ ’e says, pointin’ out.
“I looks out an’ ’e gives me a kick be’ind that
sends me arf acrost the street.
“‘That’s all the use I’ve got for fellows like
you ! ’ says ’e.
“ I never seen ’im since, but I ain’t forgot all
’e showed ine. If any o’ yous blokes wants a
‘go ’ I’m yer man.”
He looked round expectantly, but no one
moved. He was a hard citizen, was Brogan.
A.L.M.H.
The People of the Pool.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE big policeman took off his helmet
and heaved a sigh of content that might
have come from the chest of an elephant.
The gardener looked up, nodded, and leant on
the handle of his spade.
“A war-rm day, John.”
“Yis, it's all that!”
“But a mahn might aisly be doin’ jooty in a
worse shpot nor this.”
“Thrue f’r you.”
There was a pause.
Then said the constable thoughtfully : “John,
cud y’ tell me whin ye’re goin’ t’ clane out the
pond up at th’ north gate ? ”
“ No, I can’t; but why d’ye ask ? ”
“ Well, I’ll tell y’! I wuz roun’ that way about
five yesterd’y mornin’, havin’ a bit av a rist on
the sate, whin th’ Vanus-die-Midicine— you know
Yanus, her that begs down East Melbourne—
comes along t’ do her hair. Have ye iver
seen her at it ? No ! It’s th’ sthrangest
thing ■ in th’ worl’ t’ see her nale on th’
ciminted idge av th’ pool an’ sthart fixin’ up her
gray locks be tli’ reflixion in th’ wather. I laffed
there till I nearly bur-rst listenin’ t’ her
swhearin’ at th’ burrds whiniver they ruffled th’
surface with their wings. She samed t’ have a
spechul set on a pair av swallows who were too
cleanly f’r her taste, an’ she cursed thim until I
thought I’d have t’ go out an’ war-rn her. Thm,
what does she do but sthrips off some av her duds
an’ has a tine wash. I know I ought t’ have
sthopped her because it’s a pond that s only claned
out once in a while, but I couldn’t find it in me
hear-rt t’ interfere wid th’ poor tiling, so I just
stayed where I was an’ watched her till she
finished an’ wint trailin’ off through the trees.
“Well, she hadn’t been gone more than three
minits be me watch whin along comes Dandy Dick
an’ stharts his mornin’ abolutions. John, if any av
thim fellies thry t’tell y’ that legend about Dick
never washin’, ye have my authority f’r saym’ he
does. That man washes—though I must confiss it
give me a sthart t’ see him douse his head an’
kape it under till I thought it was a sooeycide I
was aftlier witnessin’. Not that it wouldn’t be
th’ bes’ thing th’ poor felly cud do, y’ understan’,
but th’ bit av wather was bein’ overworked, an’ it
made me onaisy t’ see ut. I hate t’ see any dumb
thing get more than it can manage. If there had
been any soap used th’ suds on th’ surface would
have given th’ show away, but afther each av th’
poor devils had finished an’ th’ ripples had sub-
sided, th’ puddle looked as ca’m an’ innercint
as a blessed pool in th’ desert. I daresay that ac-
counts f’r th’ Wanderin’ Jew—whose habits is
cleanly—washin’ his head in ut five minits
later. I wouldn’t have lit him do ut if
I’d seen him at th’ sthart, but I’d gone
away up th’ path f’r a bit t’ have a look at
a chap who wint by carryin’ a bag, an’ whin I
got back th’ Jew had Ins head underneath. It
would have bin croolty t’ animals to have dish-
turbed him at that stage, so I procaded on me
way an’ lift him to his fate. 1 If,’ says I, if lie s
pizened an’ dies, ’twill be a solium war-nun t’ him
t’ be more careful in .th’ nex’ world—if he’s a
stharter !
“Now I can’t say what happened t that
wather while I was out of sight, but I do know
that whin I came back three sthrangers was
wringin’ out socks in the foreground, adjacent t’
fch’ puddle, while a spirit in the middle distance
was shakin’ his shir-rt at the whole wide world.
‘“Good Lord!’ says I; ‘have ye no sinse av
justice at all. Git out av that! ’ An they got.
“Well, what with vaituous indignation an
chasin’ thim, an’ th’ mornin’ bein’ close, I felt
knocked out, so what does I do but goes back t
me sate under th’ tree f’r a breather.
“ Believe me, I hadn’t finished moppin me brow
when a Chow came shufflin’ along an’ stharts
edgin’ roun’ that three-pennyworth av slush.
“‘Will, Charlie,’ says I t’ mesilf, ‘ theres no
denyin’ both you an ’ y’r war-rdrobe would be th
betther av it, but be th’ Lord Harry ye’ll not have
it there while I have th’ strength t’ kape y from
it! ’ , . , , r
“Thin I seen him get down on Ins knees, an I
knew what he were at. Be the holy frost, John,
th’ pore haythin was goin’t’ dlirink ut!
“It was more thin I cud stand. I lift irmhel-
mit lyin’ on th’ sate an’ rushed at him, wavin me
a-arms. ,
“ ‘ Sthop r I yells. > ‘Sthop that. Git out av
me sight—go on now ! ’
“ ‘ Whaffor ? ’ says he, lookin’ up. Whatfor !
“ ‘ Whaffor be damned ! ’ says I. ‘ Clear out av
that.’ . .. ~,
“ Th’ pore yellow haythin—still naylin at th
pool—pinted t’ his mouth. ‘Me wantee dlink,
says he. , , . , ,
“ ‘ Well, want! ’ says I, ‘ but if y’ attmipt t lap
up that stuff I’ll arnst y’. Now git t th divil
out av this.’ .
“ ‘ Whaffor ? ’ says he, backin’ off.
“ ‘ I'll show ye l' says I, an’ with that I chased
him, f’r th’ good av his health, as far as th West
“John, ye’ve no idee how a Chow can thravel
until y’ chase him —or he chases you. I remimber,
whin I first joined Hillo I here’s His Nibs on
me thrack; I must be goin ! ... So y’ can t
say?”
“ No, I’m sorry t’ say I can t.
“Well, I’m ashamed av y’, John —that I am.
Good-bye.”
“ Good luck t’ye ! ”
And the big policeman proceeded on his beat.
KODAK.
The Conservative West Australian
(Perth) has religiously tabooed the word “ Sena-
tor,” since the choice of the electors in 1901 fell on
.Labor men and Democrats. In its place is used
the cumbrously-constructed phrase “one of the
West Australian members of the Federal Senate.
This makes “Doctor” Hackett feel better.
“Robert Hap” writes :
I attended a wimmen’s meeting. It was my business
to be there. I could never have withstood the feminine
scowls, and the conversation, and the mingling odors of
Jockey Club and Parma Violet, had I not been fortified
with the knowledge that Reid was to address them.
When Mister Reid takes the centre of a dimly lighted
platform, and the old ladies form a crescent of millinery
behind him, he looks like the star in a ventriloquial
show. His watch chain attracted some attention
and looked like a pale streak of light across a,
globular rain-cloud. The fact that the orator perspired
(it was a hot night) called for the remark of an irreverent
female in front of me, “Lor’, ain’t ’e sweattin’.” Reid
o-ave the ladies lots of advice on how to organise, and took
his “ winder” from his eye to point out the folly of Mrs. A
refusing to call on Mrs. B because Mrs. B’s husband sold
prawns. “ We want to organise,” he said, “or the Socialists
will win,” and, although he didn’t say anything really bad
about them, he used the word “Socialists” in much the
same eerie voice as the nurse girl uses when she threatens
to call the bogie man to baby. However the remarks of
the great anti-Socialist had some effect. One old lady
who was there is an acquaintance of mine. She got an
idea that these Socialists (she calls them “ sociables,” and
believes that there are forty or fifty of them) are a “ bad,
wicked lot,” only lying in wait to rob her Chinese hawker
of his baskets, or to steal the poor widow’s mangle. Also,
she wants to know what the police are doing !


IA
♦; •
*4
r
A Great Martyr
TTTHEN you are bilious, every thought of
\\ food is nauseous. When the room
' T gets warm you feel as if you are going
to be sick. If you hurry to catch a
car or a train, there the feeling is again. Head-
aches, turning off with sickness, a nasty coated
tongue, are other symptoms, of Biliousness. All this arises
from misdirected bile, which is due, primarily, to improper
liver action. This is illustrated in the case of Mrs. Edith
Hill, of 143 Wyndham-street, Waterloo, Sydney. “For
several years, ” she says, *‘l suffered terribly with Biliousness
, and sick headaches. When an attack came on I would grow
quite dizzy, and my eyesight was blurred. These attacks would come on
quite suddenly without warning, and while they lasted I suffered extreme
agony, and I lost all inclination for food. I could ndt hold up my head,
and the least noise irritated me. In fact, I could not bear to be spoken
to, I felt so irritable. As you may be sure, I was not enduring all this
misery without attempting to remedy it. I tried many advertised cures,
and also consulted doctors, but failed entirely to gain any relief. A friend
gave my husband a few Bile Beans, and recommended them strongly as
a cure for Biliousness, and although, after my experience with medicines
in general, I had little faith in Bile Beans doing me any good, I thought
I would try them. After taking a few doses, I began to feel an
improvement, and thus encouraged, I persevered with the Beans, taking
in all three boxes, and I am now thoroughly cured, and can do my
housework with pleasure. I never lose a chance of praising Bile Beans
for the great good they have done me.”
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANiEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER-END
FAG, and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation,
or digestion. Obtainable generally at Is. l|d., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (contains threo
times the Is. l|d. size).
*****»’
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
havingbeen brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
AToi.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
THY face in dreams, I see, dear one,
In dreams thy face I see ;
Yet ne’er can claim thy love alone,
Nor ever call thee mine, dear one;
Yet here’s my heart-felt wish alway,
A wish renewed from day to day ;
That happiness be yours, dear one,
Wherever you may be,
Though I am far from thee, dear one,
1 hough I am far from thee.
From care, God grant you’re free, my fair,
God grant from care you’re free ;
rh y life, too, blithe and debonair,
And radiant as the sun, my fair ;
The while I trust with heart elate,
That you will find a friend in Fate ;
Have each desire achieved, my fair,'
Whatever it may be ;
And gay and joyous glee, my fair,
And gay and joyous glee.
Then let me add this plea, sweet heart,
Let me then add this plea ;
That though our lives must lie apart,
You 11 sometimes think of me, sweet heart,
While unto thee and him you’ll love,
I’ll drink a health all healths above 1
A health with nine times three, sweet heart,
Whoever he may be :
Since thou art not for me, sweet heart.
Since thou art not for me.
VIC.
E.W.D.
The Superstitions of Susannah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Superstition was the soul of Mrs.
Susannah Browne’s existence. There was
not a thing she did at any hour of the day
that did not bring some omen, ill or good. A
joy or sorrow was foretold by every chance
circumstance crossing her life, and as she took
most energetic pains to counteract baleful portents
and to avoid counteracting favorable ones she was
distinctly a disturbing element in the sphere in
which she moved. Her husband, the docile James
John Alexander Browne, bore the brunt of the
infliction. He was perpetually being called upon
to further or frustrate the fulfilment of Fate ; and,
as it never at any time struck Mrs. Susannah
Browne that an omen that could be put otf the
track was not worth worrying about, James had a
busy and an anxious time.
Whenever James spilt the salt at table he had,
besides enduring a fiery scolding, to go through an
elaborate extravaganza, throwing a pinch of salt
over his left shoulder and solemnly declaiming
“ My hand forgot
And spilt some salt,
But let me not
For my sad fault
Like wife of Lot
Be turned to salt! ”
Then if Susannah dropped her parasol nothing on
earth would induce her to pick it up herself, and
so run the risk of the disappointment which such
an indulgence in self-help would involve. Either
James had to restore the gamp or she would com-
mandeer the handiest stranger to perform the job.
Once she dropped her gingham when in full flight
from a very business-like bull, and James had to
recover it. It was a toss-up whether he would
ever return alive. The bull did the tossing, and
James came down heads and tails simultaneously,
Anyhow it felt like that.
In the Browne establishment it was never pos-
sible to look at yourself in a looking-glass without
contortions that would paralyse a circus, because,
in order to dodge the seven years’ bad luck that
follows upon a broken mirror, that article of vanity
was invariably hung so high as to be almost utterly
useless. Once, however, a looking-glass fell upon
the luckless James. It didn’t break, but he did,
and the doctor’s fees amounted to seven guineas.
But Susannah was placid. She reckoned that a
loss of £7 7s. —not counting the personal discom-
fort of James—was cheap compared with seven
years’ bad luck.
Cross-eyed men constituted Susannah’s cross,
and she floundered laboriously under her burden.
One evening, James brought a cross-eyed sailor
home to tea, and the name of Browne nearly got
into the Police Gazette as a consequence.
Susannah couldn’t help her first look at the man
of evil-boding, but she immediately applied all
the recognised antidotes for such a misfortune—
turning round three times, spitting on her hand
and making a cross, walking backwards, etc., etc.
The remainder of the evening was a sore trial to
the squinting man of the sea. Mrs. Browne was
all that hospitality and politeness demanded, but
never looked at her guest once. Her “Some
more tea, Mr. Oalcum?” “Let me pass you the
prawns?” “Do try a little pickled cucumber!”
and the rest, were addressed to the chandelier,
the fireplace, to the middle button on James’s
waistcoat, or some other irrelevant object.
Next day, Susannah accidentally dropped Marie
Corelli’s “ Sorrows of Satan ” down a well in the
backyard, and bewailed it as a misfortune due to
her having shoo’d a black cat off the premises only
that very morning !
* » * * •
Odd numbers were also very aggravating, espe-
cially because, barring 13, they always demanded
so much reverential respect. Susannah owed
many a wrinkle to her fruitless attempts to find
two odd numbers >which, when added together,
would produce a result that was not even. She
habitually rose at 7, and went to bed at 9. They
wera two odd numbers right enough, but when
subjected to addition they were 16, a fact which
disturbed her greatly. In this connection, how-
ever, her greatest trouble was 13, and when the
13th of the month fell on a Friday, she stayed in
bed, forbidding the use of fire in the house in case
of accidents. So James was debarred from smok-
ing, and had to hold his digestive fort with tinned
meat and cold potatoes. These experiences in-
variably laid him out with dyspepsia, but Susan-
nah herself was quite comfortable.
* * * *
If a party of four crossed hands in saying good-
bye, Susannah felt it a solemn duty to unshake,
so to speak, and do the leave-taking all over
again. Dreams were a constant disturbance- to
her, bringing with them alternately delight or
dismay, while the number of wishes she made on
seeing three black crows, a white horse, a blind
man, &c., &c., would have given the Recording
Angel a steady job in themselves. She was also
an energetic collector of lucky coins, which she
left about the house, on the theory that they had
to stay where they were first placed on leaving
her hands. This was one of the few bright spots
in James’s life, as he often found the lucky coins
a convenience. But perhaps the superstition
which Susannah nursed most violently was the
belief that if a garment were put on upside down,
or inside out, or back to front, it must be allowed
to remain so until the proper time came for it to
be taken off again. And it was this which caused
the revolution in the House of Browne.
* * * • *
One morning Janies, in a hurry, got the right
leg into the wrong side of his trousers, and before
he could adjust the calamity surreptitiously, he
knew from a shriek that Susannah was on the
warpath. It was no use his protesting ; the pants
had .to be put on wrong side front, and kept front
side back. It was also no use pointing out that
he couldn’t go to work like that. Susannah was
firm, and said he could wear his Sunday frock
coat, and so cover the anomaly. James glared at
her, and declared that he would be d—d if he’d
go out sign-painting in a frock coat, and asked
sarcastically if Mrs. Browne would like him also to
don a tall hat, spats, and bright tan boots. The
upshot was that he stayed at home and lost a
day’s work. There was not a more snortful man
m the Commonwealth of Australia that day, not
a more melancholy one as he sat down and con-
templated his own preposterous appearance. Still,
the time was not wasted, for there developed in
the mind of James during those hours a firm reso-
lution to free himself from the shackles of the
superstitions of Susannah.
* * » *
Next day (Friday), clothed in his right
pants, James : started on his career of sin.
He sent for a ticket in Tatts., and begged
that even numbers should be sent if possi-
ble, unless something with a 13 in it was
available. He deliberately proceeded to put
every superstition of Susannah to defiance. He
spilt the salt at every meal, and refused to reel
out incantations. He decoyed Susannah out to
lonely places, where she dropped her parasol and
had to pick it up herself or lose it. And in this
way she lost eight umbrellas in quick succession,
oeing a dropper by nature. He heaved a half-
brick at every black cat he came across, and in-
cited small boys to bring in black cats that he
might chase them out again. Also he broke eight
cheap looking-glasses. On top of all this he fra-
ternised with three cross-eyed sea-captains and
brought them home to tea ! Poor Susannah was
crushed, and when one of the captains explained
that he had a crew of 13 and expected to sail on
Friday she fell on the floor in a dead faint.
It was while she was insensible that the telegram
arrived informing James that his Tattersall’s
ticket had won £7500. Susannah was revived to
hear the good news by three cross-eyed sea cap-
tains pouring water over her.
PAUL MEL.
The Amazement of 007.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THREE of us there were in the smoking
compartment—an aggressively friendly
man, myself, and in the corner opposite me
a thin youth of 25 or so, a joyless youth of bulging
brow, and repousse chest, and spectacles, and the
pale cast. This young man carried a collapsible
butterfly-net, which looked very like a fishing-rod,
and a litter of small zinc boxes on the seat beside
him displayed labels such as “ Hym, Farn. Ichneu-
monidae,” with others of dread import. The
friendly man paused in his tale of how a dear old
pal of his had been about to invest one hundred
million pounds in N.S.W., and how that dis-
tressing business of the Six Hatters (who were
thrown into the sea by ‘That Watson’) had
changed his mind. He paused, I say; and
hiccupped. His eye caught that collapsible
deceiver.
“ Any luck, mate ? ” he asked.
The young man looked up from “Trans. Linn.
Soc., 1902.” “Oh, yes,” he said, and looked
down again.
“ How many?”
“ Um—er—oh ! about 40 ; about 40.” The eyes
behind the spectacles showed irritation.
'‘Forty! Got onto ’em. Gave ’em away, X
suppose ? ”
“My good man—no. They’re in those boxes.
Now be quiet, I want to read.”
The tramguard—No. 007—came and leaned
against the open door. The friendly man, the
honey of his nature turned acid at this impudent
jesting, whispered loudly in his sympathetic ear,
pointing anon to the net, anon to the boxes.
“ Underweight! ” said 007. “ Forty in there ?
Cripes ! Daoiv-Un’ -street ! ”
“Pullin’ the leg of a cove old enough to be’is
father,” muttered the rebuffed.
Then the scientific young man lurched hurriedly
for the door, gathering his gear, and fell ungrace-
fully into the outer darkness.
“Wish ’e’d fell on ’is ’ead ” said the friendly
man to me. “’Ullo! Wliat’s this? Left some of
is fish baskets. Now well ’ave a look at ’is 40.”
“’And’em over ’ere” commanded 007. “I’ve
got to take ’em to Bridge-street. But I ’spose
we’d better see what’s inside.”
I passed the three boxes down. "Hum. Fam.
Thynnus ,” one of them informed the world. I
sought the door.
“ I wouldn’t open them,” I said.
“ Why, Joe ?”
“ Joe / ” I left him to his fate.
“Rum name ’e’s got,” said the. doomed 007.
His friends helped him, and the boxes opened
simultaneously. A yellow flash pervaded the air.
“Damn !” said 007. He jerked his box away
from him, and said it three times in quick suc-
cession. Another open box fell upon the knee of
the friendly one. He clapped one hand to his
thigh with an anguished yell, and beat wildly in
the air with his other paw. I slipped out and •
along the footboard to the next compartment,
closing the door after me. Thence I watched 007
take his coat off and begin on his shirt. Through
the glass the cries of these two men came faintly,
and once a large yellow wasp, with a countenance
like a tiger, flew at my face. I heard the click of it
against the pane, and watched it seek out new
pastures on 007.
Then came my street. I left them to dree their
weird. But heaven help that young man with
the collapsible implement if 007 ever sets eyes on
him again. His mangled remains will be dragged
behind a maddened tram-car from Coogee to Oir-
cular Quay. •
HOWARD ASHTON.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
m
V
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in the West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
seek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Reading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
' than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Hindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tomes.
Prepared by DE. J. O. AYER & CO., Lowed, Mass., U. S. A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.*'
See that you get “AYER'S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
V.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and ail Weakness of Men and Women.
Ult will give fret
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weaken any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for eur
splendid Book and Bolt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
m COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
df
ENNESS
LIQUOR HA BIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It it safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The oraving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravenstharpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Hove finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free
The Dr. Langston institute,
12 9* COt LINS STREET,
V 5-LBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
OIJ.K CO RO5
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 3Ss ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents —Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing- upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution- — Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS;
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J.'COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
I
S§Si
■. ,
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is,
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.,
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Pateat
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Dbafnkss
land Hear Nois.es, no matter of
Ihow long.standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne,
TO BE F
is to occupy an enviable position. Many aspire for first place,
but few attain it. To acquire the lead, aspiration and push
alone are not sufficient—merit is required. This is exactly why
* PILLS *
stand foremost among medicines—they possess real merit, and
have proved themselves worthy of a permanent position in the
family medicine chest. Trial purchasers become regular users,
because they find nothing to equal BEEGHAiVi’S PILLS
for dispelling
Bilious and Nervous
indigestion, Sick Headache, Languor,
And other such troubles which arise
from a DISORDERED STOMACH.
They regulate and tone up the entire system.
The genuine worth of Beecham’S Pills has obtained for
them the unique position of having the Largest Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price I,l* {56 Pills) and 2'9 (168 Pills). t 3
BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Pott Free.
ASTHMA CURE
EHIWAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN WAR.
ETTES. So d bi/ all Chemists
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
sdfd
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
away the minus of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free ; f charge amf postage paid, will tell you
all about thi s marvelous science. 11 contains
be ufc-ful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Sond for
this wonder-
it and learn to Hypnotize. Bemember,
ful book costs you nntlrng. If you men-
tion this pap r. I will also include a large
package of other vain ble, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
fs
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, 09 Pitt St., Sydney-
df
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name g wr
to
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U S.A.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent bv mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-dav.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney•
Dr
M.D.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting Surgeon to Four of Australasia’s
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops, South
African War.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief? After so many failures,
whom can I trust ? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia?
The above qualifications, gained from the World’s
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainly, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “ Diseases of Men and
Women,” 700 pages, 600 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. FREE :
A 60-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like
SENT FREE TO ALL.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
your friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications —
Dr. Martin,
ELM LEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


yoGr LaGgdry—Sir—
The unpunctual characteristics of
• your laundry need never trouble
you if you keep one of our
Cclkiloid Collars
handy in your drawer. They
retain their nice white glossy All
appearance, and look as well as Sizes,
linen collars, besides saving 50 All
per cent, on your washing ‘bill. Styles.
Perdriau Robber Ge.^i
270 George St., Sydney.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PflfWPfl’
POCKET
KNIVES
are tho
. B3ST.
V
Sold
by
all first-
clc ,s stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176£ 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle
Buffalo Handle
Staa Handle -
1/6
- 21-
- - 216
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
* and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
d
Spoons, Forks,
Poc'ket-Knives,
and Scissors
k G@l@!aratQ£2
\PLATE and
) CUTLERY
mark.
IS ill
<oHp
Mi
“VOLF
130
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, S 3 YORK-ST.,
SYDSMEY
Also at—
“XHES BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
WOOL
A.M.L
TALLOW
SHEEPSKINS
P. CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY. HIDES
KNOWLES
STEAM PUMPS
of all kinds,
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills
and Air Compressors ,
Morris Centrifugal Pumps,
ENGINES AND BOILERS,
Horizontal and c Vertical,
Engineers Fittings ,
PARKE & LACY CO, Ltd,,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Write for Prices and Particulars,
“UTOPIA”
.SAVES .
MONEY, TIME, LABOR
It is the name of an
AUTOMATIC VYCE
that no joiner or fitter should
be without.
Descriptive Catalogue on
APPLICATION TO
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
. SYDNEY.
44
Independence/*
IS THE BRAND OF
PERFECTLY BALANCED
Wood Split Pulleys*
SOLD BY
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Alt sizes in stock. Write for Prices.
NOTICE "
> To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica, i
' Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or J
' Limbs. .
I Thm Old Rmllablm Engtlmh ffamedy. ,
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Pqinqdkstke A Truman, of
"'d Kent Road, London.
71 Ob
1 Renowned for over a century for quick \
i efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all ,
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists \
* in the Australian Colonies. i
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
i By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body. 4
SOLD IK TWO SIZES, 9d. A Is. 6d. t
\ N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S ]
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur, i
Prepared by Poinqdkstrb A Truman, J
, 71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. 4
UimJHHIUHHUIIHI
■
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 ftund/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
)
ON re ;ei]>t of f.O O.
fo 'ward to anv
of OU' HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5 /- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. GOLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Hell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the saine quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15et. U.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Gold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SY3DKTBY.
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
Si
'T'O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
* possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME * CO.,
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
dinneford;s
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
wm
OSNNEFORD
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
