

WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
B. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS
AND PARTICULARS.
3Ea:c^3gt■A■]E^^ , x■.
Ijadleg’s Orient jjotel
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., *1 Bent Street, SYDNEY
FIXED ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... JBIOO
6 B.H.P. ... J 6125
8 B.H.F. ... £155
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ......
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
The Most Convenient Power Tor FARM DRIVING SHEEP
SHEARING MACHINES, GRINDING FEED, CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING
WATER, DRIVING SEPARATORS, SAWING WOOD Etc., Etc., Etc.
PORTABLE ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... £l4O
6 B.H.F. ... £165
8 B.H.F. ... £2OO
IN STOCK.
\
"Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand
T
▼
CHUBB’S
SAFES
RESIST THIEVES -"MlMffig
AS WELL AS FIRE!
J. Stedman, Practical Watchmaker & Jeweller,
65 Queen St., opposite Town Hall, Brisbane, March 20tb, 1906.
Messrs. P. Franked & Coy., 114 Edward St., Brisbane.
. Dear Sirs,—l have to advise you that the Chubb’s Safe purchased from
you has been attempted by burglars, and although they made a deter-
mined effort, I have pleasure in informing you that they were defeated
by the hardened steel plate which protects the lock from their drills. I
am very pleased with the Safe and shall be glad to show it to anyone who
cares to call and see it. Yours faithfully, (Signed) J. STEDMAN,
Watchmaker and Jeweller, 65 Queen Street, Brisbane.
'7laficnals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jy. QIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
QJth v aM,
U W&t~.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
mmmssmm
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
m
S
A
\
m
TEA!
BENSDORPS
IYAL
ITCH
4
the Queen of Cocoas
ro?^
romUtrci^thfc'Purity:
ASK
FOR
nrT.T..T.o»=r JHI Axnvnt) JSTX OtaTITtV AlHJffll
TIV aiv J ffHVdNViIS
• ■ :
* ::*i%
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR* CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS J ENGINEERS, Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
IJgl mrtM CPA Absolutely the BEST TABLE W&TFR
The Bulletin
VoL 27.—N0. 1371]
[Thursday, May 24, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THREE GOOD BOOKS.
FRENZIED FINANCE, ,
JOHNS'S NOTABLE AUSTRALIANS,
volume. Cloth 6s, 6s 3d post free.
A GUMSUCKER ON THE TRAMP,
The Crime of the Amalgamated, by Thomas W. Lawson. New
supply now at 3s 6c3L postage.
By Fred. Johns, showing who is who in the Com-
monwealth. Every bookfellow should have this
By N. F. Spielvogel ; wrapper Is, postage 2d. This
bright and entertaining little volume now in its second
edition, revised and enlarged, should be read by ail bookfellows.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
&gs
m
\WWOV
0^
the Great
mt
<* /¥C\r^>s
is®
Heot s- t&reoC
Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma,&all affections o f
the tbroaf & lungs,* for prevention of Consurnpfioi?.
Sold in 1508,1/8, or Post Free on receipt ol stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist,lpswich,
Queensland SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the. Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W.
THE RED PAGE.
SAID THE ASTROLOGER
lAM an astrologer for two reasons: first,
because astrology is true, and,second, be-
cause it pays. You can mix those two
reasons if you like: it is true because it pays
and it pays because it is true. They come
to the same thing. If my profession were not
honest, if I did not give correct forecasts and ad-
vice (allowing for that percentage of error which
exists in all human affairs) then my business
would not flourish. I could not go on deceiving
people for a whole lifetime It is because my
clients find I speak truth that they return to me,
and send their friends to me. Ido not advertise.
The truth of astrology is my advertisement.
You cannot understand how the stars influence
human lives ? Possibly not. You have n’t studied
the question. I have, and I have seen many cases
in which human life has corresponded almost
miraculously with astrological theory. I have
seen a few cases in which the life did not corre-
spond with the theory. But the proportion of
agreement is too large to be explained by a doc-
trine of coincidence. Perhaps ten per cent, of my
forecasts are in error. I attribute that to my
imperfect knowledge of the facts. You must
know the exact aspect of the heavens at the
exact moment of birth in order to be sure you are
right.
&
Why do certain planets affect us in certain
ways ? We do not know. But by the experience
of thousands of years we know that they do affect
us. And when we see the same results continually
following the same conditions we are able to
classify the particular results which correspond to
particular conditions. That is astrology. To be
born subject to Jupiter—that is, when Jupiter is
closest to the earth at the moment of birth—is
invariably to be born jovial, optimistic, and
generous. But the extent of the joviality, the
optimism, the generosity, depends upon the sec-
tion or sign of the Zodiac which is rising in the
east at the moment of birth. Jupiter’s influence,
for example, is especially strong when the sign
of Pisces or of Sagittarius is rising.
The influence of the planet is thus modified by
the general influence of the heavens. Why? We
do not know: we only know that it is so. Why
do you feel warmer in sunlight than in shadow ?
You do not know. You say that the rays of the
sun influence you to warmth. But why do they
influence you ? Because it is their peculiar pro-
perty—that is all you can say. Astrology does
not know why planets influence you. It is
their peculiar property. Ordinary science
measures the influence of sun-rays by their effects.
It has no other way of measuring them. In the
same way astrological science measures the in-
fluence of planetary rays by their effects. Is not
one process as reasonable as the other ? But you
say, when you go into sunlight you can feel that
you are being warmed : you cannot feel any in-
fluence proceeding from Jupiter or Saturn.
Would it be likely that you could, considering
the difference of distance ? Plainly, each planet
must exert an influence proportionately to its mass
and distance. If Jupiter held the place of the
sun, do you think you would not feel Jupiter ? Is
it not a commonplace that the human body is the
sport of a thousand obscure influences which can-
not be traced ?
JX
How do the planets act? Through radiant
energy. You know that the latest theory of
science reduces the whole universe to terms of
radiant energy, making what is called matter
merely a kind of temporary coagulation of force-
in form, changing continually; in essence, in-
destructible. Astrologers conceive that this
energy is exerted especially at the moment of
birth. We believe it is then that the rhythm
of the brain is settled for life. The brain is just
an instrument for the vibration of thought.
Thought is one wave-form of the eternal energy,
but every individual’s thought-wave has an indi-
vidual height and individual speed. Astrologers
conceive that the energy-waves of the planets are
potent to direct the thought-wave of the child just
born, by making it synchronise with their- own.
That is an explanation of astrology thoroughly in
conformity with the latest science, and it existed
before the latest science was discovered. It is a
theory only, that may be true or false. We be-
lieve it to be true because it is the only theory that
will fit the facts. When we see a regular chain of
actual results corresponding with a regular chain
of theoretical causes, we must believe that the
theory gives a sound basis of judgment. Until it
is disproved, at least.
Mind you, astrology does not profess that the
planets rule a man’s life entirely. The lot is cast
into his lap. but the disposing of the lot depends
greatly upon the individual himself, or upon cir-
cumstances. Sir Henry Parkes was born under
Leo, but he came to a Virgo city. You could see
the lion in his head with its fierce mane of hair,
and in his carriage—that slow, secretive gait he
had, with his' observant eyes prowling around
him ; and his voice was an animal whine that
when he was excited became a hoarse roar. The
feminine influence showed itself in his love of art,
and in his irresponsibility in money matters.
JX
The main bent is taken from the heavens, and
that is all. What I discover for my clients is just
this bent. I show them, out of all the roads which
life offers, that one upon which they are best
fitted to proceed with the greatest certainty of
reaching the goal. What is the goal? For my
clients there are two chiefly : love and money ;
though many people come to know whether a
particular journey or a. particular enterprise will
prove fortunate. I cannot tell them whether it
will prove fortunate, but I can tell them the
chances. I ’ve warned a man against sailing in a
vessel that was wrecked ; I’ve warned a woman
against marrying a man.who wrecked her life —
by the laws of astrology in both cases, after cast-
ing the horoscope at birth. The man believed me
and did not go. The woman believed me, and
went because the man was too strong for her.
His planets overpowered hers.
Women are the more numerous class of my
chents. They have greater faith, but I cannot
say I like them better. Often they come to me
to be encouraged in a course which they have
determined to follow. If I encourage them they
go forward cheerfully in spite of obstacles • if I
discourage them, often they stick to their own
opinions and still go forward. Some of them are
very obstinate. Many of them display a kind of
low cunning that disgusts me. They expect to
be helped although they do not speak the truth,
though I tell them the truth is necessary. They
ask me, “Shall I get married?” or “Shall I get
a divorce ? and hide or deliberately falsify
whatever they can.
The planets will rule a whole country or a whole
population. Sydney, for example, is predomi-
nantly subject to Uranus, and is under the sign of
Virgo. That makes the people inclined to be
thin and nervous; highly vitalised; quick and
spasmodic in their actions; with a tendency to
intellectual and artistic rather than to physical
pursuits; and with a superabundance of the
feminine elements and the feminine influence.
You can see it in the languid way the people
walk about, in the newspapers, in the pictures in
the shops, and so on. Melbourne is ruled by the
sign of Gemini. That means that the people are
active, bustling and energetic, inclined to specu-
lation, as in America. The whole of America is
ruled by Gemini. Australia, on the other hand,
is under the influence of early Scorpio and late
Sagittarius. The old Egyptian astrologers named
the sighs of the Zodiac according to the qualities
which they encouraged, and then found a common
symbol to represent them. The Scorpion is rep-
tilian, crawling. That signifies the old aboriginal
population. The old symbol of Sagittarius was a
centaur with a bow and arrow. That signifies
swiftness, acuteness, the human rising out of the
animal, and brings in its train the Australian
“ worship of Horse.”
How did the cities and the country come under
these aspects ? Ido not know. Some people
attribute everything to “climate.” But what is
climate ? Only a label for a host of vague in-
fluences which ordinary science cannot explain,
and which astrology does explain by tracing
effects to corresponding causes. I see you pointed
out that the earthquake at San Francisco was
foretold by astrology, though the calculation was
incorrect. If we knew the entire history of San
Francisco and its site, it would be possible to cal-
culate correctly to the minute. Nothing in nature
arises spontaneously. For every effect there is a
cause. By studying the chain of effects and their
correspondence we can rise to a discovery of the
causes. That is all that astrology professes. It
is true because it pays, and it pays because it is
true.
O’DALY A BOO!
W. M. O’D. concerning a notorious sept
O’Reilly, who published in 1820 a chronological account
of Irish (Gaelic) writers from the dawn of Irish history to
1750, mentions 8 Wards, 11 O’Olerys, 7 Coffeys, 8
O’Higginses, 9 O’Mulconrys, and 28 O’Dalys. These last,
says Dr. Hyde, were bv far the most numerous, and per-
haps the ablest, bardic tribe in Ireland. Speaking of the
bardic schools, Dr. Hyde says : “ Few or none of those
persons who did not themselves come of a bardic tribe
were admitted into them, which accounts for the preva-
lence of the same surnames among the poets for several
centuries.”
J*
Of the 28 O’Dalys whose works are mentioned by
O’Reilly, perhaps the most renowned were :
(1) Donogha More O’Daly, who died in 1244, and whom
the Four Masters call “ a poet who never was, and never
shall be, surpassed.” O’Reilly terms him “the Ovid of
Ireland,” and gives 31 poems of his with the subjects
they discuss, which are still extant.
(2) Carroll O’Daly, chief poet of Oorcamroe, flourished
n the early part of the fifteenth century.
(3) Maurice O’Daly, chief poet of O’Reilly, of Breffin
(alive in 1416). Thomas O’Reilly, Lord of Breffin,
destroyed 18 castles of the English bordering on his terri-
tory, and brought the whole country from Breffin to
Dublin under contribution. This O’Dalv composed a
poem which still exists, beginning “Giil Goillsigh os
eionn Goill, ag sin gul nach caoinim,” which means, “A
cry of an English hag over English men, that is a erv I
lament not.”
(4) Angus O’Daly, a scion of one of the numerous
families of bards attached to the O’Byrnes of Wicklow,
flourished towards the end of the sixteenth century.
Several of his poems are preserved.
(5) Angus na naor O’Daly or Angus of the satires
O’Daly (died in 1624). He sold his gifts to the English,
for we find Mountjoy and Carew hiring him to satirize
the old Gaelic families and the Anglo-Normans who
sympathised with them. So well did he effect his purpose
of holding them up to ridicule that a follower of the
O’Meaghers of Tipperary, stung out of all control,
plunged a knife into his throat.
A quaint and romantic incident showing the import-
ance of the bards as individuals in ancient Ireland is
related of one Murrough O’Daly. In the beginning of
the 15th century the steward of the O’Donnell went to
Lisadill, near Sligo, to collect rents. Words passed between
him and this poet, who, unaccustomed to be thwarted in
anything, clove the steward’s head with an axe. Fearing
O’Donnell’s vengeance, O’Daly fled to Clanrickard and
the De Burgos, sons of Fitzadelm, and in a poem asks for
their protection and hospitality.
Trifling our quarrel with the man ; (O’Donnell)
A clown to be abusing me —
Me to kill the churl—
Dear God ! Is this a cause of enmity ?
But O’Donnell chased him from the protection of
Fitzadelm, from the O’Briens of Thomond, and finally from
Dublin itself. O’Daly crossed over to Scotland, where his
fame as a poet rose higher than ever, and when the Dean
of Lismore in Argyle jotted down nearly 400 years ago a
number of poems just as he heard them, they included
eight of O’Daly’s pieces. At last, in return for some
laudatory verses upon O’Donnell, this chieftain pardoned
him, and he returned to his native country.
Anyone who cares to read Dr. Douglas Hyde’s Literary
History of Ireland will get an insight into that wonder-
fully intricate plan of ancient Celtic metres, in which the
bards excelled. No other system of versification ancient
mediaeval, or modern, displays anything as complicated’
The whole training in the bardic schools was towards per-
fection in external framework. Therefore it is no wonder
to me that Victor the adopted Australian—latest of the
Clann Ui Dhalaigh line of bards, exemplified grace
and propriety of form. He inherited his taste from
eighteen generations of expert craftsmen.
That trite elephant with his metaphorical
trunkful of logs and pins,—that stale old steam-
hammer with its splendid adaptation to screw-
propellers and cracked nuts, —they may rest
awhile now in the shadow of the mind of Herbert
Spencer, dreaming First Principles and {in the
last book of gossip) carrying a bundle of news-
papers to drop at dirty London crossings, lest he
soil his shoes. O. if George Eliot had married
him, and Froude had written them up and down !
THE END OF DESIRE.
A flooded fold of sarcenet
Against her slender body sank,
Death-black, and beaded all with jet
Across the pleasures of her flank.
The incense of a holy bowl
Flowed round her knees , till it did seem
That she was standing on the shoal
Of some forbidden sunlit stream.
A little gong, far thro 1 the wall,
Complained like one deep sorrowing ,
And from the arras I saw fall
The woven swallow—fluttering ;
While o'er the room there swam the breath
Of roses on a trellised tree,
Loose ladies in pretended death
Of sweet abandon to the bee.
Flames filled the hollows of my hands:
Red blood rushed, hammering, round my heart,
Like mighty sleds when anvil bands
Gape out, and from their holdings start.
No peace had I, and knew not where
To find a solace that would kill
This pain of flesh so hard to bear,
This sin of soul against the will.
But ever yet mine eyes would seek
That golden woman built for love.
Whose either breast display’d the beak.
Half-drowned in snow, of Venus’ dove:
Her heavy hair, as smoke blown down
Athwart the fields of plentousness ;
Her folded lips, her placid frown,
Her insolence of nakedness.
I took her closely, but, while yet
I trembled, vassal to my lust,
Lo I—Nothing but some sarcenet
Deep buried in a pile of dust.
H.McC
THE WITTIEST MAN IN LONDON
SO he is dead. Dead—and “we shall
see him no more until we meet with
him beyond the mountains.”
Once I had privilege of his conversation,
once only. It was at a dinner at the Troca-
dero—an excessive London restaurant that
is possibly more familiar than fashionable.
A notable London journalist had made his
escape. He had fulfilled the London jour-
nalist’s dream of becoming an advertising
representative, and had been bought at
a high figure by a Tobacco Trust. (It
seems but yesterday, yet already these re-
miniscences are ancient; for the Tobacco
Trust soon ended its ostensible career,
and the advertising representative donned
again his journalistic shackles, though in
lighter metal.)
But in my London time he had escaped,
and he was a good fellow, and he gave a
dinner of celebration to half-a-dozen chosen
comrades. His kindness added an invitation
to me—the stranger, the sojourner. ‘‘ And, ”
confided one of the comrades, ‘ ‘ don’t miss it
whatever you do ! Charlie ——- will be there
—the wittiest man in London ! He ’s the
one surviving journalist of the old school;
he knew Charles Dickens. But Dickens
had n’t his humour —no, in spite of reputa-
tion. I tell you that man has said the
funniest things ! the funniest things ! Every
paper in London knows him. There’s not
one that would n’t be glad to have him on the
staff if he would only stay with them. But
he never will. He ’ll turn up in Fleet-
street, after a week off. Nobody knows
where he goes. Sit down anywhere and
write an article that would make you
die with laughing. But his writing is
nothing : you must hear him talk. The
things he says ! just bubbles over with
humour ! He’s getting old now, and shows
it a bit. No wonder, after the life he’s had !
But there’s nobody like him—nobody ! ”
I was duly astonished—and punctual. We
sat down, half-a-dozen of us, to a private
table, and waited for Charlie. Charlie was
late. “It’s his way, you know,” volun-
teered somebody. “ He’s a funny beggar !
Never thinks of these things till the last
moment ! ” So we waited, though the pro-
prietor came up and greeted our host
warmly, and suggested that the special
dinner was timed to a clock-tick. That
could not be helped ; we could not go on
without Charlie. Everybody said what a
good fellow he was—how during a genera-
tion his wit had pervaded London like garlic
—like the subtle cook’s garlic that is never
tasted, scarcely recognised, yet gives the
plat its crowning relish. Several guests
tried to think of funny things that Charlie
had said, but unhappily these had escaped
their memory. So we sat around the table
and waited—waited rather awkwardly. No
one liked to tell a yarn or start a conversa-
tion. It seemed sacrilegious, somehow —as
if it would have spoilt the flavour of Charlie.
We waited and wondered what had kept
him—“ good old Charlie ! ”
In a quarter of an hour the proprietor
returned and whispered to our kindly
host. The oysters were served and swal-
lowed in a melancholy fashion : everybody
was thinking of Charlie. Just then Charlie
came in, looking red and flustered. Two or
three of us were introduced ; the rest wel-
comed him jovially. A whisper reached
me : “Be careful of him, will you, like a
good chap ? Something has put him out ! ”
I was careful. The waiter cleared away our
oysters and left a fresh plate before Charlie.
Charlie looked round with a discontented
air. “No rock-melon?” Our host was
sorry :he had forgotten rock-melon. “ You
know I always eat a bit of rock-melon ! ”
grumbled Charlie. “Well, perhaps we could
get some now—“ Waiter ! ” “No!” said
Charlie, and gulped his oysters, and sat
brooding.
Jt
The fish came in. “This fish is cold!”
said Charlie; “ I hate cold fish!” “I
suppose they’ve muddled it while we were
waiting,’’suggestedthe host, timidly. Charlie
grunted. He grunted afresh at every course,
and glowered on us. Nothing pleased him.
The wine passed round, and several times
somebody attempted to start Charlie on a
career of flashing anecdote. We didn’t ven-
ture to talk, for fear of disturbing Charlie
and missing a good thing. Two guests
whispered together, and one commenced
boldly : ‘ ‘ Do you remember that time with
Archibald Forbes, Charlie, in the old
Cheshire?” “Yes, yes,” said Charlie;
“ pass those olives, will you ? ”
Towards the end of dinner we. gave up.
Our host began a general conversation in the
hope 'that Charlie might join in. He never
joined in. When directly appealed to, he
flung a contemptuous word at us. For the
rest of the time he glowered.
Dinner ended rather sadly ; and Charlie
explained that he had an appointment, and
left us at onoe. Somebody said “ Poor old
Charlie; he’s often like that now; but
when he’s himself, he’s the wittiest man in
London ! Think of the things he has
written ! Remember that article he wrote
about the Crystal Palace ? or was it the Zoo ?
You remember that article, Jones? —devil-
ishly funny, wasn’t it?” Jones remem-
bered devilishly funny articles by Charlie,
and tried to remember enough to quote.
Unhappily nobody remembered enough to
quote.
Our hospitable friend marched us along to
the Empire, and presently things grew gay,
and Charlie for a time was forgotten. I
have often thought of him since. And now
Bedford tells me he is dead —poor old
Charlie !
What good fellows Englishmen are ! How
they do reverence Titles—and Dignities —
and Labels !
—■ «
A picture of Henri Rochefort, from Haynie’s
book of recollections:
In 1869 Henri Rochefort was simply a sceptical Parisian
whose chief excellence as a writer lay in the aptness of
his wit, and his unrivalled command of persiflage. He
sneered, but without bitterness or hatred, and he aimed
less at arousing the anger of his readers than at making
them laugh at the men and things which he attacked
with his virile pen.
But after his exile he changed a great deal, and became
a much feared publicist. For where he had before
merely despised, he now hated, and his banter had turned
to violent satire or bitter denunciation. His articles
against Gambetta, for instance, were full of hate and
irony, almost every sentence being an outburst of con-
tempt or of anger. As a writer Rochefort never fenced
with his adversaries to overcome them by his superior
skill in rhetoric ; but be overthrew them with quick
vehement trips, and once they were down he seldom let
them up again. He had a style of grouping syllables
together in a most unexpected manner, in a way which
at once echoed, as it were, grotesque ideas about the
person or things that he was writing of, and meanwhile
the most singularly comic words imaginable were falling
from his ready pen.
What he wrote was read by everybody, from the
lowest rowdy in Paris up to the most brilliant lady in the
capital ; everyone enjoyed his articles, that is, provided
they had breathed in the air which puts into the brain
that unknown something which may be called the Soul
of Paris... Always, from his youth to his old age, drawn
along by words alone, he became by instinct an opponent
of reason and right in every form. He was without
philosophy, faith, or fixed opinions, and presented the
strange and lamentable spectacle of a man of adventures,
the apostle of an idea without any idea of his own.
Furthermore, he was incapable of having other than an
unbounded admiration or a hatred without measure for
personages. The ability to criticise ideas, systems, or
impersonal conceptions was completely lacking in his
mental make-up. In all probability he had written as
many as four thousand articles when I last saw him, and
one cannot find a hundred lines of methodical discussion
of any institution or important event in all that immense
work.
A.G.S.


k
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign t©
WINCHCQMBE, PARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
The Sydney S
FOOTBALLS.
BIJGB? OB ASSOCXATIOK.
OoTftfV
ijp'
All Balls Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
Postage on Man's Football—N.S.W., 6d ; Inter-State, 8d.
No, 1—Nicholson’s “Royal" Match II., Hand-sewn 9s 6d
No. 2—Nicholson’s “ Royal Special" (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match II 7s 6d
No. 3 is an exceptionally strong, useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, but suitable for practice.
The “Nicholson"Royal Special Match Ball is guaranteed the best value on the market, made from Selected
Crome Leather, Hand-sewn, in accordance with the N.S.W. Rugby Union’s specifications, and fitted with
best quality Imported Red Rubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match II., Hand-sewn 12s 6d
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match II., Hand-sewn 13s 6d
“A.N.A.” Special Match II., Rugby only 14s 6d
SYKES’ Match II., Special Value 7s 6d
“ALBION" Match II., Association only, Buttonless 11s 6d
“RIVAL" Match II., Association only, Buttonless IQs Od
“DIADEM" Match II., Association only, Buttonless 13s 6d
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE" Match II., Association only, Buttortless 15s Od
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 2s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) 3s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage Od.) 4s 3d
Solid Hide, Match II. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
ASSOCIATION each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 3s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage od.) .. .. .. 3s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) 4s 6d
Solid Hide, Match III. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra. Special Value (Postage 3d).
No. X, Is 9d each. No. 2, 2s 3d each. No. 3, 2s 9d each.
Football Bladders (imported)—Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
Each.
.. Is Od
.. Is 4d
.. Is 7d
No. 1 (Postage 2d.)
No. 2 (Postage 2d.) ..
No. 3 (Postage 3d.) ..
Each.
.. Is lOd
2s yd, ys yd
2s 9d, 3s 3d
No. 4 (Postage 3d.).
No. 5 (Postage 3d.).
No. 6 (Postage 3d.),
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
SHIN GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.) Is Od pair
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) Is 3d pair
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) Is 6d pair
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.) 2s Od pair
Gold Cape, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2s 9d pair
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather straps (Postage Id.) 3s Od pair
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) Is Od pair
Same as above, larger size (Postage Id.) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5s Od pair
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is; Inter-State, Is 8d.
Best Quality English-made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Rugby
Extra Quality English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps, with and
without ankle pads, per pair .. .. .. 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
10s 6d
14s 6d
13s 6d
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each.
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 2d),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6d each.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post. 2d), 3s 9d.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
liifefc
-v:
:
Brass Inflators.
BRASS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d) ..
Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d each
ķ
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb
Postage—Is 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
k
Mack
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight 5jlb
1897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight 5Jlb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d)
£3
£4
ķ
Stevens’
Little
Kra.gr.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long-, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36in.,
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W.; 2s Sd Inter-State).
21s
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
ĸ
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300vds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra, Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2}lb.
r
'THE MAINE
Pifle
Pi fie Aparf.
PRSCE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
k
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 8}lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
13s 6d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 251b.
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
11 8s Od
Re Tlr\fT t ?” S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, -weight 3Mb.
N.b.M., Is Gd ; Interstate, 2s 8d
Postage—
10s 0d
Winchester
1904
Model,
ķ
“ Winchester ’’ Single Shot
Model, for 22 ; short or long rim lit
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37jin.
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (L’ostage; Is !)d
iN.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
Rifle, 1904
■e cartridges,
bolt action,
, bead front
24s
Sf
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4£Ib. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W.
3s 2d Inter-State)
£1 10s
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£2
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
k
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s Od ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cioss Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
45s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b. .. .. ..
40s
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B. L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
50s
MICK
SIMMONS
r ~
• '
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S. W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SOHS
ĸ
k
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
D B B.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State
'
m
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-<|uality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State
£12 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney


edical Experts
Mm a:
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
SPECIALISTS WHO CURE
m
If afflicted with a disease which, if
not cured, means death, you
require the aid of a medical expert
who can cure you swiftly. Consult the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
whose names are household words of thirty years’ standing
throughout Australia. They treat diseases others have
aggravated by tampering. A day’s delay may mean
Death. Do not wait. To-morrow you may be too ill to
write or act. You can be cured if curable.
Serious Diseases Afflicting the Male Sex
are Specialities of the Medical Staff of the Institute, of
whom Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is registered by
Australian, English, and American Boards, is Physician-
in-Chief. By their wonderful Home Treatment system,
men can be cured in their homes as if personally examined.
Blood Diseases are treated with singular success. If you
cannot call, write. It will cost nothing. The Specialists’
professional opinions are given FREE.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-in- Chief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Each Specialist associated with this great Institute is a Graduate from famous English and American Colleges, and they are
under a Bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance of all Medical contracts undertaken. In order to convenience patients
residing in the Southern and Western States of Australia a Branch of the Institute has been opened in Melbourne, at
Bourke and Elizabeth Streets., opp. G.P.O, All Correspondence to this Branch is supervised by the Physician-in-Chief,
who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical Boards. Advice or Consultation is Free.
Blood Diseases
One of the most serious of diseases is that
of the blood arising from specific causes.
The blood is the life, and if polluted the
whole machinery of the body is assailed.
Victims to blood diseases are in a serious con-
dition. If not attended to at once they |
will surely die. No one but skilled scientific
experts should attempt to treat them. I
Insidious and subtle, undermining the
health, affecting every vital organ, they kill
quickly. I
They are Desperate Diseases
requiring desperate remedies. Their origin I
is not obscure to the skilled medical man
who has specially studied them. This is the I
class of disease with which the medical staff /
of the Institute are familiar. Ninety per '
cent, of such diseases are permanently cured j
by them. Any sufferer may be convinced of \
proof of cure by writing to the Specialists l
for Pamphlet of Testimonies of remarkable j
cases cured by them, mailed free. Sufferers ]
may find there cases similar to their own. i
m
m
•tm
UIU
'■MEtfICA
■
gw?
*1
kkli 1 :
§ « • J ! 8
snujii;
sags
rmi
,k* '
n
THE MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
j Strengthless flen
' Men who are deficient in Vital Power from
| many causes, at thirty are prematurely old,
lacking the power, the energy to be a success
|in life and to enjoy it domestically and
socially. Such men are only half-men, the
I contempt and pity of their fellows. A man
I should be strong, full of purpose, successful
in strength, no man’s inferior.
The Specialists Make Such Men.
A man will continue to degenerate if
lacking the essential power of the man. It
is the law of Nature, the survival of the
fittest. Thousands of Weak Men have been
cured at the Institute, have been made
strong and healthy, and are living advertise-
ments to the Specialists’ skill, who may be
consulted Free of Charge, by letter or per-
sonally, by any man who has doubts about
his condition. Such advice is invaluable
coming from men whose professional skill as
medical experts is unequalled in Australia.
It is the Most Scientific
Throughout Australasia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been
expended on this Institute.
By reference to any of the leading banks or commercial houses in Sydney, patients can convince
themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above Medical Institute. It is scientific in every
detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by
its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth,
patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General
ebility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism, insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy, or Diabetes,
Spinal Affections, Diseases of the Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have
studied the class of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the
treatment they will receive, and will be such as no other medical Institution in Australia can afford them.
The Specialists of this Great
Medical Institute have
practised in Australia over
a Quarter of a Century.
Free —A Book Worth £lOO.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect
Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak
men in Australasia during the past five years. It is a beautifully
illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
Candid, Plain-Spoken Truths
which have always been the medium of communication between our
patrons and ourselves during the past twenty years. It tells about
the cause and cure of ‘ ‘ weakness ” in men as men like to read it—plain
and honest, straight from the shoulder. There are other troubles
from which men suffer, such as Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, etc. It tells about these also and how
we cure them. To any man who suffers from an early breaking
down of the vital powers it is worth £lOO. “ CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by hundreds
of Australian newspapers. It Costs You Nothing', except the
postage fee of One Shilling in Stamps.
Subjects Treated comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds,
Drowning and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of
Invalids, Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electricity and Cure
of Nerve Diseases, Diet, etc. A list of 50 valuable prescriptions
are also included, making the book especially valuable to country
residents, where medical men are few. Applicants should send in
at once for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered.
6es
'U* OH
Gene
Disea
No
iv «v
£EMAN&
ro Medical fci
CQN&UI.TINC
gjggjLZj
Free for One Shilling
in Stamps.
Great Journals Praise this Book.
“ STAR,” Sydney : “ A book for the people.”
“EVENING NEWS,” Sydney: “ A revised and enlarged edition.”
«^“f TOWN A " D COUNTRY JOURNAL,” Sydney : “The Specialists
find it necessary to supplement new literary staffs.”
-h Melbourne ; An y° ne interested in incurable diseases
should write to the Specialists.”
. , Kalgoorlie: “‘CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ contains much
valuable information written in a popular manner ”
~ , OBSERVER,” Adelaide : “There has never been published of its
*ndm Australia a more worthy addition to the literature of the colony.”
oo Hobart: “It is ah elegantly-bound volume. Over
20,000 . . . copies are issued yearly.”
, WORKER,” Brisbane: “Almost every disease which flesh is heir
to has been treated within the pages of this work.”
ZEALAND MAIL" : “ In this book the authors g
us much that is instructive from a physical health view-point.
«. SUNDAYTIMES, ’’Perth, in “Bits about Books," on
March 29, 1903, says: ‘“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ on
Leneral Diseases is splendidly compiled. It would be
hard to overrate its value, nor do we ever remember
to have seen a more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
“ OBSERVER,” Auckland: “A highly inter-
esting volume. It deals with nerve com-
plaints and how to cure them.”
“ SUMNER,” Kalgoorlie : “The postal
facilities of the Institute are unique.”
“SON,” Kalgoorlie : “Striking
cures of many so-called ‘ INCUR-
ABLE’ diseases are effected daily.”
These are but a few from
hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary re-
views of extreme
literary value and
merit.
When under treatment all Patients are under the special care of DR. R. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E. L.M., a distinguished
Medical Expert who is registered by the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. He holds Nine Diplomas and Certificates
Of Qualification and Registration, which may be seen at the Consulting Rooms. His professional advices are given free to all inquirers.
&
V
df ,
* V Q *'
,<y
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute with the Postal authorities having been amicably settled, Patients may dired
their letters to the above address without fear of delay.


Not every
woman
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many'
would
want one
around, ans-- x
way. But you
certainly can'
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor;
and most women would
he greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much
to have long, rich, heavy ~
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
2tair Vigor
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
\l
For Sunburn
rtf pi/pc quick relief can be
UM OUIC Iwjy obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
A
■
t
FOR SKIN
SCALP HAIR
MEDICINAL
A N O
P'JICF ?.5 CENTS
IRISH MOSS
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS.
Ask for Bonn ing ton’s COL °|^ ONCH ms>
[aad see Chatyou get it , ASTH MA.
SCS
D'a
□UQ
BQ
ag
Pad
M
KS3
6S
GD6QD
3£tB£&
Waltham
WATCHED
7 ' 7 ~ ' ,l * v ' uv/ uL/£
asg watches now in use. K
Si All Waltham I
no
□o watches are guaran-
ty teed by American
SB Waltham Watch
ffi Co *’
BB watc^
sny
the largest
movement
§| manufacturing
?gj concern in the world.
&^^a§czo[Ess3§czicsai§(a^t’
7
4k
'/4-fa , ,
thc iveu TUiMks.
“ life I ” AGRICULTURAL
"• I IEL MOTOR >■
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL.
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ķ
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Famiiy.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAME.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT d. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
10J
mu
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OP PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing- Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
Frivolous Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The last pathetic days of the mad Marquis
of Anglesey, who died last year, amid a wilderness
of waistcoats, at Monte Carlo, as told in his
diary
October 17. —Seedy. Didn’t get up.
October 18.—Go to see hospital with G. at two o’clock.
October 21. — goes to England for fiat hat. They are
all taken. lam seedy.
November 7.—Have the carriage. Don’t go out. Storm.
Novembers. —Drive out. Weather so so. Feel a wee
bit better. Choose wall-paper.
December 11.—Cold ;go out. Gramophone arrives,
December 12.—Awful storm ; don’t go out.
December 16. —Feel better. Arrive Paris 6.15 ; E. P.
Hotel.
December 19.—Dull. Lunch with L. ; then shop.
Leave for Monte 7.30. Very seedy all night.
December 20.—Fine. Arrive Monte 11.30. Very tired.
Go to bed at once.
December 25. —Lovely. Lunch cap. Martin with W.’s.
Feel so so.
December 26.—Lovely. Don’t go out. Feel seedy.
Get shock in the evening by visit Comtesse G. ; great
scene.
December 27.—Lovely. Have to go take tea with
Comtesse G. —come in v. late.
December 28.—Lovely. Drive out. Feel so so.
December 29.—Lovely. Drive alone. Feel so so. See
G. Seedy at night. Dine in bed.
January B.—Lovely; rest all day in bed. Monkey
arrived.
January 14.—Lovely ; cold. tells his troubles to
me ; I pity him. Don’t get up.
January 17. —Rain all day ; don’t go out.
On the last page there is only one complete entry
and part of a second, which read thus :
4 p.m.—loo point 7.
This evidently refers to temperature. Then
follows the last, unfinished entry made just before
the Marquis died :
8 p.m.
And the volume in which the miserable owner of
30,000 acres and 1000 waistcoats noted his seedi-
ness and his boredom was bound partly in dia-
monds.
Said the policeman re the Jap squadron
visit:—
Do you hear me now ? There’s the Lord Mayor feedin’
thim on turkeys an’ champagne an’ smooge ; an’ the
battheries burnin’ powther in their ’onor, an’ Alfrid Day-
kin an’ Playford, an’ Talbot an’ Bint all spindin’ ’onest
rid gould on thim. Phwat I want to know is this : Whose
gould are they spindin'? Is it their own? No, it’s
the gould av these people who come ’ere an’ stare
an’ stand, an’ git in the way an’ make unrayson-
able work for sinsible min like misilf. It’s the rate-
payers’ money, an’ the silly fools don’t comprehind
that they’re only watchin’ their own shtuff spint by other
people. And who is it all the fuss is over? Oi wouldn’t
moind if ’tvvas onywan that deserved it, but these
monkey min. Allies is it? God hilp the counthry that
descends to the like of them for allies. Oi know them,
Cheekier than the cheekiest when they git on shore,
wanderin’ into all sorts of queer corners, an’ puttin’ their
noses into everybody’s business. And they’re terrors
after the winunen. They’ll shtop the respectablest
woman in the shtreet. We’re spindin’ money firin’ salutes
over thim now. You mark my words ; we’ll be wantin’
all our money in a few years to fire iron into thim.
“ Wusslean ” writes ;
At Canterbury (Vic.) a bricklayer’s laborer recently
profited to the extent of a couple of thousand pounds by
the death of a relative in frisky ’Frisco, and treated
local residents to their first sight of a real knight of
labor driving to and from his work every day in a cab.
He stuck to his beloved bricks for a week or two, then
the cash got to be too much for him, and he whole-
heartedly tackled the task of going through it. Unlike
Horatius, he didn’t have to ask who would stand on either
hand ; he had to fight his way through his friends.
Is it Queensland’s socialistic legislation
which attracts so many Southern farmers to that
State? Or is it the stench of N.S.W.’s Land
Department which has driven them out of
N.S.W. ? Anyway, Queensland has never known
such an influx of settlers for 20 years.
Bury me Cheap.
Bury me cheap, good friends of mine,
Bury me cheap, I cry ;
Let the cash be spent on good red wine
Before I shrivel and die !
Bury me cheap on the crest of a hill
That gazes across the sea ;
Refrain from incurring a monument-bill —
Pile no big rocks on me !
Bury me cheap is all I ask—
I’ll sleep as well as the best;
Carry me forth and do your task
When the sun sinks in the West!
I want no hearse and I want no pall—
No dolorous plumes for me;
Give me the earth, and you’ll give me all
I’ll need for Eternity !
Bury me cheap ! bury me cheap !
I’ll have no coffin of black ;
Let me simply sleep by the roaring deep,
And let me lie on my back.
Let no one preach above my bones—
Bury me cheap, I say ;
Let me hear some comrade’s kindly tones,
Instead of a mourner’s bray.
Bury me cheap ! bury me cheap !
Let no lass mourn for me;
Let no one weep where I lie asleep
On the hill by the noble sea.
I’ll have done my best before I die,
And a man can do no more;
So let no one cry—let no one sigh
O’er my grave beside the shore.
Bury me cheap, and cheaper still—
I’d rather be cared for now ;
I shall watch the world from my sea-girt hill
As though from a warship’s prow;
And you’ll know that my spirit tramps with you
yet,
Although I am underneath ;
Aye, my spirit shall lead through pain and sweat
Like a sword that knows no sheath.
Bury me cheap ! bury me cheap !
With my arms upon my breast;
And my soul shall leap when the breakers sweep,
And the winds war in the West !
No railing, please, around my tomb—
No trimmings at all for me;
Give me lots of room where the breakers boom—
Don’t spoil my view of the sea !
Bury me cheap, I say again,
Give me no foolish shroud ;
Let me mix with the earth and the cheerful rain—
I was never reserved nor proud.
Twas the good old earth that gave me birth,
And the earth will do for me ;
Just bury me there by the wild winds’ lair,
And I’ll hold Life’s problem-key !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Fisherman.
He sat and waited,
Silent and alone ;
The downward-dragging bait
Drawn tow’rd a stone ;
The line along his finger lightly laid
As slowly drifted out
The painted cone;
Slow, where he marked the shades
Of blacken’d piers
Adrip with constant flow
Of briny tears,
In writhing figures dancing
Down the tide
That darkens, brightens,
Clouds again and clears.
And so the city mirror’d
In the wave
With yawning doorways, each
A giant’s cave,
And sleepy window-eyes
That winked and closed
Mute city of a Dream and Slumber’s slave.
VIC.
G. G. McC.
The Maiden and the Pearls.
’Neath the glamor of the languorous, lambent
moon,
’Mid the music of the hushing wavelet’s croon,
As we wandered hand in hand,
O’er the silent, shining sand,
Ah, you spoke of many things, dear love, I didn’t
understand.
The Origin of Evil you discussed ;
And the all-compelling power of Perfect Trust;
Whosoever we might be,
You agreed we were not We;
And you spoke of Psychic Vision and our Final
Destiny.
You averred that in its essence Bad is Good;
That the Lot is all there is, you understood ;
And you came to the conclusion,
That with Ultimate Confusion
Perfect Order co-existeth —like a truth wrapped
in illusion.
Not of earth the light that shone within your
eyes !
(Does it hurt you, love, when you philosophise ?)
Dear, your every nerve was tense,
As you built your verbal fence
Round the controverted dogma of Vicarious Re-
compense.
Though to rest all things in Nature, else, had gone,
Still you burbled ever, ever burbled on :
But the words of hope and cheer
That I hungered most to hear,
Come and have some supper, darling! ” never
smote upon my ear !
MAORILAND.
SINC. S. OLARX.


Wj
%
V
rs
m
|U
cMt
J. Rennon&iSons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria £?
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, ete.
to keep their works going.
O
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment —and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S. W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sates sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Kennon & Sons
TANNERS m. EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
( A ) LOB N.S.W.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person agred 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
k
Have Yob a <aran)opboi)€?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
Columbia lOin Disc Records
are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
of Tone, and Durability.
Price 3/6 each.
They are made of the very best Black
Composition, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest Lists to —
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Gentt
Australian
Headquarters :
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE-
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 28 H.P. 10 H.P. 10 H.P.
Runabout, Touring-Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Car. Light Tonneau. Commercial Oar.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St.> Sydney.
D
CD
IB
[3
D
D
■Mm
m
m
fcv.
S s.
p» v i
> KD ?
If
SWi?
C \
<ra
3...
SK
stiss®
,/D , i t:-
■ >wwn --s' jf 1
H
H*s*
jy^-r
•"t"
WfHEffjjfc >3ls
3G- ■•“../»•>»'■».
.3 f
V*
if
AUSTRALIANS are building more
beautiful homes, and using better
taste than ever before. One of the
most potent influences working for
the handsome roof is
RUB€ROIP R€P
ROOFIN6
A permanent roofing with a permanent
color, giving a decorative effect.
TO BE OBTAINED FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Wholesale
Agents :
E* RICH & CQ*, Ltd*, Sydney and Brisbane*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for' Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V6L 27.—N0. IS7I.
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1906.
Prior 6n.
OH, WHERE IS OUR WILLIS; OH, WHERE IS HE?
Conjuror Wade: “Ladies and gentlemen, I shall next show you my marvellous Extradition Vanishing Mystery, entitled, 'Now you see
Willis, and now you don’t.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £i g g
Half-yearly ... .’. .” 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(ana, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
m ethods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved bv
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
Will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Js Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , B.C.
San Francisco.— lT. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Eoypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6gin. x Ihin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1906.
THE JAPANESE WELCOME.
The United States cruiser Baltimore, during a
short stay in Port Jackson, excited no official
welcoming enthusiasm. Its visit was marked by
no fanfare of trumpets. For the Japanese train-
ing squadron, now in port, an elaborate pro-
gramme of festivities has been arranged. Dinners,
lunches, receptions, illuminations will mark the
popular joy. Or conceal the public uneasiness?
That is perhaps a question. It is possible that
officialdom recognised that the populace could be
trusted to make the white Yankee warmly wel-
come ; but that to secure for the brown Japanese
courteous consideration, organisation and official
patronage was necessary. That may be, though
it is hardly likely. It is more than probable—
judging from the popular demeanor in Melbourne
on the occasion of this visit, and the fuss made
over a previous Japanese call to Sydney—that, even
if left to themselves, the citizens would have given
more flag and music and general celebration to the
Jap than to the Yankee visitor. It is a trait of
city character, in Australia, as in most other
countries, that it has a sort of love of freak-
ishness. What is unusual attracts an atten-
tion, expressed in demonstrations which may
seem to, but do not as a matter of fact,
represent affection. A negro cyclist is certain
of more hurrahs than a white cyclist of the
same pedal-pushing power. It is because he
is not only a good cyclist but also is, in a sort of
way, “circus ” —a freak, an abnormality. At the
Commonwealth celebrations, the Indian soldiers
got far more attention than the British Guards.
They were “circus.” Jap sailor-men arouse an
interest which French or Yankee tars don’t get.
Again, they are “circus.” As circus, they attract a
vast amount of feminine gush (woman, in the
mass, is still very little guided by reason, and
prone to pursue what is new) and a good deal of
masculine interest. Judged by street huzzahs
and social fuss, the Australian dearly loves
a Japanese, a Sikh, a Malay Sultan or a negro
athlete. But at the ballot-boj; those huzzahs
don’t count, and any politician who proposed to
translate the enthusiasm over the Jap sailors, or
the Sikh soldiers, or cyclist Major Taylor, into
an amendment of the Aliens Immigration Restric-
tion Act would find prompt punishment. American
5ft!* 1 mt n come a ° d ff° here, exciting little atten-
tion. 1 hey pass through the streets without note
because they are of our kin and family. They
enter our homes and are welcome (but are not
pursued with the unasked kisses of our women-
folk) agam because they are of our kin and
37' -T 11 !® Japanese are greeted with a fuss
and familiarity which is really, if analysed, insul-
ting, for its real basis is curiosity and an assump-
tion of an impassable barrier of superiority.
. dlscuss ‘ on °. f the psychology of the welcome
to the. Japanese, interesting as it may be, gives
place in importance to the political issues brought
P rom \ nen ce by this visit of an Asiatic war
squadron to the White Man’s Outpost in the
Pacific. Outside of the popular welcome to the
visitors, winch may be traced partly to a recogni-
• ° n l . na tional qualities, partly to an interest
m what savors of freakishness, there is no question
as to the exaggerated warmth of the official wel-
-1 he representatives of the Imperial power
m Australia have, without a doubt, been instructed
to give to the Japanese the most cordial of greet-
mgs. 1 hat, presumably, is in recognition of
Japan s services to the Empire” in smashing
the Kussian power m Asia, and thus breaking the
Muscovite menace, either real or imaginary, to
India. Yet it is a fact that, nowadays, the best
English publicists regret nothing more bitterly
than the destruction of the Russian power. It
has removed a far-away menace in Asia only to
prmg a much nearer menace in Europe in
the shape of Germany, which, freed from the
check of Russia, asserts an overlordship of
Europe that has already brought England twice
to the verge of war. Just as England recognised,
too kite, that in fighting the Crimean war on
bebalt of the unspeakable Turk against Russia
it had backed the wrong horse,” it is now seen
that what security was gained in Asia by the
alliance with Japan has been more than counter-
balanced by the additional threat in Europe, where
a balance of power”—that constantly sought
ideal of the British Foreign Office—no longer
exists. The present friendliness of France,
the candid advances of Russia towards an
amicable understanding, have proved to Bri-
tain that, had the desire been expressed, a
strong European alliance, on the basis of insuring
a . ex ’ stin g British interests, might have been
arrived at. But the foolish Balfour Govern-
ment, with its policy of “ blundering through
somehow, ’ rushed out of the European circle
to contract a union with Japan which has
already proved a source of danger in Europe, and
which has brought in its wakeseveral humiliations.
It is not too bold a statement that the Japanese
treaty is aheady regretted. But it is an accom-
plished fact, and there is probably something of a
feeling of “ making the best of things before the
world m the frantic praise showered on the
Japanese in London and in all places where
London influence stretches. Somewhat similarly,
the Australian woman who is married to a China-
man exalts his virtues at every opportunity. It
is partly, no doubt, affection. But a good deal of
it is an uneasy desire to put the best face on a
bargain which challenges criticism.
• * * •
Australia all the feminine and semi-feminine
fuss over Japanese visitors notwithstanding—does
not to any great extent share in the London-
inspired Jap worship. If it did, the Japanese
would not be to-day prohibited immigrants. Only
a section of the male community, and that the
least influential, joins in the hysterical adulation
of the mob which follows the London ha’penny
press in this cult. And, looking at the matter as
coolly as possible, eliminating as far as can be all
sense of racial antagonism, the Australian ma-
jority in this matter is surely right. The little
brown man has done marvellous things. But it
is nonsense to suggest that he has proved himself
superior to the white man. His marvels have
been wrought very largely through the existence
°f th ® V6r y limitations which make it impossible
that he should (for countless generations, at any
rate) catch up in the race of evolution to the
Caucasian. That slant, narrow brow of the Jap
marks him as a man who has obeyed for thou-
sands of years, obeyed implicitly, automatically,
AsiaticalJy. It helps him now to conform in a
mechanical, unseeing way to the externals of
European civilisation. Such perfect obedience
as the Jap can give to his rulers could be
exacted from no civilised European race; and
that perfect obedience enables him to, in
the ignorant view, surpass his prototype.
A machine, once created by the executive
genius of man, can do a special work
just as well and. far more quickly than he.
But to the man is left the reserve power of
creating a new machine. So in a sense with
the Japanese. They can imitate the present re-
6ults of Caucasian thought; by their blind faculty
of obedience can seem to surpass in results their
teachers; can perhaps inflict crushing disasters on
a Europe, negligent of their power. But ulti-
mately the higher brain and the loftier type must
prevail. The Caucasian is not “played out,” and
the way to future advancement is not by pattern-
ing our religion and our civil organisation on the
Asiatic.
* * . .
Withal there is one lesson which Australia can
and should learn from the Japanese, and that is
the lesson of the infinite possibilities of patri-
otic effort. Within the memory of many men
now living, Japan had only a comic opera exist-
ence for the civilised world. Its soldiers fought
with curios and carried fans for shields. Its manu-
factures were almost nil. Its ports were open to
the insult of every white Power with a gun-boat
Roused by the insolence of the white races, Japan
awoke to a resolve to be a Nation in the modern
sense of the world. The Japanese soil was
poor for agriculture and almost destitute of
minerals. The Japanese brain was narrow, the
Japanese hand unskilled for the work of civilisa-
tion. Further, the Japanese race had to face the
prejudice of its Asiatic blood ; to conquer the
settled idea of centuries that no colored man
could aspire to anything higher than servitude in
a white man’s house. All these barriers to
progress the Japanese surmounted by an exalted
and resolute patriotism. The rulers knew what
they wanted and the populace followed their will
A policy of Japan for the Japanese, of High
Protection, of intense culture of the land of
a citizen army, brought in a few short years ’the
Asiatic island group from almost the lowest posi-
tion among the nations to one of the highest. It
is the same policy which The Bulletin urge's on
Australia—on Australia with its greater area of
better land, its vast mineral resources, its civilised
hands and its Caucasian brains—Australia, with its
infinitely greater possibilities. The same degree of
mechanical obedience from the rank and file cannot
be expected in Australia. A certain unruliness is
part of the price civilised man pays for his higher
qualities of initiative.and personal responsibility.
But fiom the leaders m Australia may be reason-
ably expected the same far-sighted devotion to a
patriotic ideal. If that expectation were realised
the mass of the people would not be slow to follow
—not blindly, but with reasoned approval. The
lead, however, is still lacking.
AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS.
Mb. Deakin develops towards the ideal of
national leadership which Australia demands.
He is even yet, as shown by his latest speech at
Sydney, not far past the catechumen stage: his con-
fession of faith is still wavering on some articles.
But the progress from the Ballarat speech to the
Sydney speech is gratifying. Now the Prime
Minister comes forward as the leader of an
avowedly Australian Party, with the motto of
“ Australia for the Australians ; ” pledged to a
scientific Protection which will protect, and will
secure to Australian farmers, manufacturers, and
workmen, the right to labor in the production of
all that the Australian consumer needs ; announc-
ing a full appreciation of the evils of land mono-
poly, and favoring Federal progressive land taxa-
tion asameans notalone to revenue, but to the econo-
mic benefit of making the useless holding of useful
land unprofitable ; seeing the necessity of a
Federalising of the debts and of getting Australia
out of pawn; recognising the logic of defence by
a citizen army to which all the manhood of the
community will be called. That is the complete
programme of Australian Nationalism ; and Mr.
Deakin agrees with it. But Mr. Deakin’s
“ credo ” lacks in places the note peremptory.
* • • •
Speaking on the general principle of “ Australia
for the Australians,” the Prime Minister was a
ardent as he was logical. By an ingenious bit of
oratorical strategy he led his audienoe by steps of
familiar fact to a sudden view of a great economic
truth. For some ten minutes he marshalled, in a
series of effective sentences, the salient features of
19th century history—the rise of the United
States, of Germany, of Japan. The audience
followed, accepting fully the facts, but not
seeing whither they led. Then in a phrase
the conclusion from this argument was re-
revealed : These nations, widely different in
resources, in characteristics, in racial type, in all
other circumstances, had become great through a
National policy founded on High Protection.
The path of greatness for Australia was that
path. The conclusion was irresistible, and the
audience cheered it as a declaration for Protection
has been rarely cheered in Sydney. Thus, on
the tariff question—which is at present the question
—Mr. Deakin left no room for dissatisfaction.
His affirmation that real Protection had never
been tried in Australia, his persistent quotation
of the American, German, and Japanese tariffs
as the patterns to be followed, showed that he will
not be content until the Commonwealth has a
genuine, scientific system of Protection. On that
point—and, if need be, on that point alone—Aus-
tralian Nationalists will now follow Mr. Deakin’s
leadership. He has but to translate eloquent
announcement into honest effort, and his leader-
ship of the Australian sentiment will be unchal-
lengeable until the work of tariff reform is com-
pleted. For the tariff is the vital and immediate
question.
• • * •
In dealing with other, as intrinsically important
but less immediately pressing problems, the Prime
Minister came to a lower level of purpose, and
suggested that Alfred Deakin does not reach to
the complete ideal of national leadership. His
rather is the character of the conserving statesman
than of the apostle of a new cause. On Protection
he is convinced, and firm in the belief that the
public mind is ripe for reform; so he presses
forward to action. On other reforms, as to which
he professes to be just as fully convinced, he is
doubtful as to the Commonwealth having reached
the proper stage for their full acceptance ; so he
lingers. His theory of government discloses it-
self asthat of leadership holdingitself benevolently
neutral towards propaganda work, waiting full
public conviction and then giving the people’s
purpose wise enactment. It is one theory of
statesmanship. When it can, by some happy
chance, be found in the leader of a party who has,
in a lieutenant, a mind more restless, more daring,
more impatient, the combination is perfect. There
is then Radical progress with Conservative safe-
guards. Otherwise, fear of forcing on the people
something they are not ripe for is apt to degene-
rate into a policy of inaction. There are many
matters on which the public are ready to be con-
vinced, but will never be convinced until actually
given a lead.
• • • *
On the question of national defence, for in-
stance, upon which Mr. Deakin was disappoint-
ingly vague and irresolute, the public must
be in a sense driven to the right path. The
voters appreciate thoroughly the fact that national
safety demands the arming of the people in a
citizen force, and yet procrastinate in carrying
that conviction to its logical conclusion. Bold,
inspiring leadership is needed to persuade them
to the first plunge. The Prime Minister bows
to the ideal of universal service, but promises,
for the present, only an improved cadet system.
There is not even a pledge of a compulsory cadet
system—which would inure the public mind to
the idea of compulsory, universal, unpaid tiaining
in soldierly duties. Somewhat similarly, on the
question of a Federal land tax, Mr. Deakin
accepts the necessity of such an impost to open
the land to those who will use it, but does not
commit himself to a bold advocacy on that ground.
Instead, the land tax, according to his plan, is
to wait on revenue necessity—a revenue neces-
sity which he foresees in the near future, owing
to the federalisation of old age pensions. So long
as the land-tax comes in such shape as to do its
work it is, of course, really immaterial as to what
politic consideration heralds its arrival. But Mr.
Deakin’s announcement has a personal if not a
political significance, as suggesting a disinclina-
tion to taking the bold course. On the debt
question the Prime Minister was equally admir-
able in purpose when speaking, but made no
definite declaration as to immediate steps towards
reform. The control of the debts is to be taken
over by the Commonwealth, a sinking fund is to
be established, and the ideal of debt reduction
pursued. But there was no direct pledge given
of the first necessary stage towards all this —a con-
stitutional amendment.
• * * _*
There is no use, however, in crying for the
moon. Everything cannot be accomplished in
one session or in one Parliament, and Mr.
Deakin, as a politician (and as a politician who is
not of the opportunist type, prepared to promise
everything that there is any clamor for), must
take some account of considerations of time and
practicability. The tariff issue is the one that
demands instant attention. If his language is
any indication at all of his purpose, Mr. Deakin
is firm to press forward with genuine tariff rsform.
Which is work enough for the present. That
accomplished, the time will come to urge other
planks of the Australian policy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Non-union Labor Party.
If in the language there is one word that the
Australian trade-unionist hates above all other
words, it is the bush-coined name for the non-
unionist who crawls after another man’s job.
That word signifies to him all that is base and
unspeakable in human nature. Call him so, and
his anger will be greater than if you had called
him murderer. But by some curious freak a vast
number of Australian trade-unionists, and a
vaster number of their fellows in England, only
resent the thing itself when it is practised upon a
small scale. Their anger, when their places are
taken during a comparatively small industrial
dispute, is hot, and sometimes means broken
heads. But if a whole nation, acting as one vast
aggregation of non-unionists or wage-reducers,
descends upon their home-markets, and blots
out industries holus-bolus, then the trade-
unionists sit down and calmly accept the situation.
In almost every country on earth the working
classes are endeavoring to force wages up, in order
that they may be able to live better lives. But,
in Australia and England, the workers are sitting
down reading Makx and Engels, while the pro-
ducts of cheap non-union labor pour in on them
from other continents. And the attack on their
wage-conditions is not made by cheap non-union
labor either. By well-known commercial tricks
the American millionaire employer can accom-
plish the same results. With freights between
America and Australia reduced to a minimum,
and with freights between America and England
also cut to the lowest figure, the former country
can simultaneously undersell in markets at the
opposite ends of the globe. No nation can re-
taliate upon America, because the United States
Immigration Laws and Protective Tariff have
made that country an industrial Gibraltar. But
America can ravage every portion of the
world that has not had sense enough to
fight it with its own weapons. When
it is not America it is Germany. In
Australia, as in England, the Parliamentary
Labor Party is based upon trade-unionism. Now,
Freetrade between nations is merely an expansion
of freedom-of-contract between individuals ; and
the whole world has been led to believe that the
trade-unions are bitterly opposed to the latter
brand of spurious freedom. So, inasmuch as the
Labor Party is merely the old trade-union party
on a larger scale, it has got to decide whether it
has gone back on its old practical principles or
. And it must decide soon ; for every day
that it hangs out a Yes-No fiscal flag, it exposes
its former principles to scorn and ridicule. Thus
it countenances the wholesale dumping of
American manufactures in the Australian market:
and its position is exactly the same as if
it were to encourage American artisans to
come over here and burst up a strike or an
Arbitration award in, say, the boot-trade,
u 6 4 ustralian Labor-Trade-Union party says
that its movement is an international one,
but it refuses to do the very thing that will give
the greatest aid to the artisans of America and
Germany. Plutocracy could be stamped out by
every nation on earth, if every nation only had
its own capitalists to squelch. What can the
Australian trade-unionists do against the
International Harvester Trust when that
I rust doesn t even print its catalogues in
the Commonwealth? It can do nothing, ex-
cept through its tariff; and, so long as it
leaves _ the tariff in its present unspeakable
state, it gives the Harvester Trust permission to
come in and cut the wages, and generally do the
same work that the workshop blackleg does. The
position of the Australian Trade Union party is
altogether a remarkable one. It won’t help the
unionists of America and Germany to obtain their
own, and therefore it is a bad unionist. It won’t
prevent the world pouring in non-union labor-
products to knock out its own unionists, and
therefore it is more of a bad unionist. It won’t
help itself to obtain Socialism by barring out the
goods of the foreign manufacturer, and therefore
viru 1 - 8 a P oor > ineffective, unpractical Socialist.
Which, altogether, is a pretty serious state for
any party to get into.
+
Old-time Socialism.
English social life and English legislation towards
the end of the Middle Ages give an accurate picture
of what Socialism—the thing that Reid is anti to
—designs for the common welfare. Those Middle
Ages have been very much abused in modern
days. In England, at least, so far as the condi-
tion of the masses was concerned, they were very
happy times. The researches of Professor Thorold
Rogers show that, measuring wages by subsistence
units, the worker of that day could earn com-
fortable sustenance for himself for seven days
with one day’s labor; if he were married,
he could support himself and his family with 2i
days labor. A suit of the best cloth, which would
last him years, could be earned in three days.
And so on. Froude, in his “History of Eng-
land, characterises the early 16th century as
“ the golden age of the English laborer.” In the
country he earned twice as much as the laborer of
to-day, and he had at least four acres of land with
his.cottage, and a share of commonage to pasture a
cow and a few pigs. In the towns his trade-unions
were recognised by law, and the law secured for
him steady employment and at least a
hving wage. All this was effected by high
Protection and Socialistic legislation. No foreign
goods that could be locally made came into
England. Protection was prohibitive to the
degree, sometimes, of clapping the importer into
gaol or cutting off his head. A policy of closer
settlement was sedulously followed, and the reason
for it set forth in words that should be dinned
into the ears of Australians to-day :
Forasmuch as it be to the surety of the Realm of Eng-
land that it be well inhabited with English people for the
defence as well of ourantient Enemies—
For that good reason, which with change of names
might well preface a Deakin or Watson pro-
gressive land tax law, English statutes enacted—
No manner of person shall take any several farms of
more than one whereof the yearly value shall exceed the
sum of 10 marks.
Thus were the “big estates busted” in those
simple bygone days, so that the country might be
kept well inhabited with Englishmen to preserve
the realm from its enemies. And they did that
work right well. The protected artisan and the
carefully cultivated small farmer of those days
wanted no Asiatic ally on the battle-field. Jf
they had only known as much of hygiene and
medical science as is known to-day, the increase of
population would have been enormous. Unluckily
drains hadn’t been invented, and the enormous
consequent death-rate was the one thing which
prevented the “Realm of England’’ being as well
inhabited as its law-makers deserved.


A lesson from France.
JfraT tits # Otie of the most flourishing industries in
she world is that of manufacturing motor-cars.
Fair th'e biggest share of the business is
taken, fyy France, which po't ofJlt supplies its own
market, hut exports millions of pounds’, Worth of
ears to other countries. So great is the export
business with England, that the English' m'a’riu'-
facturers are complaining bitterly of foreign’ com-
petition. It is alleged that one car alone—the
Panhard—is sold to the extent of several hundred
thousand pounds per annum, while the total trade
in French cars piles up to the huge amount of
£3,000,000 per annum. Commenting on this fact,
a writer in an English trade journal says :
I am in a position to state that, if a tax had been im-
posed which would handicap the foreign maker against
the home maker, the famous firm of Panhard and
Levassor would have taken works adjacent to here (the
village of Bournbrook), and manufactured their cars for
this market in this country. ... As far as this village is
concerned, £2OOO per week at least would have been paid
in wages. That money would be filtering through every
nook and cranny of our social fabric, and would be bene-
fiting every man, woman and child in this parish and far
beyond it.
But so bitten are the majority of the English
electors by the old CoBDEN-ite doctrine—which
every other nation laughed to scorn long ago—
that there is not the slightest chance of such a
sensible step being adopted. Bo the Englishman,
beaten out of his own market in the motor-car
trade, made an attempt to do a bit of foreign
trade with the humble bicycle. The French
makers, giving so much time to the far more
profitable motor-car, were losing their grip of the
cycle trade. The writer previously mentioned —
negotiated with one of the best-known houses in France,
whose name is a household word, for the supply of 5000
cycles, to be made in Birmingham,
ft Was found that the cycles could be supplied at
ft profit, even after paying the severe tax of thirty
shillings each. The negotiations, however, fell
through* and for this reason: Said the French
firrrl:—
It is the deliberate intention of our Government not to
have anything manufactured abroad which can be made
equally Well in France. The present duty is 305., but
directly We begin to import large numbers of cycles, our
cycle Workers Will draw the attention of the Chamber to
the fact, arid the duty will be increased to 405., to 605.,
to 120 s. each, or any other siich sum as may be necessary
to put foti out Of the market.
The principle is sufch a sound one that the wonder
is, not that France, America, and Germany adopt
if, but that any country at all should be so stupid
gls not to adopt it. ft would be interesting to
hear the opinion of the French cycle workers oh
the Australian workers’ principle of “ sinking the
fiscal isSue ” —if the French worker could be got
to understahd that there is such an insanity
abroad.
• ♦
The Befooled Farmer.
The extensive adherence of the Victorian farmer,
and in a less degree of various other farmers, to
the Tory party over the matter of the proposed
Federal graduated land-tax is interesting as show-
ing the size to which human credulity can grow.
There is no other class in the community which is
quite so wooden-headed politically as the agri-
culturist ; and the agriculturist who joins him-
self to a “ Farmers’, Property-Owners’ and Pro-
ducers’ Association” is a marvel in wooden-
headedness —his woodenness almost amounts to
a whole sawmill, and his skull is equal in itself to
a considerable stretch of heavily-timbered coun-
try. The farmer’s personal interests all lie with
the party which supports the Federal graduated
land-tax, and when he attaches himself to the
other crowd, and lends his ear to the glozing lies
of the Tory’s hired lecturer, he ranks with the
condemned man who combines with the hangman
to offer a desperate resistance to the man with the
reprieve. The farmer, especially the Victorian
farmer, suffers from two principal grievances, for
both of which the supporters of the Federal
graduated land-tax offer him a remedy :
(1) The artificial scarcity of land, caused by the lock-
ing up of vast areas by greedy, short-sighted, and incom-
petent monopolists, who are waiting for a rise. This
scarcity drives the farmers' sons out of the country to
look for farms. The graduated land-tax party proposes
to remedy this by making the holding of huge areas un-
profitable and impossible—in other words, it proposes to
force a vast amount of land on the market for the benefit
of the farmer and his sons.
(2) The enormous and unnecessary rentals charged by
the big landlord when he does condescend to let the
farmer get at his land. The graduated land-tax party
proposes to make the monopolist sell out to his tenant,
and thus stop the increase of rent.
The farmer himself would, in almost every case,
be exempt from the proposed tax. It is to begin
at a figure (£5000) which would omit him
altogether except in very rare cases. The
whole idea of the graduated land-tax is to
rescue the farmer from his oppressor, the great
land monopolist. The city worker would himself
make little direct gain by the tax, and his action
is mostly philanthropic and patriotic. Yet the
bucolic person is, to a great extent, persuaded by
the stipendiary or gratis liars who go out to hold
forth on behalf of the landlord class, that it is his
interest to stand shoulder to shoulder with his
rack-renter and oppressor against a party which
wants “ to take the land away from the farmer.”
He seldom stops to inquire what the democratic
party would do with the land in the impossible
event of it being “ taken away from the farmer.”
It couldn’t eat the land. It couldn’t drive the
farmer off it to let it he idle, so that the city
population would starve for want of agriculture.
It couldn’t use the whole of the land to hold
Socialistic meetings upon. And the best evidence
that it doesn’t want to extirpate the farmer is that
it proposes to multiply him, and to make him a
greater power irf the land than he is. The plain
and avowed idea of the graduated land-tax is to
exempt the man with a moderate area of land
so that he may grow and flourish. The idea also
is to break up the big estates into an immense
multiplicity of farms so that there may be in-
numerable farmers —so many that they will be
able to vote down any attempt on the part of a
villainous Trades Hall bogey or a malevolent
imaginary Socialistic octopus to tear their pro-
perty from them. The whole scheme of the
graduated land-tax party is to create such a multi-
tude of small farmers, each owning his own bit of
soil, that their strength and numbers will make
oppression impossible. And the idea of the big
landlord and his “Farmers’, Property-Owners’
and Producers’Association ” is to keep the land
in few hands as at present, and consequently to
keep the farmer’s vote small and thin and weak,
so that the trades-unionist of the city will out-
number him hopelessly ; consequently if the city
unionist wants confiscation or any other brutality
of the kind he will be able, supposing the
“Farmers’, Property - Owners’ and Producers’
Association ” has its way, to get it at any time. His
superior voting power will assure that. If the big
landlord believed his own lie about “confiscation ”
and so on he would be enthusiastically in favor of
the extensive cutting-up of estates. He would
want to create an immense community of small
farmers whose votes would buttress him, and pro-
tect the balance of his estate, and save his “ manor
house,” and guard the pile of money received by
him for the portion of the estate that he sold,
against the imaginary confiscators of Melbourne
and Sydney. It is because he doesn’t believe in
his own confiscation bogey that he urges_ the far-
mers to stand by him in a policy that will make
confiscation possible, by preventing the growth of
the farming community, and thus leaving the
balance of power with the alleged frantic Social-
ists of the cities. If the farmers really believe
the landlords’ lie that there is a confiscation scheme
afoot, then should vote for the Federal
graduated land-tax to a rflait. It will break up big
estates among small, independent landholders, and
thus create so many thousandSof new vote 3 against
the alleged intended “ confiscation ” as to make
“confiscation” impossible. The present system
of big estates and scanty agricultural population
makes “confiscation” comparatively easy if the
alleged raging unionist wants to confiscate. Asa
sign of the movement in this direction, the coun-
try districts of Victoria lose two members under
the redistribution scheme—they lose them solely
because the big estates have prevented the growth
of a great agricultural population. And the
alleged incendiary Socialistic and confiscation
party in Melbourne gains a member, wherefore if
“confiscation” is intended it is so much the
nearer.
Casual Police Shooting.
When Sydney Club was raided last week a news-
paper report told how five men jumped from the
roof into a back lane, and were making off when a
senior-constable drew his revolver and' threatened
to shoot the first man that moved. They didn’t
move. The Superintendent of Police, asked
if constables were instructed to use the revolver
in that manner, replied that he had no
knowledge of such an action, and, as it was not
reported to him, he was unable to discuss it.
Asked if the police were authorised to shoot at
fugitives from arrest, the Superintendent “could
only discuss specific cases.” Also, he was
very busy. This inability on the part of the
Police Superintendent to reply to a straight-
forward question, combined with reports of various
shootings by the police, suggests that the police are
instructed, under certain conditions, to shoot at
fugitives, and the public has a right to know
Under what circumstances it is liable to be shot at
by a policeman. Some 18 months ago, a foreigner,
who had occasion to catch an early tram in George-
street, ran along Macquarie-street shortly after
6 a.m. A constable had his suspicions aroused,
and challenged him to stop. The foreigner
did not understand, and rushed on. The policeman
fired, arid a civilian coming round the corner, see-
ing the policeman shooting at a fugitive, also drew
a revolver and joined the fifing party. There
were no casualties. Another zealous officer recently
saw a sulky breaking the record in Riley-street. He
hailed the driver, who didn’t stop, so he showered
bullets in the vicinity. Casualty, a broken win-
dow. Admittedly, police shooting is not very
dangerous to the persons aimed at, but what of
the danger to the casual wayfarer? The police
were armed by the late Premier Dibbs after
a number of them were severely injured
trying to arrest Montgomery and Williams,
house-breakers. At the time there was con-
siderable opposition to the innovation, and
Dibbs declared that the police would only shoot
when dealing with armed burglars and stone-
throwing pushes. They were to be armed merely
to prevent them being at a disadvantage when
dealing with murderous law-breakers. The use of
the revolver to effect the arrest of fleet-footed
petty offenders does not seem to have been then
contemplated. But it is the custom now.
+
Three Paragraphs.
The three following paragraphs, garnered from
different sources, should be read together:—
There were 12,000 native-born Australians in San Fran-
cisco before the earthquake. A good proportion are in a
fair way of business, but the majority are artisans. The
Union Ironworks, one of the biggest engineering and
shipbuilding yards in the United States, employs some
hundreds of Australians.” — Sydney Worker., 17151’06.
Boilermakers are busy, as are also engineers, black-
smiths, and ironworkers’ assistants. They are, however,
mostly engaged on repairs, which will probably cause the
improvement to be of a temporary nature only. Iron-
moulders are very slack, and trade with them is bad.—
Report of W. F. ScnEV, N.S.W. Director of Labor.
Since the publication of particulars of the inspection of
western iron ores by Messrs. Thorn lev and Pennymore,
the firm of W. Sandford, Limited, has received a number
of letters from persons living in different parts of the
State calling attention to iron deposits on their proper-
ties, and asking for tests to be made, with a view to
utilisation in the new blast furnace.— Herald, 16/5/'O6.
There is a case for a statesman in a nutshell!
Unexploited ore deposits; casual work for local
iron-workers, or the alternative of going abroad.
There is a note of pride in the allusion to the
12,000 Australians, a big number of them iron-
workers, driven abroad ; a note of “Thank Provi-
dence for to-day and Heaven help us to morrow ”
in the temporary employment on repairs item ;
and a easualness in the allusion to the iron deposits
that is pathetic. And the country wants popula-
tion ! The country that lets 12,000 of its people
drift away to toil in ironworks, or any other
works, in a foreign land, while it owns the raw
material and possesses a market within its gates,
doesn’t invite population. It invites invasion.
o
Industrial Alcohol.
One of the completed reports of the Tariff Com-
mission deals with “ industrial alcohol,” i.e., the
production of spirit for lighting, heating and
motive power. If at all a careful study has been
given to this question the report should be pf
value. Alcohol is quickly coming to the front in
Europe as a source of power. With incandescent
mantles it makes good light. With proper burners
it heats and cooks. It is an effective substitute
for gas and petrol to drive machinery depending
on a series of small explosions to generate power.
Its advantages are cheapness and ease of carriage.
Alcohol can be produced from almost anything for
almost nothing. Every vegetable product can be
used to produce alcohol, and if impurity doesn’t
matter (and it doesn’t if the stuff is to be used in
a lamp or a motor), the cost of production is the
merest trifle. Australia is peculiarly fitted to be
an alcohol-producing country. In good seasons
its fields produce a vast quantity of green stuff,
which might all bo turned into alcohol and stored
up for power, and used to pump up water in times of
drought, or to do almost any of the work of a
farm or a factory. At present methylated spirit-
crude alcohol, treated so as to make it nauseous to
the taste—is dear, partly on account of the cost
of that treatment, more on account of the
excise duties and the restrictive regulations atten-
ding its sale. Bub industrial spirit could be put
on the market at a cheaper price than oil if some
means could be devised by which it might be
manufactured and sold freely without danger of
going into human stomachs instead of being
devoted to motor work ; and in few places in the
world could it be produced as cheaply as in Aus-
tralia. Few places, too, can give so much scope
for industrial alcohol—undoubtedly one of the
motive powers of the future.
♦
Shoddy.
When the Australian Parliament, on the reports
of the Tariff Commission, comes to deal with tex-
tiles, it should take into serious consideration
whether it is possible by any acl valorem duty,
to do justice to the Australian consumer and
manufacturer. The competition that the local
maker has to fear most is that of the dishonest
cloth which professes to be what it is not; and,
since this cloth is a fraud on the consumer as well
as an injury to the manufacturer, there is no
reason why it should be allowed any consideration,
except such as is strictly unfavorable. The dis-
honest cloth—made up of old rags, and, in some
cases, loaded With clay, flour, minerals and paper
pulp—is produced merely to sell, not to
wear. Ingenuity is exhausted to give it
a good appearance at the lowest possible
cost. There is no thought left to be exercised as
to its staying power ; it is strictly a short-time
sprinter. Being produced at a fraction of the
cost of a pure wool cloth, and yet simulating it
closely to the uninitiated eye, shoddy can stand a
duty of 20, 30, 40, 50 per cent, ad valorem, and
still successfully carry on its dishonest warfare
against the honest article. A specific duty is the
only effective bar to shoddy. If it were called
upon to pay per yard a sum equal to (say) a 40
per cent, duty on the lowest-priced woollen cloth,
shoddy would stay out of Australia. And there
is no good reason why it shouldn’t. It is not
wanted here. Perhaps it has some essential place
in the life of a city like London, where the
wretched, shiftless poor buy halfpenny-worths of
coal, and pennyworths of meat, and a suit of
shoddy fora few shillings. But there is not in Aus-
tralia any great mass of miserable poverty which
must submit to the robbery involved in such
“cheapness.” The Commonwealth can do with-
out shoddy.
Pushing the Liquor Trade.
N. 9 W. District Court Judge Murray, the other
day, put his finger on a truth when he remarked
that the huge profits made in the liquor business
attracted many competitors and made them
“ push the trade.” It is by “ pushing the trade ”
that Bung is hanging himself. Making honest
beer and selling it to the public, wholesale or
retail, is a worthy enough business, and usually
exceedingly profitable. But it is a business that
is going, if it has not altogether gone, out of
fashion. The modern brewer is a mighty capi-
talist who makes as cheap beer as he can, sells
it at as high prices as he can, and, to make
his trade connection safe, acquires liens on
the pubs, that he supplies. This tied-house
business made great fortunes for the “first rob-
bers.” But when others followed their ex-
ample, and brewers had to compete for “ties,”
all the gilt was soon rubbed off the ginger-bread,
and the brewer of to-day finds that his good
business of selling beer is tangled up with a very
unprofitable real-estate and money - lending
branch. To pay dividends on both branches.
Beer is flogged on to extra efforts. “Trade is
pushed.” And poor old beer threatens to burst
its boilers in the gallant effort to meet the
demands made upon it. In plain English, the
Bung business threatens to fall to pieces because
it is pushed too hard. The woman voter in par-
ticular becomes restive. Civilised communities
are getting more and more to hold that alcoholic
drinks are not necessary; pleasant maybe, desir-
able even, but not necessary. At the same time,
they are getting more and more impatient of the
evils of the drink trade—the evils consequent upon
trade being pushed. No long tolerance can be hoped
for a business which has, as one of its incidental
methods, the deliberate encouragement of drinking
amongst the most poorly paid of the population,
until from 25 to 50 per cent, of their wages is
absorbed in beer. A possibility is that the beer
business will be “ pushed ” until it goes over the
precipice of Prohibition. More probably, the
ultimate remedy for the evils of the drink, traffic
will be found in another measure of Socialism.
If all drink were manufactured by the
State and retailed by State servants, with no
interest in “pushing business,” nmst of the evils
of alcoholic indulgence would disappear. But
the indulgence would remain. That is what
civilisation wants—the indulgence without the
evils.
+
The J.P. Scandal.
J.P-ISM is still a scandal in N.S.W., despite the
threats and promises of Premier after Premier.
Absolutely illiterate men have lately been dis-
covered —men who can sign only their names by a
form of picture drawing, are unable to read a
written document, and can only make out a few
words in a printed one and yet these men are
Justices of the Peace, may take and attest
evidence, and sit on the Bench and pass judg-
ment. This staring ignorance is not always their
worst feature. They are, besides, too often venal
or prejudiced. They shield friends and persecute
enemies. Carruthers says they are useful for
small legal purposes in the backblocks. That was
the story of Waddell and See. It was the story
back to the days of Donaldson. But even
if true, it does not justify the multiplica-
tion of the species that goes on. There
are more Js.P. in Sydney than in London,
there are more in the backblocks than
in rural England. Either those small legal pur-
poses should be freed from the need of a J.P.
signature, or persons without other magisterial
powers should be appointed to sign. Premier
James Martin had a reform of this sort m mind,
but only got the length of bursting up J.P. rings.
It was customary in his day for all the adult males
of a squatter’s or merchant’s or publican’s family
to be Js.P. When the old man was prosecuted he
and his three sons sat on the Bench to hear the case.
Martin notified all families that only one member
would be retained, and, leaving it to themselves to
choose the mem her, he ordered the others to send in
their resignations. But Martin left off there.
Then stipendiary and licensing magistrates were
invented as a means of squeezing the J.P. into
obscurity. But he is still a nuisance. If the
small legal purposes must continue to need a J.P.
in the backblocks, there should be a special
appointment of persons whose functions would be
strictly limited to those purposes.
Premier Tom Price’s growing popularity in the
9. Australian up-country districts looks like win-
ning an easy majority for him next elections. The
up-country people thought the Labor man neces-
sarily wore claws and foamed at the mouth, and
he turns out to be a very mild—too mild—elderly
gentleman with white hair, and he goes to ‘ ‘ chapel”
(which counts for much in 9. Australia) and
teaches in 9unday-school. So several half-
baked National Ass sympathisers in the
House are busy turning their coats. But
the Ass still has the Leg. Council, though
even that House ia expected to vote for ther
municipalisation of the city trams. Fact is*.
Prick, though no business man, has put the Ass in
a hole, for the tram cos. are to get the thumping
price of £280,000 on condition that municipalisa-
tion is authorised by Parliament. Now the Asa
and its elder brother, Private Enterprise, _ are
looking first at the £280,000 and then at Socialism,
to which it is hobbled, and from which it can’t be-
separated, and they are deciding that Socialism,
isn’t really so horrible, after all.
*.
Admiral C. C. Penrose Fitzgerald, in the
April National Review, on “Colonial Naval
Defence ”: —
Australia had alreadymade a beginning, but her infant
navy was crushed shortly after birth, under the plea that
it would be cheaper and better for her to pay a small dona-
tion to the Home Government for providing navai
defence, instead of doing it herself. Cheaper it may be,
but certainly not better; as being totally at variance
with the spirit and the principles of a self-governingcom-
munity. At present, none of the colonies add anything
to the strength of the British navy. They do—those that
subscribe—relieve the taxpayers in these islands by the
very small amount of their donations. Yet the fact
remains that our navy would be exactly the same strength
as it is at present whether the colonies subscribed or not.
Whereas if they were now to start navies of their
own, on ever so small a scale, they would in a few
years add materially to the maritime strength _ of
the Empire. All things must have a beginning, but if a
beginning is not made there can never be any result. I.et
it be granted, then, that for some years to come any navy
which Australia, or any of the colonies, could form or
maintain would be of small fighting value ; that it would
be a mere water-baby ; a sea-urchin, if you like ; yet that
does not appear to be a valid argument against starting
such navies, for the same might be used against all
babies. .. . The present arrangement, by which the
Commonwealth and Maoriland pay small donations (and
are scolded for not paying more) towards the upkeep
of a squadron in Australian waters, is satisfactory to
nobody. In the first place, it is founded on a strategically
false idea. It adds nothing to the naval strength of the
Empire as a whole. It only relieves the British taxpayer
by an infinitesimal and insignificant amount; and 1
it is galling to the amour propre of the colonists*
themselves. I would venture to submit that the proper,
far-seeing, and truly statesmanlike policy to pursue is to-
remit immediately the money payment of the colonies,
making no change whatever in the distribution of Im-
perial warships; leaving it to the Commonwealth, and
such other colonies as chose to do so, to take the initia-
tive, and spend what money they please in starting
navies of their own, on similar lines to; their armies, the*
Imperial Government freely lending, gratis—even as a
wise father trains a son—suitable ships, and highly-
trained instructors, so as to begin on the same plan as the
Japanese did—viz., to train the personnel before buying
the ships.
There is so much national work ahead of the_ Aus-
tralian Government during the coming session—
Prime Minister Deakin, by the way, does not fall
in with the Reid idea of making the session short
and barren—that it seems almost a pity to suggest
any “ machinery measures.” But it is necessary
that the Cabinet should make the Arbitration Act
effective. At present it is not possible for
the Act to be enforced because there _ is
no judge available for the work. The High
Court cannot suspend its appellate jurisdiction
to allow an Arbitration Court to be constituted,
holding, rightly, that the hearing of appeals is its
most important duty. Thus an Act which
wrecked two Ministries, and occupied the atten-
tion of Parliament for over two years, is suspended
because of the lack of an official. When the High
Court was first constituted, The Bulletin held
that five Judges were necessary. That contention
is now amply justified. The Prime Minister
should early seek authority to make at least one
new judicial appointment. Tt is unlikely that
even the factious Reid Opposition would attempt
to block that.
♦
A Balaclava (Vic.) elector writes
It is announced that the Labor party will, at the Aus-
tralian elections in December, contest a far larger number
of seats than it did in 1903. This is the sort of statement
that must be viewed with mixed feelings by those who are
honestly desirous of seeing Reid's anti-Socialist bogey
wiped off the face of the earth. The Labor party in Par-
liament is mostly Protectionist, but a Foreign-trade
minority, chiefly from N.S.W., threatens to split the
party up if the majority decides to make it a Protectionist
body. So Labor “ sinks the fiscal issue.” Victoria is
mostly Protectionist, and in Victoria the Protec-
tionist party is the democratic party. Still there is
a Tory and Foreign-trade and anti-Land-tax and
pro-nigger minority to be reckoned with. Wherever this
crowd is at all strong, a fiscal-sinking candidate can split
the vote and let the Tory person in. A large body of
Protectionist denTocrats will not vote the Labor ticket
while the Labor party sinks the fiscal issue and is willing
to do the dirty work of the anti-Australian importers.
Another section of democrats will vote Labor reluctantly,
and trust to the party acquiring more sense later on. In
this electorate we already have a democratic and Protec-
tionist candidate in view—we must have one unless Labor
is willing to represent the democratic-Protectionist senti-
ment. Half-a-dozen men are scrambling for the Labor
and fiscal-sinking nomination. Between the two, Iceberg
Irvine, or some one like him, will capture the seat, and
Tom Mann (himself a bigoted Foreign-trader who urges
on the fiscal-sinking insanity) will say something wild
and copious about “chains.” But what good will the
banging of ex-beershop-keeper Mann’s “ chains ” do us
if, by reason of the splitting of the democratic vote, we
are represented by Iceberg Irvine?
A North Queenslander, W. ,T. Munro, sugar-
mill director, mine director (he is almost the largest
holder in the O.K. cc rper mine), squatter, and
other things, lately returned to the north after a
visit to Maoriland, where he went to study
things, especially with a view to butter-making—
butter-making in North Queensland, where “the
white man can’t w'ork ‘ {vide Spruce Myth) !
Said Munro, on returning
At the Evelyn Tableland and Atherton we have a better
climate than on the North Coast; on the Russell and
Mulgrave Rivers the climate also is very similar,
especially towards the end of the year.
His idea is to form “a dairy bank,” a sort of co-
operative concern to introduce dairy cows, etc.,
selling them to farmers on long terms; and
Munro, this man who knows North Queensland
as few men know it, says that his cheque for
£2OOO is waiting to go into the scheme. When
you come to think of it, that £2OOO cheque, with
which this man who knows is prepared to back
North Queensland even for dairying purposes,
talks a lot louder than Bruce Smith shrieks.
The Argus the other day commenced an attack
upon the Australian Labor party with the remark
that Socialism was unknown in Maoriland, and
that the progressive people of those islands treated
the term with contempt. But, after all, it is not
the name, but the thing itself which matters. Tt
is quite true that there is no Socialist party—so-
called—worth mentioning in Maoriland ; but it is
also true that Maoriland legislation is thickly
studded with Socialistic ideas. And it is a
thousand pities that the Australian democrats do
not give up worrying about the namje of Socialism,
and cast the “ objective ” into the dustheap, and
devote themselves wholly, as the Maorilanders
did, to getting the legislation they want. I here
is nothing gained by telling everybody where they
hope that legislation will lead to; they should
just let it lead there, and say nothing about the
destination. And the legislation would be the
same whether it was called Socialism or anything
else. A name is often a serious handicap.


V,
1/
y
Galla &etvis
GOLD
PLATE
Tobacco,
and
Cigarettes
Him : “ I'll lay you two to
one on the Gold Plate."
Her : “ I'll take you if
you make it Gallaher’s
Ciyarettes.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “ The Prodigal Son.”
Criterion “The Man from Mexico.
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace Theatre “ Nell Gwynne.”
Lyceum Hall Frank T. Bullen.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Her Majesty’s “The Dictator.”
Tiikatrk Royal “ The Birds of London.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Atiikn/EOI Hall West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
-V
“ You have thrown away material enough
for five books,” Kipling wrote to F. T. Bullen after
the whaler had published his “Cruise of the Cacha-
lot.” Wherein spoke the master-craftsman,
while Bullen knew no craft but that of the sea.
He had to rely on his matter; he hadn’t the
trick of saving up for the next, and filling
in with literary frill and furbelow. As with the
writer, so with the lecturer. If he has a style,
it is unconscious. He just knows things, and
talks them. The only trick he has learned is to
come out armed with a c ine, and that gives him
something to do with those hands that few
lecturers have any use for ; and, besides, he can
thresh out his arguments better. The lantern
pictures at the back of him excuse the stick, and
serve as reels to wind his yarns around. Here is an
Irish terrier (at any rate, there was Irish terrier
blood in the veins of one of his ancestors),
shabby, unlovely, tied up to a stanchion. It be-
longed to the captain ; yet two of the crew fought
over it, because one day its fickle affections had
passed over from one to the other—the other had
mumbled a dry biscuit in his gums so that the dog
might have " his titbits. Whereupon Bullen
yarns about the reservoir of unrequited affection
stored up in the evil-smelling, unventilated
fo’c’stle, ready to pour out on anything—especially
anything that can’t talk back : dog, cat, monkey,
bird, or pig. But mostly the sailor is an unsenti-
mental, unromantic person, who sees nothing
in the wonders of the sea. Bullen talks of
the captain with 30 years’ thrilling experi-
ences at the back of him who confessed
that he had been reading up “The Art
of Conversation ” in a desperate struggle
to get hold of something to talk about to his
passengers. Then, incidentally, he hits the
canting humbug hard—the canting humbug who
prays aloud for those in peril on the sea, and sends
them there, 12 or 14 able seamen before the mast
on a ship that 30 years ago carried 34 or 36.
“ Mechanical appliances, my dear madame,” says
the managing owner to the philanthropic widow
who has put her savings into the business and has
heard something of these things, and protests
feebly—“mechanicalcontrivances, madam ! They
have so lightened the sailors’ work.” “The
liars ! ” Bullen almost hisses. He is a lecturer
who feels what he is talking about.
* * * *
For a very earnest, serious man is F. T.
Bullen, and a man with a mission. Several mis-
sions. One is to rouse England to do something
in the way of training men for her mercantile
marine. Not one training ship has the British
Government on the deep seas—and Germany,
Italy, France, even Belgium, have many.
Another is to get better treatment for
Jack. Food? Yes, the food is better, and so is
the pay ; but and “ Hullo ! ” Bullen says to an
old shipmate, dragging himself along the London
street on two crutches. It happened thrashing
up the Channel, and both legs were broken. They
took him to the Dreadnought Hospital, and they
patched up his legs like this ; and now, useless, he
was crawling up to the workhouse. Not a penny
of compensation could that seaman get; yet there
was not another workman deliberately left with-
out it. Bo Bullen yarns through his two hours—
brightening them now and again, as, for instance,
with that old sea-battler who, Bullen meeting him
in Bombay, said he had got a job ashore : “he
was a virgin upat the seamen’s mission-church”—
which leads up to some remarks about seamen’s
missions. Three lectures followed this first on
“ Romance and Reality at Sea” —and the chances
are that the same thing will happen in Sydney
that happened in Melbourne, where General
Desire commanded Bullen to do them all over
again. The Sydney season is at the Lyceum,
under R. S. Smythe’s management.
* * * *
The gay vivacity of Miss Grace Palotta, the
quaint humorousness of Hugh Ward, and the
crisp fun of George Willoughby—not to speak of
Cook and others—carry “ The Man from Mexico ”
along a wave of laughter at Sydney Criterion.
Houses for the past week have been packed, and
public approval seems to have sentenced the
comedy to a long stay.
* * * *
“The Country Girl,” with the help of the
Rajah of Bhong, will easily, carry the Comic Opera
season through the necessary fortnight of prepara-
tion for “ The Little Michus,” at Her Majesty’s.
“Veronique” was so far ahead of the average
musical comedy stuff of to-day that this other
work of Messager’s will get the warmest sort of
welcome when it does arrive. Meantime, Bhong !
Bantock, who can do nothing else so well, and Miss
Evelyn Scott, who is better suited as Nan than in
any other part, carry their end of the Girl with
great success ; Miss Florence Young and Haigh
Jackson make an equal success of their music;
and Miss Margaret Thomas, who is the Princess
that Miss Celia Ghiloni used to be, seems as
though she will be glad when she can be some-
thing else. But her “Under the Deodars ”is one
of the real things of the piece.
** # *
This looks like the resurrection of “Box
and Cox ” from the coal-shed and the dust-bin —
two “comedy sketches” running on the one
programme of the Tivoli. And the audience
likes them. When you come to think of it, the
old farce iri its last days never got a chance:
it was pinned on to the end of the programme,
and was supposed to go with a loud enough bang
to drown the noise of the people scuffling out to
catch the boat. By and bye it was all bang. Now
they are treating the farce better, putting it in
places of honor, and killing the calf for it, and
the house hardly recognises its old reformed
friend. For the rest the Tivoli programme con-
sists largely of people who balance themselves in
unexpected ways, or use themselves to balance
other things on.
KING DICK, FROM MAORILAND.
Australia hasn’t a prettier, cosier little
house for a show of the drawing-room sort than
the Palace ; and there on Saturday night Leslie
Harris and Madame Yeamans-Titus open their
Sydney season under Mr. Allan Hamilton’s
management. In England they compare Harris
to Grossmitli; but he can’t have a much better
introduction to Sydney than that he is the worthy
successor of Mel. B. Spurr. As for Madame Y.T.
and her baby songs, they don’t need introducing.
They, so to speak, crow for themselves.
* * * *
Last nights of “The Prodigal Son ” are
announced, but the sinner has still a chance to sit
and study the wickedness of Monte Carlo side by
side with the clergyman who is getting material
for next Sunday’s sermon out of the great moral
lessons in which the wickedness is wrapped.
“ For England ” is to follow.
* -* * *
Mr. W. R. Beattie and the chorus were
the best things in “ Nell Gwynne,” produced by
Mr. Philip Lytton’s Players on Saturday at the
Palace. It is not fair to Mr. Beattie to class
him under the heading of things, but items
would not be any more flattering, and
after all flowers and perfumes and birds
are things. And there is no new thing under the
sun, as the weary Solomon said. Planquette’s
comic opera is no exception, but has not been
played her for some years, so the audience looked
at it with a freshened appreciation. Mr. Beattie
played Lord Buckingham in a gallant, scallv-
waggish style. Miss Joyce Ross looked,
so this writer thinks, much finer and
more stylish than did the all-conquering
orange girl. Miss Ross has a pianoish soprano of
sweet quality. Miss Jean Maclurcan, as Jessa-
mine, was as usual a graceful, modest artiste, and
her “ Tic-Tac ” song was encored again and again.
Miss Leah Boyd was a feature of great merit, and
Messrs. R. B. Orchard, Frank Arnold, Forbes
Orr, and Ethel Phillips are hereby commended.
The piece will run till the end of the week.
* * # *
The Maoriland International Exhibition
is now assuming definite shape. The buildings
are fast nearing completion. The Housing Com-
mittee is making arrangements for visitors,
and so far has arranged extra accommodation
to the extent of 20,000 beds. The art gallery has
been completed-. It 'contains 12 large rooms, eight
of which have been allotted to British and Con-
tinental pictures. The erection of a Maori pah
is proceeding; in this it is proposed to illustrate
Maori life, by producing Maori poi dances and
hakas.
* fU fie *
In “Dr. Wake’s Patient” the dramatists
(there are two) appeal to the Family Herald
taste of theatre-goers at large, Melbourne will,
doubtless, express its approval of this dramatic
lollypop in the usual manner. It is a pure arid
wholesome piece of sweetstriff which can be Wat-
ranted not to leave a mental toothache behind it.
And there is a pleasing spice of humor in the
sugar. The Brough-Flerriitting Co. might have
offered a more forcible play to the public with
less chance of filling the Princess’s for weeks to
come. Dr. Wake and his young Lady Geraniaare
the sairie pair of first-sight lovers who have figured
in a thousand short stories and comediettas. As a
rule they strike up an acquaintance in a railway
train, and, having parted at the end of the
journey, they presently meet again unexpectedly
—to part no more. In the present case Lady
Gerania gets introduced to her man of destiny
through being thrown from a horse, and the man
captures her affections by tying a bandage round
her fore-arm. He, likewise, becomes enslaved.
It is one of the quickest mutual attach-
ments recorded in fiction. Then they lose
sight of one another, and the lady pines for the
doctor, and the doc. dreams of her until she comes
to his consulting-room to get a prescription for
love-sickness. They are clearly doomed to
matrimony, but the play cannot end right
there. The path to the altar must be pro-
vided with an obstacle. Dr. Wake’s father
is the obstacle. His mother also would amount
to an impediment if she were not a mere trifle in
comparison with “faythur.” Old man Wake is
so awfully bucolic a person to introduce into
Lady Gerania’s family circle that the Earl and
Countess rightly proclaim him Impossible.
As a matter of fact, he’s Incredible. When
his lack of civilisation is forced upon his notice
he delivers a short speech to the effect that a
small landowner who tills his land is quite a fit
person to have a fashionable doctor for an off-
spring—but his eloquence misses the ’bus. He is
not a proper individual for a high-priced M.D. to
inflict upon the sympathies of an eminently
respectable mother - in - law. He talks of
washing the sweat off himself with a
long beer, or words to that effect. In
an Andersonian melodrama the elder Wake
would opportunely drop dead and clear the atmo-
sphere, but in this narrative he asserts his yeoman
independence by snorting at the toffs who ‘ ‘ doan’t
want the likes o’ ’e,” and marches away from
a fashionable watering-place, taking his wife and
son with him and leaving all the luggage behind.
A painful ending to a visit which had opened so
brightly with a pork pie, and a consignment of
home-made sausages for Dr. Wake !
* * * •
The play could be neatly ended in the
third act by the medico banging his fevered brow
and crying “ Never introduce your donah to your
dad.” This, however, would not be a charming
termination. A sweet finish is secured in a second
interview between the noble Earl and farmer
Wake. The old man, suddenly conscious of his
loud vulgarity, proposes to go away and
lose himself. Whereupon the converted Earl
begs him to stay and be an honor to
all parties concerned in the marriage of
Lady Gerania. The dialogue and minor charac-
terisation in “Dr. Wake’s Patient” will com-
mend it to discerning critics of the plot. And
the acting is more than equal to the situations.
Miss Beatrice Day presents an interesting,
unyouthful Gerania, whilst Carter Bickford is a
tame lady-killing sort of doctor. Herbert Flem-
ming’s make-up as the impossible farmer is at
MELBOURNE FASHIONS.
“ A La Shinutmura.”
least true to the things he says and does.
Miss Major fills the bill as the farmer’s
wife, and Mrs. Brough fits herself fairly well to
the part of a maternal Countess, whose principal
means of support is a smelling-bottle. The Earl
is a deplorably wooden person, but Philip Leslie
makes the points which come easy to him. Miss
Emma Temple has a happy ten minutes in the
doctor’s waiting-room, and Miss Fraser is a bright
assistant character. The mounting goes for much,
the third act scene being a triumph for painter
Waite.
*» * *
At Her Majesty’s the first appearance of
William Collier and his American co. is to happen
on Saturday. The belated “star’’comes with a
reputation from two countries, and the plays he
shines in are said to be so droll that they have to
pause occasionally to give the audience a chance
to wallow in mirth. The opening shriek is “ The
Dictator,” a farce-comedy, or a comedy-farce,
written expressly for Collier aforesaid by his ad-
miring fellow-countryman, Richard Harding
Davis.
** * *
Since the time when Fritz Mueller, an
under-sized lad in his ’teens, was put on the
market as an infant phenomenon, there had been
no appearance of a juvenile musician at Mel-
bourne Town Hall until Leila Doubleday took the
platform last week. The great crowd came along
to hear the 12-year-old Leila perform, on
violin and piano, and found her a remarkable
young artist. Her talent and “ soul ” for music
are at present more apparent in her piano-playing
than in her other capacity, but she is said to pre-
fer the violin, and she gave several suggestions,
the other night, of a fine feeling for the portable
instrument. At the piano she was unmistakeably
great—for her age. Marshall Hall has compared
Leila Doubleday to Percy Grainger, the boy piahist
of yore, but the juvenile Percy was merely a brainy
practitioner, who had swallowed the doctrine
that genius is the art of taking pains, Leila
Doubleday is something more than, an exception-
ally thoughtful and practised child , pi,anjst with
a retentive memory. She gets hold pf an audience
as the ordinary professional woman, can’t. She
played three numbers (and encore pieces), and
in each of them she was an impressive success.
fit * * *
At the Athenaeum Hall the excellence of
West’s Pictures is being fully maintained eight
times a week, including the matinees. On Satur-
day a number of breezy ocean scenes were pro-
bably the best of the lot, but the pictures from
first to last were better than the average biograph
results, and the voice of General Opinion uttered
eloquent testimony to their merits. The Brescians,
introducing musical relief midway in the show,
have the virtue of moderation. They arrive when
they are wanted, and they don’t stay too long.
* * * fit
A concert of vast magnitude will be given
at the Town Hall next Tuesday (29th) for the fare-
well benefit of Hector Lightfoot, whose fine tenor
voice is going to Europe. The multitude that
likes to take its music cheerfully, and
prefers a “mixed” programme to a soulful
one will find everything it requires at the Light-
foot concert. It will be mixed even to the extent
of a recitation by Miss Charlotte Hemming.
Among a mighty host of singers, Madame Jansen
is warranted to appear for the first time since
Melbourne heard her in opera years ago.
fit fit fit fit
Glen’s Concert Hall is a place of frequent
entertainment these times. Next Monday (28th)
Miss Maggie Mather, a pupil of Edward Scharf,
is to undertake a pianoforte recital of classic
works, the accomplished Scharf supplying an
“ orchestral accompaniment ” to the Chopin con-
certo on a second piano.
fit fit fit fit
At the Theatre Royal the amusing Chair
of Death will be taken by Miss Duggan for the
last time on Friday night. On Saturday “ The
Night Birds of London ” resume their search for
prey. The Night Birds flapped their wings with
great success during a previous Anderson season,
and the return of those depredatory wild fowl is
anxiously expected by patrons of sensational
yellodrama.
fit fit fit fit
“ Tambour Major ” is running strongly at
Adelaide Royal, and a large section of young
middle-aged people is busy pretending not to
remember its first appearance, 25 years ago.
Those who saw it when “ quite a kiddie, you
know,” mostly find that some of the long-cherished
flavor has gone out of it. The taste of to-day
does not give much for anything that the French
army may have done; it prefers Johnnies or
Gibson Girls. But “ Tambour ”is an acceptable
revival, and it is briskly acted. At the Tivoli,
Walter Sanford’s “American players” seem to
have taken root. Coming in a speculative way two
months ago, they have put on a number of pretty
bad melodramas, acted them as though they
believed them masterpieces, and hit a section of
the community in a tender spot. Just now they
are playing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” which is
generally a sign of weakness ; but there can be no
doubt that this co. does the deed because it wants
to, and not because it has to. “Living London ”
has come back to the Town Hall, and it has the
deep cunning to include “Animated Adelaide”
as well. Adelaide is tickled at the idea that it
really is animated.
The Boer is still the bogey-man of South
Africa. First, German S’Africans squealed that
he was leading their niggers against them. Then
Jingoes declared that he was stirring up the Zulus
against Natal. Now the Angola Portuguese think
they have discovered a Boer “plot” to seize the
Mossamedes coast and harbor. Next we shall
hear that the Boer is conspiring with John Wren
to fortify Collingwood and assassinate Bent.
S. M. Herald, in a recent article on the
sight and hearing test for the N.S.W. railway
employees:
Nor can we accept without categorical proof the state-
ment that the tests were invented in America as a device
for reducing, or getting rid of, the better salaried em-
ployees. Tactics of that sort might pass under the
American system, of privately-owned railways, but it is
not to be believed that the State in Australian com-
munities would consent to seeing its property adminis-
tered in this manner.
(Italics ours.) Seems then that Socialism has
some good points about it, after all; and that
“private enterprise” isn’t always the best bless-
ing.
Canada has no intention of putting up with
unscrupulous traitors such as filled Australia with
the Six Hatters lie and the Petriana myth. Her
lately-passed “Act respecting false representa-
tions to induce or deter immigration ” contains
this comprehensive section :
Every person who does, in Canada, anything for the
purpose of causing or procuring the publication or circu-
lation ... in a country outside Canada, of false repre-
sentations as to the opportunities for employment . . .
or to induce or deter or prevent immigration ... by any
such false representations . . . shall ... be liable on
summary conviction to a penalty of not more than 1000
dollars and not less than 50 dollars for each offence.
The possibility of being struck with a £2OO fine
would cool the lying ardor of the Australian
Stinking Fish press.
The rumpus, among the sects, over the
amendment of the English Education Act shows
how incomplete any sort of Education must be
which does not train the mind to a just apprecia-
tion of D.C.L. whisky. It is noticeable that the
most quarrelsome of the sectarians are stern
opponents of all whisky. In such cases a nip of
D.C.L., the whisky of the wise, should be taken
compulsorily—in a cup of tea.*
Sydney suburban councils, noting that the
Water and Sewerage Board has lately been paying
about £50,000 a year into the consolidated revenue
as “ surplus ” after meeting working expenses and
interest, clamors for a reduction of rates. But
no provision is being made by the W. and S.
Board for a sinking fund. It finances on the
theory that the drain and the water-pipe are
eternal. An agitation that the £50,000 a year
which now goes into Joseph Carruthers’ “surplus”
should be devoted to reducing the loan account
would be reasonable; but a reduction in rates,
when actuarily the operations of the Board in-
volve a huge loss, would be wicked in the extreme.
When wintry tears my eyes o’erflow
In painful sympathy with my nose,
I rest my heavy head and sigh
For some relief or I shall die.
The hacking cough, the hard-drawn breath,
Can only mean approaching death,
But no, the remedy, Life’s Renewer,
Is found in Woods’ - Great Peppermint Cure.*


FISHER S Beauty Pills.
a
m
5?
1
m
m
V
Ladies and Children Always Take Them.
They ensure Clear and Bright Complexions.
Their Origin— One of the busiest, highest-qualified, and
wealthiest doctors in modern medical science supplied
the formulae of these famous pills at the special request
of Fisher & Co. The name of the physician will be
supplied on application.
Each
Pill iO~
Contains
fExt. Jalap, Ext. Gentian, Ext. Hyoscyamus.
Ooinpouncl Ext. Golocynth.
VPodophyllin, Leptandrin, Oil of Peppermint.
There is no mystery about
the component parts of. .
Fisher’s Liver Pills
Gentlemen find that Fisher’s Liver Pills GENTLY but
absolutely cure BILIOUSNESS !
One Shilling 1
PER BOX
All Chemists
& Storekeeper
Insist upon receiving FISHER’S.
♦ —
Sole Manufacturers—
FISHER & CO*j CHEMISTS & DRUGGISTS,
337 George St., Sydney
(OPPOSITE G.P. OFFICE).
AT POVERTY POINT.
Frances Alda w’rites from Brussels :—“ Thanks for your
notice, l/4/’O6. Allow me to correct one or two particu-
lars. My grandmother, Madame Simonsen, did not give
me singing lessons. I was much too young. When she
died I was 16 years old. One year later Mr. Armes Beau-
mont gave me three months’ singing tuition for nothing.
It was he who introduced me to Mr. Williamson, and I
made my debut, not as a chorus girl, but in Flora Graup-
ner’s part of principal girl in the panto. 1 Matza ’ at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney. I am engaged for three years
at Covent Garden, not to sing second roles, but as prima
“?” na ’. an d make my debut during the month of May as
Guda, in 1 Rigoletto,’ which I am to sing with Caruso.”
It was an “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” co., and the star actors
were the bloodhounds. The co. had its ups and its downs,
but never got so low that it had to eat a bloodhound,
finally Fortune smiled, and in Slowtown there w’as a
bumper season of two consecutive nights, and the cash
receipts were over £lO. The faithless manager, dazed at
the sight of so much wealth, lit out for paths unknown
with the cashbox. The deserted co. pursued him for
miles that night and next day with the bloodhounds.
The villain still fled, and still the bloodhounds followed
him, until at last, weary and worn, he sank down on the
bank of a creek, and the panting hounds came up with
him. Then he took them and started another “ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin ” co.
Rickards, off again in search of more talent for his
faithful patrons, has been telling them in his inevitable
speech from the stage that he no longer engages expensive
performers for 30 weeks at a stretch. His limit in these
rapid times is an engagement of 15 weeks, with, perhaps,
the option of adding another five to the term. The new
system has been yielding handsome profits, and a big
salary in every case has been a success. But the policy
of Rickards is wiser than of yore in other matters than
his engagements of principal “ turns.” Last year he
promised that, for the future, he would import no “ make-
weight ” people, having come to the conclusion that he
could buy better performers in the local market. He
kept his word—in a large measure. The average quality
of the show has improved, and some very good work has
been put in by Australians, whose nationality, however,
assumes a vaguely foreign appearance on the programme.
Unie Russell once more leaves the stage with the break-
ing up of the Knight-Jefferies co. The damozel does
not like the life, and returns with joy to her musical
studies at Melbourne ’Varsity conservatoire, where she
will learn to warble under Madame Jansen. She was pro-
moted to lead in “ Davy Garrick,” and played the part
so well that her retirement from stage life seems re-
grettable.
Maud Jeffries, who left the stage at the closing of the
Knight-Jeffries season in Adelaide, says that it has been
her ardent ambition for some time to go to her husband’s
station and burn down. It sounds like a pioneer instinct
—the call of the wild over again. Anyhow, she won’t
have time for burning down just yet, for she and her
husband rush off at once on a visit to her people in
America, and for a while she will have to content herself
with doing a little ring-barking in Philadelphia. Miss
Jeffries has been on the stage twelve years, and is said to
hate it cordially.
In a competition of Melbourne showmen for the “ dis-
tinguished patronage ” of the little Jap tars there was
only one winner, li. S. Smythe got them for Bullen’s
lecture. The subject of course was the bait. But
Smythe might put in his personal claim as the first
manager who took a company of Europeans to Japan,
some 40 years ago. If he were to lay this ancient claim
before the Mikado or the Lord High Executioner the
much-travelled R.S.S. would doubtless be decorated with
something or other, like Oole of the Book Arcade.
“Suss”: Your poetess, Dorothy McCrae (B. 17/5/’O6),
has some beautiful pink plans of the dreamy things she
would do on the stage if she were a chorus-girl. If
Dorothy were to float rapturously and languorously out of
the chorus in that foamy fashion, she would be fined half-
a-crown the first night and get sacked as a lunatic the
second, while the remarks made to her by the stage
manager would provide her with material for an even
finer poem than she has written.
“Snell” : Seeing Prof. Kemp, “ The Wild Colonial Boy,”
a mighty Australian rider of the distempered Horse, knock-
ing about Melbourne, I am moved to inquire why in the
name of decency he doesn’t get his hair cut. The Prof,
wears long, oiled ringlets hanging down to his shoulders.
Not thick, straight hair, like the Greasers and wild and
woolly Texans who have set him the shocking example
of shagginess, but real candle curls, awful to behold.
Nearly all the tough rough riders associated with him are
hairy monsters, who seem to hate barbers more than even
musicians and poets do. The Wild Westers introduced
long manes hereabouts, but why have professional Aus-
tralian horsemen adopted the unclean custom ? Why do
men following a pursuit essentially manly seek an effemi-
nate disguise that makes them look like apostles of a
religious fake or foreign cranks with music on the brain ?
The Australian horseman has a contempt for ridiculous
excess in the matter of hair, and if he wants to be re-
spected he will not abandon his wholesome monthly crop
with a horse-clipper on going into the show business.
Clara Butt, whom the Taits have engaged for an
Australian tour, has been singing in public since 1892.
She was born 33 years ago, near Brighton, the English
seaside resort after which Vic. Premier Bent’s suburb is
named, but passed her early years among the Anglo-
French inhabitants of Jersey. She was first mistakenly
trained as a soprano. One of her later teachers was
Bouhy, of Paris, under whom Amy Castles studied. Her
mother, she says, had a beautiful voice—the same kind
of contralto ashers—but never used it professionally.
“ Philo ” : Asked six men their opinion of that sob in
five acts, “The Fatal Wedding.” All said “Rot” (or
words to that effect). Asked the same number of women.
They all said : “ It’s a beautiful play. I cried nearly all
the time ” (or something like that).
“L.E.”: Listened to a Chow orchestra last night.
Counted several sounds, all highly diseased. It was a
selection from the Grand Opera, “ The Yellow Moon,” by
Wun Lung, the celestial Wagner. It suggested a cabbage
garden in an advanced state of decomposition ; and under
the yellow moon the Dragon of Ten Thousand Stenches
broke out and trampled on the vegetables. I could dis-
tinctly hear him getting over the fence. The orchestra
consisted of big cymbals, gongs, wooden drums, one
string fiddle, the moon fiddle (an instrument something
like a mandoline with four strings), oboes (with the tiniest
reeds, flavored with garlic), a trumpet that rendered
loudly one consecutive note, another invention of Satan’s
something like bagpipes, only worse, triangles, tom-toms,
and a varied assortment of instruments of percussion.
These lovely strains, mingled with the odors of
Hitten soup, bananas, refuse, Chow and other varieties
of things, really did produce a yellow effect, which doubt-
less was the object of the composer. A learned musician
asserts that the Chows have 24 notes where we have only
12 ; that they have a keener ear for semi-tones than we ;
that their melodic gradations are subtler ; and that their
music is of the old school that flourished in Europe before
Bach. Though our crude ears can’t detect its fine nuances,
Chow harmony seems quaintly simple or simply quaint to
the catholic-minded musician ; but to the uninitiated it
sounds like a chorus of cats whose voices have been spoilt
at a Conservatorium. This Yellow Peril music has its
purpose. There is a method in its madness. It is not all
art for art’s sake. It is so weirdly gruesome that no other
sound can live in the same street. Thus the heathen
Chinee glues his sideboard, boils Bruce Smith’s shirts,
dodges the Factories Act, plays fan-tan, marks pak-a-pu
tickets, smokes opium, and enjoys grand opera all at
the one time, usually over-time, whilst the deluded
native thinks John has only a defective ear for music,
and a harmless, though eccentric, manner of amusing
himself.
John Beauchamp, who is coming from England to join
the Tittell Brune Co., has been prominent on the London
stage since 1879. He was in the original casts of such
plays as “ Drink,” “ The Lights o’ London,” “ Tom, Dick,
and Harry,” “The Amazons,” and “The New 80. v,”
besides having considerable experience in Shakspearian
and other standard parts. A reputation as a stage “ old
man ” precedes Beauchamp. -
J. W. Winton, ventriloquist, has gone to England, after
making spasmodic appearances under Rickards’ manage-
ment for the last II years. He now proposes doing the
London halls.
“ A.G.P.” (Bremen, Germany): Noticed that the
female star singer and actor at most continental theatres
is generally a long way past the first blush of youth.
Also, the vaudeville singer and dancer is usually much
below the Australian standard. Australians, by the way,
are much in favor in the music hall line. Have seen more
alleged Australians billed for variety shows in Europe
than Australia could produce in ten years. Loie Fuller,
whom I saw here the other day in her fire-dance, was
much appreciated.
PHILOLOGICAL ITEM.
The opinion that some animals can communicate intelligently with each other has so far
gained ground that a chair of monkey language is to be established at Chicago University.
Bert Levy is doing lightning sketch work in the Ameri-
can halls these times.
“ Melb.” : Bullen is describable on the lecture platform
as a refined and amiable kind of Svengali-cum-Michael
Davitt. He does not disappoint me. It would be too
much to expect him to add a charm to his writing, or
even reproduce it. There are two thin, little books with
blue covers in identical form. One is Kipling’s “ Fleet in
Being,” the other Bullen’s account of a cruise with the
Fleet in manoeuvres. They just weigh equal in my mind.
Kipling has a genius which Bullen has not; at all events,
Kip.’s genius is screwed up higher. Bullen is the photo-
grapher, the almost incredibly-actual writer. In his
little blue-book he takes you right aboard the man-o’-war
and every phrase fits in to the reality like a cog in a
wheel. This, of course, is not Kipling on shipboard. He
only knows a little about ships, but compels the scene to
rise before and around you. I thought Bullen imitated
Kipling, but dropped that idea. They are independent
products of the age.
Passed out at New York, April 11th, James Anthony
Bailey, veteran showman. He was born at‘Detroit (U.S.)
in 1847, and being orphaned in his childhood set out to
hustle for himself. He grafted on farms during summer,
saved his dollars, and expended them judiciously in
winter in picking up an education. He went into .‘the
circus biz in 1863, but went out again in a little while to
become 1 a sutler’s clerk in the Civil War. When the
trouble was over he returned to the show business, and
in 1873 became a partner in the combination known later
on as Cooper and Bailey’s Circus. This show was incor-
porated with P. T. Barnum’s in 1881, and became Barnum
and Bailey’s. When the great P.T. passed out, Bailey
was for some time sole proprietor ; then control passed to
a limited liability co.
A very temporary company that did the Suburbs of an
Australian capital for a very short time, and collected
very few silver coins ,in a jam tin at the door, which
generally wasn’t much of a door, had one streak of luck
in its career. He was a young-old inebriate of means,
who conceived a boozy, fleeting infatuation for a girl in
the serio-comic vein. The girl w’as liberally dimpled and
had a winning smile, and the first night he saw her the
portly hard-liver manifested wild surprise, and hastily
divesting himself of bis gold links he threw them at her
nimble feet. Flossie accepted the gilt offering with a
glad laugh, whereupon the rakish admirer threw’ her his
watch-chain. After that he turned up at every perform-
ance, and threw something valuable at Flossie every
night. Once, for lack of anything better, he arose and
madly hurled his hat at Flossie. It was a new hat,
and the manager was glad of it. The bulky patron
never sought an interview with his charmer, he simply
threw things. He disappeared after a fortnight, his
burst having ended, or his friends having got him down,
and the company went to pieces. Flossie had been the
sole support of the co., and the admirer had been the
sole support of Flossie, so when the bottom prop vanished
the whole edifice went to the devil, in a manner of
speaking.
Hall Caine bewails the evils caused by the “ dramatisa-
tion ” parasite, who has been responsible for vexation to
novelists ever since the novel was invented. Several of
Caine’s earlier books, including “The Deemster” and
“ The Bondman,” were adapted for the stasre by Americans
some years ago. Copyright vagaries now give these
Yanks an exclusive right to the sneaked plots and
dialogue. If Caine attempts to stage in the U.S. plays he
has himself founded on his stolen novels, he is liable to
be dragged up as a common thief !
Albani has announced that she is going to “ begin to
say farewell.” No particular number of years is stipu-
lated for the process.
“A.W.S.”: It may be news to many that the late
Robert Brough once took part in “Hamlet,” in Mel-
bourne. Just after the Bijou fire, George Miln gave
B. and B. a bumper benefit at the Opera House, and as a
compliment to George, Brough and Anson appeared as
the two grave-diggers at short notice. Both players were
palpably ill at ease in their unusual surroundings, and
Louise Ophelia just escaped an unrehearsed bump as the
two comedians attempted to raise the bier on which she
recumbed. Two wide-awake supers rushed forward, re-
lieved the novices of their burden, and saved the situa-
tion and Ophelia at one pop. Not long after above per-
formance Miln went under, and the Busy B’s returned
the compliment, and gave G.M. just as bumper a benefit
at the new Bijou. The B. and B. monogram still remains
over the dress circle entrance at the Bijou.
“Hamer”: Variqjis folk have seen at one time and
another that there was an opening in Australia for a
theatrical agency, and have started one. The first
theatrical agent I ever knew was a man who
wore sandshoes and made appointments at remote
street corners, to which he came furtively, as
if he owed money to every shadow’. He had an
office, but was never there until an assurance of the
purity of your motives was breathed through the keyhole.
The office" was mostly furnished with photos, of himself as
Hamlet and other persons ; and there was a pile of papers
in one corner that looked as if it served as a bed.
Subsequently this pile of papers was seized for arrears of
rent, and the agent became a super. Then somebody
started another agency on the ruins of the old one—
started with a blare of trumpets and much-headed
stationery. I never heard that he found anyone a billet;
what time he had, that was not filled up with dodging
creditors, he spent looking out for a man with cash to
buy the “ business.” Finally he found him ; and in due
course the purchaser was looking out for another man
with money. The “ business” changed hands five times ;
and then, the supply of men with cash having failed, it
faded away. There is now a vacancy for a theatrical
agency.
During 1904-5 no less than 13 English
cities—Bolton, Blackpool, Carlisle, Dewsbury,
Kingston, Leicester, Liverpool, Lincoln, Ma-
celesfield, Nottingham, Rochdale, Salford and
Southport—lowered their municipal rates by from
Is. to Is. 9d. in the £ through the profits on muni-
cipal Socialism —trams, baths, lighting, &c.
Chairman Allen H. P. Stoneham, of
Perth (W.A.) Electric Tram Co., to a recent
London meeting:—
I have ahvays been a great believer in Australia, and I
am to-day a greater believer than ever. Australia affords,
to my mind, better chances of investment than either
Canada or South Africa, and moreover affords better
chances to the immigrant. I have been asked if we ever
experienced any difficulty as to labor in Australia, and I
say at once that we never have had the slightest trouble
either at Perth or Kalgoorlie. I think the Australians
are quite justified in endeavoring to keep Australia a
white man’s country. I am thankful I have no money
invested in South Africa, and I am thankful I have a
large stake in the Perth electric trams.
“A.P.R.”: The word “hotchpot” (B.
5/4/’O6) is mentioned as a literary eccentricity
occurring in a recent will. This term, however,
is of ancient usage among conveyancers, and
refers to the arrangement whereby a particular
■on, who has received an “advancement” during
the testator’s life, must surrender this gift before
he can participate in a bequest of funds to all the
sons in equal shares, i.e. , he must pour his share
back into the pot before he can dig the spoon in a
second time.
A would-be husband advertises in Melb.
Age :
V.i ENTLEMAN, good appearance, wishes communi-
cate lady with means, age and appearance no
object, view above. ——, Age.
A little while ago, a gentleman of unbounded ap-
pearance was advertising for a lady with means,
“age no object.” Seemingly, desperation has
come upon him, and he is ready now to throw
away the appearance too. That also is no object;
in fact, he has got to the point at which he doesn’t
care what kind of an object the lady is. A little
later, he will probably advertise that he doesn’t
care if there is no lady at all so long as the means
aie all right. In the reckless throwing overboard
of cargo to lighten the troubled ship of advertise-
ment, the means will be the last thing to go.
S.M. Herald (14/5/’O9) :
The country is in a satisfactory state, but what about
the secondary industries, and the money that should have
been invested in N.S.YV., but which has been sent to
London ? Mr. Schey quotes the Government Statistician
to show that, while the results of primary production
increased last year by nearly five millions sterling, manu-
factures increased by £350,000. It is undeniable that
there is a lack of development in our secondary indus-
tries, but perhaps that is because the progress here is
slower.
“ Because the progress here is slower ” ! What a
lame, impotent conclusion. The Herald had
nearly, by a slip of the pen, let the truth out,
“ because of the lack of proper Protection.” But it
saved itself in time, and came to a characteristic
HERALD-ic conclusion : Industries in N.S.W. are
not flourishing as they should be in N.S.W.
because they are slow in going ahead.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, ivhether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
S.M.: Moving story of the childishness of the men
who play bowls beaten out too thin... .Kaban : Melbourne
folk will in time get used to a tram which is a tram}
The cable affairs are mere snails, and ought to be run in
for loitering in public thoroughfares.. ..Dickie : Tuppence
to pay on your indignation at the tin gods of the rural
aristocracy. Indignation that doesn’t run to honest
postage is no use in this office.... Dicky: Your letter
from Bunyip (Vic.) cost fourpence deficient postage.
Is the fabled bunyip, after all, merely deficient postage?..
O.K.J. : Not at all forgetful of the importance of educa-
tion, and we’re constantly printing articles and pars on the
subject Ejayem : Just miss Flag-locker : (1) Being
proud of Australia doesn’t prevent us being ashamed of
some Australians—especially those who wan t to rush wher-
ever there is a war and kill somebody ; who volunteered
against the Boer farmers and the Chinese Boxers ; who
offered themselves to the Americans in Manila, and to
the Japanese in their last war, and now want to go nigger-
potting in Africa. (2) It is admitted that some fine
fellows went to the S’African war— The Bulletin knows
some of them personally. (3) You might say
the same of Hogarth or Rembrandt ; it is not
necessarily the business of an artist to be pretty.
. ...Quizzo: One at least of the lirms you mention
started on account of the Protection it received under
N.S.W.’s “Freetrade” tariff. The wire-netting man
possibly has no branch factory in Victoria because there
are 26 firms in the business in Melbourne alone, and they
used to export wire to N.S.W. The two boot firms you
mention appear to have establishments in Melbourne,
but, seeing that Melbourne boot manufacturers fill
more than a page of the directory, there isn’t
much inducement to increase the competition.
And, with 17 soap factories in Melbourne, Lever
Bros, possibly thought it wasn’t worth while
E.K.S.P.: Your feet are very staggery Albert: Senti-
ments magnificent; verse ! Codfisher : Too crude.
F.A.W. : Verses on Japs good as far as they go, but
don’t go far enough. No good being ’ware the brown
man if it doesn’t incite one to make a gun... .liecidiviste:
“ O’Reilly ” isn’t humorous. “ City Streets ” reads like
the Devil’s catalogue. Don’t like catalogues 11.E.5. :
Good sentiment told in bad doggerel Maori Mac.: That
fallen parson who went down before the blushless Hinemoa
has been done before Francis Lloyd : Send address
A.F.W. (London): Matter has been dealt with often
before in B Mallara Poonie : Thanks; but “Jimmy
the Ranger’s ” efforts to avoid arrest won’t make a yarn.
....The Squeaker: Batch wasn’t worth the deficient
postage we had to pay. It’s our call to squeak
Frauklyn Hardy : Letter sent to address on your copy
and returned marked “Unknown.” Send real address.
....H.P.K. : Hope we are not dense, but don’t under-
stand “Twig in the Bush.” Paul Cupid: The paper
you inquire about is dead Roderick Dhu : Send it to
some English paper—it’s all about lords, kings, and British
actors A.J.B.W. : After another severe struggle it
was forced again into the basket. No good sending
again, unless your idea is to boom the postal revenue....
Lowell: Verse and prose both of irresponsible and shrieky
order.... George E. : Love declined. That attempt to
make “ dawning ” rhyme with “ morning ” makes us tired.
....Old Tom : Duty on gramaphones is 15 per cent, on
the value T.B. : “Breaker” Morant’s yarn about
his “ lofty birth ” proves on investigation to be correct,
but he was not a legitimate child... .P.M. (Melbourne):
Always cut out your pars, and send them to “The
Accountant, Bulletin Office,” with name, address, and
date, and payment will follow. You don’t surely sup-
pose that all paragraphs are acknowledged in “Corres.”
column? Ten columns of “Corres.” would be in-
sufficient. Have passed par. on to accountant Elix :
Far too long-winded... .Wombat: One may serve,
in which case you’ll be paid for it... .H. J.C. : (1) Not up
to the mark. (2) No use re-writing unless specially
requested K.H.A. : One suggestion g00d... .Somebody’
in London (we hope not the lady herself): Eightpence to
pay on bundle of press clippings about Miss Carrie
Moore! We didn’t want the clippings (our London
correspondents keep us well posted about Australians
abroad), and we did want the 8d Mallarapoonie:
Thanks ;we shall... .Edward L.B. : Sorry, but alter pro-
ducing Tiie Bulletin, we haven’t imagination enough
left to help a flying-machine discoverer to fame
Scottsdale : An old story, and spoiled the way it was told
to you... .Gippslander: Insufficiently-stamped letter gone
to the w.p.b Huffin-Guffin : Afraid it would not be
possible.. ..H.N. : You don’t say anything in particular ;
and you don’t say it particularly we 11.... Kenzie: Not
enough fat in “Stage Stories.” Debater: Can’t say.
Better look at last year’s files Greenlight: Thanks.
Will consider... .A.H.J. : You do want a lot for your
money. On the Commonwealth Constitution, Quick and
Garra'n’sis the standard —indeed, the only’ work. “State
Experiments in Australia and New’ Zealand,” by’ W. P.
Reeves, will give you some more of y’our facts. “The
British Empire Year Book ” and Creasy’s “ Constitutional
History ” will meet most of the other w’ants. But they
would be an expensive lot of books T.F. : “Zion
Championship” hardly bright enough Ruby E.E.A. :
Ruby, dear, you are lost in a wilderness of melodrama.
Also, the rectory, and the rector toiling over moors
covered with snow, is quite foreign to Maoriland, or
Australia either. Try and write about the land you live
in Gambusino : “Priest and Peer” foreign in atmo-
sphere. Also, this paper has no sympathy with heaving
bricks at the “natural” child. ..E.D.: Quite impossible...
Vieus: Events may “both have occurred in your presence,”
but if that was their first occurrence, your age
is well on for the century’ Unsuitable: E.M.K.,
A.C.L., R. H.McG.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
I.P. : Yes, it is rather below par Dunbar : All hope-
less as art and not humorous enough to be worth re-
drawing.. ..A.W.O. : “ Striking Likeness ” only a pun....
Lon W. : Those hairs have been numbered so often....
E.M.N. : Tombstone variety of art, and not good tomb-
stone either... .H.M. : Waistcoat joke rather coarse, and
also pointless... .E.K. : Both artistically hopeless and the
legends attached didn’t make any’ one perish of laughter.
Horsington : No name, no address, no joke—only’
picture of badly drawrn woman talking to im-
possibly-drawn man....Q. Took: No, thank y0u....
J.Y.A. : No use rushing into art re the alleged difficulty
of finding the lady’s waist. Put your arm round her and
settle the point... .Edith Cock : Quite off our beat, and
quality insufficient in any case. Also both parcel and
letter were insufficiently stamped.... Booyong : Statuette
joke dates from 1807... .H.H.B. : Great possibilities of
libel in your picture Unsuitable : E.M., F. 0.8.


ķ
ĸ
Taught by Post.
Stott & Hoare’s
Business College
MOORE STREET,
SYDNEY. [8
k
A SCIENTIFIC ‘‘PICK-ME-UP.”—No
bettei' tonic and restorative for the victims of
social festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunyadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe,
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient.*
The winter winds are blowing,
Think of the ills they bring,
And guard with care your household
Until the welcome Spring.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Will aid you to this end,
And, as a sentry, safe and sure,
Your dear ones will defend.*
Furred Shins
Rabbit vSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNflENTS TO—
HILL CLARK CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY,
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Protected cruisers like the Powerful and
Terrible can’t fight; that is to say, they can’t
stand up to fight. Even a second class armored
cruiser would scare them badly. Now, the cruiser
which can’t stand and fight ought at least to be
capable of running away. She ought to be sound
in wind, if not in limb. But the Powerful, which
can’t fight, can’t be depended upon to run away
with consistency. She broke down coming into
Sydney lately. She broke down running from
Gibraltar to Portsmouth. She has broken down
in almost every manoeuvre she has been in. Then
what in thunder is she good for ? What is it that
we are paying our money for?
• ft * *
“Crade” : I wish someone would abolish
this dashed birth-rate altogether. There are four
fathers in our office, and when they begin telling
yarns, one against the other, about their blessed
kids, it fairly makes me sick. I’m only a brother,
but even at our place everyone but myself has
gone cranky over a dirty, sticky, howling little
youngster that has been knocking round the
liouse the last month or two. Blow babies, blow
birth-rates, and, for Heaven’s sake, let someone
dynamite fathers!
* * * •
Italian marble for Australian statuary is
getting a fine advertisement at Ballarat, where,
after only 16 years’ exposure, the Tom Moore
statue is showing signs of decay ; and the marble
pedestal is pitted already. As the statue cost
£l4OO, Ballarat is beginning to feel annoyed.
* * * *
The growing practice of identifying
accused persons for conviction by the finger
prints left in the dust, etc., seems liable
to abuse. The scientific theory is that no two
finger prints are alike. The fact is that, though
that may be so, the difference is seldom enough to
build a case on without corroboration. In
The Bulletin office, when the finger-print craze
was on, it was tried by three persons in one room,
and two of the prints were hardly distinguish-
able. Certainly they were so nearly alike that
the average policeman would have sworn that they
were the same.
EVADING THE QUESTION.
“ Isn't your dress just a trifle low , darliny!" “At which end, lore?"
Thomas Bent has at last decided to do
something for the lunatics of his State, He
has agreed to a proposal of Dr. Ernest Jones, the
high-salaried Inspector, who was imported two
years ago and has done nothing but write reports
since. This proposal makes provision for an up-to-
date mental hospital capable of holding 120
patients. Here patients in the early stages of
mental trouble will be treated, the vast majority
of them cured, and the strain on the asylums
lessened. It is hoped that Mr. Bent may be also
brought to see the virtue of other modern methods
of treatment. It is cheaper to reduce the number
of lunatics than to reduce the cost of their main-
tenance.
A new code of rules issued for the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Asylum contains this :
Consumptive patients are only to be allowed to leave
the institution premises for three hours on two occasions
weekly.
At present an unfortunate going to Liverpool
Hospital—otherwise the Tubercle Farm—is killed
off within two years. The rate of killing will
probably be accelerated by the new rule. The
consumptives are crowded together in four small
wards—each containing from 45 to 50 patients.
Wards Nos. 20 and 21 open on to one balcony
only, with an available width of six feet. As the
consumptive patients are forbidden to walk or sit
about the yards or grounds of the institution
(with the exception of one small, bare paddock
with a galvanised iron shed—also an open sewer
running through its entire length), this means
that they are restricted for fresh air and exercise
to the ward (which is used for all meals) and
a single, small balcony. The Black Hole of Cal-
cutta was a more rapid but not nearly so cruel
a horror as the N.S.W. Tubercle Farm at Liver-
pool.
* * * *
One of the questions asked the bachelor in
the census-paper in France is : “ How many chil-
dren are you the father of ? ” Frank people the
French.
* • » .
The voyage of the British steamer Fultala
with 880 coolies—men, women and children—from
India to Suva recalls the old slavery days. Cholera
broke out on the vessel, packed with her human
cargo, and though the Fultala broke her voyage to
land her plague-smitten host, 60 of those on board
died from the disease, and two dozen more from
after-complaints. And to picture the misery
of that awful time! The Fultala finally
landed a bare 800 of those who were shipped at
India—without comment, and with less adverse
criticism than if a British shipmaster landed a
shipment of prize poultry or pigs less 10 per cent,
died on the voyage. The regulations in the Ful-
tala’s case were all adhered to, and the ship is not
blamed. If black labor brought millions in
material prosperity, it would be dear if bought at
the price of such incidents.
* * * *
If the boarding out of State children in
N.S.W. is to be continued the inspection will
have to be improved vastly ; and that involves a
staff of women inspectors. Woman is by nature
an inspector. The man inspector who calls in,
takes a cursory look at the State child, and then
has afternoon tea with its foster-parent is useless.
And the average man inspector does not even
stop to have afternoon tea, but gets away
as quickly' as possible. A capable woman in-
spector, with a full appreciation of her responsi-
bilites, would be delightfully polite to the mistress
but Would examiue the child’s clothing, take care
to see the state of its body, and in addition have
a look at the household drains, and find out some-
thing about the pantry. The power to find out
what another woman is up to is woman’s noblest
attribute.
* * * *
A farmer named Schmidt, near Port
Lincoln (S.A.), had a curiously mixed experience
of goo‘d and bad luck the other day. He was
burning a tree when it fell on him and pinned him
across the neck, injuring him severely (bad), but it
did not kill him (good). He had to stay there all
day, with the smouldering fire gradually creeping
nearer (bad) ; but before it reached him the burnt
tree became so much lighter that he was able to
throw it off (good), and crawl home.
* * • *
The casualness of the average Australian
took a new form the other day, when a young
woman hired a room for the night in a Melbourne
coffee palace, and departed unostentatiously in
the morning, leaving the body of a newly-born
baby behind. There is another view of the
circumstance—a view that shows a Foundling
Hospital in the foreground, and a well-cared-for
young mother and a thriving and much-wanted
infant in the background.
Curious that the two Anglican Churches
in Melbourne— i.e. , St. Peter’s and St. Mary’s—
which are at the opposite poles of opinion, are
the most alive. Between them stands St. John’s,
with its immense endowment and teeming popu-
lation of the very poor. Yet there, something
like £lOOO per annum is lavished on an ornate yet
lifeless musical service, which is practically
ignored by the resident population, and sparsely
attended by outsiders. About £5O per annum is
raised for the deaconesses who attend to the
hunger and sickness of the parish !
CURIOUS , IF TRUE.
BILLEE : “ That your' ladder?"
SISSIE : “No, that's the hoarder. Dad’s been dead twenty years.”
The telegraph operator at ’Frisco who sent
through the first wire giving the news of the
’quake, ended a short and graphic account with
the remark that the building in whicli he was was
just beginning to bump, “ and it’s me for a simple
life.”
• • * *
A recent Carruthers idea puts the seal on
the J.P.’s degradation. He is to be endorsed by
the local policeman as well as the local M.P.
Joseph has instituted a system of confidential
reports on new nominations for the J.P. “honor.”
Constable X. is now asked whether, in his opinon,
Mr. Y., who has been nominated by Z., M.P., is a
fit and proper person. And Y.’s fate is deter-
mined by X.’s opinion of him. This shows what
Carruthers thinks of the reliability of Z., M.P.
Now it seems that Y.’s best chance is to square X.
• * * *
The amazing Victorian honorariums. The
other day the Melbourne amateur beaks fined a
common “ drunk ” £l, and then inflicted exactly
the same penalty on a laundry Chow who
violently assaulted a housewife by squeezing her
throat when a bill for Is. 7d., owed by a lodger,
wasn’t immediately paid. A day earlier the
South Melbourne wiseacres fined £lO a father who
had walloped with a strop his 3-year-old baby
(after being previously cautioned to use some dis-
cretion, even if he had no humanity). To even up
matters, and show their regard for property, the
St. Hilda Shallows, the same day, fined £2O, with
£l3 damages, a man who had broken nine hotel
windows in a fit of temper. Observe that the
victim of injured property was awarded damages,
but the lady who had her neck scored by a Chow
and the child who was hammered black and blue
got no damages. They weren’t property.
* * ♦ ♦
A Wanganui (M.L.) advt. :
TY ANTED —first-class married Butcher, able to
' ' make small goods. Wages £2 10s. Meat free.
W. Anderson, Dublin-street.
* * * »
A non-union printing firm at Chicago
(U.S.A.) which is getting out a city directory, has
had its efforts rendered useless by 25,000 unionists
giving their names as John Smith; which was rather
a neat bit of tactics.
« • » *
A quaint idea is being worked up for the
M.L. Exhibition. An attempt is to be made to
produce hot-lake scenery in the shape of artificial
geysers, pink pools, steam issuing from earth
fissures, and all the rest of it. The Government
Balneologist is making plaster casts of geysers,
and building models which will be set off by rocks
and stones imported from the hot-lake country.
Mud volcanoes are also to be arranged for, but so
far earthquakes do not figure on the programme,
and there is no word as to whether the pools will
be large enough to let the beauteous Maori
maiden (vide Tourist Bureau posters) wallow in
them.
Bathurst National Advocate (which has
a knight on its Board of directors) on knights
In regard to knighthood, a man in any sort of public
life who has managed to evade it, is notoriously almost a
mai-k for ejivy at the hands of his less fortunate colleagues
nowadays. In Australia, it strikes us as being a most
encouraging sign of the growth of a sturdy spirit of
nationalism and independence, that our best men, of late
years, avoid it as carefully as they might the plague.
Deakin, Watson, Kingston, Wise, and even the egregious
Reid, have all preferred to be excused from participating
in a distinction which has long been the recognised stamp
of pushing and incompetent mediocrity, throughout the
Empire. The dignity is not precisely given away with a
set quantity of tea, up to the present—but it is not far
from that level. In fact, the day does not appear so very
distant now, when magistrates, sav, will be granted the
power to inflict a penalty of “ 20s.‘ or a knighthood ” for
certain minor offences.
* * • «
In all the State of N.S.W. there are but 44
beds available in public hospitals for male victims
of phthisis—not sufficient to accommodate one-
tenth of the cases which with proper treatment
might prove curable.
* * • *
The stern Roman parent still pervades
this country in spots. It transpired at Melbourne
Divorce sittings recently that the father of a
young man of 18 gave the infant a sound thrashing
when he heard he had married.
* * * *
A clergyman, engaged in writing a history
of missionary work in Maoriland, has been favored
with several suggestions as to the matter to be
included. For instance, this was the Rev. J. D
Lang’s opinion in 1839
I have a manuscript account which I drew up myself
from unquestionable authority so early as the year 1824
of every missionary that had set foot in New Zealand up
till that period, as well as of every transaction which had
occurred till then in connection with the mission. lam
confident it would be impossible to find a parallel in the
history of any Protestant mission since the Reformation
t > the amount of inefficiency and moral worthlessness
which that record presents. Indeed, Providence appears
to have frowned upon the New Zealand mission all along,
and blighting and blasting from Heaven seems to have
rested upon it even until now.
Early missionary enterprise to Maoriland was
satirised in the well-known anecdote. “Lift up
your hearts to the Lord and your eyes to Heaven,”
exhorted the missionary. “Yes; and you steal
all our land when we not seeing, ” retorted the
savage, who had been tutored that far in the
white missionary’s ways.
*“* • •
Melbourne Board of Public Health regu-
lations, coming into force from July 1, forbid
butchers and bakers taking bade bread or
meat that has been delivered at any house. It
has been the practice for loaves served to cus-
tomers yesterday to be exchanged for fresh bread
to-day, the stale being sold to anyone who wanted
it. The risk from that custom has been very
great. Another excellent regulation enforces the
use of clean white paper for meat-wrapping.
S’POSIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S’posin’ we sat on a rock by the sea—
Me an’ a girl that I’ve got in my eye—
An’ s’posin’ there stole through the dark of the night
A shy little laugh, or a sweet little sigh.
An’ s’posin’ she leaned her whole weight on my arm,
An’ watched the fish dartin’ like flames in the tide—-
I reckon I’d think that the blue of the skies
Was beat by the blue of the eyes at my side.
An’ s’posin’ she said she was lonesome an’ cold—
Well, wouldn’t I shield her an’ comfort an’ warm,
An’ wouldn’t I soothe her, an’ pet her an’ praise,
An’ let her rest soft in the curve of my arm ?
An’ s’posin’ I whispered a word in her ear,
An’ heard her heart heatin’, an’ felt her arms cling,
An’ got the right answer—Oh, wouldn’t I shine,
An’ wouldn’t I—wouldn’t I just be a king I
N.B.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
My Winter suits
PERFECT
3:3:0
R. C. HAGON,
King Street* Sydney
Lamentable indeed was the exhibition
Melbourne made of itself over the brown person
during the stay of the Jap battle-ships in Victoria;
and perhaps the most lamentable spectacle of the
seiies of unholy sights was that afforded by the
British tars and the stunted mariner from Japan
pawing each other at the picnic in the Zoo. There
the mariners of England and the tan-colored tars
walked hand-in-hand about the grounds, sat hand-
in-hand on the seats, or rode the lubberly
elephants hand-in-hand; and abased Yarra papers
print pictures of tall British sailor men leading
short, broad Asiatics, with faces as expressive as
gobs of chocolate, around by the paw. This
affectionate display was resented only by the
pushites who admonished the British salt
pathetically—“ Now don’t kiss ’em, Jackie ! ”
• • • •
The apparent imperturbability of the Jap
tar was upended by the persistent small boys who
gathered about the warships in Melbourne and
clamored for postcards. “Give us a postcard,
John,” was the burden of the small boys’song,
and the Japs seemed to resent the appellation
with great bitterness. Now and then they were
discovered looking; quite murderous, but it is
possible that their anger sprang from fear
of their officers discovering that they had been
driving a roaring trade with the innocents and
others, retailing cards of a most passionate
Japanese character. By the way, have the godly
admirers of the gentle Jap any idea of the extent
and nature of the brown men’s dealings in this
line? The Jap post-card at a shilling is about
the steepest iniquity imaginable, and such cards
are now common property in Melbourne.
• • • •
Sydney visitors to the Jap warships, espe-
cially she visitors, should take a tip from some
little happenings in Melbourne when the ships
were open to the multitude on Sunday week. The
vessels were swarmed on this occasion. Some
curiosity was excited by a naive notice hung
on an awning: “ Visitors will not look here,
please.” Naturally visitors did look, and dis-
covered a consignment of European girls
arranged on rugs, being regaled with strong
drinks. And the little gingerbread people have
so slight an appreciation of the convention of
clothes, that their homes and haunts must not be
invaded carelessly by sensitive females.
• * • •
It is a lamentable thing to have to admit,
but it’s true that the Japs, at Melbourne Athletic
Club’s big “ swaggah ” display in Melbourne
Princess’, made the white fellow look a ridi-
culous, fussy man by contrast. Long, nervous
whites trembling guiltily behind superabundant
whiskers, wearing absurd evening clothes, made
speeches of a greasy, eager kind, beslobbering
“ our allies,” and talking vapid trash in a sort of
moral sweat; and were continually getting in each
other’s way and fumbling things, wearing a stark
smile the while as if it were necessary for the
safety of the empire to show how ecstatic they
were because of this proximity to the dear little
Jappy-Jap-Jap.” The coffee-skinned visitors,
ropped close, trimly tailored, calm and atten-
tive, may have been somewhat automatic, but
DEAD WEIGHT.
YOUNG WIFE : “ I'm glad you like my home-made bread.”
BRUTAL HUSBAND : “It isn’t that exactly, bat I ve bet Brown ss. that Til weigh more than he will.”
were never absurd. Their impassivity may be
abused, but it was, on this occasion at least, a
comfortable change from the eternal distraught
grin of the devoted Europeans prancing about
them.
There was comfort to be gleaned on this occasion
from the circumstance that ex-Justice Holroyd’s
speech made the audience pretty tired. Already
a long thin person had made a long thin speech to
the effect that the Jap was the noblest work of
God, and should be treated accordingly ; then the
Judge reiterated the idea, and rubbed it in with
butter—and rancid butter at that. He
chortled over the fact that, years ag;o, he had
loved the Jap, and had predicted his present
glory. He was thankful to the most High
for their recent success, but he was sorry
they had not completed their triumph. By
which, presumably, Mr. Holroyd implied that he
was grieved because the discolored Asiatic race
did not go on carving up the white European
indefinitely. At this, a few healthy Australians
were moved to groans, and the solemn stillness of
the rest of the audience indicated that Japolatry
was being carried a trifle too far when it demanded
futher wholesale human sacrifice. Even the Japs
received the sentiment in stony silence.
THE CITY OF REFUGE.
BILL SYKES : “ Now, then, Mr. Smartley, after me a stiffening this 'ere cove, wot 'ad I better do?”
MT. D.: “Your only safety, my man, is to get away to Natal at once.”
When Dowie heard that Yoliva seriously
threatened his job at Zion he rushed from Mexico
fulminating on the way. He would “ call down
fire from Heaven and utterly exterminate
the Volivites,” but for the faithful he would
produce (not mentioned whether from Heaven
or Hell) two million pounds in gold and
other blessings. Also as a side line he was
bringing five scrolls of parchment bearing five
new books of Moses. But this high talk soon
faded. By the time he had reached Chicago
Dowie had decided to let the fire from Heaven
alone, and went into consultation with his lawyers.
Then Dowie heard that Voliva had decided not
to exclude him from Zion
but to receive him when he arrived as an invalid and a
repentant backslider returned to the fold.
That was the last straw. It showed the old
humbug that the young humbug didn’t fear his
personal influence. It was a game of bluff, and
the younger nerves had won. At latest, Dowie
was to surrender all his pretensions in return for
a small pension. From “fire from Heaven”
down to a “ small pension ” 1
• • • #
Advt. from Riverina Recorder (N.S. W.):
ANTED at once General Servant, one with know-
’’ ledge of music and entertaining disposition
preferred. Apply Recorder.
Evidently she’s expected to be Mary Ann a.m.,
and Gwendoline p.m.
Recently, the Queensland Aborigines
Department engaged in Sydney a young single girl
to go as teacher to Darnley Island. Darnley is 120
miles from Thursday Island, in Torres Straits,
and 40 miles from New Guinea. The teacher,
when she arrived, found she was the only white
person, except one decrepit old man of 75 years.
Two hundred and forty Papuans inhabited the
place, and the school consisted of 78 children,
all black, dirty, and mostly suffering from skin
disease. The teacher found she had a galvanised-
iron house to live in, and only preserved food to
eat —meat, vegetables, milk, &c. Communication
with Thursday Island depended on a Japanese or
Manila crew belonging to the pearl fleet. That
was the only link with civilisation. Of course the
girl turned south. Who was responsible for the
crime of sending a young woman to such a post ?
* * * *
What a load the average parson has to
carry ! What utter weariness in the constant
round of more or less simulated devotion ! The
business of preaching a sermon or two a week
doesn’t look very hard; but, then, there is the
strain of keeping up the sanctimonious face all
day and every day. A Presbyterian cleric told
his brethren t’other day that he would rather
spend his holidays in Darlinghurst Gaol than in a
“Ministers’ Retreat” the church had provided.
No doubt he meant it. For in the Retreat he
would have to be still a parson and keep a godly
face all the while. If flocks would only shut their
eyes and let their pastor go on a short, thoroughly
sinful burst, say, once every six months, the re-
sult would no doubt be beneficial, both to the
parson and to his church.
The accident to the Buninyong in Sydney
Harbor recalls to the publio mind the fact that
Australian shipping law takes no account of the
necessity of provisioning ships’boats. The British
Board of Trade’s bad example is followed in that.
It is enacted that water must be kept in the
boats, but not food. If the Buninyong or any other
vessel were cut down at sea, and the passengers
and crew forced to the boats, there might be a
repetition of the Elingamite starvation experi-
ences. Eederal Parliament should see to it that
the new Navigation Act makes the provisioning
of ships’ lifeboats compulsory.
• * • *
“Chasselas”: Be the recent blow-up in
’Frisco, was talking to a Seventh Day Adventist,
who told me that about seven years ago the
brethren shifted their large printing works 60
miles inland from the now shattered city. He
says the quake was all foretold in the Prophecies,
and it was going to crawl along a number of
coastal towns until it came to Marvellous Mel-
bourne. The Adventists recently shifted their
printing works about 60 miles from Mel-
bourne, he remarked in conclusion. [The: Bulle-
tin will back Melbourne against the Prophecies
for a trifle.]
• • * *
The ’Frisco earthquake was presaged by
the creep at the Courriere colliery, France.
Alarmists now suggest that the creep at New-
castle, which has caused a serious subsidence
there, heralds another big earth unsettlement.
The Fate 3 forbid. Anyhow, Australia can be
comforted with the thought that it is, so far as
can be known, outside the belt subject to violent
seismic shocks.
A? recent District Court prosecution in
N.S. Wales calls attention to the illegality of a
proceeding which is very common among debt
collectors—the service on creditors of blue-paper
notices purporting to be writs or records of pre-
liminary proceedings in one or other of the courts.
With the lower class of time-payment traders the
trick is common. It is well, therefore, that they
should note that it is illegal, and may be punished
by imprisonment.
THE MEWING LOVE-SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I Want You Only”—“Didst Thou But Know”—
“ Good-bye for Ever ” —“The Maight-Have Been” —“Oh
That We Two Were Miaowing,” etc. —Catalogue of Draw-
ing-Room Songs.
Stricken Eros ! hear them mewing,
Wishing, wanting, rhyming, ruing,
Bawling, beckoning, boo-hooing—
Shut them up, and set them doing t
The Maight-Have-Betn is a joyless biz ;
Give us a song of the Love that Is 1
Lover means around the maiden,
Moony-minded, sorrow-laden,
Mumbles out his dirue decayed, in
Deepest tones that mule has brayed in 1
Hear him bellow —“ Si tu savais !’*
Tell her, chump, and the Band will Play 1
Daily in our ears they’re slinging
Tales of lips to nothing clinging,
Vows o’er shoreless oceans winging,
Far-off damsels kisses flinging.
The lover groans to the empty air ;
v But give us the youth with his arm Right There!
V Maids forsaken, swains distressing,
’ Weeping, hoping, hinting, guessing,
Cease your suit lugubrious pressing—
Take each other w ith our blessing !
Then sing us a song of your married lot,
Of the girl whom her lover has grabbed, and GOT 1
VIC.
L.
BLOOD TURNED TO WATER.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
If you had seen me when I was about 15 years
old, you wouldn’t believe that I could have
grown into the strong healthy girl that I am to-
day,” said Miss Mary Norton, of 62 Read Ft.,
Bronte, Waverley, Sydney. “ I was in a terrible
state. My blood, was all turning to water. It
pulled me down, and made me so weak that I
could just crawl about. My back ached by the
hour, and from daylight till dark I had splitting
headaches. I ate next to nothing. I had to
force myself to take even a mouthful. My nerves
were all on the jump. If anyone called mo of a
sudden, it set me all a-shake. My face was
white as a sheet, and I looked like a corpse. I’ve
got to thank Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for the
change you see in me to-daj\ But for them I
would have been in my grave. They cured me
after the doctor could do no more for me.
“ When we were living at Adelong, down near
Gundagai, I was never ill,” Miss Norton went on.
“Even after coming to Sydney, I had good
health until I left school. Then I began to waste
away. My eyes were sunk back in my head, with
big, dark rings round them. There wasn’t an atom
of color in my lips. My cheeks fell in so that the
bones used to stick out. I always had a washed-
out look. Sometimes I turned quite yellow. It
made me look years older than I was. I wasn’t a
bit like other girls. Somehow I never cared to go
out. I just got away by myself and moped in my
room. When mother called me to my dinner, I said
I didn’t want any. I hardly ate anything. It
was as much as I could do to swallow a mouthful,
even to please her. I j ust picked at my meals.
The sight of food made me sick.
“ Mother said that I would starve myself to
death if I went on like this. But I couldn’t help
it. The very sound of the plates rattling worried
me. My nerves jumped for no cause at all. I
was just tit for nothing. At the time I was
learning dressmaking—but I couldn’t keep at it.
I got so sick and shaky that I often had to give in
and go home before half the day was over. When
I tried to thread a needle my hand shook and
trembled again. There was hardly a day that I
wasn’t down with a splitting headache. As soon
as I raised my head from the pillow, everything
started to swim round. I was afraid to go out, for
fear I would fall down. My eyes ached if I even
turned my head. Something seemed to be pressing
on my eyeballs. Sharp pains shot through my
temples till I was half crazy. The top of my
head throbbed all day long. The pain got on my
nerves. At night, the least noise in the house set
my heart beating like mad. I held my breath,
listening to every sound. It was as much as I
could do to keep from sitting up in bed and
screaming. No girl could have been more down-
hearted than I was. Try how I would, I wasn’t
able to brighten up. I sat for hours by myself,
brooding over my troubles. Sometimes, for a
whole day, hardly a word passed my lips.
“ When I got up in the morning I was tired
out,” Miss Norton went on. “ I just dragged my
clothes on. The blood rushed to my head vvhen I
was doing up my boots, and gav.e me a ringing in
my ears. From the time I opened my eyes there
was a dull pain across my back. It nagged at me
all day long. I felt as if I had been beaten with
a heavy stick. Mother couldn’t get a hand’s turn
out of me. I was too weak and helpless even to
make the beds. All the strength was drained
from me. My knees trembled. I sank down on
a chair shaking like a leaf. The doctor tried
everything, but lie could not build me up in any
way. I kept going down till everyone, gave up all
hope for me, I was just wasting away into a hope-
less decline.
“Mother was worried to death to see me getting
thinner and thinner every day. When she found
that the doctor couldn’t do any more for me, she
sent to our old chemist, in Waverley, for some Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. I started on them, there
and then. Before I had done taking two boxes,
I began to feel twice as well. They .made me so
hungry that 1 was ready to eat any time of the
day. As I kept on with them, the splitting head-
aches eased up. I got stronger every day. In
fact, in a few weeks I was back at work again,
without an ache or a pain in my whole body. I
am stronger now than ever I was. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cured me for good—and I have had
splendid health ever since.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills do only one thing, but
they do it well —they actually make new blood.
They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t tinker
with mere symptoms. They won't cure any
disease that isn’t caused originally by bad blood.
They strike straight at the root and cause of all
common diseases like headaches, sideaches and
backaches, kidney troubles, liver complaint,
biliousness, indigestion, anaemia, neuralgia,
sciatica, nervous exhaustion, failing powers,
locomotor ataxia, and the special secret troubles
that every woman knows but that none of them
like to talk about, even to their doctors. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by retailers and the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney—2s. 9d. a
box, six boxes 15s. 3d., post free. Medical advice
free.*
King Edward (of all people !) has pro-
fessed warm sympathy with a combined Church
movement in England to bring about “better
Sunday observance.” Where did King Ned hide
his blushes when he was sending a message of
sympathy to the Lord’s Day laborers? He horri-
fied his royal mother, of yore, by inviting music-
hall singers to give pleasant Sunday afternoon
performances at Marlborough House.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances prop LTIX 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
RAREV Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
1 for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Man«*in«r Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Some startling secrets of the charnel-house were
let out recently by the Minister for Lands in Daglish’s
late Westralian Ministry. There was no proper system
of keeping- accounts, he said, and the Auditor-General,
on being asked to look into the matter, reported that the
Department could be plundered without much fear of
detection. A loan.of £lOOO had been made to the Vasse
Butter Co., but there was no entr3’ in any of the books of
the Department; and in searching after this item it was
discovered that many accounts had been paid twice over.
The ex-Minister added that things in the Agricultural
branch were, if anything, worse ; it took the united efforts
of about a dozen accountants to bring out even an approxi-
mate statement of the finances. Practically it is only
during the last couple of years that there has been such a
thing as audit; and it will take years to bring the work
up to date. Generally speaking, old Groperdom had a
fine contempt for auditing. Even the Western Australian
Bank had no auditor until three or four years ago.
» * * *
An involved matter of great commercial im-
portance was decided last week by the High Court in
Sydney. In 1892 the Colonial Finance Corporation owed
the Commercial Bank of Australia £12,500, backed by the
guarantee of the directors, who were secured by the un-
called capital. In 1892 and 1893 a request was made by
the bank to reduce the overdraft; one letter mentioned
£2OOO. The point was whether this was a demand—also
whether it was a demand on the guarantors—and
whether, it being a demand, the Statute of Limitations
applied. Every bank has issued a very similar request at
some time or other, and hasn’t been paid ; and if
recovery was barred after six years, there would pro-
bably be a mountain of trouble ahead for the
banks. Equity decided that a demand had been made ;
the High Court decided that it had not been made, ex-
cept as to the specific sums mentioned in the hank’s
letters. As, however, the costs of both sides come out of
the call, and as the call is not sufficient to meet the bank’s
claim, it practically means that the bank pays all costs—
which is an expensive sort of win.
The whole question of bank guarantees is obscure
and indefinite. The High Court’s view, as expressed in
the case mentioned above, is that a guarantee does not
constitute a separate debt, and that no separate demand
need be made upon the guarantor; the demand is made
on him when the demand is made on the debtor, the
guarantor’s business being then to see that the debtor
pays. In spite of the ruling in this and some other cases,
there is still so much doubt and conflict with regard to
guarantees and the effect of the Statute of Limitations,
that the common banking practice now is never to allow
a guarantee to grow more than six years old. That gets
over the difficulty.
* * * *
The National Mutual has proposed to the
Mutual Life of New York to take over the latter’s life
business in Australasia ; and an answer will be given
about the end of this month. The Mutual Life has
quietly dope what the Equitable did noisily; it
hasn’t announced with any blare that it is not taking
any mpre Australian business, but it cut down its
agencies, centralised business in Sydney, and is only
taking the new business that flies into its mouth. Under
the circumstances, the transfer of the Australian business
to an energetic and well-organised Australian office like
the National Mutual would be welcomed by probably
seven-eighths of the policy-holders ; while the present
National Mutual policy-holders, looking back upon the
satisfactory results of their absorption of the Mutual of
Victoria nine years ago, will no doubt as warmly welcome
the change.
* * * *
Clyde Engineering Co.’s experience in connec-
tion with its application for £24,521 of 6 per cent, pre-
ference capital amounts to a shocking reflection on this
country's fiscal policy. That much capital to put into
one of N.S. Wales’ two leading engineering works ought
to have been available the first day the advt. was printed.
But it wasn’t available on the first day ; judging by the
continued appearance of the prospectus, it wasn’t avail-
able even on the 21st day. And this at a time when
Australia has hundreds of thousands in London banks at
2 or 2£ per cent.
* * * *
The Australian Mutual Provident Society :
Ordinary Department.
Written
off or
provided Added
Total Ex- against De- to
Income. Claims. penses. preciation. Funds.
1895 £2,009,844 £1,091,448 £169,537 £21,487 £727,372
1896 2,029,674 1,225,123 180,750 57,874 565,927
1897 2,080,566 1,118,915 179,215 31,397 751,039
1898 2,152,177 1,223,261 197,977 31,468 699,471
1899 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,669
1902 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
1903 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892 712
1905 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 867,947
Among the expenses in the published account is an item
of £12,000, “ Establishment expenses, Industrial Depart-
ment.” Presumably this, however, is a loan—the
Ordinary Department doesn’t surely propose to subsidise
the new department with £12,000 fora start. If, however,
it is merely a loan, what is it doing in the Revenue
account? Meantime, presuming it is only to be regarded
as an advance, it is not reckoned in the foregoing table
among the expenses. As to the Industrial Department,
here are the first year’s figures :
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Deficit.
1905 .. £6123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
Though it was understood that the two departments
were to be kept separate, no separate balance-sheet for
the Industrial Department is published ; but the general
balance sheet shows a debit balance on Industrial account
of £lO7O amongthe assets. The other £12,000 has gone—
it is shown nowhere as an asset. Why one item should be
shown and not the other is a mystery. If £lO7O is an
asset the whole £13,070 is an asset.
Even if the A.M.P. Society proposes to absorb
the profits of. the Industrial Department as they are
made, it is desirable that this business should be treated
and shown as a separate investment. On the other hand,
if the society thinks that the £12,000 is a bad investment
which had better be written off, the course adopted is no
doubt right enough. There seems no other reason why
this year’s Ordinary Department should be charged with
this £12,000; and it is certainly calculated to give a false
idea regarding the growth of expenses.
Still deducting the £12,000 from the past year’s
expenses, the cost rate compares with its predecessors in
this way:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1896 .. £8 18 1 per cent. 1901 .. £8 10 0 percent.
1897 .. 812 3 „ 1902 .. 814 0
1898 .. 9 4 0 „ 1903 .. 8 17 0 „
1899 .. 919 8 „ 1904 .. 816 7 „
1900 ..9 0 6 „ 1905 .. 815 6
Add the £12,000 which has been thrown in among the
Ordinary Department’s expenses, and the rate goes up
with a bound to £9 4s. Id. per cent. Obviously, however,
it is unfair to charge up in this way the cost of getting
the. Industrial business when it is not possible to set
against it the income from that business. But though
the figures above look satisfactory enough, the real test
is as to the cost of new business. And the results in
this respect (confining attention to the Ordinary Depart-
ment) continue so remarkably satisfactory that the ex-
tension fad looks desperately foolish. Charging
renewal premiums with 7 per cent, to cover
cost of collection, &c., and charging annuity income
with 3 per cent., and deducting these two items from
the total expenses, the balance may be assumed to be the
cost of the new business. On that basis it cost £128,257
to get in £144,140 of new premiums—that is to say, just
under 89 per cent. Ten years ago, on the same basis, it
cost £86,521 to get £99,075 of new premiums, or a little
under 88 per cent. Thus very nearly 50 per cent, more
new premiums are being got in now than 10 years ago, at
a cost of only an extra 1 per cent. ; and that is due, no
doubt, to the somewhat smaller size of the average
policy. Adopting the same basis, the cost of new busi-
ness in the National Mutual, which does not confine itself
to Australia, and yet is worked at a fairly cheap rate, is
130 per cent, of first-year premiums ; and that is much
below the average. The only office whose published
figures show better results is the Citizens’; on this basis,
its new-business expense rate is an amazingly low 68 per
cent, of new premiums. But its expenses are lumped,
and the item appears as “ Net Expenses ” ; and as it isn’t
clear what “ Net Expenses ” means, the comparison is
probably not worth much.
The A.M.P. lapse rate is interwoven with this
important matter of expenses. A comparison will show
the trend of things
1895. 1904. 1905.
New business .. £2,989,602 £3,739,301 £4,075,514
Net increase .. 574,806 1,462,035 1,682,657
Matured .. .. 452,653 742.672 849,011
Surrendered .. 1,361,677 1,035,780 1,014,333
Forfeited .. .. 600,466 498,813 529,513
So the net increase in business (sums assured) was nearly
three times greater in 1905 than it was 10 years ago. Ten
years ago 3'4 per cent, of the whole business was sur-
rendered and 1-5 percent, was forfeited ; last year I'Bper
cent (a little more than half as much) was surrendered
and 0 - 9 per cent, (again only a little more than half
as much) was forfeited. And yet the management
apparently got policy-holders to believe the other day
that things were not going so well with the society, and
that Australia as an insurance field was about played out 1
As to investments :
Interest Realised ok Average Funds.
1896 .. £5 0 5 per cent. 1 1901 .. £4 9 6 per cent.
1897 .. 417 0 „ 1902 ..4 9 2 „
IS9B .. 414 10 „ | 1903 .. 4 810 „
1899 .. 411 10 „ I 1904 ..4 9 0 „
1900 ..4 9 7 „ | 1905 ..4 9 8 „
But so far as the past year is concerned this looks better
than it really is. Besides the insurance fund, the addi-
tions to which are shown in the first table, there is an
investment fluctuation fund, provided out of sums as
shown in that table. At the end of 1904 this fund
amounted to £227,155 ; at Dec. 31, 1905, it was down to
£133,635, and, besides, £32,001 had been written off
foreclosed properties direct. This writing-down of assets
has, of course, raised by a trifle the average earnings p.c.
But the real position is plainly no better. There has been
very little recent change in the distribution of the
funds:—
1895. 1904. 1905.
Public Securities .. £602,007 £3,743,181 £4,162,327
Municipal Loans .. 339,489 1,477,771 1,658,228
Mortgages .. .. 7,202,332 9,626,526 9,511,091
Policy Loans .. .. 3,482,805 4,365,382 4,481,438
Foreclosures .. .. 538,454 527,906 628,508
Premises 371,430 355,663 382,191
Cash, &e 1,176,547 892,588 1,020,766
Which works out into the following percentages :
1895. 1904. 1905.
Public Securities .. 2-5 p.c. 17-9 p.c. 19 0 p.c.
Municipal Loans .. 4"4 ~ 7'o ~ 7'6 ~
Mortgages .. .. 52'5 ~ 45'9 „ 43‘5 „
Policy Loans .. 25’4 „ 20'8 ~ 20'5 „
Foreclosures .. 3'9 ~ 2'5 ~ 2‘9 ~
Premises- .. .. 2 - 7 ~ l - 7 ~ 1-8 ,
Cash, &c B'6 ~ 4’2 ~ 4'7 ”
The steady increase in the holding of public securities, the
small holdings in foreclosures and premises, and the reduc-
tion of policy loans (which loans go a good way towards
destroying the principle of insurance) —all these are good.
In fact, there isn’t much that isn’t good about the society
except the recent remarkable decision to turn upside-
down the policy which has hitherto given such remark-
ably fine results.
The A.M.P.’s surplus is £713,368, of which
£635,532 Will be available, giving (with interim bonuses
paid during the year) a 35'7 per cent, bonus on premiums
received. For some years past the bonuses have been :
1894-1898 34 T per cent;
1898-1903 34-8
1904 35-7
1905 35-7
Which only throws more scorn at some of the manage-
ment’s recent arguments and remarks.
* * * *
The Westralian Bank (Perth, Westralia)
To Re- Re-
Net Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1900.. £11,779 17£ p.c. =£8,750 £3,029 £217,307
Sept., 1900.. 12,811 17J „ „ 8,750 4,061 221,368
Mar., 1901.. 11,787 17| „ ~ 8,750 3,037 224,405
Sept., 1901.. 17,476 17£ „ „ 8,750 8,726 233,131
Mar., 1902.. 17,416 17j „ ~ 8,750 8,666 241,797
Sept,, 1902.. 15,489 17J „ „ 8,750 6,739 248,536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 17| ~ „ 8,750 10,030 258,566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 17J ~ ~ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 17| p.c. = 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17J „ ~10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,333 17£ ~ ~10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 „ ~12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c. = 12,500 8,056 379,508
The dividend is not payable on the new issue of shares.
They are £lO shares, and were issued to existing share-
holders at 100 per cent, premium ; and this premium,
along with the one on the former issue, will bring down
the real dividend to something considerably below 20 per
cent. Including the two lots of premiums as capital, the
20 per cent, dividend (£15,000) will really mean an average
dividend of 14 guineas per cent. Fortunately the lay-by
has in recent years been large, otherwise it is doubtful
whether the bank could continue the present dividend.
For the shrinkage of profits is very marked. On the basis
of shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) at the begin-
ning of the terms, the results figure out like this
Sept., 1902 ..£9 1 3 p.c. Sept., 1904.. £ll 6 9 p.c.
Mar., 1903 ..10 15 6 „ Mar., 1905.. 9 7 9
Sept., 1903 .. 11 14 0 „ Sept., 1905.. 9 4 9 ”
Mar., 1904 ..11 0 5 „ Mar., 1906.. 8 14* 5 ”
But seeing that £50,000 of capital has been got in during
the half-year, and that the bank has had the use of it,
the real shrinkage recently has been greater. Allowing
the new capital to have been in use half the term, the
profits would show only £8 ss. Bd. per cent, on funds—-
more than £1 per cent, per annum less than in the corre-
sponding half of 1904-5, and £2 14s. 9d. percent, less than
in 1903-4. Certainly, the figures for the past half-year
have been reduced by a bonus paid to officers ; but that
is presumably for extra work done. The balance-sheet
items partly explain the movement
Mar., ’O5. Mar., ’O6.
Notes in circulation.. £111,155 £114,251 Inc. £3,096
Bills, &c 140,253 82,544 Dec. 57,709
Deposits at interest.. 512,767 851,970 Inc. 330 203
Deposits, current a/c.. 1,192,402 1,148,958 Dec. 43 444
Liquid assets .. .. 974,350 1,185,676 Inc. 211326
Advances .. .. 1,395,747 1,494,055 Inc. 98 308
Premises .. .. 60,000 62,500 Inc. 2,500
For many years this bank had more than twice
as much free money as it had deposits bearing interest •
apparently the Westralian scorned to take a poor 2A or
3 per cent, interest. And the bank used that free money
too. Twelve months ago it had out in advances not only
every penny of its shareholders’ funds and the fixed
deposits, but £420,397 of other money (mostlv free
current account money) as well. Considering the rate
charged for accommodation, no wonder the bank made
such profits. But the Westralian is beginning to
have some regard for a sure 3 per cent, now, and
while the free deposits shrink, the deposits which cost
money sweH very rapidly. Further, though the margin
of safety is probably still wide, the larger the movement
to change free deposits into fixed deposits (at this or
some other bank), the smaller will be the proportion of
free deposits which can safely be used. Meantime, all
this being a sign of things settling down, the charges for
accommodation will settle down too, the more particu-
larly as nearly all the recent extensions of business have
been in agricultural districts. Possibly expenses may to
some extent settle down also : it cost £27,978 (apart from
“ to run the business, with assets totalling
*•2,742,231, last half-year, whereas in the Colonial Bank
(Melb.) it cost £24,913 to run a business with assets
totalling £3,761,681.
Northern Steamship Co. (Auckland, M.L.)
Net Added to Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 .. 7 per cent. = £3589 £37,825
1901 ..£7,380 7 „ ~ 4967 £2413 40,238
Taken from
Reserves.
1902 .. 4,397 7 „ „ 4875 478 39,760
Loss.
1903 .. 1,808 7 „ „ 4876 6683 33,077
Added to
Profit. Reserves.
1904 .. 14,062 7 „ „ 6905 7157 40,234
1905 .. 7,127 7 „ „ 6905 222 40,456
Taken from
1906 .. 5,324 7 „ „ 6905 1581 ’ 38,875
The co. has three reserve accounts, which have moved in
this wav during the year :
1905. 1906.
Insurance a/c .. ..£33,135 £33,702 Inc. £567
Insurance a/c No. 2 .. 1,623 1,901 Inc. 269
Boilers and Repairs a/c .. 5,186 2,865 Dec. 2321
Net, therefore, £1485 has been written off reserves, so
that the year’s balance on profit and loss account was
£5324 plus £1485, or £6BO9 —which still was not quite
enough to pay the dividend. Besides the reserves shown
above there is a depreciation fund, concerning which
nothing is disclosed; and without some information on
that point the statement of net profit is not worth very
much. For possibly something excessive has been
written off, in which case the true profits (and also the
reserves, if the practice is common) are greater than dis-
closed ; on the other hand, if not enough has been written
off, then the profits and reserves are really less than
reported. In any case, the disclosed reserves are not
true reserves ; an insurance fund is a set-off against a
risk, and the boiler and repairs reserve is a replacement
fund. The co. during the year has put out a new
issue of shares, bringing in £25,268. It is
to be hoped that subscribers got more information
than is given in the published accounts. This is the
second new issue within six years. If the new capital is
used to extend business, well and good ; but if it is used
to replace worn ships (which is the business of a depre-
ciation fund—the fund which this co. doesn’t disclose)
then there is disaster ahead. The concern may be very
solid ; but it succeeds in hiding the proofs of it.
* * * *
The Riverina Frozen Meat Co. (Melb.)
Divi- Written Added to Re-
March, Profits, dends. off. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £2429 Nil £2429 £5,349
1898 .. 1898 ~ £l3OO 598 5,947
1899 .. 197 ~ 546 5,598
1900 .. 2578 „ 2578 8,176
1901 .. 7413 „ 998 6415 14,591
1902 .. 267 „ 676 14,182
Losses.
1903 .. 2867 „ 171 11,144
1904 .. 2612 „ 8,532
1905 .. 1778 „ 149 6,605
1906 .. 894 „ 32 5,679
The reserves are nominal; they consist exclusively of
renewal and replacement account; and they are set
against buildings, plant, &c., which are included in the
balance-sheet at cost, £47,746. So far from any-
thing having been added to this depreciation fund
for some years—though depreciation must have
been going on rapidly, even though the works
have been mostly idle—the annual debit balance on
profit and loss account has been deducted from the
reserve. If the balance sheet were cleaned up, a large
deficit would no doubt be shown. The paid capital is
£29,668 ; and there is £15,000 worth of debentures
outstanding. These were payable this year; but they
have been extended for three years. Meantime, another
one or two good seasons may give the works something
to do, and in that case shareholders will have another
run for their money. They are living in hope, anyhow,
and have lately been paying calls, really to provide
interest on the debentures. Twelve months ago their
surplus of liquid assets over liabilities (apart from deben-
tures) had dwindled down to £316 ; it has now got up to
£2451.
■*•***
As foreshadowed a fortnight ago, the Joseph
syndicate has put up £25,000 to bind the bargain with
the Great Cobar Syndicate ; and it is pretty certain now
that the deal will be completed—practically the same
deal that nearly came off just three years ago,' but failed
at the last jump through the middleman’s grab for more
profit than the market would stand. This time, though
the grab was much modified, in spite of the very fine
report that expert Kendall gave on the properties in 1903,
London was very slow in coming up to the scratch with
the money for underwriting ; and the promoting syndi-
cate is understood to have gone across to Paris almost
in despair, with the last little lot still not taken. But
that is just the sort of remnant the French market likes ;
and the list was soon filled. Too late, on news that there
was some difficulty over the finances, an offer of £250,000
was cabled from Australia. Practically the ownership
will pass entirely out of this country. “The Syndi-
cate” (Dr. Read, the two Longworths, Senator Gould,
and Messrs. Dangar and Robertson) will have, instead,
£BOO,OOO, as well as the Nymagee mine, which isn’t in-
cluded in the present purchase. It takes in the Great
Cobar, the Chesney (acquired since the previous negotia-
tions), the Great Peak, the coal properties at Lithgow
and Rix’s Creek, and the Lithgow works. The Cobar
Gold Mines (which don’t belong to “ The Syndicate,” but
as to which negotiations were carried on simultaneously)
are not included. The capital of the new co. is to be
£1,250,000 ; and £250,000 will be immediately wanted for
plant and development. Kendall’s estimate of capital
expenditure called for was £160,000, with £BO,OOO more
for working capital.
0. M. Rolker, who reported on the Cobar and
Lithgow properties for the underwriting syndicate, is as
close as an oyster, and what his estimates are, apparently
nobody this side knows for certain. Understood, how-
ever, that he figures on something like 2,000,000 tons of
ore, and with copper at £52 per ton a present profit of
about £llO,OOO a year. Kendall estimated in Great Cobar
1,415,000 tons blocked out, and 534,000 tons probable, bub
not blocked out; and Chesney has come in since. His esti-
mate of the cost of producing fine copper was £33 per
ton ; output (on an outlay of £160,000), 14,000 tons per
annum. Add £9 12s. 6d. for gold in the fine copper ; and
at £52 for G.M.B. copper, there was—
Profit on 14,000 tons at £l9 (£52—£39) .. .. £266,000'
Difference between fine and G.M.B. copper
(say £4) .. .56,000'
Gold, £9 12s. 6d. per ton of copper .. .. 134,750'
Estimated annual profit £456,750'
At £B5 per ton, the approximate present price, the profit
would be just doubled. But it would take from 12 to 18
months to spend the quarter million or so that expert
Kendall reckoned necessary to produce this remarkable
result; and £B5 isn’t a fixed price for copper. The
average in 1896 was £46 18s. Id.; and for 1894 it got as
low as £4O 7s. 4d. As late as 1902 it was £52 11s. sd.
“The Syndicate ” never kept development too far ahead in
the mines ; and practically none whatever has been done
since about Nov. last. This means delay for the new
owners, and delay isn’t likely to mean improvement im
the metal markets. The optionists have six months to'
complete the transaction.
* * • *
Cobar Gold Mines (old Fort Bourke), owned by
a Bull co., had strong hopes of being included in the big
deal almost up to the last moment; directors believed
their silicious 1J or 2 per cent, ore was badly wanted by
the Great Cobar ; and they asked 100,000 £1 shares in the
new co. for it. Considering the dead-slow Board the co.
is handicapped with, it would have been the best thing
for holders if the offer had been accepted, even though the
price doesn’t look high. Co. has something like £70,000'
in hand ; and it is up to the directors now to jump in and
do something vigorous with it. If they don’t, nothing is
more sure than that, with the reserve frittered away, the
mine will go to Great Cobar at the latter’s own price.
* * * *
Another basis for the valuation of B.H. Block
14, and one that, like the others, refuses to bring up the-
figure to half the market valuation : The profit for last
half-year was £17,594. The proceeds from sale of car-
bonates (now admittedly almost exhausted) wereiiA*^.
and this ore cost £3850 to deliver on trucks. Ada
for management expenses (which is an absurdly n g
figure), and you get a profit from the carbonates or £fo .
This leaves £9957 to account for. Of this, £*4l9 ca
from zinc products. But this was the result of sale
accumulations. At 4s. per ton (again an outside pne ;,
the half-year’s output of zinc product (under lo>o6U
was £3OOO. So £4419 more came from zinc than tne nan-
year’s output would yield. Deduct, therefore,
from £9957, and you get £5538 as approximately tne
working profit on the output of sulphides. „
£5OO must be taken to pay management expenses, iea\ i g
£5038. And this is without charging anything f'or aepre-
dation of plant. The sulphides milled were 17,800 tons.
This profit consequently works out at ss. Bd. per ton ,
and that includes the profit to be got out of the zinc
product. So we have —
200,000 tons sulphides at ss. Bd. - •
5,600 tons carbonates at £2 .. .. rl.zuu
Stored by-products (about) .. • • ’6.0U0
Surplus liquid assets
Total value .. £136,230
Which is much less than half the present price iu the
market. Of course costs are high at present, tor mining
especially. But, on the other hand, a large sum spent
on mining development was not charged to worKing
expenses, though some of it might fairly have been. Even
if the milling costs can be brought down to half (ana tnat
is extremely doubtful), it would only add about £4Z,uuo
to the value of the mine, so far as known ore-bodies aie
concerned.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 officially estimates its
sulphides at 200,000 tons. Bewick, Moreing and Co.
popularised the plan of making ore-estimates in Vyes-
tralia, and, since then, Herbert Daly has done something
to popularise it in connection with the Barrier mines, in
the West the estimates are often not worth much ; in
Broken Hill they are worth far less. For obviously with
metals bobbing up and down between £9los. and £l7 per
ton, stuff that is ore to-day is only mullock to-morrow,
and the mullock of to-morrow is ore giving dividends the
next day. This Block 14 estimate of 200,000 tons—what
did it assume lead and silver to be worth ? If it figured
on present prices, then the pay ore might have to be cut
down to 150,000 tons on a fall of £3 in the lead market.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 ore shows a serious decline
in metal values ; and general manager Low, in his half-
yearly report, explains things: “ Advantage has been
taken of the higher price of lead to mine some of the
lower-grade ore which remained behind from previous
operations.” In other words, the ore until lately got out
of the mine was picked ; but not a hint of such a thing
was officially given. The admission throws grave doubts
on all estimates of Barrier ore-reserves. And, anyhow,
the present alleged policy can be looked at in two ways.
When prices are high it would seem to be good policy to
turn out the greatest quantity of metal possible without
jeopardising the mine. Under this other plan the mill is,
however, kept going on poor stuff, the output of metal is
reduced, to go up again only when prices fall. No doubt
it is the way to get the greatest possible quantity of ore
out of a mine ; but it isn’t the way to get the greatest
possible profit for shareholders.
* * * *
“ Met.” : B.H. Block 10 mill returns show what
metal extraction and recovery can be made from 13’3 p.c.
lead ore ; 3034 tons crude ore returned 417 tons concen-
trates, value 61 p.c. lead. Lead extracted was not quite
8J units per ton of crudes, and the balance of the 13'3
units, or nearly 5 units, went in the tailings and slimes.
Recovery figures out at below 64 p.c. of the lead con-
tents, as compared with 74 p.c. which has been occasion-
ally obtained on richer and less refractory ore at Broken
Hill. An extraction of 84 units is low, and the recovery
of lead seems to get worse as the crudes get poorer ;
which is discomforting. With lead at £l5, a unit is worth
35., so a decrease in extraction of two units is a serious
matter ; and the extraction from Block 10 not so very
long since was about 10J units. In fact, some years since,
with inferior appliances, it was 12 units. It is quite evi-
dent that the improvements in milling appliances (and
for that matter, a high metal market) only act as a brake
on the decline in profits produced by a continuous de-
crease in metal extraction.
* * « *
Cutting out the expense caused by the Junction’s
fire, Broken Hill Junction North made a profit last six
months of £4704, without charging anything for wear
and tear of mill and other plant. The ore treated was
14,853 tons ; that equalled 6s. 4d. per ton. The zinc
tailings may be reckoned at another 3s. ; total, 9s. 4d.
But the mill expenses averaged 6s. 9'7d. for the half-year,
whereas they were got down to 4s. lid. by the end of the
term ; so another Is. lOd. can be added to profits, which
then equal 11s. 2d. per ton. The ore reserves are
■officially estimated at 196,000 tons, equal (at 11s. 2d.)
to £109,433. Add £33,660, the surplus of liquid assets
•over liabilities ; and we get £143,093 as the value of the
mine, &c. There are 180,000 shares ; so this valuation
means a shade under 16s. per share. Considering the
excellent prospects this co. has of finding large ore bodies
north and south of the present workings at the bottom
levels, the present market valuation of the mine looks
less outrageous than it does in some other Broken Hill
■cases. But there are always the metal markets to con-
sider. In the half-year’s output of concentrates there
were 1450 tons of lead ; and if the co. could get only £l4
per ton instead of £l6, very nearly 4s. would have to be
knocked off the profits per ton of ore.
* * * •
There is very little doubt that the amalgama-
tion of B.H. Junction North and North will be brought
■off. The opposition, so far, comes almost wholly from
Junction North shareholders ; but if the Melbourne
crowd wants the amalgamation, the scattered out-
siders can’t stop it. It is very little use dis-
cussing the matter, though, till the proposed terms
are put forward. The flooding of these northern
mines has been finished ; and pumping has begun. There
are eight points at w r hich the unw'atering may be carried
on simultaneously ; and if the three co.’s are all in earnest
and nothing goes wrong, six weeks should see the work-
ings empty. Then there will have to be a mighty clean-
ing up of sludge ; and the Junction North shaft, which
is pretty badly damaged in spite of all yarns to the con-
trary, will have to be patched up.
*■*»■*
Premier, a recent Cobar (N.S.W.) float (the
public over-applied for the 24,000 shares offered), is within
a stone’s throw of the rich shoot lately struck in Great
Peak ; and, as slate outcrops similarly and in direct line
on the two properties, Bonderson, of Oobar Gold Mines,
may soon see his optimistic report on the Premier con-
firmed. On the south-east boundary of the Premier, the
Enterprise is on promising ore ; on the north-east corner
Lady Graves is returning 7dwt. from an open-cut; and
on the north-west boundary Cobar Silver Peak Co. is on
promising stuff, assaying as much as 60 per cent. lead.
Around the Great Peak there is a belt well worth atten-
tion, but it has been overlooked in the O.S.A. whirlwind.
* * * *
Budgery,- near Hermidale, on the Cobar line
(N.S.W.), lately floated into a no-liability co. as a gold
■concern, had a pleasant surprise last week, striking 10
per cent, copper at the 128 ft. level of the new shaft. As
the lode from which the assay was taken extends w'ell
across the sinking at 132 ft., chances are that the forma-
tion is permanent. The old Budgery had assay values up
to 1 joz. gold, but copper is a new feature that hadn’t
been taken into consideration.
* * » *
The Bull holders of solid Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.)
are about to consider the wisdom of establishing a reserve
fund. Co., so far, has persistently paid its entire profits
out in divs. ; only £BOO being carried forward to 1904, and
£6OO to 1905. With a large outlay in view for re-model-
ling the plant, erecting chlorination works, &c., the 1906
■outlook isn’t quite so bright as it would have been if the
■co. had had more forethought. Shares have fallen to
£3 2s 6d. buyers, and £4 sellers. Therv is always the
possibility of a subsidiary co. being formed to furnish
■capital for further equipments. This move depends on
early developments south.


OO
o/>
>YI
V/KITE
m
Trte
%/
m
m
p k
W/a
Wi
*v;
Excuse Insufficient! If you deny yourself the
opportunity we are gladly offering you to choose what you
will, and most desire in the way of possessing a handsome
.solid gold hall marked albert, or a reliable ever gold
watch, or a good signet or diamond ring, or a gem-set
dress or engagement ring, or a chpice chain or cable
bangle, or a diamond pendant, brooch, or any other
trinket, gem or jewel of treasure and value. Excuse
insufficient! when you can now obtain any one of these
or other articles on the simple and popular plan adopted
by the (London Times) plan of easy monthly payments'
Write or call for illustrated catalogue and terms British
Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-street, (corner of Bridge-
street), Sydney.* 8
Metallurgist J. W. Ashcroft is to take charge
of the Commonwealth, the Wellington mine which has
been mysteriously whispered about for months past—
mainly, it seems, because of the weight of the members
of the Sydney syndicate that now owns it. At surface
and down to 100 ft. it was rich ; below that it was large,
poor, and a puzzle. Lately it has been talked of as a
smelting proposition, and Ashcroft will attack it with a
water-jacket furnace.
# • • *
N.S.W. coal shares, which last year constituted
the only group of stocks that fell back, have moved
during the last few weeks on the completion of the New-
castle vend, and the general brighter ■ prospects in the
whole trade. Wallsend, with sales down to £lB 10s. in
December, have moved along rapidly to £27 10s.—which
is £3 10s. better than the quotation in December, 1904.
East Greta has come into popularity as an investment;
but the knowledge that there was a big parcel
in the deceased estate of the late chairman hanging over
the market kept prices slack. It is understood that the
whole of this parcel has been absorbed. Hetton, 41s. in
December last, have had sales at 61s. ; Newcastle have
moved from £5 10s. to £9 10s. ; and Bellambi from 30s. to
an odd sale at 40s. Malcolm McEacharn, now in Aus-
tralia, is about the largest holder in this mainly
Melbourne-owed mine ; and it is understood that the
question of the issue of further bonus shares will be
settled during his present visit to Australia.
* * * *
“Tin, £22s”—either hysterics or a drunken
gamble. Three days later it was back to about £192.
Meantime, of course, there were more tin prospectuses
out. Ten years average price :
1896 .. £59 911 1901 .. £llB 12 6
1897 .. 61 8 0 1902 .. 120 14 6
1898 .. 71 4 1 1903 .. 127 6 6
1899 .. 122'8 7 1904 .. 126 10 0
1900 .. 133 11 6 1905 .. 159 10 0
The 1905 figures are as yet approximate. In 1888 the
average was £ll7 10s.—almost double the average of
eight years later. The statistical position is strong,
without a doubt. But in the tin market the statistician
is very small potatoes alongside the gambler.
* •
What Briseis (Tas.) makes nowadays when tin
is up at “corner” prices is not the pregnant question.
What is more pertinent is, What is the life of the mine ?
Still, the one inquiry may be answered in connection with
the second. There is no need to turn to London for
figures, as Lindesay Clark in his last report clears all doubt
on the subject. Reading that report with the balance-
sheet, it is clear that £35 per ton of the metal produced
covers all expenses, and when the over-burden is wiped
off costs will shrink further. Taking metallic tin at £2OO
per ton, it follows that a profit of £165 per ton would
be made —indeed, Lindesay Clark is so safe a man that
his figures are sure to contain a good many allow-
ances. The last month’s yield of stream tin was
108 tons. Accepting, as was the case last year,
the average run of the ore as containing 75 p.c. of
metallic tin, and deducting the smelters’ allowance of
two units, the yield is about 78 tons of metallic tin,
which works out at about £12,800 profit for the month,
or, roughly, a safe Is. a quarter dividend. This is the
little fact that the English people know as well as do the
wisest speculators on this side of the line. What is more,
they calculate on the basis of a five years life for the
mine. Therefore it would seem, if the Briseis alone is
taken, that, on the present price of metal, the present
price of shares is about justified. After the riddle of
future metal-prices, there remains this : What will the
new Ringarooma leases do for the co? It may be found
that the London board has a line from Lindesay Clark on
the subject. If so, the late buying is explicable, though
it may not enhance the reputation of those who may
have used the secret before it became the property of the
general body of shareholders.
* * * •
To say hard words to a man who puts his hands
down is against the rules of the ring ; and there are lots
of “ sports ”in the Tasmanian tin shows. So when J. W.
Northey appeared before the Weldbrook shareholders in
Melbourne the other day with his resignation written
out, and with no excuse to offer save the'admission
that he had made a mistake, criticism was stopped.
Thus the Melbourne dailies v ere bereft of what had pro-
mised to be a very lively meeting. Reading the state-
ments, however, there was much to deserve challenge.
It looks as if Mr. Northey relied on someone else for his
estimates. His anger at the “ traitor ” suggests this. Yet
there was little to grumble at, for he ought not to have
allowed anyone to fill him up with estimates of the yield
If he wanted counsel his brother Paul was not far distant,
was a director, and had been through the mill. The only
reason for people wanting an inkling of the output
was to shoot into the share market early. Brother Paul
openly says he thought the yield was to have been 12
tons, and bought shares. Why did he think ? Others in
the market seem to have thought on the same lines and
done likewise. It was how that story got abroad that
ought to have been traced and its origin nailed to the
counter. Then a proper start could have been made to
unravel the tangled skein of dealing, on which the
Weldbrook meeting threw not the slightest glimmer of
light.
* • * •
Looked at on the mining side, the Mt. Lyell
half-yearly report, lately issued, is just about “as you
were.” Since Sticht made his memorable report on the
amalgamation with the North Lyell, it has been a case of
•cutting ahead with development to prevent the smelters
getting right on top of the pick of the miner. Costs show
the result of the tussle, for since Sept., 1904, there has
been a steady advance, which, though small, still on a
big tonnage like that handled, means a good deal in
the aggregate. It is wonderful how uniform the
ore output is kept—l9B,3o7 tons, at March, 1905 ;
203,991 tons at September, 1905 ; 208,282 tons at Septem-
ber, 1905 ; and 202,520 tons last half-year. But there has
been an increase in metal-bearing fluxes from 4081 tons
to 11,764, chiefly from Lyell Tharsis, whose l - 50 per cent,
•ore helps materially. It is careful blending, and the
readiness to take advantage of market conditions that
sets the hall mark on Sticht’s work. His luck has been
that the North Lyell deposit hasn’t petered out. When
he made his estimate in March 31,1904, he reckoned there
were 148,365 tons in the mine, down to 500 ft. Since then,
by opening up to 700 ft., he has got and used 218,761 tons.
He has whittled down the ore in the mine above
400 ft. to very small dimensions. Similarly the main ore
body in Nos. 5 and 6 levels is nearing depletion;
but there is something to come on still in the lucky-bag
■eastern ore-body. Therefore there remain the 700 ft. level
pretty well intact, and at 600 ft. the new shoot in the
north contact drive, and the balance of the ore in the
eastern ore-body. Hence the need to push on with the
main shaft and to riddle the country with the diamond
•drill to see that none of the ore occurrences are missed.
While co. has a splendid financial position, its weakness
'in the matter of ore reserves must never be lost sight of.
* • * •
W.A. gold yield is still falling, the April return
being only 152,2160 z., against 172,1360 z. for April last
.year. This makes the four months’ shortage 48,0180 z. So
far as one can tell, the fall is likely to continue, as all the
old mines have passed their zenith, and none of the new
ones look like filling their places. The country is not
played out, but prospecting is, for the moment, practi-
cally dead, and “ investors ” prefer having a gamble in
Tatts. to backing a prospector.
Golden Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie, is now on the
down grade. During last vear it milled 215,000 tons of
ore for slightly under 40s. per ton, and sent to the Fre-
mantle smelter 15,687 tons of ore and concentrates, which
realised 2475. 6d. per ton. Practically one-third of the
gold came from less than 7 per cent, of the ore treated—
which is very unsatisfactory. • Co. paid three divs. of 6s.
each, or a total of £270,000 ; but to do this brought
forward £113,900 and carried forward only £56,900,
so that £57,000 of the div. was not earned during
the year. The cost of machinery and develop-
ment has been absolutely written off from revenue,
but, for all that, it is evident that the current
rate of divs. can’t be maintained. The ore re-
serves are given as 931,300 tons, worth 645. per ton,
against 954,600 tons, worth 765. per ton, a year prior;
but both estimates of values are greatly exaggerated,
judging by the returns. The Horseshoe is one of the
best mines of W.A., and J. W. Sutherland is one of the
best and most conscientious managers; but still the
figures tell their tale.
• • * •
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, has com-
pleted its new shaft to 830 ft., and has started crosscutting
for the lodes. As the crosscuts from the old shaft have
been proceeding, the two lots should soon connect. On
this mine two lodes have been located much further east
than any lode hitherto worked ; trial crushings panned
out 14Jdwt. for 6ft. wide from one lode, and 18dwt. for 3ft.
wide from the second. The ore broken came from drives
about 200 ft. long in both cases, so the results give a pretty
fair indication of what the mine contains. Once this
mine starts, a big fillip will be given to neighboring
properties, which are all pretty well abandoned.
• • • *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, has started cross-
cutting at 300 ft., and has driven 25ft. west and 10ft. east.
The prospectors expect a continuation of the rich shoot
will soon be met. A parcel of 100 tons of ordinary-
grade ore, outside the rich shoot, is shortly to be treated;
it should give 16dwt. Actual returns from the mine up
to date are 88770 z. gold and 42,1930 z. silver, which
realised £39,770.
• * * *
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, has secured an
extension of the option on the Sandstone leases at Black
Range (generally known as the Oroya Junior) by paying
£5OO. Much work has been done on the new property,
and it looks fairly promising. The old property is being
gradually worked out, as the last six months’ returns will
show: —November, 107 s. 4d. per ton ; December, 1035.;
January, 101 s. Bd. ; February, 108 s. lid. ; March, 101 s.
lid. ; April, 995. 4d. On June 30 last the value of the ore
reserves was estimated at 158 s. for 192,200 tons, or 18
months’ supply ; but the extraction has not come within
cooee of that. The mine may, nevertheless, continue
producing gold for years to come, like its neighbor, the
Associated Northern—which the late Oapt. Rodda rec-
koned was about finished years ago—and is still going
strong.
• * * *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), is looking no
better. During April, it treated 8500 tons for the miser-
able profit of £l2O, or 3d. per ton. The directors’ fees
are in jeopardy on a margin of this sort. Certainly, the
mine can’t continue much longer on present basis.
Development is being pushed ahead, but results are so
unsatisfactory that ore reserves are never published, and
there may be an utter collapse any day. Co. has been
turning out about 2000 oz. monthly, but can’t keep it up
unless something better is found than has been treated
lately. 1
• ■ i , • * *
North White Eeather, Kanowna (W.A.), is
looking much better than for a long time past, and may
possibly pay a div. -before long. The returns for the
year have been 781, 614, 620, and 9500 z. The great draw-
back of the co. is that it is capitalised in 400,000 shares,
which is utterly ridiculous for a mine working such a’n
erratic reef. Nobody with his eyes open would give
£50,000 for the show if it were offered for sale by a
private individual, yet the market valuation has been
over £lOO,OOO, and is in that neighborhood at present.
And the scrip will probably go even better than the pre-
sent quote.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is still on the
down grade. The last four months’ returns have panned
out as follows : January, 695. per ton ; February, 665. 3d.;
March, 68s. 6d. ; April, 635. 9d. As 800 tons more resi-
dues than ore are being treated, the true position can
easily be judged. On January 1 the ore reserves were
valued as worth 1275. per ton, and last month’s return
was only half this amount including gold from old accu-
mulations ; which goes to show how much reliance can be
placed on official estimates. Recent reports give the reef
as only worth about 14dwt., and as costs are about 60s.
per ton, this leaves no margin.
• * * •
After being passed by Fred. Morgan, who re-
presents the Phillips River Gold and Copper Co. (other-
wise the Kaufman Syndicate), the Elverdton copper
mine (W.A.) is trying for an Australian float—4o,ooo
shares of £l. Vendors take £2OOO cash and 12,000 paid
shares. Show is owned by the Phillips River Option Co.,
a Melbourne crowd, which, judging by what it has done
on Phillips River field, doesn’t like spending money. The
mine was purchased about six years ago from the pros-
pector, Elverdt, for £2OOO, £2OO being paid down, and the
balance in three months. Show developed very rich, and
all, or nearly all, the balance of purchase money was
taken out of the mine before the option expired. Since
then co. has done hardly any development work,
and though it has taken out some very rich ore (carefully
mentioned in the prospectus), has put in no machinery.
A smelting plant was supposed to have been ordered
nearly five years ago ; but the yarn is that it lies at Port
Adelaide. The new co., if formed, will have to tackle
development work straight away, as none of the shows
included with Elverdton (South Elverdton, British Flag
and Desmond) is likely to be a big producer right off the
reel.
• • * •
One of the oldest battlers on the Westralian
goldfields, Harry Wells, has made a promising find at
Mindoolah, in the Weld Ranges, 30 miles from Cue. Speci-
mens brought in are rich ; but on the Murchison that
doesn’t mean much. Some of the shows first discovered
gave 3000 oz. and 4000 oz. dollied gold to the ton, but the
shoots did not live. Weld Ranges were scratched when
Cue first started, and an English co., the Weld Hercules,
got a few moderate crushings, but retired after three
years’ trial.
' • • •
The “ birds ” that flutter under the porch at the
Beehive, Bendigo, started pecking at Goldfields Consoli-
dated recently, but not to much purpose. The story was
that the drive at the 305 ft. level north had gone into
mullock. Prices went down till someone found out that
it was a little stratagem to enable the cuckoo to steal
into someone else’s nest. There was some reason
for a fall in the price of shares, but matters were not
quite so bad as the oversold twitterers would have it.
Mullock shows occasionally in the formation, but the
worst feature is the disturbed stone met with in the
winze on the east leg. The formation which the co. is
opening up is being developed at 746 ft. by the New Chum
Goldfields, which is getting fair gold, though nothing to
boast about. Work done by these and other Diamond Hill
co.’s is the most interesting at Bendigo just now, as a fresh
extension of the “ saddle ” formations is being proved by
them. The great gamble of the group at the present
moment is North Bendigo, which will soon be opening
out at 400 ft. and 500 ft. Still it looks as if the market
rise is being already anticipated by chose who always buy
ahead of crosscuts, and generally sell when the public
starts to buy.
* * * #
The little Mack’s Creek (Vic.) hustle is petering
out as it was bound to do. There is a great similarity
between the field and Warrandyte. One fairly rich show,
and the rest not far away from nowhere. Star of the
West had the luck at Mack’s Creek, for it struck rich gold
and was able to pay 11s. 6d. on a called-up capital of only
Is. 6d. Late crushings make clear that this grade of stone is
falling off, and recent work doesn’t point to the striking
of any new shoot of gold. Therefore, it looks inevitable
that the co. will have to trench on its reserve of £2500
if it does the straight thing and keeps pros-
pecting going. Star of the West Extended, next
door, has always had a very strong Stock Ex-
change flavor about it, and it is this element that
props what, on merits, is'a weakly structure. Shows were
in the office of Meudell and Mackay, but when these
two divorced themselves Mackay took the Mack’s Creek
lot to Queen-street.
Things are coming out about that marvellous
Toora tin show, in South Gippsland (Vic.), into which the
Bull co. that has not been able to make anything out of
the Paringa (W.A.) is asked to put its cash. Mentioned
last week that F. W. Trude had gone over from the West
to report, and had reckoned up 20,000,000 cubic yards of
tin dirt worth lOd. a yard—all to be got out at a pro-
digious profit. Also, last week it was asked why Bewiek-
Moreing hadn’t sent one of,their own men to do the
reporting (the}' engineer the Paringa). Fact seems to be
(the story comesfronj.JSng’land) that 8., M. and Co. said
it would cost £5OO to sample and report on Toora ;«and part
of the board was so horrified at the price that it got some-
body else to do the work. When the mail left
there were two lots of directors, and they were having a
glorious shindy among themselves. One lot had collared
the books and the other lot was demanding them, and
denying that the other lot had any more to do with the
business, and threatening to get a new seal. So, one
way and another, it doesn’t seem as though the Paringa
will wash the 20,000,000 cubic yards of gravel and make
the vast promised fortune yet a while.
* * * *
Things have been going badly with Sputb Glan-
mire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.)and shareholders
turned up at the meeting the other day in a pack, show-
ing their teeth. First of all, being in a bad temper and
determined to alter something, though they couldn’t
quite make up their minds what it ought to be, they up-
ended an old Gympie custom and shut the newspaper
reporters out of the meeting. Then they settled down to
snarl—at the mine, the directors, the auditors, every-
thing. They cut the auditors’ fees down (saving a whole
£ll a year), threw one director off the board, and wran-
gled over directors’ railway fares. Jhen they went home
feeling relieved.
* • • •
New Dawn, Gympie (Q.), has crushed 281 tons
for 240 z. 7dwt., or ldwt. 17gr. per ton—just about what
was foreshadowed. What induced men to spend so much
money on the lease ? Apparently it has no bed of slate,
which the reefs must intersect to be payable. Yet the
results should not be taken as a test of the south end of
the field, for the reefs' tried by this crushing possess a
little gold. Others found in conjunction with black slate
should at all events be payable.' This is simply another
example ,of Gympie’s haphazard mining. One would
have thought that the field had bought enough experi-
ence long before this. For successful Gympie mining
there are- cprtain positive' conditions necessary which
should be proved by some person competent to judge
before money is spent.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) copper output goes to a New
Jersey (U.S.) refining co. On the strength of copper
results, the market has been looking for a rise that
refuses to happen in these shares. The brutal fact is that
big blocks of the stock are held by old and sick men ; and
people are afraid of what may happen when other things
happen.
• • • •
Vulcan Hope—which was opened before its
neighbor, the Vulcan, Irvinebank (Q.)—has not come up
to some recent experts’ expectations. After being
worked off and on, a local syndicate put it into a £24,000
co. about six months ago. The co. was invited to look
out for stuff running from 3to 6J p.c. At the beginning
of May it cleaned up a 150-ton crushing for 11 tons 14cwt.
black tin, five tons of which gave only 24 p.c. white or
metallic tin—almost a record in the way of poorness.
Meantime, while the shareholders are recovering their
breath, the directors are thinking over an offer of the Mt.
Agnes for £2OOO cash and 8000 -shares paid to ss. The
vendors and brokers of Vulcan Hope got between them
12,000 out of the 48,000 shares, in addition to £3OO cash
and £3OO brokerage; and presumably, as the property
has proved such a frost, the vendors at least will sur-
render some of their 8400 shares. The co. ought to have
£3OOO in hand ; so that the purchase money should be
provided without calls.
* * * «
The Chillagoe 00. (Q.) is having another survey
made of the Newcastle range, on the route to Etheridge,
in order to cut down the estimate for the railway by
£30,000. To do this the grades will have to be increased,
and Kidstgn’s Government ought not to forget that this
will increase the cost of haulage for all time.
* # • *
Final dividend paid by Waihi (M.L.) for last
year brought up the distribution to 13s. per share, equal
to 65 per cent. Which is the nice way of putting it. The
nasty way of putting it is that five years-ago the co.
issued 10,000 shares at £9 premium; and on.that, the
return is only 6J per cent., which isn’t anything to gloat
over, seeing that the mine has to eat itself up in order to
pay this amount. Certainly, there isn't any visible sign
of the disappearance ; the reserves on December 31st were
estimated at 938,334 short tons, as against 712,794 tons at
December 31st, 1904. Shares are now in the neighborhood
of £7 13s. 6d.
* * * *
The Anglo-Melbourne concern, Eastern and
African Cold Storage Co., is now managed by Bergl Aus-
tralia, Ltd., directly represented by Captain Hutton, who
is trying to pull the mismanaged Arafura business out of
the fire. About 5000 head of cattle should be on the road
to Southern markets in two months ; so the original
meat-exporting intentions of the co. appear to have been
thrown overboard
* * » *
M.N. : After inquiry, can’t recommend any at
present prices. Premier (paid) best gamble of the bunch.
T.E.: That notoriously bad-tempered English fire
office, which publicly snarls at the progress of Australian
offices, can’t show figures as good as several Australian
co’s. Its own Fire Fund in 1904 (it has been badly singed
since then) was £1,983,004, and its fire premiums (which
are the measure of its risks) were £1,967,712. The
Colonial Mutual, which it snarls, at most, has assets
£185,196, and premium income £l34,74B—which is, on
paper, much the stronger position of the two
F.C.S.: Bulletin didn’t say that “ the average healthy
individual” voluntarily seeks life assurance. What it
said (and says again) is that if the State offered life in-
surance at rock-bottom price, it would probably be sur-
prised at the crowd of people who would turn up for that
form of investment. And, anyhow, it’s the State’s busi-
ness to give them the chance.
• * • •
H. McKenzie, Ltd., has been added to Sydney
“ industrials to takeover a Sydney-Maoriland timber
and timber-working business. Co. is in 77,500 £1 shares,
40,000 of which, over-subscribed for by the public, carry
for six years alO per cent, cumulative preference. The
vendor took 37,500 ordinary shares. All the subscribed
capital goes into the business, nearly two-thirds of it to
wipe out liabilities. The shares were taken up mostly in
large investing blocks.
* * » *
Victorian Full Court has, in the appeal case
Welsbach Light Co. v. Lascelles, affirmed unanimously
the validity of the Welsbach patent, and granting an
injunction restraining defendant from selling mantles in
contravention of that patent.
* * • •
The Sydney dailies have a bad habit of adver-
tising as an explorer any dashing person who comes
from England and goes by train to Cunnamulla. One
result of this is that an “explorer,” some time back,
boomed by Sydney Daily Telegraph as the discoverer of
the zircon, a worthless gem stone, has been able to “ pull
the leg ” of many English papers, notably the World’s
Work and the Pall Mall Magazine. According to his
latest yarn, he was last year “exploring” in North
Queensland, and he discovered—a township ! Picture of
said township, drawn from a photo, represents a shanty
huddled under big limestone cliffs. This is Girofla—a
township 13 years old! This “ exploiter,” in his P.M.
Maga. article, speaks of “ the ironstone deserts infested
with fierce, unreasoning hordes of aborigines.” Later—
“ North Queensland has minerals such as molybdenite
wolfram and bismuth, most of which are unknown to
the warm-hearted, erratic individual who finds them ”
but presumably well known to this genius who discovered
the zircon.
“ Nardoo ”: It would be interesting to know
how much revenue N.S.W. loses through wrappjng itself
round with so much red-tape. Take, for instance,
mineral lease applications. The Act says application
shall be lodged “ forthwith ” after pegging the land ;
but as “ forthwith ” is indefinite, and it often happens that
the lode which Bill Jones finds isn’t situated in the
Warden’s backyard, and Bill Jones’s flying-machine is in
disrepair, his application, after pegging on Friday,
doesn’t reach the Warden till Monday. Result—case
refused, as not having been applied for “ forthwith."
There were two cases lately where £25 was paid and the
applications were refused on this ground. And didn’t
the applicants rush for a refund of that £25 ! For things
had changed for the worse in that district since they
applied.
• • • •
Cheapest tin-mining in Australia (outside
hydraulic work, of course) is claimed for the New Era,
Herberton (N.Q.). April (six weeks) run was 1632 tons
for six tons black tin (0 - 37 of a unit per ton), worth
£660 ; costs were under £6OO. Average of ore milled to
date has been under J p.c., and yet there is a balance
on the right side. Of course that sort of thing is only
possible with a good market to help.
* * * *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailing*. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
• * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Esb., 1894.
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
' maintenance. It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all pares of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
~ Upright” boiler. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Sydney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
* * # *'
The Bankers’ Magazine (London), September,
1904: —“The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited was founded thirty-one years ago, with head-
quarters in the capital of Victoria, and the amount of its
business and of its accumulated funds far exceed that of
any life office established in England since the passing of
the Life Assurance Companies Act of 1870. The rapidity
in the development of this Australian society attests the
energy and organising powers of its administrators.”*
* * * *
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “keystone”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet-, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound flap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
* * * *
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria taadopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horse power motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which 1
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungarj’.* [1
• * • •
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* » • *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbeeq and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
Sipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
few Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * • •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * #
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. ' After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure ‘ she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment'
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6di, other States, ss'
Tome, ’ Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne *
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agfents.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 *.YD«S*** t *
Aboriginalities.
CONSOLATION.
“Ah, Con, darlin ', Oi mind me whin Oi had
rosis in me cheek loike you."
“There, there, mother, don't yez cry. You have
thim in your nose now."
“Jano*” : Why does a sheet of bark
always curl up the one way? You strip it
flatten it out, and it dries as hard and level as a
board. You fasten it on a roof for years and it
cheerfully remains flat. Yet release it from
pressure and it gradually assumes the curve in
which it grew. It never curls up the other way
and it absolutely refuses to remain flat when at
liberty. Why? What’s the motive power? Is
it molecular attraction? or centrifugal force’ or
lierditary influences? or the result of earlv
training ? c J
A SENSITIVE CULPRIT
THE PRISONER (languidly, in his "oun deferce"): "My-ah-only objection to the sentence of
the court, your Worship, is that it is dooccdly ungrammatical."
~ 9F. : Two members of a party of rab-
biters in Western Vie. recently sustained ptomaine
poisoning (pronounced “t.umminy ” thereabouts,
in the idea that the word is derived from
tummy ). When the medico heard how they
had been feeding, he said he was not surprised.
A fortnight before the episode they had started to
eat a lump of salt junlc. From that time onwards
remnants of the aged meat were left after every
meal in the big billy used for cooking. When the
next cooking was due, a rabbit or another bit
ol salt horse, or anything else procurable, was
tipped in on top of the aged scrag-end, and then
the lot was stewed up. Just before the meal that
caused the damage the third rabbiter opined that
the cooking had deteriorated a bit, and his two
mates indignantly ate three platefuls of “stoo”
apiece to show that they at least had perfect faith
in the housekeeping. Then the “ tummy ” poison-
ing followed quite naturally. V
* * * *
Two brothers at Yetholme, the mountain
sanatorium near Bathurst, discovered a litter of
dingo pups in a hollow log t’other day, and wish-
ing to corral the whole family instituted a strict
vigil for pa and ma. For four days and nights,
during which the pups were fed on milk, the
st , uc cto Post like the dead Roman
at the back door of Pompey’s city, but never saw
hide nor hair of the old dogs. On the fourth day
the sentry left his post for lialf-an-liour, and on his
return the premises were bare. Evidently Mr
and Mrs. Dingo had kept a closer watch on the
sentries than the latter had on them,' and, when
opportunity offered, shifted their offspring in a
hurry to a place where they’d rather be
* * * *
“ A.C.D.”: Strange what influence a town
clock gets over people. The clock at Walch’s
Corner Hobart, takes the biscuit in that respect.
1 ve often stood at the corner and watched how
the old clock fascinates the natives. Nineteen
out of every 20 turn and take a glance. An ex-
policeman tells a good yarn about this clock. A
convict escaping from the mainland was expected
in Hobart by the northern express. The cod
hurried to the station, and, as his only knowledge
of the man was that he was a finger short on one
hand decided to arrest the whole train-load (there
are always more than three passengers), and so
pick out Ins man. The train got in before its
time, and the cop. missed the ’bus, so to speak
But you couldn’t easily beat him. He went
straight to Walch’s Corner, and after a while saw
a man pass who did not look at the clock. He
pounced upon the man, found him minus a finger
and ran him in. ° ’
♦ * * *
“ The Splatterer ” : The maddest man I
ever me. had come in from the Northern Terri-
W? ln th t blp L m ? b of cat . tle - At Cooper he
left the beasts four miles out in charge of
the men, and went into the township to “ get on
the beev p H ? f . als <\ ** on the wine-at least,
the beer. Getting back to camp at midnight he
the mob a mile from town.
He concluded that they had “rushed,” and that
the men m charge had let them go, and he kept
on watch until dawn, keeping carefully to the
outer fringe o the mob. In the morning he
found that he had been shepherding the town’s
mob of goats. Language was only a drop in the
ocean of the things he said.
* * * *
: overpubbed towns. Niagara
( W.A.) has a distinction which is supposed to
be unique. At the intersection of two streets
there are four pubs, one on each corner. It is-
claimed that this is the only four-pub corner in
man Mother* rJ V 6 b< T f ll over the “inland and
many other places but cannot call to mind
another instance.
*** . .
Cambridge (M.L.) Borough Council re-
cently met a public evil with courageand Dromnti-
tude by enacting that cattle should in future only
be allowed to stray in certain streets ; straying in
the two mam thoroughfares was prohibited
Cambridge may yet see the aged and infirm cow
wiping its spectacles with its tail, and laboriously
putting them astride its damp nose, so that it
may read the faded and weather-beaten proclama*
punity. nd &nd ° Ut Wh6re lk Can Sfcray with im ’
- f Tl ?? re “ nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
henyle. Try it m your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“ Gip Never Knew dogs suffered from
f™? r ®, e V ntll lately. Have a cattle-dog who
loathed pigs. Some little time ago he maimed a
mthetiral1 ly ‘ r S OT / ayS ifc £ ra &? ed itself about
pathetically The dog watched it thoughtfully,
following it up, and showing a desire to be
W « d »r]‘ He .f ottoll cking its head and maimed
leg, and soon it was a common thing to see the
thfdo^s Plg T+° gethe i’ V? epig ’ s . h e. a <l pillowed on
the dog s. It was a ludicrous sight to see the two
bl I rK? 1 tak l ng ,r slo . w walk ( l° wn the lanes side
by side or strolling in a dignified way across the
paddocks. In time the pig grew up as pigs will
and was sold. The dogger three. daylWa
grieving thing, and refused even a pork chop.
Obviously his pity had developed into love. P
**. * *
Kulpara ” : How’s this for endurance ?
lhe beginning of September, 1905, a camel calf
nl X iTn ek A° d W n as l? 8 * midw ay between Arltunga
? Q ue «nslarid border Owing to a terrific
dust storm all tracks were lost. The team went
on to the border and on returning, at the end of
February, 1906, that calf rejoined them. It had
survived the terrific heat experienced during the
summer in a country where there are no known
waters. On being driven up to the team it at
once recognised its mother.
* * * •
. “ : -Re a pub of ancient lineage. The
inn known as the “Green Gate” on the North
Shore road Sydney, established in 1833, cannot
claim .the distinction of being the oldest drink
shop in the Commonwealth, The old “Ploush
Inn at the junction of the Parra-
matta and Liverpool roads, was
built by the late Dr. Ramsay
m the year 1822 and opened
by Mr. John Ireland. A
portion of the building was
destroyed by fire in 1861, but
many of its architectural
features are still preserved.
The late lessee, Mr. Jacobs,
claimed that neither he nor
any of his predecessors were ’
ever prosecuted for a breach
of the licensing laws. The
old “Black Dog Inn” at
the corner of Gloucester-
atreet (on the Rocks),
Sydney, was built by the
late Samuel Terry, in 1829
and is still, I believe, a
licensed house. The first
licensee was Mr. Emanuel
Neich, who afterwards
opened the “Bath
Arms,’’ at the corner of
the Parramatta and Bur-
wood roads, in 1834. He
held an hotelkeeper’s *
license for over 60 years. 1
The old house is still in
excellent order and is
carried on by Mr. Neich’s
family. Ireland’s descendants still pub-keep, too •
but they have moved on a few miles. Still, they
haven t left Liverpool-road. y
* * * *
“ Falder ” : “ Elmore ” (3/5/'O6) wants to
know why the cattle-breeder doesn’t give ud
using such bally big brands, to save 2s. or 3s per
beast, or else brand on the neck. “Elmore’s”
simplicity is amusing. In the first place, the
owner reckons it pays him better to lose 2s. on
the hide than lose the beast by using a No. 0
brand, which is so easily cut out and burnt. Then
again, if he did brand as “ Elmore ” suggests the
buyer wouldn’t give him a bean more for’ the
beast. As to branding on the neck. Firstly, the
skm is too thin there, unless you want to start a
cancer factory; secondly, in mustering, a beast
either runs at you or from you, so you would have
a nice chance to see the brand on the neck. What
is waited is a harmless solution of acid', which
would permanently destroy the hair by stamping.
Iwo or three of these have been tried, but so far
don t work.
Yarrum ” : For mousers, give me the
mutton-birds every time. They can give pussy a
street, and a beating at nabbing mice ; and they
are not cruel with it—they don’t keep the animal
Jn suspense as to its ultimate fate. A Belmont
man took two birds from Moon Island, at the
entrance to Lake Macquarie, and put them into
his feed-house, which was infested with mice, and
they cleared out the vermin in no time. The bird
waits over a crack until the mouse Shows himself.
Un f stroke with the strong beak does the work,
and a bash on the floor follows in a quite super-
fluous sort of way. Tame snakes about a house
are also good, but there are foolish people who
prefer the mice.
* * * *
“ Snow Gum ” : What length of web does
a spider contain ? Is he full of web ? Experi-
mented on one recently by getting the fag end of
his web attached to a stick. This I caused to
revolve, slowly at first, but after winding on
about 500yds. my patience gave out, and I started
drawing the stick out to arm’s length. For a
r?® le spider responded gallantly, but
alter i had drawn out about 2lt miles, he got full
up of the performance, and, reaching round with
1 I S na, ut and uncivil hind leg, he cut the
thread. I made the connection again, but after I
had a yard or so wound on, he would promptly
cut off communications ” per medium of the
same old hind leg. I’m satisfied as to the amount
I hauled in from him, but would like to know
how much he had up his sleeve.
• * * •
“Jimmie Pannikin”: After the heavy
rains that fell north of Broken Hill in March
last, huge earth fissures appeared near Moot-
mmgee on the coach route from Euriowie to
White Cliffs. Many of the cracks are not extra-
ordinary ; but one is particularly noteworthy.
It is about four miles long, and from 3ft. to 6ft.
wide. Ihe average depth is considerable. At
some parts the fissure has not been fathomed.
When stones are thrown down the gigantic crack
at these abyssmal spots, the sound of falling
grows fainter and fainter, and dies away before
the stones find the bottom. Some attribute the
fissures to seismic disturbances; others maintain
that subsidence caused by subterranean streams
accounts for the existence of the miniature canyon
and the minor corrugations!
* * * *
“P.Q.F. ”; It is surprising how noiselessly
an alligator can enter and emerge from water.
We were camped one night, on a bank of the
Russell River (N.Q.). Just as day was breaking,
1 saw the black boy reaching for the Winchester.
We watched patiently and quietly for several
minutes. Presently I noticed his ’gatorship
emerge noiselessly, and without causing a ripple.
He made towards the dog. A bullet had no
apparent effect, except to send him back swiftlv,
and j ust as noiselessly. It is a mistake to suppose
the alligator cannot turn quickly on land. If
pursued by one, do not attempt to cut out a circle
in even time, but make for a tree and climb.
AN OPENING.
THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER : “Are they
wantin’ a man up at your place , my lad?”
THE LAO : “ They will be. Pm leavin' this week."
M * Q*PP : The aged mistress of a
.North Victorian farm at which I stayed recently
expressed indignation at the antics of a swagman.
He asked for some milk, and, against the old
lady s wish insisted on paying for it. Also, he
wore a fashionable suit,. eye-glasses, and a new
boxer hat, and politely entreated permission to
clean his tan boots on the doorstep, bringing forth
an elaborate outfit for that purpose. “I dunno
what the swaggies are cornin’ to,” said the shocked
Mrs Cocky. ‘‘l suppose they’ll be cavortin’
round in motor-cars next, and folk’ll have to re-
ceive them in the drorin’-room.” But probably he
was only a tourist; or perhaps he was Capital leav-
ing the country.
OLD JONAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For three good months on Jumbuek linn,
And other stations round about,
Old Jonas sheared away like fun,
Until the shearing duffered out.
So then he slung his merry swag,
And, with his billy in his hand,
He started out by creek and crag
To pad it to his native land.
At Murphy’s shanty, with his cheque,
He had a roaring spree, they say,
Till Murphy turned him out, a wreck,
Upon the sixth or seventh day.
Said Murphy : “ Whin yez had the stuff,
Yez were the bhoy to make it hum !
Now, sling yer hook—ye’ve had enough,
But take me blessin’, and some.rum.”
Old Jonas took the lonely road,
His battered billy in his hand ;
Be-swagged, unsteadily he strode
To pad it to his native land.
The road was dusty, hot, and white ;
It wound about by hill and plain ;
The glittering pebbles hurt his sight,
The sunbeams fell like burning rain.
No habitation anywhere,
Old Jonas saw, but only scrub
And rocks and sand—but over there
Sat one large hungry dingo cub.
And on that blazing afternoon
He came upon a lonely wight—
A great and hairy old baboon ;
It dogged his footsteps till the night.
He passed the shores of burning lakes
That glowed and reeked with awful heat,
And out of which came fiery snakes
That writhed and twisted round his feet;
He struck them, gibbering words of fear ;
They fled—they darted to and fro.
They reared and hissed against his ear,
Their little wicked eyes aglow.
He saw ten devils on a craft ;
He shook his fist at them and cursed.
He flung away his heavy swag
And straightway felt a raging thirst;
He drained the liquor, every drop,
Then with the ape he ran a race,
And when at last he had to stop
He flung the bottle in his face.
The broken glass flew all round,
The monkey glared like livid sin,
And then arose a frightful sound—
A strident, crashing, deaf’ning din.
Through bloodshot eyes he saw a sight
(The dripping sweat had made them dim)—
A skeleton stood bolt upright
And wagged its grinning jaws at him.
It clutched him with its bony claws ;
His throat the fleshless fingers gripped.
They clinched, he felt its rending jaws
As out of consciousness he slipped.
A mile or so from Murphy’s pub.—
That dingy Mecca of the plains—
A cocky, riding through the scrub,
Discovered Jonas’s remains.
VIC.
A.B.C.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT,
ir- Buy Whole Bottles. *W
Modern
Earrings
Are being worn Longer and Longer.
We illustrate some of the Latest Designs.
The effect is exquisite in wear.
We make them in our Workrooms from the Latest
London Models.
We thus save 27J per cent. duty.
We are showing all the Newest Designs.
Selected
Diamonds,
per pair,
£36 lOs.
Exquisite
Diamonds
and Choice
Pearls,
£25
pair.
Choice Whole
Pearl?,
for pierced or
unpierced ears,
32/-
per pair.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Ed.” : During the summer, red deer are
very plentiful on the flats along the Ovens River
(Vic.), but they are not to be seen during the winter.
While there is plenty of grass on the Warby
Ranges, a few miles back from the river, the deer
keep to the hills; when the grass dries up they
move to the cool shady wattle bends of the river,
where the herbage keeps green and succulent the
whole summer through. As soon as the winter
rains begin they retreat to the drier hills again.
Some very fine heads are occasionally got. These
red deer are the descendants of a flock kept by
squatter Docker, of Docker’s Plains, who, besides
deer, preserved a large number of native animals
and birds.
* * * #
“ Tuna ” : Allow me a belated entry in the
smell competition. Two years ago, when floods
were prevalent in the Bay of Plenty (Maoriland),
a large paddock in my district, over-run with
penny-royal, was under water for a week. When
the water subsided, and the sun had its turn at
the rotted penny-royal, there arose a perfume
that for size and quality suggested decomposed
megatharium.
• * * *
“Nulla”: Heard of an ingenious shark
destroyer, rather Oriental in its subtlety, t’other
day. It consists of strips of bamboo, sharpened
at the ends, and wound into a sort of ball. The
ball i 3 enclosed in a bladder and thrown where
sharks mostly congregate. Under the action of
the shark’s digestive apparatus the bladder dis-
solves, and the bamboo straightens out, with the
result that the shark dies before he can think
where he swallowed the earthquake. Knew a
German who used bladders of poisoned lard with
much success on North Queensland crocodiles.
Carl Himmelberger lost several “ togs,” and, in
revenge, stretched a rope across the creek, from
which rope he suspended bladders filled with lard
and arsenic. They made a good mark on the tide,
and whenever he missed one he always looked for
a croc, floating belly up, and generally found him.
• * * *
“ Ed.” : Was out duck-shooting once with
a new chum from Ireland. Ducks were plentiful,
but he got back with only a light bag. Next time we
went out he put in a very heavy charge, and,
getting in range, presented his gun at the left
edge of the flock, swished it across, pulled the
trigger—and shot the dog.
DEFINED.
CUSTOMER : “ 'Ere, waiter, what do yer call this
’ere soop?”
WAITER: “’Are soop; sir!”
COUSTOMER : “Air soop; what do you mean by
‘air’?”
WAOTER (with dignity): “I mean the ’are we
heat, not the hair we breathe.”
~ „ „ * , • i, „
Nulla : Among queer occupations have
never seen “ dead-wool-pickers mentioned. I
have come across many ancient battlers out West
busily gathering the fleeces from drought-stricken
sheep. Run-holders give £1 a bale for the wool,
and in good years (i.e., bad years for the squatters)
the pickers do well. In good seasons they find
their occupation gone, and probably turn their
hands to kangaroo shooting. At all events, the
few I have met were splendid shots. One of
them, in kindness, shot a wild pig for us one day.
We were five miles from camp; but as we had
been living on mutton and galahs for three months,
we started to carry that pig. It got heavier and
deader as we proceeded, and just as it was turning
a delicate shade of green it was something over
100° in the water-bag—we dropped it and fled.
Last we saw of it it had turned a bright blue.
“Itan”: Jimmy D. was cogitating how
to ringbark timber on his selection at Charleville
(Q.). The bank said the place was the hunting-
ground of too many dingoes and other vermin to
be good for any more advances. Jimmy got an
idea. He killed a few of the cattle culls, caught
their blood carefully, and painted a ring round
the trees a couple of feet from the ground. At
night the dingoes set to work and ate the blood-
stained bark more neatly than an axeman could
have chopped it. But before he could get large ring-
barking contracts with his neighbors the dingoes
formed a union, and there is no Arbitration Court
in Brisbane to settle the strike difficulty. Jimmy
is now ringbarking peisonally in the old, labori-
ous way.
■» * * *
“ W.A.G.” : Know two married women of
50, in a bush hamlet of Gippsland (Vic.), who
have lived within 500yds. of each other for the
last 10 years, and are great friends in the sense of
interchanging kindly messages, yet have never
seen each other. They are busily occupied with
domestic duties, and are of the stay-at-home sort.
* * # *
A Melbourne man, experimenting with
bacteria prepared by Dr. Brown, has raised a new
variety of bean plant—a cross between the popu-
lar “Canadian Wonder” and the ordinary broad
bean. One specimen plant carried 18 pods, with
an average measurement of 8J inches long and
three-quarters of an inch wide. To the common
or suburban garden amateur who grows beans,
and to the vast multitude of women who buy
them and slice them in a wasteful manner for
cooking purposes, there is matter for joyful ex-
pectation in this announcement of the birth of a
“ Broad Wonder ” plant. They will live in hopes
of getting green peas as large as pigeons’ eggs.
* * * *
Concerning women farm-hands. In the
Eltham (Vic.) district a girl and her mother
farmed about ten acres. The girl did all the
ploughing (single furrow), harrowing and carting,
and used all the necessary adjectives, adverbs and
prepositions when anything went wrong.
• * * *
“Philo ” : The frequency with which the
country joskin looses himself in the city is even
worse than the persistency with which the city
cove gets bushed in the back regions. I struck an
episode recently. About mid-
night heavy footsteps, fol-
lowed by a vigorous knock-
ing, broke my repose in one
of Sydney’s best-behaved
su burbs. *‘Do I board here ? ’
spoke the long-whiskered,
straggly-haired vision in a
misfit suit and ample hat to
the apparitionin the pyjamas,
with bare feet, a candle, nd
a scowl, that opened the
door. “No, you don’t!”
And as the apparition
slammed the door Whiskers
was seen making for the next
house. After considerable
knocking a sleepy counten-
ance with a very annoyed
and worried expression peered
over the balcony. The lan-
guage that came out of that
countenance after the usual
question had gone up wouldn’t
look well in print. After
trying a number of places the
one with the hair was finally
advised that there was a
boarding-house “ over there.”
Whiskers fled “over there.”
“ Is this a boarding-house ? ”
he asked the face at the end
of the neck that came
from somewhere behind the
slightly-opened door. “Yes.”
“Then” (hopefully) “do I
board here?” “No.” Whisk-
ers got annoyed. “ Then can
yer tell me where the ’ell I
do board?” “No,” it said
with conviction, “and I’m
sorry, but this place is full
right up.” This was the
first sympathetic word that
had been handed out, so he
grew confiding. “ I came
down from the bloomin’
country this mornin’ and took
a room in a house somewhere
or other. I went out for a
walk, an’ when I wanted to
go back I couldn’t find the
way. I know every foot of
the roads 50 miles round
where I come from, but every
damn street’s alike down
here. An’ all me things
there, too,” he muttered sor-
rowfully as he passed out of the gate. And
his heavy, monotonous footsteps, accompanied by
the irregular clinking of gates, faded into the
night. In the small hours of dawn the footsteps
returned, minus the gate-clinking accompaniment.
He was coming back, still looking for the place
where he bedded and hashed.
• * * •
A quaintly uninquisitive girl lately worked
for two months on a lonely farm towards B unyip
(Vic.) without knowing her employer’s name. She
had been engaged in Melbourne by “ the missus ”
without catching the missus’ name—probably
Smith; the pair travelled to the farm together,
and the incurious Mary Ann had no correspon-
dents to ask her address. Her ignorance was
revealed when she went to the township to order
some goods, and had to confess to the storekeeper
that she did not know whom they were for.
• • * •
“ Butler ” : I know dozens of women here
in Maoriland who make big cheques chasing
bunny for its hide. On one station in Otago I
proposed to a rabbiteress who was making 10s. to
12s. a day, but she said she couldn’t afford to lose
a whole day’s rabbit money merely to go and get
hitched.
HE WOULD BE USEFUL THERE.
OLD GENT : “ No, I wont give you money. If you want work I migh find you something to
do round the house. What can you do?”
CADGER : “ Well, yer see, sir, I'm gettin' old, sir, an’ I ain't very strong, sir. I just come
outer 'orspittle, sir. Yer might put me in charge o' yer wine-cellar."
“ Ne’er-do-Weel ” : I met a man the other
day who said he could tell on sight whether any
man he met came from Queensland, N.S. Wales,
Victoria, Tasmania, or the Cold Country. He
did not profess to be an authority on any other
natives. “You meets a man an’ passes ’im the
time er day. ‘ Oh, g’day, mate,’ ’e sez, an’ swings
’is bluey down, er pulls up’s moke if ’e’s ridin’,
an’ begins ter fill ’is pipe, an’ arsts you f’r a match,
an’ settles down comf’table f’r a yarn ’bout
the bad times an’ ’ow the farmers wants
more rain, or ’as ’ad too much —you c’n bet
yer boots e’s from Tasmania, er perhaps,
Victoria. They’re afferble blokes. If yer meets
a cove an’ sez ‘ G’d-day, ’ an’ ’e jus’ looks at .yer an’
nods an’ answers ‘Day’ without stoppin’ ner
nothink, it’s a sure thing ’e’s a Cornstalk. When
a man answers yer with a look’s much’s ter say
• ’oo the Sheol are you ? ’ an’ jus’ grunts * Humph ’
an’ spits back at yer after ’e’s parst, ’e’s a Banana-
lander. It’s the dust corrodin’ in their stum-
micks ’as does it. The further they gits from Tas-
mania the more dust they swallers, an’ it ’urts their
livers, an’ they gits bad-tempered.” “But the
new-chums? How do you tell’em?” “By their
boots, their clo’es, their ’ats, and their muskeeter
bites. See a bloke with boots with soles 3in.
thick, an’ nails in ’em as well, clo’es made outer
’orse ruggin’, face a flamin’ red an’ chubby an’
covered all over with bleedin’ sores like a mangy
’orse, an’ a black billycock ’at on top of all—’e’s a
noo-chum. An’they’re afferble, too, ” he added,
reflectively. “ They pass the time er day all
right, an’ they’re always on f’r a yarn.”
“ O’F.” : I have been waiting for someone
to nominate the tropical “black lily” for the
Stench Stakes. A friend of mine brought one of
the plants from Queensland in a kerosene-tin.
During his peregrinations to different dwellings
in Melbourne suburbs, he was three times warned
by sanitary inspectors that he must not create a
nuisance.
• * • *
The driver of the Swan Hill (Vic.) train,
when recently breaking a lump of N.S.W. coal on
the engine, found three petrified apples inside.
The interior of one is said to have been turned into
solid marble, except the core cavity, which was
hollow. If apples were indigenous to Australia
during the coal period, it is not so surprising that
they should have occurred in the Garden of Eden
in the time of Mr. Adam and Mrs. Eve.
« * * •
“ A.P.R.” : A sure way to insult a man
in some districts of N.S.W. where the kangaroo-
rat is alleged to be the staple fare, is to call him a
rat-eater. Also don’t accuse a New Englander of
eating bear : it makes you unpopular.
* * « •
“ 8.H.D.” : Does anyone know a better
record than this? “Paddy” M‘Gee made a
wager that he could trot his horse in a sulky from
Hopetoun to Beulah (Vic.), a distance of 16 miles,
under an hour. He covered it in 53min. —an
average of 3min. ssec. per mile.
While the old-fashioned Tory farmer
babbles about “Government interference” and
the “army of inspectors under Socialism,” his
sensible son follows the State expert’s advice —and
reaps the profits. Farmer Gibson, of Moe (Gipps-
land), using Government seed potatoes, clears
£lOOO from 20 acres, with an average yield of 20
tons per acre ! Fruit-grower Grant, of Somerville,
following expert advice as to pruning and spray-
ing, gathers 65 cases of apples from two Graven-
stein trees, the gross return being £2O! And
farmer Hutchinson, of Warracknabeal, puts up a
silo under State supervision, and to-day has 60
tons of green feed for his sheep and cattle, while
his neighbors have naught but the natural grass,
and precious little of that. They are following
his example now, but he is buying up their sheep
in the meantime.
* * * *
Sewerage laborers lately turned up, at the
corner of Queen and Little Flinders-streets, Mel-
bourne, box stumps and logs that must have been
there at least 60 years and were as sound as if
chopped from a growing tree yesterday.
* * * •
“Sheelah”: Consider the keen sense of
smell of the small red ant. Here at Ingham
(N.Q.), I have put down a piece of cake on the
table, and in less than a quarter of an hour the
ants have been swarming round it. Tracing
them, I find they have come from the nest at the
front door, up the verandah posts to the second
floor, across the verandah, up the leg of the table,
down the inside of the tablecloth, up the outside,
and on to the cake. Ants are more numerous
here than in any other place I have been to, and
I have gone from Melbourne to Daru, on the Fly
River (New Guinea), touching nearly all the
islands in Torres Straits. Ants are in abundance
everywhere, but the boss abundance is at Ingham !
This seems to be the ant centre. You sow ants
here and the crop is past counting—some hundred
bushels to the square yard.
« * * *
“ Scroucher ” : To change the subject, a
bird and lizard story. A very small diamond
sparrow constructed its nest in a hole in the bank
just in front of my camp. Noticed the bird flying,
in and out for a period of two months or more.
Knowing that a bird with an average amount of
energy could build a nest and bring off two or
three families in that time, I became curious; so-
one day my mate dug it up, and we found that a
lizard, with a misguided idea of humor, had
devoured the bird’s eggs and left seventeen of it 3
own, which the bird had been carefully trying to
hatch. On breaking two or three, we found they
contained j oung live lizards. If things had taken
their course, I often wonder what would have
happened in that nest on the appearance of the
family, and what sort of a job the bird would have
had in teaching the kids to fly.


A man crl.ed out; “What about Rlverlna?”
If those who say that Riverlna belongs to Victoria,”
said Mr. Reid,” “will only come forward and have
this question submitted to any judicial authority In
the world, 1 will heartily support It—(laughter)—
and I’ll lay a thousand to one on It, too ”
(Cheers.) .
WHAT MIGHT have happened.
Magistrate; “In violation of the Betting
"?r S .f“r eSBl °" Act *<>« ■« charged
place „ oftering t 0 wa 2 er •" a public
Prisoner; -But Geelong is not
* ‘place.’ it’s dead as
Dalis’* /
/
'V
V
* c .
“ -Senator Dawson,
of Queensland, In com-
mon with the other mem-
berstif Parliament, received
an invitation to the reception
given by Admiral Shimamura on
board the vessels of the Japanese
squadron. He replied : < I must de-
cline to accept. It would be hypocrisy
on my part to eat your viands, drink
• your liquors, and smoke your cigars,
while at the same time I do not trust
you. I think the day will dawn
when Australia will rue the day
it showered so much “gush” on
you. This is not meant in any
way personal to you, but to you
•a a people. Whether lam right
of wrong history will prove.' ” .
A N.Y. ex-gaolbird has
left a large legacy for
the benefit of decayed
“ crooks.”
1/ R “ mor that «>3 Intended to
J duplicate the tram lines In Sydney’s
f narrow streets-Pitt and Castlereagh
' Th- I s J? ow . contradicted.
The Noble Animal: “Thank Heaven!
Now I can come down!”
Our Fighting Editor : “ Mr.
Dawson, on behalf of The
Bulletin, permit me to,
confer this halo upon
you.” -
!St »£wi ; ‘J D ° you th,nk that y° u are sul-
flciently decayed ? ”
and; “Well, perhaps not l base my claims
entirely on my crookedness; I was once
director of a Life Insurance Company I ’*
THE GREAT CRICKET WAR IN A NUTSHELL,
.A Sydney University professor is to
lecture on tobacco to Darlinghurst Gaol
inmates.
Professor, opening the proceedings:
For obvious reasons, gentlemen, I
have brought no samples.” (By turn-
er *°, the next page* you can
* ear click of the men’s Jaws as
they dropped.)
There is a proposal in London to em.
Ploy girl instead of boy caddies as “ The
position of caddies offers unlimited ad-
vantages for the employment of young
girls. Instead of wasting their youth
and health in the unsuitable surround-
ings of factories, warehouses, etc.,
the outdoor life and exercise on the
links would have a great beneficial
effect.
wou,d be very nice, but would
not the game suffer? For example
Lady Caddy: «But you must keep
your eye on the ball, you know I ”
G Rimn ‘1 S ° 1 " Bed when 1 hl “* Sniffy
Billins for a caddy; but now- would
you mind standing behind me, Miss?”
"BLOW BANZAI"-AND OTHER REMARKS.


most” Important" depdCdfryctf to-«lay
"is * \roVtJc jrotry UNO OWtfEHS "-
fkbevl \
BerfT:—" i^xt'-bo fl
0, yes, Larqe.
1 OKE. To -DAV !**
" The Electron shows
IjoW’ %e J>eof>le respond io
$ deaf to rn 7 < 3'”^'
ibi^ode
A " Still
he
' Oti
2) •fisjot" Wfc/e«>jj
Two S*» loirs .
"\ The wessons were
y k’w'fe
t\ Cliisel .
%>j iff
|
Sunday—A^ferVyoornTprj^
X Xtferfefe ini^nA^
k SKy »s (jerjccflyclea^n
!\ M
*£%- 01 '
iOs Tod" ha fore "tf«.
“bafttie * fV^cr !
L Tsyffer Jolid.CilUrt J«]
yV'
pcc "itpjK to >jl) 2^V^|’f>S’> s‘*. 5 ‘*.
" f°r tffe stVuj^jc
(onjwjencad a^o^ce..
[Argos]
Bi-ity.iv ;-■• Bevijme! olkoekl
Ht COrrcvt K°.
of
v ^l
j?uW»stad 2it~ *7 OO *J
'"te-d^y. /
fV^is e 1?e ]©irJ !
> ~IW lj • s »7o'*
svSV*K*d o^i
MOSTLY FIGHTING SUBJECTS.


Odol is used
by Dentists
Themselves.
Odol not only cleanses the Teeth, but also
insures them against decay.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bent is a bit of a humorist. His decision
to hold the official welcome to the Jap visitors at
the Zoo was a delicate touch.
F. S. Joseph, who has at last carried off
his scheme for a Cobar amalgamation, nets a small
fortune in commission. And few men deserve it
better than the plucky, pertinacious little press-
man.
One ancient made a dramatic exit, the
other day. Some local amateurs gave a concert
to the Bendigo (Vic.) Benevolent Asylum in-
mates. . Two were chortling the duet, “Life’s
Bream is O er,” when William Williams, aged 74,
toppled off his seat, dead.
Jos. Symes, the old-time Freethought
lecturer, goes to London next month. He finally
found preaching Atheism in Australia not a profit-
able game. So few believed in anything—even
Atheism.
Mrs. Grundy was one of the successful
petitioners in Melbourne Divorce Court last
week. A husband who sins against Mrs. Grundy
must expect the penalty.
Rupert Bunny and Phillips Fox are well
to the fore again this year at the Paris Salon.
Arsine Alexandre, a leading critic in Lk Figako,
gives them both favorable mention.
Charles Bull, the Sydney solicitor, who
died last week, aged 60, was born at Liverpool,
N.S.W., as his father was before him. His grand-
father was connected with the 102nd Regiment.
The A.N.A. appeals for a monument at
Kurnell to Forby Sutherland, whom it describes
as “the first white man buried in Australia.”
“The first Britisher buried in Australia” would
be less debatable.
Pastoralist Edward Spicer, who died in
South Australia lately, aged 89, travelled the first
flock of sheep overland from Sydney to Adelaide.
Part of this flock formed the original stock of the
Anlaby Estate.
David Davies, the Victorian artist, who is
in London doing well, encouraged by the success
of Julius Olsson (who last year sold two big pic-
tures to the S. Australian Gallery), has sent out a
seascape to be exhibited at this year’s S.A.
Society of Arts Exhibition.
Senator Dawson, who is the only Aus-
tralian public man, so far, courageous enough to
make open protest against the epidemic of Jap
worship, is one of the best known of the
Australian Labor party. He was in the Watson
Ministry, and for a brief time previously was
Premier of Queensland.
ELI J AH IV. VOLIVA-who has out-cussed
Elijah III. Howie for the Zion City leadership.
Photo, by Eden, Melbourne.
Hugh John Munro Campbell, the newly-
elected M.L.A. for Glenelg (Vic.), is, as the name
indicates, a “guid old Scotchbyteriau.” He is
the senior “son” of the old Portland firm of
Campbell and Sons, storekeepers, wattle-bark
mill owners, wool dealers and washers, etc.
Queensland Railway Traffic Manager Dun-
bar, a canny'Scot, was in the employ of the De-
partment before the construction of the first rail-
way line was started. At that time nothing
Australian was any good. Men and materials
were alike imported. Even the timber for the
first railway stations was brought over-sea !
“N.M.8.” observes acutely :
Have you ever pictured the type of woman a man would
become if his sex were changed V I can imagine Deakin
as a well-intentioned philanthropic lady, interested in
charitable institutions, and never able to control her own
servants. Reid would be one of those comical old dames
who are always missing the bus, and dropping numerous
parcels, and spilling things. Carruthers would belong
to the nagging women who are for ever rowing their
neighbors over the back fence. Anything would do to
row about—Mrs. Flynn’s soapsuds, or the raids of Mrs
Doolan’s cat on the dust-box, or Mrs. Smith’s boy hitting
her boy over a game of marbles. Joe Cook would be a
shrewish woman of the vituperatively religious type. He
would get his servants cheap from Female Refuges and
grind them down. His hair would be worn very flat and
parted in the middle, and his bonnet would have
a tendency to get on one side when he talked.
The Owe’Sullivan would be a buxom lady with
a passion for the time-payment system. He would
be so assiduous in visiting the neighbors on
occasions of bereavement or rejoicing that the family
Irish stew would often be burnt, and his family wash
postponed till Saturday afternoon. Bruce Smith—well,
Bruce Smith is such an old woman as it is that it is hard
to see where any alteration would be necessary.
“ THE FOUR GOTTEMAGENST."
Who appear in their laughable absurdity, “ Freetrade,” in the coming political pantomime.
G. H. Knibbs, who goes to the post of
Federal Statist at £IOOO a year, is a brainy
individual in bis own line, which is mathematics.
He was absolutely unfitted to assist in the Educa-
tion Department, which deals with children of
flesh and blood ; but is well suited for a billet where
he will live in an atmosphere of dry calculations.
H. W. Lucy, in London Punch, on the
virtues of Labor members in the British Com-
mons :
Almost without exception, they join in debate without
assistance of notes. They listen intently, are masters of
the question ; having- contributed their views, they sit
down.... What is altogether desirable is the directness
with which they apply themselves to the problem of the
hour, the keenness with which they detect defects, the
frankness with which they admit good points, the sim-
plicity of their language and its blessed brevity.
Colonel Kitchener, brother of the General
with the scowling face, threatens to become com-
mandant of the Maoriland forces. At Auckland,
he told an inter viewer that he intended to establish
a partially-paid force, also to reorganise the
cadets, and to galvanise the permanent artillery.
But he has not yet been offered the post of com-
mandant ; so his talk is rather previous.
The peripatetic revivalist, the spiritual
bagman, now ad vertises like any other business
fellow. The following from a Sydney paper :
Mr. , who has just concluded a mission in Ade-
laide, which resulted in 337 conversions, will begin a
mission in the Tabernacle, &c.
But a little while, and we shall have Mr. Judas
Hellbanger publishing his pageful of miraculous
soul-cure testimonials sworn to before a J.P.
“Kink”: Up Kyabram way (Vic.) a
“master” and his “man” were, the other day,
pointed out to me as they toiled in a paddock.
Each man’s father had been sentenced to death
for the attempted murder of his wife ; the sen-
tences in both cases were commuted to imprison-
ment for life. The crimes occurred at widely
divergent points of the compass, in the State.
What queer freak of Fate brought these two men
together!
Dr. Roth in giving up the post of Protector
of the Queensland Aborigines, on account of ill-
health, will presumably put an end to a long-
standing controversy. All Queensland has been
vexed by the great Both question, a section of the
community consistently blackguarding him, and
another section representing him as an angel of
bght. He was chosen by the Wbstralian Govern-
ment recently to report on the treatment of
aborigines in that State.
Federalpoliticians are preparing to assemble
in Melbourne. John Forrest is already back in Aus-
tralia from London. Austin Chapman is expected
shortly from Rome. W. Kelly hasn’t been re-
ported off the coast as yet. Senator Matheson has
barely reached London, and need not be expected
for the opening of Parliament. G. B. Edwards,
whose health has been poorly of late, has just
started on a long tour, and probably will see very
little of the coming session.
Said that Mr. M‘Gowen will shortly re-
sign the leadership of N.S.W. State Labor partv
to Mr. Holman, and give up politics altogether.
Mr. M‘Go wen, who was a boilermaker before
going into Parliament, and always was of sober
and churchy habits, is one of the few men who
have made politics pay fairly well.
Sydney solicitor John M'Laughlin, whose
removal for a while to a private lunatic asylum
started a great chain of litigation, has failed
before the Privy Council in his action against
solicitors Westgartli, Nathan and Cos. N.S.W.
Court held that the action was frivolous, and the
Privy Council took the same view.
S’Malcolm M‘Eacharn, who hasn’t come
back to Australia to stay, was carefully silent
when a Townsville reporter tried to draw him out
on political questions. Before he left Melbourne
two or three years ago, M'Eacharn protested that
he had lost his thirst for notoriety, and was going
to be henceforth a cynic—or the High Commis-
missioner. Now that his hopes of a Common-
wealth billet in London have fallen to zero, he is
possibly sincere in declining to resume the charac-
ter of a public man with opinions to ventilate
I lie temporary “pusher”—and Mac. did push—
has subsided into the permanent shipowner.
, m Ma y°r Russen, in again for Launceston
(ras.;, beating L. J. Bryant by 651 to 77, is one
of the very few thorns in the tuppenny Tories of
lasmania’s House of Dodery, because he’s “as
bad as a Labor man,” though a prosperous manu-
facturer and a big employer of labor. He was
first returned with Peter M'Cracken, a retired
ironmonger, the beloved of the Launceston Radi-
cals ; and, ever since, Russen and M'Cracken
have kept the ultra-Liberal end up against Dodery
and Cos. Russen makes biscuits for a crust.
Thomas Dalziel, the last of the artistic
brothers Dalziel, died, the other week, aged 83
There were eight brothers in all, and seven of them
took to engraving and painting as a profession.
George and Edward, who worked in partnership
as the proprietors of Fun, published in 1901 an
interesting illustrated record of their career from
1840 to 1890. Thomas, the last survivor was
educated to copperplate engraving, but he joined
the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood ” and devoted
himself thenceforth to painting and drawing on
wood. Pictorial engraving is seemingly the best
of all employments—better even than the Church—
fOT building up a constitution. Of the three Dal-
ziels who started as engravers the shortest-lived
one was the 83-year-old Thomas. The others who
didn t engrave graved young.
Maoriland s latest religious lunatic, who
plaims to be endowed with the gift of prophecy
is no ordinary Tohunga. Claiming to be a brother
. t Jesus Christ, the dusky gentleman, whose name
13 ttua, is really a son of the late unlamented
murderer Te Kooti, who engineered the Poverty
.Bay and other massacres in the sixties and was
pardoned by the Government in his old age. liua
is a firebrand, and Maoris are selling their posses-
sions and following him, many being armed with
modern rifles. The new Messiah claims to be
able to heal the sick, restore sight, and raise the
dead—if the corpse isn’t too dead. One at least
of his prophecies should convince the brown
men that he’s a humbug. He says King Ned
will arrive at Gisborne as early as June 25th
Kuas excited dupes proclaim that when that
happens the Pale Faces will be driven off the land
by order of the King, and that a shanty, costing
three millions sterling, will be erected, wherein
JLclward and the new Messiah will dwell in har-
mony and rule the world. Too much Bible has
evidently sprung a leak in the head of the
Slaughterer s son, and his case seems to call for a
large policeman to fall upon it.
Marcus Clarke, who held the position of
secretary to the trustees of Melbourne Public
Library' from 1870 to 1873, and was after-
wards sub-librarian till liis death in 1881, was
not, in the opinion of the present librarian
Armstrong, of any use to the institution.
Armstrongremarks: “The visible records
ot his ten years work in the library are
some badly-kept minute books, and a
worse than badly-kept catalogue of
bibliographical works.” But, all the
same, the library on its present
jubilee is proud to claim that Mar-
cus Clarke hung about it in any
capacity, however blotted and in-
competent that capacity might be;
while beautiful copper-plate men who
ruled off every entry with perfectly
horizontal red ink, have died in the
morning and were forgotten the same
day in the rush for lunch.
® ie yarn is told of two share-
holders in a Ballarat mine which has ex-
isted for a long period without paying a
div. A consulted B as to whether he
should endeavor to get quit of his shares
at their nominal market price. “Hang on to
saic * B the believer, “hang on to them,
and they 11 pay you handsomely, if you have to
wait another 30 years.” A remarked gloomily
that he would be 61 next birthday, and was no
longer very hopeful. “Never mind,” said B in
a mysterious whisper, “hang on to them. I’ve
had mine for 45 years, and 1 wouldn’t part with a
share even if I wait another 45.” These old
mining men are a long-lived crowd, and almost
believe themselves immortal.
Proposed in N.S. Wales to keep green the
memory of W. J. Farrer, wheat experimenter bv
a memorial—probably an agricultural college
scholarship. Mr. Morton, Royal Chambers,
Hunter-street, is treasurer.
Wolfe Choinley, Victorian County
Court Judge, who has been made Supreme Court
Justice while Madden is away, has been all his
life an official. Back in the late fifties, he was a
clerk in the Crown Law Offices, when men like
R. H. Ireland, J. D. Wood, Archibald Michie,
George Higmbotham, and 'B. C. Aspinall were
. He became secretary to the Department,
studied for the Bar, and was “admitted ” in 1863
JLhen he became a Crown Prosecutor, and, later, a
bounty Court Judge, and now steps higher.
• Deakin s meeting last week
illustrated the folly of the old methods of solemn
platitudinous remarks following on a fine speech.
A speaker should be left to make his final impres-
sion on the audience. Deakin possesses the orator’s
power. He can make man, even if only tempo-
rarily, believe in the highest in himself. When
he finished speaking, the organ should have
crashed out the Australian Anthem (which we
haven t got), and we should have all gone out
with his high sentiments ringing in our ears,
instead of which the anti-climax occurred in the
shape of several other people. But what a
speaker Deakin is ! The very appearance of the
man is striking. Then his retort, when called
forth, has a rapier-like quality-a bright, cutting
flash. Reid s repartee always reminds me of a
clown banging pantaloon on the head with a
bladder.
“ L.” writes :
Speaking of Kingston’s breakdown in health. The
Bulletin (10/5/06) says : “ He is not yet 66, and under
ordinary conditions should have many more years of life
for he was a great athlete in his youth.” The suggestion!
HfL hafc i,® ar b'athleticism is conducive to long
Iho ° d healfc - h ‘ Bufc tlle facfc is that the contrary is
the case, for experience has show that longevity is rare
nfmV Vh ° r? Ve , cak . en U P the more strenuous
forms of athletics. Cricket is comparatively lenient in
°i* P h y sl que, but a London sporting
paper published a bundle of statistics the other day to
prove that few first-class cricketers survive the age of
ntty.. The position seems to be that hard and continuous
training produces a temporary fitness, which is artificial
and spurious, for the development of the muscles is
gained at the expense of the vital organs. Any doctor
will tell you that an athlete knocked over by typhoid
pneumonia, or any one of a score of other critical ill-
nesses, has much less chance of pulling through than has
the ordinary man who has never put an undue strain
upon his heart, and stomach, and lungs. Nowadays,
sport has become so serious and the methods of so-calied
training so exacting that the indications are that the
future will see a great deal of middle-aged mortality. All
things considered, the conclusion seems to be that a
sedentary life, which is not too sedentary, is the long one.
i “ H.G. ” writes this :
Profit Voliva, of Zion,
| worked off a despicable dodge
on a Telegraph man in S3'd-
ney a few years ago. At that
time he was vituperating the
press generally, and there
was surprise in the ’Graph
office when a request was re-
ceived from Voliva that the
reporter who was “ doing ”
his ensuing meeting, should
take a full report, for which
he was willing to pay £5.
The paper passed Voliva’s
lecture over, but informed
a man who had a night off
that he might pick up the
fiver by taking on the job
privately. The reporter at-
tended, took his seat at
the press table, and awaited
the arrival of the Great
Curser. Voliva took the plat-
form, and opened, “ Surely
there is a reporter pre-
sent.” (Sniff, sniff.) “ Pooh,
I can smell him 1 Ah,
yes” (pointing to the Tele-
graph man), “there he is.
How he does smell, to be
sure ! ” The audience shriek-
ed at Voliva’s wit, while the
reporter perspired, but took
. ~. „ down every word in antici-
pation of the fiver. Two hours went by, during which
Voliva devoted most of his time to attacks on the personal
appearance and probable habits and amusements of the
man who was jotting down his words. Then he sat
aown, and the audience melted out as the reporter lay
back and breathed heavily. “ Hullo 1 ” remarked Voliva
cheerdy to him when they were left alone, “ I hope you
don t mind my little jokes.” “When do you want that
transcription 1 asked the reporter. “ Oh,” said Voliva,
you needn t trouble to transcribe it. I won’t want it
after all; and, of course, I couldn’t think of paying for it
*' 6 ““stances.” The remarks which that
reporter used fully bore out all that Voliva had said about
the language of the press, and beat easily the best efforts
of the boss vituperator himself.
Alleged that once a Queensland Minister
was going to open some affair or other and made
the shocking discovery that he had forgotten his
dress suit. A wire was sent back for it, and it
was forwarded by special engine. The show was
opened in due form, and it only cost the suffering
country £l9 for the special engine that tore
madly across the country
with the honorable gentle-
man’s biled rag and the other
things.
NOT WORTH CONSIDERING.
Mr. Reid claims that many of the leading- Protec-
tionists, are in sympathy with the attitude he has
taken up.
SHRPHERD DEAKIN : “Well, George, I wont
quarrel about that cross-bred creature. You
have him all for your own.”
Now that Mr. G. H. Knibbs is a Federal
public servant, it is to be hoped that he will keep
his finger out of anti-Australian politics.
♦
A proposal has been mooted in England
to appoint British consuls in the British self-
governing colonies, the same as in foreign ports.
Ihe idea is that the interests of the British sub-
jects are too often neglected in the colonies. True
they have the Governor, but he is often so busy
m maintaining his official dignity and so hedged
in by aides and other flunkeys that the aggrieved
subject cannot approach him. Well, the State
Governors might well be replaced by consuls.


FOOTBALL
Played by tbe Flower
of Australian Youth
SAID to have been INTRODUCED INTO ENGLAND BY THE ROMANS, when they
made a call at THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND, some TWO THOUSAND YEARS ago.
Probably JULIUS CAESAR and some BRITON OF NOTE, a great grandfather of the
CELEBRATED CARACTACUS perhaps, were TREASURER and SECRETARY
respectively of THE FIRST FOOTBALL CLUB.
PLAYED by the ANCIENT GREEKS, who, as every schoolboy knows, were DABS
at OUTDOOR GAMES.
THE ORIGIN OF THE GAME is lost in the MISTS of ANTIQUITY, but it has
ENDURED FOR CENTURIES, and is now
VERY MUCH ON TOP.
GLLJLr—7
Played by the Flower of
Australian Youth.
Anthony Hordern
and Sons
have MUCH PLEASURE in INTRO-
DUCING VARIOUS FOOTBALL
NECESSARIES, with the WELCOME
INFORMATION that every line is IN
TOUCH with . . .
Anthony Hordern’s
Famous Low Prices.
(I
Introduced into England
by the Romans.
When ordering Footballs, state whether
Rugby or Association is Required. &
K
m
m
y
Played by the Ancient Greeks.
Football Requisites
The following are all by WORLD-RENOWNED MAKERS —
GILBERT’S RUGBY MATCH 11. 12s Gd
GILBERT’S BRITISH ASSOCIATION 12s 6d
No. 5 MATCH 11., RUGBY ss, 7s, 9s.
No. 5 MATCH ASSOCIATION ss, 7s, 9s, 11s Gd
SUPERIOR FOOTBALLS for Boys or Youths, Rugby or Association-
Nos. 1 2 3 4 sor Match 11.
2/3 2/9 3/6 4/6 5/-
EXTRA BLADDERS for
RUGBY or ASSOCIATION :
Nos. 1 2 3 4 sor Match 11.
II- 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/11
FOOTBALL INFLATORS-ls,
Is 6d, 2s, 3s 3d.
SHIN GUARDS—per pair, Is,
Is 6d, 2s 3d, 2s 9d, 3s.
SHIN & ANKLE GUARDS-
per pair, 3s, 3s 6d.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, Is.
FOOTBALL HEAD GUARDS
—each 3s, 4s 6d.
Treasurer and Secretary of the
First Football Club.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
60 CANDLE POWER for Less than
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene,
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS
%
Extraordinary
Value.
m
Best British
Manufacture.
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
DOES YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS ? IF NOT, WRITE TO
Welsbach Light Co."‘ST 1
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne.
Perry Bros., Brisbane.
Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide.
Levi Green, Perth.
UNLOCKING THE LANDS.
The Midland Railway Company of Western Australia
LIMITED
are now subdividing their concession of
2,500,000 Acres,
Comprising some of the finest AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING COUNTRY in the State of
Western Australia, into FARMS and GRAZING PROPERTIES.
THE FIRST SALE of
ONE HUNDRED SPLENDID FARMS , and
MOORA and KOOGAN TOWN SITES
Will be held by Public Auction at the QUEEN’S HALL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA, on
FRIDAY, JUNE 22nd, at 2.30 p.m.,
BY
JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer.
THESE FARMS are situated from 96 to 108 Miles from PERTH, the Capital City of Western
Australia, fronting and served by the Company’s own railway. None of them are more than
4 miles from railway station or sidings—with a very convenient train service.
RICH AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING LANDS. 19 to 22in. RAINFALL.
Good Roads. RED FRIABLE SOIL, Easily Tilled. GREAT FATTENING COUNTRY.
The Concession is situated between the METROPOLIS and the GREAT MURCHISON
GOLDFIELDS.
Western Australia imported last year £1,500,000 worth of Land Products.
FARMERS—COME AND SEE ! and let the Land speak for itself.
AVERAGE YIELDS for Country separated from this by only the Railway Line, for 1905-6
WHEAT, 20 Bushels; HAY, 30| Cwt.
WATER easily obtained and conserved. NO HEAVY CLEARING.
UPSET PRICES fixed from 6s to 40s per acre. ALL UPSETS marked on the Plan.
The whole of the Blocks will be offered by Public Auction, and sold to the highest bidder at or
above the Upset Price fixed.
TERMS-Ten per cent. Cash Deposit; Balance by 15 equal Annual Payments, bearing
Interest at 4 per cent. The balance of the purchase-money can be paid off at any time, and a. rebate
of interest will be allowed at the rate charged; or purchaser may pay Cash.
On payment of the whole of the purchase-money the TITLE is guaranteed by the Western
Australian Government. POSSESSION given the day after the Sale.
If you intend inspecting, send a wire either to the office of the Company or to the Auctioneers,
stating by what steamer you are coming, and you will be met, and every facility will be given
for inspection.
If you have not received an Illustrated Pamphlet, giving the fullest particulars, send a Post
Card addressed to GORDON AND GOTCH, SYDNEY, and one will be sent you by return of
post, free of charge.
JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer,
Howard Street, PERTH, W.A.
0R THE MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA, Limited,
293 St. George’s Terrace, PERTH, W>A. ==-


Charles Heidsieck
BBIMS
EXTRA DRY
FINEST EXTRA Q>
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
sty
§ “CR ANNETTES*
JjoL Are the IdeauFabrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 22, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
It is fashionable in Sydney to be a Maorilander.
My countrymen and women are busy rubbing it
into the Australians that “ We are not Australians.
We were born in Maraekakaho or Rangita.ta-
nioana,” as the case may be, and the latter occa-
sionally get home with, “You didn’t care enough
for it to stop there.” Not since Melba was at the
Australia has the hotel been so beleaguered with
callers and pursuers as
on the occasion of this
Seddon visit. The two
secretaries haven’t got
outside the hotel for a
minute, unless they did a
cat-like sneak on Satur-
day to “The Man From
Mexico,” to which Edwin
Geach invited them.
On Friday, after a
banquet given to him by
Maorilanders, the big
Premier attended the
reception in the winter
garden of the hotel. His
wife, holding the best
part of a conservatory in
her hands, was saying the
diplomatic thing at the
door, and Mrs. Jackson
(wife of the Union S. S. Co.
manager), who had been
a school friend of Mrs.
Seddon, helped to velvet-
cushion, so to speak, the
corners of the reception.
Programme was purely
M.L.-ish. Little Eva
Champion warbled pret-
tily, Henry Weir sang,
and Miss Bannister, a
visitor who is here with
her parents—the male
bird is managing direc-
tor of the N.Z. Times—
recited. Usually I want
to stone a reciter, but
the Bannister youngster;
besides being uncom-
monly pretty, achieved
success with her piece,
and deserved nothing
harder in the way of
missiles than bouquets.
Acetylene - gas chief
Tyree, to the surprise
of some of his friends,
confessed to being kauri
gum; and Harry Henderson, an old Auck-
lander, was there; also the T. E. Donnes. He is
thinning daily, and looks as if his mental fur were
being brushed the wrong way. You see, he’ll
have “ this sort of thing ’’—that is, receptions,
banquets, speeches, interviews, worries, good
work's (is there anything more wearisome than
good works ?)—repeated m every capital of the
Commonwealth. The Baxter-Bruces, Owen Cox
and F. W. Jackson had the hardihood, not being
M.L.-ers, to be present. But they behaved well,
and no one heard them deny that the axis of the
earth stuck out at Wellington, and was used as a
hat rack by-Richard Seddon. This week the
arrival of the Japanese squadron will rather push
swoollen-headed Maoriland off its pedestal of
popularity.
Mr. Deakin’s meeting last week was a glowing
success—quite a feast of oratory. Curiosity to
hear the Prime Minister attracted many ladies
new to politics, and I fear some of them got a quite
inaccurately rosy idea of what a political meet-
ing usually is. Sitting near to me was Mrs.
Walter Parish; it was her first attendance at a
meeting, and she was enthusiastic—vowing to be
a regular politician for the future. But alas!
wait till she hears Mr. Reid and Mr. Joseph
Cook. I can recommend Mr. Joseph Cook as an
infallible remedy for political fever. I noticed on
the platform the smileful lady who was always a
front-row figure at B. R. Wise’s meetings; but
there was a noticeable absence of most of the well-
known political women. The she-Freetraders and
Laborites are well organised ; but there does not
seem to be a woman’s branch of the Australian
Party organisation.
Mr. Deakin, while in Sydney this time, was the
guest of Mr. Bavin, a young barrister, who is
coming to be recognised as an authority on Com-
monwealth law. It is the custom of the Prime
Minister to stay quietly with some friend on his
too-rare trips to Sydney. He is not of the blaring
kind of politician, hates fuss, and revels in the
simple life.
Lady Fawkes, our present Admiraless, is
acclaimed as one of the best hostesses anywhere.
On Sunday she had Miss May Seddon and Miss
Gladwys Bonsor to luncheon, and could actually
give them points on the etiquette of the thermal
springs.
Biggest white tourmaline ever found in Austra-
lia has been bought by Lady Northcote just as the
jeweller into whose possession it came was about
to send it to England. Her Ex. loves to haunt
bookshops and jewellers’.
On Sunday last I went with a little picnic party,
that included Miss Grace Palotta and Mr. Hugh
Ward, for a taste of the Open Road, from Wah-
roonga to Cowan Creek—a long, long, red road
that runs between green undergrowth and orchards
and wild green places that lie dreaming on arms
of the sea. En route we saw the aboriginal rock
carvings—of kangaroos, native bears, men, and fish.
Most of us wouldn’t know of our possession of
abo. art treasures until we desire to impress a
stranger that Rome hasn’t everything in her
Vatican. Later, under the gigantic shadow of
Mr. William Lyne, Miss Palotta learnt to steer
a launch. The strangers said that the orchard
and forest land on the way to Cowan was just
like Los Angelos in California. So when you
intend to go a-travelling you cau look at the
country around Wahroonga, cut California, and
save money on that.
Some Palottery: “ The policemen in New York
are the most beautiful creatures ! And they make
some efforts to keep themselves so. Why, they
are amongst the most regular customers of the
face massage parlors. At the hotel where I was
staying—one of the best —a face massage salon
was attached, and the attendants told me that
all the police whose beats were in that neighbor-
hood paid it at least a weekly visit to have the
control-of-the-traffic expression smoothed out of
their faces.
GRACE PALOTTA, THE BEAUTIFUL.
Photo, by Bangs, San Francisco.
“ As for the woman servant in America —she’s a
bird. On certain afternoons and evenings not
one of her would be on the premises of the big
hotels. I would ring and ring for one to come
and do up my waist (for the dressmakers will not
give you a dress that leaves you independent of
a maid), and presently a bell-boy would tell me,
‘ O, all the maids are out,’ and I would put a
cloak over me and go and find a friend, or just a
kind, strange woman to hook me. [Which was very
unkind to the bell boy, wasn’t it ?] Fifty dollars
a month is a common wage for a maid servant.
That is ten pounds. As for millinery and dress-
making, when I am asked here about prices
there, I try to do a pas de seul out of the subject
for fear that the one asking will say I am making
up a story and setting up for frightfully expensive
clothes. Yet those who have got hats and gowns
at good shops in America will know that I do not
fib when I tell that for this,plain blue serge tailor-
made I paid twenty pounds. And the two hats
that I wear in ‘ The Man from Mexico,’ the black
with white feathers and the pink one, cost me
eighteen pounds. That was a special price, made
as a concession because of the maker having his
name on the programme. For making up the
white lace frock (I gave the lace and silk under-
dress, of course) I was charged twenty pounds. I
nearly wept, but all the firms say that, as they
pay such high wages, they must cnarge.in propor-
tion.
“In Manchester while playing in ‘My Friend
the Prince,’ I met in the drawing-room of my
hotel one evening a charming Australian lady,
just arrived, and she asked, ‘Oh, what are you
doing here ? ’ and I told her, ‘I am here with
My Friend the Prince.’ There were very nearly
complications, and a coolness that I worried over.
Later, the lady’s husband explained; now they
are here to joke me about the joke.”
Miss May Seddon is, according to Miss Palotta,
a larger, finer-looking Alice Roosevelt. The same
fresh, frank manner, the same confident smile,
the same simplicity and lack of self-con-
sciousness. And every one who has met the
young Maorilander arises to wave her toque and
say “Hear, hear.” She’s just like a girl called
Margaret Pallfy in a current novel, “ Andrew
Vane,” that Sydney is rushing the Book Club for
these days. In fact, the women of Pa Seddon’s
family make endurable his long speeches
about full cradles, and nursing, and mother-
hood being such holy jobs (he wants the
jobs to be “ stiddy ” ones) and the nobility of the
woman’s vote in politics. The ladies of tHe Sed-
don family are certainly good arguments for the
Seddon doctrine.
Miss Alice Raymond (Mrs. Kurkamp), the
cornettist, and her husband, who have been play-
ing and singing at the Tivoli, have the very
unmummerlike fad of poultry fancying. She
cannot get him to go to any theatre but the one
he’s compelled to be at, and then only for his
turn. All his spare time is given to making boxes
and coops and collecting prize birds. He has
bought a place fifteen miles out of Melbourne, and
there go his stock and incubators ; and there
will he and Madame go to live happy ever after
when their two years list of engagements is up.
Cabled report of the suicide of Commander
Kershaw’s wife is a great shock to his friends here.
He was married immediately after the arrival in
London of his vessel, the Ophir, last trip. And
he had long wooed and patiently loved and
waited for the lady.
Miss Margaret Thomas and her K.C. are now
in the public eye as they rush around in his dog-
cart —a vehicle with Battle of the Boyne wheels.
Mabel Batchelor, the bird-like soprano who has
been travelling with Lemmone’s Company, has
been the cause of breaking up the flautist’s
programme. The poor girl lies dangerously ill of
typhoid at a weird township near Cobar; her
mother is nursing her.
Copies of Miss May Summerbelle’s song “Love
is a Fadeless Flower,” words by the late Victor
Haley, are on sale at Nicholson’s and at The
Bulletin office. The composer, it will be
remembered, made over the copyright to the Daley
memorial fund, and the fact that through Miss
Margaret Thomas’s sweet voice the song made its
debut and that the same voice frequently sings it
in private gives the composition a full-sized
recommendation.
Ernest Albert Gilbert, who recently died aged
30, was a partner in the Bile Beans Co. of Sydney,
and left over £30,000 behind him. The bulk of
his fortune is divided among his mother, his
sister, and the society for the discouragement of
the ill-usage of beasts. The size of the fortune
suggests that even yet there is money in a new
patent medicine if you can strike the unfilled
want. But, unfortunately, I can’t think what the
unfilled want may be, unless it is some medicine
that will diminish large feet. And that would
require very eloquent advertising. Woman has
so long given up large feet as incurable, and hid-
den them resignedly under her chair or surrep-
titiously sat on them, that the glad tidings would
take some time to soak into her intelligence.
Over 2000 butterflies were murdered to make a
picture of the Madonna and Child for a wedding
present to Miss Alice Roosevelt. It was contri-
buted by an admirer in Milwaukee, where the
lager beer is made. I never had a tame butterfly,
but even looking at that bird from an outside
point of view it seems a foolish slaughter, for the
picture will probably fall to pieces in a year.
When Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, was over
here he made some remarks about women as agri-
culturists, which remarks were described as
“humorous.” But, after all, why should they be
humorous? The superfluous woman—that is to
say, the woman who has to hustle for a living, and
has no definite pursuit to hustle at, and for whom
the world seems to have no urgent demand—has
often to take to much harder and less profitable
and more precarious things than agriculture when
she grows old and her superfluousness accumulates
upon her. If she had acquired an acre of free-
hold and a humpy, even if the humpy was only a
tent, in her younger and less superfluous days,
things would be better for her. She would
at least not be ejected by her landlord. She
could keep a dog and a nanny-goat for
company, if she had trained these animals
to forage for themselves a good deal. She
might have the occasional society of a pigling,
which would grow up and become bacon. Such
crops as flowers, onions and potatoes are not very
heavy to cultivate, and even an onion is something
to have between one and starvation. The tent
could be repaired with old clothes as it grew
venerable, if the money wouldn’t run to a new
tent. And, even if there was an incurable hole in
the tent, the outlook would be better than that of
the woman who practises the “Song of the Shirt”
with a hole in the tenement-house roof ; it would
be her own orifice instead of the landlord’s, and
she would see the stars through it instead of smoke
and grime and chimney-tops and roof-haunting
cats. The first day I feel superfluousness coming
on me I am going to get an acre of ground and
some tools, and a tent, by way of precaution.
French ball of this year was rather thin but
well dressed. The Segurs, Moreaus, and de Thuys
came along. Madame Pinard’s gown of apricot
duchesse with a bolero of lace did its creator
proud. The little Portuguese Countess (sister of
Mrs. Point Piper Gordon), in tomato red, was just
It, and Mrs. Mark Foy’s Paris Exhibition gown of
embossed blue silk was a good advt. for Paris.
A friend of Miss Olive Godwin, of Williamson’s
Repertory Co., sends word that the young singer
has been left £2OOO by a just-deceased uncle in
England.
A periodical paragraph is going round the
papers to the effect that the Queen has appealed
against the practice of wearing osprey plumes and
other specimens of fowls in the hat of fashion.
But while these laudable sentiments are always
praised, the papers don’t seize the opportunity to
say severe things about the Queen’s husband for
pursuing the harmless pheasant and butchering
that graceful bird with a gun. In fact, when the
King gets too close to his prey, and a pheasant
falls on his head (the King’s head), the empire is
called on to sympathise, not with the bird that
fell, but with the King that it dropped on.
A Sydney student, after 12 months in the Art
Schools of Paris, writes :
Before I came across I soaked myself with literature of
the “ Trilby ” and “ Latin Quarter ” stamp, with George
Moore’s “ Confessions of a Young Man,” and other realistic
fiction dealing with student life in “Gay Paris,” in order
that I might jump into the atmosphere right away and
not seem too much out of the picture. Alas! I have had
to reconstruct my ideas, and to confess that I’ve seen
more gaiety in a week in Sydney than I’ve discovered in a
year in this allegedly gay city. The quarter where my
tiny flat is situated is teeming with art students of all
nationalities, and the air is full of strenuousness and con-
vention. Bohemianism as we know it does not exist. For
instance, on the flat below mine two young French artists
d_vvell, and,, on .one occasion, when the water from my sink
leaked on to the bed of one of them, he endured it all
night, and it was only when the concierge came
round that the poor fellow sent him to ask
the young lady upstairs to turn off the tap.
We hadn’t been introduced, and he would have
drowned in bed rather than do anything unconventional.
What disappoints me most is that no one speaks French
in the studios, and the only way to learn the language is
to live at a pension for French people. I tried one for a
time, but there were so many things about that estab-
lishment that did not accord with my Australian ideas of
cleanliness and decency that I had to flit The chief
excitement of the week to the army of art students is a
Sunday service, held in connection with a club, for
English-speaking students. This un-Murger-like enter-
tainment is conducted in the general room of the club.
One tumbles over easels, palettes, and paint-boxes at
every turn, and the incense that is wafted on the
air is nothing more sensuous than turpentine. After a
very short address, some equally brief prayers, and some
hymns, the congregation is regaled upon chocolate and
biscuits. You have no idea how we look forward to
Sunday evening to break the monotony.
Think of that ! Gay Paree down to such a depth
of respectable brown dolour that its Bohemian
quarter—the old “Trilby” quarter —regards a
Sunday evening service, with cocoa for wassail,
as the one breakage in its monotony !
A belated bit about the recent camp at Parra-
matta. His State Ex. Rawson motored to visit
it. Captain Oswald Watt, dressed somewhat
more finely than the Captain of the Heavenly
Hosts, was acting as chaffeur, and General Rama-
ciotti (or whatever his rank is) was riding by the
motor door. At the edge of the camp the guards
turned out to do reception honor, and General
Ram. turned his horse face to face with his Ex.,
Watt put on his best expression, and all was
ready for the grand entry when the car gave a
long snore and settled to repose in the dust.
Vainly Watt gave it Wattfor. It reposed on.
And curiously enough the autobile that his Ex.
was transferred to blew up during the camp tour.
Some cars are agin Governors.
Several Sydney women have friends perman-
ently located in Paris; hence the day-after-to-
morrow fashions that appear here occasionally.
Some years ago, when the plateau hats were just
born in Paris, a local leader appeared in one and
was nearly mobbed. Ten months later the mob-
bers were wearing the plateau and trying to think
themselves up-to-date.
My Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Adelaide is ail economical village. It has exactly cvvo
particular race meetings to which, if you are a Personage
or an attempt at one, you go, or die on the road. One of
these, the Adelaide Cup, is carefully arranged to happen
just in time for you to sport your new winter outfit.
T’other, the Hunt Club, transpires just as you have flung
off your winter garment of Repentance and emerged in.
billowy spring raiment. Thus does the wary Adelaide
male frustrate woman’s desire to get two extra new
frocks. She gets one frock every six months, and no
more; it is her race frock and her regular frock. Th.s
rule is observed so strictly that for a week before one of
the aforesaid race days the Adelaide Personage is either
entirely invisible, taking a rest cure (! !!), or else appears
furtively in the last remains of her dying habiliments and
sports a thick veil as a partial disguise. All this is to tell
you that the Holy City achieved its new winter garniture
on May 9, and waved its new gamp—it is allowed two
gamps a year—very violently when Dynamite blew up
the chances of Faedra and co. and paid a £lO dividend.
Adelaide is still a poor deserted vice-regalless city,
with no banner floating bravely in the breeze from the
flagstaff of Government House. The few early-season
functions that have happened have done so timidly and
with bated breath, as though they were afraid the vice-
royalties might hear of them and be annoyed. Their
Exes, meanwhile are carousing in the South-east, where
there is an alleged volcano, Gordon’s monument, and
other marvels; and the new Private Secretary, upon
whom the Adelaide girl is waiting to lavish her young
affections, is carousing with them, learning to stifle his
youthful blushes and otherwise getting in training. 1
have a dark suspicion that the Le Huntes took this little
holiday for the express purpose of breaking-in the new
official colt in a quiet paddock.
Adelaide’s Mayor, Theodore Bruce, has issued invita-
tions for the usual Mayoral hop on June 14, and the Ade-
laide citizen, remembering the lavish festivities of Cohen’s
time when he certainly got his rates’ worth, is com-
plaining in a loud tone because his best girl is
not invited, or she is invited without him, or
some other parsimonious tragedy has happened. But
he needn’t worry after all. The Mayoral ball is no
longer the affair ; it scarcely reaches the dignity of a
function since the careful Theodore took over the
unsteady job and the robes ; and, judging by last year,
the great horde of the uninvited will lose nothing but the
invitation card.
A correspondent sends me this, and there was
cigar-ash in the envelope:—
London Daily Mail of March 28 printed a column-long
article, entitled “ Serious Smoke,” suggested probably by
the fact that the previous week three ladies had a first-
class smoking carriage reserved for them on the “ Ameri-
can special ” from Euston. In the course of the article
the writer (a woman, obviously) says, “ We smoke for
every reason in the world but because we like it for
itself.” I only know one woman smoker intimately, and
she most certainly smokes because she likes it. The
habit began, she tells me, in her engagement days, out on
the rocks at Rose Bay. She smoked then just for fun-
pink and gold-tipped trifles they were, with very little
suggestion of tobacco about them. Then she married
the man who encouraged her to smoke just for fun. They
went to live in rather a lonely place. There were no
neighbors within a mile—no servant in the house even,
only herself and two dogs from early morning until dusk,
and it was then that the habit took hold of her and her
degeneration began. The honeymoon over, gold tips
were found expensive. From sixpenny packets she got
to threepennies, from threepennies she got to —what do
you think ?—her husband’s plug. I have seen her come
in from a walk or a visit absolutely nervy for want of a
smoke, and, pulling off her gloves, she would hunt up a
piece of baccy from mantel-piece or dressing-table, tear
a bit into fine fragments with her nails, clutch a piece of
tissue-paper out of a hat-box, and make a huge, bulgy,
shapeless cigarette that belched forth smoke like a
volcano. She’s a dear and good woman, beloved and
popular, and as fresh and as perky as a dicky-bird
after his bath. But certainly she smokes because she
likes it—in fact, she smokes now because she can’t help it.
Yours Affectionately,
ARENEHI.
“Theologians first cry ‘lt isn’t true’;
next, ‘lt isn’t new’; finally, ‘We discovered it
ourselves.’” —Charles Lyell.
HOW TO BE BEAUTIFUL.
Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying, as in the case of
“ Valaze,” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skin-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
“ Valaze ” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “ Valaze.”
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “ Valaze ” are widely recognised. Price,
3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Oomtesse Potocka’s
“ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake).
Comtesse Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “Valaze” special “Black-
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed, 3s. 6d. jar.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in your home from
Bs. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstkin and Co., 274
Oollins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*


muirr
mnmmi
li
D e/y
Ram
a.
*
g
m
<KZZ<s
f/
\
N
N
H
N
a
/£
Stylish Cur
Material t*
Finish the
Best.
. s P eci /y
HERCULES
BRAND.
Dunlop Rubber Co.
of Aus.Ltd.
All States.
05
•Hose
Supporters
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
ķ
ĸ
HIKJQICI
wr^B
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 22, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie* —
The marriage of the season, after all, has been
the Balmain-Fair bairn event. The Murray-
Oliver was good, the Fitzpatrick-Army tage better,
but the last couple struck the superlative key.
All the devices that could possibly be introduced
helped a theatrical ensemble. Miss Alison Fair-
bairn was marked up high as an heiress. Captain
Stuart-Balmain stood as top A.D.C. to the G.-G.
Northcotes. There had to be a splash. There
was. All Toorak was made triumphant in flowers
from Dunraven to St. John’s Church. Lancer-
bayonets, spurs, and lots of brass shone in a
drizzling rain outside the porch. This was the
’groom’s body-guard. Inside more brass and
bayonet glistened beneath great white arches.
Soldiers clanked up and down the aisle—finding
room for the frou-frou arrivals. The signal for
the bride’s coming preluded a theatrical mise-en-
scene. Bishop and clerics, choristers, and
soldiers marched down to meet the lady, and
then preceded the lady, looking like an ivory
cascade as she walked to the Eden strain.
At the altar the soldier groom stood with two
military friends in spurs and brass—Captain Leslie
Wilson, from Sydney, and Lieut. Edward Fitz-
gerald. One affecting tune marked the ceremony
—“ O, Perfect Love ! ” Surely a knot tied to such
a strain must last for all a couple’s allotted span.
Who could drift into divorce after the hymning
of “ O, Perfect Love ” ?
Layers and layers of costly, vaporish drapes,
with a silver moonlight-on-the-snow gleaming,
helped to frame the bride’s loveliness. She is
lovely, as far as fresh, clean, blonde qualities go,
and a sporty, out-of-door healthfulness. Every-
thing that -could be worn by a favored child of
Fortune was flaunted by Miss Fairbairn. Her
decate of bridesmaids were of assorted sizes and
years—from showy Miss May Jackson down to a
tot of the Everard Brownes.
Dame Northcote’s gift to the last costly bride
was a jewelled gamp handle, the sort of thing a
poetic young person, believing in the precious
fitness of things, would only brandish in rainbow
showers—when the earth breathed sweet from
fresh rains and Iris looped the loop across
blue sky. One couldn’t possibly sport a gold-and-
topaz gamp-stick in muddy slush and general
drabness.
In an effort to get right away from the break-
fast cruet and biscuit-barrel kind of present, all
Toorak last week went to the other extreme in
trying to provide novelties for the heiress bride.
Brooches, bangles and fans were the alternative—
something personal, ye ken ! So they poured in.
The bride would have to be the height of Magog
to carry the full strength of the brooches presented,
and would need half a dozen arms for the carriage
of all the bangles, and as many hands for the
wielding of all her souvenir fans. Perhaps in
time she may find use for them all.
How interesting is the expression of an ex-bride
at a beauty-rival’s knot-tying! I have been
studying it with enjoyment. There is suoh a
back-number, resigned, bored, plaintive, withal
reflective note of inquiry about her face. She
had starred —had her triumph—been the cynosure
of several hundreds for one sublime orange-
blossom day. But it’s gone—never (she must
hope if she nas any grace in her heart) to return.
The arches are all down, the flowers perished,
the confetti swept out of sight and almost of
memory. And routine closes on her wedded
life, bringing quiet, peace, happiness per-
haps but shutting out all the excite-
ments of the airy butterfly conquering girl-
period. Then she guests it at an ex-
rival’s knot-tying. And there comes that
expression of philosophy, a green-hued look of
disenchanted wisdom; to her the great bridal spec-
tacle seems almost foolish. The pity is that with
wisdom the petticoat sex looks long-faced. A
man, on the contrary, says—“ What a rotten brief
life it is ! But lor ! what a lot of fun I’m getting
out of it! ” And he goes on chuckling hard—
pitting his gay resolve to see the best of things
against the sweep of the envious scythe.
Latest news locates Percy Grainger’s yellow
tresses as still consorting with royalty and such
in the Cold Country. He played at an “At home ”
given by one Baroness de Meyer and duetted with
a Princess de Polignac. The latter is a fashionable
Parisian musical enthusiast, and has induced Percy
to go over and play at one of her .“ At homes.”
She has also arranged that some of his choruses
shall be given the same evening. .
They tell of some humorless Yank Misses
who have formed a “ Thirty Years Marriage
Club.” Members pledge themselves not to marry
until they are 30 (which is the age no single
woman ever allows herself to pass until she is 50).
It’s the fox and the grapes over again.
The pathetic complaint of a suburban ma’am :
“Our new cook drinks and isn’t a good cook.
It’s a positive injustice. All good cooks drink,
and all drunken cooks should be good.”
At an informal go-as-you-please political wel-
come to the Japs here, an important Hashi-
date warrior pointed Georgie-Porgie out to a
local military magnate. “Mister Reid amuse me
ver much ” he explained. “He is a ver comic
gentleman.” The magnate looked severe. “You
mean jolly. Jolly. That is the word you mean,”
corrected he. “Oh, is he! That is ver funny.”
And he laughed more innocent glee than ever.
The Stonington show to the Hashidate con-
tingent was small and frightfully careful. A
leavened number only were bidden, and the flock
wandered into the vice-regal presence and out
again in a dazed fashion, as if not knowing
exactly what was to be expected of them. The
Admiral Shimamura (who isn’t pronounced a bit
like he’s spelt) himself broke from the strict
straight garden path at last, and croquetted on
his own in a style of his own. After that, Mrs.
Yallange wielded the mallet some, and things
became a wee bit snugger. Eventually tea
warmed the gathering some more, and the finale
was fairly brisk. The popular Stonington dame
was drawn to full length by a trained confection
of the shade of mauve that is more memorial than
wicked. A tall hat flew a bird’s-tail of great price,
also in memorial mauve. One particular feature
of the dame’s toilette was a coquettish hair-loop
that, even in its grey stage, made a coy concession
to a fashion that prescribes skittish tendrils as a
trimming for the wall of the intellect. This little
- grey loop rendered the aristocratic face humanely
sweet and fetching.
The one gorgeous frock of the Stonington
afternoon was sported by Mrs. I. Isaacs—a bibu-
lous brown sherry and claret blend of glacd, with
Bacchic roses of dark red tone. A picture hat
was worked up on an olive-green ground, and a
dead bird was laid thereon with stunning effect.
Mrs. Septimus Miller and Mrs. Percy Chirnside
were twin dazzlers in black and Erin-green. Mrs.
Bowes Kelly stood out, a palatial and opulent
figure, in appropriate garb.
Mr. Jenkins of the bushy beard is one of- the'
white-haired boys (figuratively) of Stonington.
The Jenkins pair have been putting in a .few
country week-ends with their Exes, at the
Maced on cottage. Mrs. Jenkins is the prettiest
of all the snowy-headed fashionables in this Bent
State. And her chiffons are quite the smartest
achieved by any grey adult in the Toorakety
quarter. Then George himself has his lovely
whiskers.
Rear-Admiral Shimamura has more length
than most of his tribe and more bonhomie. He
started the Melbourne programme with a half-inch
smile, and he never quite wore it down. On the
farewell night of the athletic display at the Prin-
cess’, his brown nibs patiently retained the polite
smirk and used it instead of difficult speech when-
ever Colonel Ricardo passed a remark along.
Only when you asked something you shouldn’t
ought to, did that smile shoot back to its lair.
A last week’s bride walked demurely up the
aisle to the significant warble— “ 0, Welcome was
the Call! ” I should say so. Js it naivete or an
absolutely, foolishly, sweet unconsciousness that
lets a bride meander up the aisleto that little
strain? I saw all the old cats grinning like
Cheshires and exchanging eloquent glances.
There has been a sudden outbreak of engage-
ments among the State’s nurses. Three are
reported pledged to matrimony at St. Vincent’s
Hospital—two of the doctors being the aid-
ing and abetting parties. How does this
compare with the stage records? The rush
of girl to both stage and hospital continues.
The rushing girl in some instances never in-
quires what are the points about the successful,
and goes along with a squint, or a snub nose,
or warts on her cheek, to land a prize after the
manner of a charming and irresistible Miss. In
every recent case where a stage fluttorer or a
Nightingale has been run to earth by an eligible,
there have been youthful, fresh, delightful charms,
or airs or graces to account for the choice.
Now and then a hard-shell spinster has a vein of
humor that ought to have been worked to happier
purpose. One of her remarked the other day
that she wasn’t going to any more dances with her
nieces. “No,” she said, determinedly; “I’m
dead sick of meeting my ex-partners and asking
them how their boys have been shaping at the
University. I’ll go to no more.”
One blooming beauty noticeable of late has been
Mrs. St. Leger Robertson, about in the whirl
a train after doing her matronly duty to the State.
She bloometh really as a rose—a Cecil Brunner.
A gentle—even fragrant—manner matches. Mat-
rimony doesn’t always crown the girl charm. But
in this case, yes. Miss Hilda Cumming couldn’t
compare in any point of attractiveness with Mrs.
St. Leger.
One disaster is recorded of the brown week.
A St. Kilda man - has, with admirable firm-
ness, snapped off his engagement with a South
Yarra girleen because she offered a brown
middy a parting kiss. She told it in the bravado
manner of the sex under engaged circumstances.
“ You can go on kissing the Monkeys till the end
of your life,” roared the Johnnie. “ I’ve finished.”
The girl tried to explain that the kiss didn’t come
off. “I only offered him a.kiss,” she blubbered.
“He didn’t take one.” But the man relents
not, and the girl is grieving hard.
There’s a sudden emptying of big houses along
the quarter of Collins-street devoted to HCseu-
lapius. Where a few short seasons ago there
wasn’t surplus room for a single sneeze in any
large house in that interesting thoroughfare, there
are now quite half-a-dozen wearily flapping a “To-
let ” sign.
Melbourne’s she-doctors are still suffering dis-
couragement from the woman element in hospital
catmittees. Miss Edelsten, who lately got her
diploma, seems to have appalled the half-dozen
tahbies on the Austin Hospital management by
applying for the position of junior medical
assistant. Having been warned of her intention,
the committee marms held a preliminary meeting,
when with one accord they all began to snort and
raise objections. In the first place, they didn’t
want a woman on the medical staff; in the second
place, they felt sure she couldn’t be as capable as
a man, although she had testimonials of capa-
bility from several male medicos, to whom she had
acted as assistant whilst studying for her degree ;
and, thirdly, they raised the shallow excuse that
the hospital was unprovided with proper “ accom-
modation ” for a doctress.
Evidently the idea of the dear, kind ladies who
fuss around at the “Austin” is to keep petti-
coated practitioners at a distance by declining to
sanction the trifling cost of making it a decent
Elace for them to reside in. The vacant billet has
een advertised, and an appointment is to be
made this week, but with six women on the
committee (numbering 15 in all), the advt. might
as well have stated “ No woman need apply.”
What a glorious boon to Australian ladies to
know that if their skin is disfigured by wrinkles, pimples,
blotches, freckles, sunburn, blackheads, roughness,
chapping, flabbiness, muddiness, or any other blemishes,
Patti’s Beauty Cream will rapidly and permanently
banish them all without the slightest injury to the most
delicate skin 1 It is manufactured by Dr. Martin Artze,
the world-famed Parisian Skin Specialist, from the purest
and most costly ingredients,'and is warranted to induce
no hair to grow or produce any eruption on the skin, and
to make the complexion soft, clear, smooth and trans-
parent as that of a healthy infant. It is as much superior
to all other skin foods as is the beauty of Madame Patti to
that of a small-pox victim. There, are thousands of
living proofs of these truths in Australia and New
Zealand to-day, and the piles of testimonials, which grow
larger daily, afford incontestable evidence that Patti’s
Beauty Cream stands supreme as a complexion specific.
Every month since its introduction to Australia, three
years ago, its sales have doubled, and not a single
purchaser has made the slightest complaint. Patti’s
Beauty Cream alone does all this because it is a Perfect
Skin Food. Of all Chemists and Stores, price 3s. 6d. and
6s. per pot.*
An audience of unusual earnestness hearkened
to young Leila Doubleday at the complimentary
concert last week. The precocious little per-
former was good to see at the keyboard. She
sat well, and ‘‘addressed” the ivories with some
' grace. When she started on the “Fantasia Im-
promptu ” of Chopin, an anxious air of hard-boiled
earnestness marked her personality. But as she
Erogressed the assurance of “temperament” came
ome to the audience. A spiritual grace and just
enough fire illumined the performance. When
she fiddled, the same earnestness of mind and
fidelity to musical truth were evident, but the
instrument was less familiar. She performed
without the tingling enthusiasm of her piano art.
Still it was a fine exhibition of technique, memory,
and musical taste.
Another footlight beauty has caught the fancy
and obvious affection of a gilded stallite. This
time it is a dark foreigner as rich as Croesus. He
has followed the charmer from capital to country
town, and from the rural centre on to another
capital. When a fault-finding notice appears of the
dramatic dazzler he is positively ill with grief.
“How could these papers be so rude? It is a
lady—a very lovely lady—who acts ! ” That’s how
things are. They say she has only to let her
languid eyes rest upon the adorer softly and in-
dulgently for ten seconds and Croesus is hers.
Tragic death at Hamilton (Vic.) of Bob Rymill
has struck motoring South Australia something
of a heap. 'The Ry mills are most notable
motor enthusiasts in a State that has the
craze pretty badly, and are known as
experienced and careful drivers. Several
serious motor accidents from small causes that
have happened lately begin to throw some doubt
on the safety of the noisy vehicle. Mr.
Rymill was returning home from Victoria when
the -accident happened. He was approaching
Hamilton about midnight, and a 'long hill and a
piece of slippery road at the end of it sent the
motor skidding into a field, where it overturned
on his chest. He died before it could be moved.
Rymill was a popular fellow, and will be consider-
ably missed, in S.A. sporting circles particularly.
The aesthetic Miss used to hold a theory anent
the consumption of a chop in the presence of the
beloved. She preferred to starve. The savage
act of mastication in his presence turned her soul
sick. If she couldn’t secure a grape or two for a
meal she went without anything. But aestheticism
has foundered on the rock of horse-sense. Now
a girl deals with a grill in a capable fashion, and
tackles a devilled bone with the resolute air of a
village blacksmith about to strike sparks from the
anvil. I looked on the greatest heiress in this
city having tiffin with her aristocratic fianci the
other day, and let my own Paris cutlet grow cold
as I followed her vigorous attack of the victuals.
Nothing grew cold on her plate. She worked
away heartily at the meal, and he ditto. It was
a revelation in how to eliminate all sentiment in
the presence of a gorge.
I have been watching the operation of hat-
raising through a Block afternoon from a She-
club coign of vantage, and discovered it to be a
study of deep human interest and a performance
full of expression and character. There is the
hat-lifting that mounts to a violent explosion.
The bowler is seized and it bangs the atmosphere
hard. Your excitable friend has been caught in a
moment of profound absent-mindedness. The
explosion is an “Excuse me!” “So sorry!”
“Glad to be in time!” “Good-day!” “Good
luck to you !” all in the one big bang. There
is the hat that describes forked lightning
and shadow circles in the air. This is your
graceful poetic poseur doing the thing prettily.
There is the direct wide sweep of the hat which
includes an obeisance to one’s presence on the
earth, and implies that it is a good thing for the
earth. There is the semaphore lift, and there are
others —the gay wave of the hat, the conse-
quential jerk, the giddy wink of the side brim,
the ceremonious lift of the beaver, the economic
touch of the rim, the bashful elevation of the
bowler, and the begrudging clutch at the top-gear
as an unwilling concession to a mad fashion.
Farewell biscuits are to be nibbled in honor of
Miss Tittell Brune, whose boom hereabouts comes
to a stop owing to the transit of the star else-
where. The Christian Scientists and the Roman
Catholics, who have fought over the star’s faith
without intermission since she shot along here, are
devising separate good-bye shivoos. The Scientists
have now a chance of establishing the bona-fides of
their faith. It is a simple solution of the
trouble. Let them give a muffin feast and salute
an empty chair as the place of Miss Brune.
They have only to think she’s there, and there
she is. They can report the ovation and junket,
and even describe the frock. If the cats who
know better rush forward to say Miss Brune
couldn’t have been with the Scientists, inasmuch
as she was spraining her ankle (say) off a St.
Hilda spring-board that very afternoon, the
Scientists can haughtily dismiss the infidels and
say “ Miss Brune thought, and you thought, she
was spraining her ankle at St. Hilda, but she was
really with us.”
The widower is mostly an unknown—or uncer-
tain—quantity. One of him left his child in the
care of a friendly spinster for seven long dreary
years. Now he has married the other girl—not
the friendly spinster.
The parsons are coming on. The Rev. Alfred
Wheeler —the boyish cleric who took the other
holy man’s post as Argus critic when he holidayed
abroad—has been mounting sweet sonnets with
appropriate tuneful filigree. One instance—
“ Mother My Love ” (words by Eugene Field) —is
sufficient to vindicate the effort at musical work-
manship. It is a quaint sweet setting to words
demanding those peculiar qualities. Another—
words by Annie Rentoul —“ Nobody Knows,” has
a coy tilt after the fashion of an Irish folk-song.
A cantata—“ The Rose of Joy”—shows the
musical cleric in another vein ; words again by
Annie Rentoul. There’s a pretty pantomimic air
about The Rose and a set of simple tunes most
appropriate to the ear and tongue of musical
kiddies. Yours Affectionately, Tryphena.
Mr. James Walker writes :
You compare (17/5/’O6) the progress made on the St.
Kilda-Brighton line with that made on the Essendon and
Flemington tramway. You are hardly-correct in saying
that the latter line has already been three years under
construction. - The first rail was laid by Mr. Bent on 22nd
June, 1905, and since that date 10 miles of track have
been completed—that is 10 miles in 11 months. On the
St. Kilda-Brighton line, the ceremonial first spike was
driven (also by Mr. Bent) on 19th October last, and in the
ensuing six months 3J miles of track were laid. A
sum in very simple proportion will show that the
“ Private Enterprise ” of the Essendon electric tramway
has made a construction progress almost twice as great
as that made on the St. Kilda to Brighton line.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
524 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
His mind imbued with noble thought—
For the good of all mankind—
A Chemist patiently worked and sought
A cure for colds to find.
The ceaseless toil of an active brain
Its reward did at length ensure ;
And the Chemist gave to the world his gain-
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Qout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers —
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
In our advt. columns will be found an announce-
ment that the Midland Railway Company, of Western
Australia Limited, are now subdividing their concession,
received from the Government, of 2,500,000 acres into
farming and grazing properties, and the first sale of 100
farms fronting the Midland Railway Company’s own line
is advertised. Illustrated pamphlets giving the fullest
particulars, if required, can be obtained from Gordon and
Gotch, Sydney. The sale takes place on June 22nd at the
Queen’s Hall, Perth, W.A.*
The huge dimension that the rubber trade has
achieved is fully demonstrated by the remarkably rapid
growth of one of the foremost firms engaged in this
industry, viz. The Continental C. and G. Rubber Co.
The following figures speak for themselves :—On the 31st.
December, 1903, this firm gave employment to 2741
persons. A year later 3204 people were employed, whilst
on the last day of 1905, 451J persons were engaged in the
manufacture of the Continental Motor and Cycle Tyres
(so well-known in Australia) and the numerous other
rubber specialties bearing the Continental trade mark.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
ķ
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS * Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Yofce for George Reid and the Discourage-
ment of Australian Industries!
Queensland’s Dairy Act absolutely pro-
hibits the employment of colored people in dairies.
N.S.W. might follow that example.
China shows the difference between its old
and new way of looking at things by appointing an
official to boss its own Customs. For many years
Ch:na has tolerated an English controller of the
great revenue department. Now it will see itself
to the taxing of the foreign devil’s goods.
“ Private monopolies cannot control the
railways in Australia,” said Prime Minister
Deakin last week. If the habit, that they’re try-
ing to institute in N.S. Wales, of sacking an
honest Commissioner who stands out against
monopolies is established, the Deakin statement
will be no longer accurate.
Reid and Cook are starred as the per-
formers at a Sydney anti-Home Rule demonstra-
tion. Reid seems to be anti-e very thing these
times —except, of course, anti-Fat.
British House of Commons has passed
through its second reading a bill to abolish plural
voting. This will not give one man one vote, as
it will leave many still without the suffrage,
but it will be a step towards a thoroughly
democratic franchise.
One of the recent jokes of Yic. politics
was the suggestion of that great anti-Socialist,
Allan M'Lean, that the State railways should
carry beets (for sugar-making) for some years free.
Though M‘Lean’s crowd professes to hate milk,
it’s always the first to suggest bailing up the cow.
The Malay States, just north of Australia,
which John Bull runs with a nigger population,
hive no alienated land and no public debt. All
works are paid for out of revenue, and a sound
surplus exists. Go learn from the Malay, Aus-
tralia !
GEORGE O’ TEE WISP.
"Electors, beware! ”
During the 1890 maritime strike Samuel
Griffith, now Chief Justice of Australia, told
a Bananaland deputation of employers that the
disturbance was merely the breaking of the crest
of Democracy’s wave, which, as surely as the sun
shone, would sweep over the continent. And
Samuel was no small shakes as a prophet.
Kidston has been buzzing through Queens-
land with great energy during the recess. Griffith
followed the same plan, and penetrated to Clo'n-
curry. That was 20 years ago; and Cloncurry
had no sight of a Premier again till Kidston
arrived, the other day, with a railway in his
pocket. And Philp’s stock sinks, sinks, sinks.
Up at Brisbane a local firm is building a
new 25-ton boiler for the naval picket boat Midge,
and the price works out at 15 per cent, under Ad-
miralty schedule rates. Also the Brisbane firm,
which got on its feet under the old Queensland
policy of high Protection, and organised, and got
into the way of doing things, doesn’t see why it
should stop at boilers for picket boats, but asks
for a chance to tender for building Australia’s
torpedo boats and destroyers. But a country that
sends to Europe for its mud dredges, to be built to
the design of Australian brains, isn’t likely to be-
come enthusiastic over the Brisbane firm’s humble
request.
Professor Vasilyez told the Argus in
Melbourne that the Russian Liberal party keeps
a keen eye on Democratic institutions in Aus-
tralia. He found that educated people in London
had not even heard of Australian matters which
were of common knowledge among men of the
same standing in St. Petersburg.
Queensland Public Service Association will
shortly push a claim for the establishment of a
superannuation fund. The president savs if the
Government won’t introduce a measure they will
enlist the services of a private member. If Kidston
establishes a State insurance fund under the
\\ orkers Compensation Act, the measure might
go far enough to provide for life business.
The Gembrook railway accident has led to
one change for the winter time-table. Tait has
extended the running time on several country
lines, notably the Port Fairy-Warrnambool line,
where engines and trucks have been running off
frequently of late. Having starved the lines into
an unsafe condition, the plan is not to put them
safe again, but to run the trains more slowly.
There seems to be much trouble ahead of
the Victorian Labor party. _ It declines to work
"c a/t 6 P r °t e °tionist Association or the Chamber
of Manufactures or the Liberals whom Isaacs,
Higgins, Mauger and co. represent; and now
-Lorn Mann s Social Questions Committee
threatens to run “advanced labor” candidates
against the recognised Laborites at municipal and
Parliamentary elections.
Some restriction should be placed on the
amount of luggage allowed a member holding a
“®®. r^ llwa y pass. In one State a well-known
M.L.C., who keeps a rural store, is generally
accompanied to and from the capital by enough
baggage to fill a fair-sized truck. This luggage
(goods for the store) is carried free by reason of
the lion, member’s pass. Through the saving
of freight he can considerably undersell com-
petitors. There are many points about a Parlia-
mentary railway pass.
Premier Carrutliers contemplated making
his N.S.W. Parliamentary Jubilee fandango
something a little more razzlesome than it turned
out; but, while he was “considering,” everybody
else was rushing to organise some “ function ”
that would bring them under the notice of the Jap
squadron visitors, and clean forgot about the Par-
liamentary Jubilee. When Carruthers finally
woke up he found himself out of the limelight—
there wasn’t any room on the programme for his
proposed magnificent junket, so he had to be con-
tent with a sort of “ bob-in-and-the-winner-
shouts ” celebration among old Parliamentarians.
“ Itan ” : Apropos of the craze to import
an English Railway Commissioner for N.S.W.,
didn’t that State spend a devil
of a lot of money paying an
English engineer, John Coode,
for harbor schemes that have
proved all-round failures ?
Also, didn’t it pay the im-
ported Colonel Home a large
sum for an irrigation report
which was never of any use ?
Victoria also consulted the
most eminent Coode about
its Yarra, and has been sorry
ever since that it took his
advice and made the famous
Coode Canal instead of making
a straight cut to Port Mel-
bourne. But this country has
got the iin ported -geni us disease
very badly. Brisbane is just
now importing a U.S. genius
at a cost of £2OOO to report on
a new water supply. There is
only one thing that stands in
the way of a new and clean
water supply, and that is Bris-
bane’s reluctance to pay for
it. The city knows where the
water is and how much it will
cost to fetch it in, just as well
as 150 Yankee engineers could
tell it for £B5OO each, but it
has a vague hope that the im-
ported genius, because he is
imported, will make the new
water supply come in by itself.
When it finds that he can’t
do that it will pay him his
£2OOO and disgustedly put his
manuscript in the coal scuttle.
“Two Seas”: Most of
the Labor men I have argued
with upon the absurdity of
keeping the fiscal question
under water, retort that there is time enough to
resolve upon which side of the fence they will
hang it up to dry when the party takes office.
Yet if a man declared that there was time enough
to learn to swim when he fell overboard he would
be called a monumental ass.
Bent begins to weaken before the loud
uproar created by a few dozen twopenny Mel-
bourne suburban shopkeepers, and threatens to
alter the universal closing hour from 6 p.m. to 8
p.m. “in the case of small shops.” Naturally,
the others will demand and must be given the
concession, too. Let Bent wait a while. The
clamor will soon die down, as it did in Sydney.
William Knox is to be given a good run
for his money at the next Federal election by the
Laborites. To endear himself to the poorer of his
electors, Knox has hit on the brilliant idea of
travelling with them. So, every morning, William
manoeuvres his enormous bulk into a second-class
carnage, perches it on a seat, and fills the compart-
ment with the odor of choice cigars, and talks
about what he will do for the working-man.
Another of the works of Owe’Sullivan is
doomed. He built a tramway from Carrington to
Newcastle, and, to carry it across the harbor, a
bridge. This bridge cost so much money that the
tramway has not been finished to this day. Now
it has been decided to pull down the bridge in
order to increase the water available for deep-sea
vessels. So that of the tramway, unfinished at
each end and gapped in the middle, nothing but
the loan remains.
The first cable message that Admiral
Shimamura, the Bear’s late enemy, got in Aus-
tralia was a straight enough tip to these parts—
“ The new armored cruiser Ikoma, 14,000 tons
register, has been successfully launched from the
yards at Kure.” With its high tariff Japan can
build its 14,000-ton armored cruisers, while the
best that Australia can do, with its G. Reid and its
mongrel tariff, is to send Capt. Cresswell to
England to purchase a few torpedo boats.
ARMED ASSISTANCE WANTED.
AUBTRALIA : “ We've come to a tight place. Out with your fiscal gun!"
LABOR: “ Don't carry one."
AUSTRALIA: “ S’elp me, then what are you here for ?”
Dr. Richard Arthur, president of the
Immigration League, on the Yellow Peril: —
Japan is thickly populated—it has over 300 persons to
the square mile—and its extent of arable land is very
limited. With a population increasing at the rate of
nearly 750,000 per annum, and beginning to demand a
higher standard of material comfort, it is absolutely
necessary that outlets should be sought for this surplus
population. The question is—Where will these people
go? Our optimists, who only see what they desire to see,
assure us that Japan will have unlimited opportunities
for an indefinite period for expansion in Korea and
Manchuria. But Korea is smaller in extent than Vic-
toria, and has an estimated population of from eight to
sixteen millions. Manchuria, with an area somewhat
larger than New South Wales, already contains about
twelve million inhabitants. Had it been such a desirable
field for immigration, it would probably have been filled
up by the Chinese long ago. Despite our optimists, the
Japanese themselves have no doubts as to the direction
in which their future expansion must lie. Some of their
leading public men have stated lately that as Japan is a
small country with a large population, and Australia a
vast territory occupied, or unoccupied, by a mere handful
of people, the Japanese must sooner or later go to
Australia.
N.S.W. Public Works Committee is again
going strong over the proposal to plug up the
Murrumbidgee, Goodoradidgbee, and Yass Rivers,
and fill the Barren Jack
reservoir with their
waters, and fees have
resumed —in theory at
least. Carrutliers, in
the early days of the
Deform spasm, abol-
ished the Committee.
Next, he declined to
re-appoint it. Next,
he re-appointed the
Committee, but allow-
ed only a fixed sum
for its remuneration.
That sum has long
since been exhausted;
but Joseph now tells
the members to go
ahead, and promises
that he will obtain
from Parliament, when
the Estimates come
round, payment in full
for their extra services.
So the Public Works Commit-
tee is toiling at present on the
strength of Joe’s I O U. And,
by deferring payment in this way,
Joseph is also aided in his surplus-faking.
The Carruthers (N.S.W.) Government re-
cently took a sensible step by deciding that all
parks should be vested in the municipal councils
as trustees. That should drive one host of cadging
local members off the State door-mat. But the
municipal councils get —and cadge for—special
park votes just like the other trustees.
The great United States pension swindle
is a humorless thing ; it is too gross to be funny.
Six people are still drawing pensions on account
of the War of Independence, which finished 123
years ago. Over 8000 widows are drawing pen-
sions by reason of the war with Britain, which
ended 98 years ago. And the pensions already
granted over the Spanish war are more numerous
than the whole force engaged, and six times more
numerous than all the killed, wounded, sick,
bruised, and sorry of the invading force. Appa-
rently, everybody who felt depressed when he
thought of the war has been made comfortable for
life.
Germany has imposed a £l-per-1000 duty
on cigarettes, and these are some of the immediate
effects—in England. The firm of Muratti, Man-
chester, employing 600 hands, and exporting
70,000,000 cigarettes to Germany annually, intends
closing down part of the English factory, and
starting works in Berlin. One of England’s
biggest leaf importers tells the press that “ many
thousand cigarette-makers in London, Liverpool,
Manchester, Congleton, and other towns will be
thrown out of work,” and, after pointing out how
the proposed free opening of the English market
to the world will practically throw it into the
arms of American manufacturers, says:—
There are probably 30,000 cigarette-makers in Eng-
land to day. Take away the slight Protection, and in
three years there will not be 1000 employed. Twenty-
nine thousand to swell the ranks of the unemployed 1
What does the Labor Party say to this ?
The “new Protection” is not the only
furbished creed of to-day. The “new Imperi-
alism” is a topic of the London papers. The
“now Imperialism” was discovered by Richard
Jebb, and its main tenet is to encourage the
colonies and dependencies to do as they darned
well please as a stage to a closer union of senti-
ment. Encouragement of an Australian navy and
of a White Australia are two of its planks. And
altogether it’s a very sensible sort of political
faith.
A recent deputation to S. Gillott, Yic.
Minister of Labor, voiced once more the
urgent need for an Act to provide for the proper
inspection of boilers. Joe Woolf, solicitor to the
Trades .Hall Council, placed his idea of an effective
bill in the Minister’s hands. It rightly stipu-
lated for a law that shall apply to every boiler in
the State. The present Act applies only to
boilers in a few shires, and leaves workmen in
other districts at the mercy of the conscienceless
employer, who reckons that the steambag that
worked all right 30 years ago ought to keep on
being docile and obedient for all eternity. Gillott
is going to consider these things.
BRIDGING THE GAP.
The “ building- ticket” device on Victorian
suburban railways—it granted free passes for a
number of years to men who bought and built on
bits of suburban estates which the Government’s
tri ?^ ds T wer ® subdividing--is to be continued
and the Railway Department made no
secret that it was ashamed of the business ; but


Good
Shape
Good
Wean
A GLANCE
AT THIS
BOOT IS
ENOUGH I
In Black
Duoro Calf,
or Tan
Willow Calf,
21/-
22/-
POST AND DUTY FREE ALL
OYER THE COMMONWEALTH,
Including WEST AUSTRALIA.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AH Boots carry sole stamp “ CITY BOOT.”
ĸ
k
ķ
ĸ
k
ķ
ĸ
k
ķ
k
o
A
r
©
o
o
A
A
O
ALWAYS |
BUSY
This is a strong point we have a
right to use in self-recommendation.
THE
CAUSE
GOOD BOOTS ONLY
are the things that keep us
busy.
In buying
Callaghan Boots or Shoes
You ALWAYS get full value for
your money. You can’t buy Boots
that are really cheaper.
Send for—
THE CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK.
Fully Illustrated.
POSTED FREE.
POST
YOUR
ORDER
TO-
DAY
f&4ri£^7tCjfBtpius
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
IRRIGATION
and water conservation are the greatest
necessities of Australia at the present
day. By the use of Malthoid these
problems can be simplified and brought
WITHIN REACH
of all. Every squatter and farmer can
have his flumes and dam at a most
moderate cost. Malthoid is absolutely
watertight—made from a pure mineral.
“lIIt is not seemly, do It not; If It is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & CO.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & 00.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Kep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic,
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLTAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENOKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vio,
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
A BATTERY
tl}at will CBre
RHEUMATISM-
A genuine MEDICAL BATTERY that
will relieve any case of Rheumatism, and
cure many. Doctors say that, if persisted
in, an Electric Battery WILL cure Rheu-
matism. It’s worth 355. to be relieved
of those awful agonising rheumatic pains,
isn’t it?
Price -35 s
Post Free.
Money back in any case of
dissatisfaction.
m
mi
sm
mm
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
‘MY OPTICIANS
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
LIVER & KIDNEY TROUBLES REMOVED
Read this Convincing Testimony:—
REV. F. L. BULLFN writes :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, Southampton,
“October 22nd, 1905.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publishing
my testimony concerning the excellent properties of
Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it years ago.
In my case it has proved to be an agreeable and gentle
aperient, cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort, and regu-
lating generally the whole organic system. I shall have
much confidence in recommending its use to my friends.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
KUTNOW’S
Improved EFFruvsscchT carusb
POWDER.
itr
m
Hiuehenipnma or Deer Leap
‘L<?
41, FAPRINGDON RMBjLe.
BEGISTERED TRADE MARK
The Advantages of Kutnow's are: —
Firstly. —The power of expelling the excess of bile
and acids which accumulate in the system together with
putrefying deposits which occur in the bowels and kidneys.
Secondly. —The power of stimulating a sluggish
liver, and of eliminating all the excessive uric acid.
Thirdly. —The virtue of not only cleansing the
bowels and diluting the urine, but at the same time of
exercising a soothing influence on the system generally.
Fourthly. —The freedom it induces in the flow of
the gastric juices, thereby removing all the terrors of
indigestion.
Fifthly. —The utility of combining remedial proper-
ties with strengthening and invigorating virtues ; it thus
purifies the blood, refreshes the brain, and revitalises the
whole system.
HOW TO DETECT FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently
cause irreparable injury. The genuine and original
Kutnow’s Powder is strongly recommended by all leading
physicians for the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels!
Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which you can obtain at all
conscientious chemists throughout the world. Examine the
package and see that it bears the fac-simile signature il S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” which are also on the
bottle, as shown in the reduced illustration. You will
then avoid imitations, and know
HOW TO SECURE GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
The
Edinburgh
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“ Kutnow’s Powder
is an excellent pre-
paration, and one
we can highly re-
commend.^
NURSE CROSS
WHITES :
“2, Percy-road, Wrexham.
“ Sirs, —Some five years ago I had an acute attack
of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney), and my doctor
advised Harrogate waters. After trying them for some
time with very little result, the doctor suggested giving
Kutnow’s Powder a trial, with such excellent result that
in a short time I felt very much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other day for two years, and
consider it worked an entire cure.
“ MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).
KUTNOW’S POWDER REGULATES THE BOWELS
SOLE PROPRIETORS s S. KUTNOW ®, CO., LTD., 41. FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C


GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
■ GOOD I
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
AS
EVER
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
n p TDAI
wEm I
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores.of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Cab Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. R.ESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbeweky Offices :
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Last week almost every Sydney paper contained
paragraphs hinting that information had come from some
reliable source that “ the players ” would recede from the
agreement they had made with the Melbourne Club. The
Bulletin had no such hopes. The remark of that young
player who protested that a man must have time to
consider whether he would forego the chance of making
£lOOO or not was too suggestive. Naturally the more a
man considered such a chance the more likely he would
be to stick to the chance —the only question was would
tfie N.S.W. Cricket Association be able to deprive
him of that chance ? The truth of the matter
is that the players are suffering from a complica-
tion of complaints, the chief of which is Swelled
Head. They think that N.S.W. cannot do without them.
On Monday night last they informed the Cricket Associa-
tion, that they had been unable to come to a definite con-
clusion, on account of the absence in Queensland of
certain players who had signed the agreement. They
were taking steps to bring about an honorable settlement,
and the establishment of a proper Board of Control, and
much other clap-trap. The Cricket Association declined to
be humbugged any longer, passinga sentence of suspension.
The Rev. Waddy had intimated by letter that he intended
to withdraw from his arrangement with the Melbourne
Club, and as the Association did not judge those who are
away in Queensland in their absence, only Noble, Mackay,
Duff, Carter, Diamond, Garnsey and O’Connor have so
far been suspended. The disqualification is for an in-
definite period—during the pleasure of the Association,
and that fact inspires the Players to believe that they can
choose their own time. If the Melbourne Club’s machina-
tions fall through, they believe the Association will be
only too delighted to lift the disqualification at any
moment. This chilled-steel conceit wants splintering.
This handful of players must get out of the idea that they
are essential to cricket.
* * * K
Sydney Cricket Ground Trust invited the press
to its meeting last Monday. Now that the public is be-
ginning to take a deep interest in the actions of the
trustees, there are troublous times ahead. That famous
Equity suit cost a lot of money (somewhere in the neigh-
borhood of £1600), and considering that it was the result
of action which the trustees are said to have been warned
by more than one barrister could only end in disaster,
people are beginning to inquire if it wouldn’t be a good
idea to get less litigiously inclined trustees.
* * * *
In the Sydney British Association game, Glebe,
Balmain and Pyrmont are at the top of the list with six
points each, all having won their first three matches.
Rozelle occupies second place with four. Granville is
third with two ; and the other three clubs have failed to
score. Saturday’s play saw Glebe beat Ultimo by versa-
tile play and splendid combination. They were a clean
kicking crowd that represented Glebe, and whether they
were pressing, or taking long shots, they did it. with the
cool deliberation of the finished players, and the
marvel is that they didn’t win by bigger odds.
Away out at Granville Pyrmont attacked the local
club, but was soon put on the defensive. It was,
however, a good defence, and Granville wore itself
out attacking it, when Pyrmont came with a
deliberation that was only equalled by the desperate de-
fence made by the Granville goal-keeper, but for whom'
there would have been a general debacle. He played a
wonderful game, and Granville has largely to thank him
that it was beaten by only five goals to two. Sydney had
a bad time with Balmain ; it almost burst its collective
boiler to get down the field, and struck an impregnable
defence on the line every time. A game of fruitless effort
on the part of the defeated ended in a victory for the
Balmainers by five to nil. Rozelle simply ran over South
Sydney, the dribbling of the victors being wonderful to
see. They won by six to nil.
* * * *
Result of last Saturday’s Rugby was to put
Eastern Suburbs ahead of all competitors in the Compe-
tition list by two points. Six clubs are running level in
the second place with four points each. In spite of its
great forward team St. George was trampled on severely
by the Eastern Suburbs, finally going under by 18 to 3.
The surprise of the afternoon was the downfall of Uni-
versity, beaten 6t05 by the weak Western Suburbs. The
Uni.’s passing was deplorable, and converted what ought
to have been a certain and decisive victory into a one
point defeat. The scores that made the Western victory
(a field goal and a try) were both obtained by Stanley
Wickham, who was playing substitute. The battle
of the afternoon was that between Sydney and Newtown
on the University Oval; after the best game of the
season Sydney won by 11 to nil. The game was not
nearly so one-sided as the scores indicate. Unfortunate
Manly again went down, this time to North Sydney, but
the Villagers are improving, and were defeatefj by only
16 to 11 this time. _ Their trouble is that there isn’t the
semblance of combination among the back division, and
the club will continue at the tail of the competition till
this is remedied. One thing to be said for the team is
that it is not at all down-hearted at its run of defeats,
ana many of its troubles are due to eagerness on the part
of reckless forwards. People who went to watch Glebe
and Balmain struggle expected to see something in tne
shape of a melee, but the two clubs had a genuine
respect for one another’s bashing powers, apparently.
Anyhow, they played a scrupulously fair and proper
game. Glebe was too heavy for Balmain, and won by 17
to nil.
* *
A feature of the season’s Rugby so far is the
excellent condition and play of the forward packs, with a
corresponding dearth of meritamong the back divisions.
Even University, which usually plays a heady fast game,
has got a very faulty machine this season, and although
in the opening'game of the season it played a good com-
bined game, it has failed to do so since, and on Saturday
made the worst exhibition up to date. Whether it was
that the speed of the Western Suburbs forwards broke it
up and smothered it, writer cannot say—it looked as
though the trouble was in the slow movements of the
scrum halves, who fumbled when they did get hold.
» * * m
In the Australian competition the awful smash-
ing that Newtown inflicted on Y.M.O.A. lifted it to first
place with 6 points. Sydney, East Sydney, Redfern and
Balmain share second position with 4 points each.
Y.M.O.A. has only 2, and below that the less said the,
better. The Y.M.O.A. must have felt something less
than good after Newtown had rubbed its nose in the dirt
by 104 points to 10. Sydney suffered its first defeat of
the season, being pipped by Redfern after a close tussle
by 29 to 27 points. East Sydney Australians are not quite
so good as their Rugby fellows, but they are close up ;
North Sydney curled up before them, being beaten 39 to
29. Balmain simply ran over Paddington, winning by 59
to 6. All the same, the losers played a good, sterling
game right to the finish.
* * * *
Already there begins to be rather more surprise
about Victorian football than is good for the game. As
if to emphasize the unaccountableness of South’s defeat
of Oollingwood the previous week, the Magpies went to
Fitzrov, last year’s premiers, and inflicted on them the
awful walloping of 14 goals 8 behinds to 7 goals 7 be-
hinds, while South reversed their previous form by nar-
rowly escaping defeat at the hands of St. Kilda,
the weakest League team, scoring 74 points to 61.
The most even-looking match —’Roy-’Wood—attracted
some 20,000 spectators, and though ’Roy never had a
hope from the bounce, it was nevertheless an open and
willing game, finely mixed at time, while the barrackers
gave tongue—and occasionally fist—in a way that showed
they took an interest in the proceedings. Carlton and
Essendon also had wins, their opponents, Geelong
and Melbourne, continuing; their consistent career
at the tail of the procession. In the Association
games the turn-up was the defeat, by 80 points to 46,
of the supposedly-strong Port Melbourneites by Preston
—the bottom rung of the ladder, in a manner of speaking.
No other inconsistencies were sufficiently pronounced to
be mentioned. One of South Melbourne’s players collided
with an opponent with such violence as to fracture his
upper jawbone. The injured man was admitted to the
hospital, and is expected to be in working order again in
six or seven weeks. No other casualties were reported,
though a few spectators lost their tempers and a few
others their purses.
* * • *
“Bob” Ainslie, who died atChatswood(N.S. W.),
t’other day, was a fine Rugby footballer, and captained
Scotland in international struggles in the eighties. Al-
though he wasn’t closely associated with Rugby in N.S. W.,
his knowledge of the game was of much benefit to local
players in the decision of knotty problems.
* * * * ,
“Philo ” : Buckjumping appears to have become
very popular with the Sydney youngsters. Saw a number
of school kids playing at the game recently. One bends
down, with his head almost touching his knees ; a second
holds the head down firmly by both ears a la Martini;
while a third mounts and holds on tightly by the other
chap’s coat collar, and plants both knees firmly in his sides.
Then, with a wild whoop, the “buckjumper’s.” head is
released. He bucks, and jumps, and sways ; dashes for-
wards, backwards, and sideways, at the same time tying
himself into all sorts of fancy knots, until he throws his
mount. The strenuousness and energy displayed by some
of the “ horses ” is remarkable, whilst the tenacity and
zeal of the riders js worthy of a better purpose. Some of
the boys are really clever at the game, and when a good
bucker and a practised ridqr get into holts it is exciting.
» * * *
The buckjumping show at Fitzgeralds’ Circus
building (Melb.) is still getting along, minus the long-
haired Kemp. A first week’s campaign against the
various wild and tame “outlaws” served to damage
the small stock of riders, and the audience on
Saturday night included two or three under-
takers, who were looking for business. “Jack”
somebody was successful only in mounting a blood mare,
named Black Beauty. Having got into the saddle, he
stayed just long enough for a buck, that sent him on the
rails, a somewhat injured person. But, on the saddle
being removed, police horse-breaker “ Bill ” Henderson
mounted and rode the beauty out of the yard, which calls
forth some thoughtful comments re the possible persuasive
powers of a saddle. Lady-rider Miss M’Donald gave a fine
display on a chestnut mare, that fell, regained her feet,
but did not disturb the girl. Much-advertised outlaw
Dargin’s Grey, with Daunt up, failed to raise a pig-
jump, after which Jim Bullock got going on an unlikely
looking crock that made a few unavailing attempts to
shift him. In a competition for jockeys, a person named
Wiley unsuccessfully" rode Yellow-Bay, but was followed
by Jack Smith, a well-known rider over sticks, who put
up a first-rate exhibition of horsemanship, making no
mistake. Miss Kemp, of some four years’ experience of
rough-riding, and whose first attempt occurred at Martini’s
show in the north, closed the proceedings with an uncom-
fortable ride. The manager, who talked so copiously on
the first night, now talks less.
* » * *
The Australian High Court has not exactly
settled what is a place within the meaning of the Act,
but it has certainly decided that a public right of way, or
a street, is not. A result of the High Court’s reversal of
the Full Court’s decision may be the flooding of the
streets by bookmakers. Presumably if one man can yell
“ Rabbit-oli ! ” another may roar “ I lay ! I lay ! ” as long
as he keeps moving. If he doesn’t keep moving he may
be run in for obstructing the traffic.
* * * *
John Wren has met his . first rebuff in Sydney,
where the police raided the Sydney Club, and made a
record haul of civil servants, including, so rumor sayeth,
one Under-Secretary. Meanwhile, John Wren is under-
stood to be in treaty for the purchase of the Cyclorama
building, opposite the Railway Station, which he
will, it is said, turn into a hippodrome, boxing hall, and
place of general entertainment.
* * • •
Said that Maniapoto has already been backed
to win £15,000 on the Melbourne Cup. If it is true,
someone has ideas, and is getting on the market early—
remarkably early, in fact.
* * * *
The outback mixed horse-ped. sports meeting is
a thing of joy, these days, in Maoriland. Mushroom
bookies swarm at them, and the backblock genius revels
in the work of taking ’em down. At Kokatahi, on the
West Coast of the South Island, the committee spent the
day hearing protests and passing prads and people out.
Three winning horses were disqualified, as well as others
that weren’t trying to win, and the baffled officials began
to wonder if anyone'was on the job at all. In several
instances angry backers stood by the wayside and belted
the prads on the rump with saplings when they saw that
the riders were getting pains in their wrists holding ’em
back. In one race, the favorite ran off in a workmanlike
manner when winning ; then he turned and ran in second
behind a better-priced moke. Stewards passed the latter
out for fouling or something, and made the favorite win
whether his rider liked it or not. Then the bookies re-
fused to pay, and there were forty free fights.
**# * -
S.A. Jockey Club had £30,000 through the
totalisator at its three days Cup meeting ; this is a good
deal better than last year, but some £lO,OOO below what
it was a few years ago. £27,000 was returned in divi-
dends, and of the balance the Government takes £750,
leaving the club £2250 towards its £4OOO of stake-money.
* • • *
“Philo”: One of the meanest features of the
police raids upon the Sydney betting shops is the way
they contrive to swoop down upon them just when they
know the place will be full of the poor working man or
the harmless, underpaid office youth. Recent Pitt-street
raid cost a number of young men their billets, because
they couldn’t turn up at their work that afternoon.
* * • *
“S.S.”: There is not the slightest doubt but
that Japanese wrestling could be made enormously popu-
lar in Australia if the style displayed at Melbourne
Princess’ the other night were adopted. This is judo—
not jitsu—and is a good deal like Cornish wrestling, being
wrestled in jackets, but it is much livelier than the
Cousin Jack tussle, and full of business. Judo is-as
spirited as a lively boxing bout, and all serene ; .it affords
a most exciting spectacle, the arm and leg holds, clips,
etc., being as numerous as the hits and tricks of the
smartest pugs.
* * • •
The other week a muscular Fred Porter met
Buttan Singh in a catch-hold wrestle, best tjyo out of
three pin falls, at the Cyclorama building (Melbourne).
Singh laid odds of £4O to £2O, the contest to run two
hours, one fall to win the match if no. other were scored.
This precautionary clause proved needless. Buttan
(list. 61b.) had the advantage of a stone in weight, and
simply crawled all over Fred, placing his two shoulders
on the mat by means of a half-Nelson and hammerlock
after a three-minute struggle. The men resumed after a
five-minute spell. Buttan, wading in, soon had his oppon-
ent in trouble, by bringing him to the mat with a clever
flying half-Nelson, which enabled the applying of a “ full.”
Fred, however, managed to wriggle out, only to find a
trap waiting for him. Singh displayed some of the
cleverest leg leverages writer has seen, and at 4min. 9sec.
placed the “ White Australian’s ” two shoulders on the
mat by repeating his previous hold, pinning him down
and holding on to his grip long after referee Mitchell had
tapped him on the back. Porter was under dog from
start to finish, and in making so poor a show he practi-
cally offered a handsome apology for Weber’s inability to
do more than make a “ draw ” with the slippery Hindu.
Hackenschmidt never had the smallest idea of
attacking Jim Jeffries, champion pug of the earth. He
wrote a Melbourne journalist in explanation : “ I don’t
know what to say when the newspaper fellows come to
me. They want me to say something all the time, so I
say that to please them. They like it for the paper, and
it does not hurt me.”
* » * *
Wrestling and boxing are the only branches of
amateurism which have yielded much revenue to outside
bodies of recent years, and the Australian Amateur
Athletic Associations have decided to spread their wings
over the lucrative branches. Queensland, Victorian and
Tasmanian Associations have already stepped in ; but
the N.S. W. body is going to let the Sports Club reap this
year’s harvest.
* * • *
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association proposes
to hold a “ Marathon ” race—a 25-mile spin along metalled
roads ; and also road walking events, from 10 to 20 miles.
*.. * / * *
The legend of Jap marksmanship received a
severe bump in Victoria. Three teams of brown rifle-
shots took on teams from the metropolis, Port Melbourne,
and Kew. The palm, deliberate, unemotional, deadly,
scientific Britons of the East seemed to have great diffi-
culty-in hitting the target. As a matter of international
courtesy, as Bruce Smith would say, the actual figures
were not published.
* * * *
Annette Kellermann, at present doing the Lon-
don ’alls, has received a challenge from a Charles M.
Reynal to swim from Blackpool to Gravesend, a distance
of 20 miles, or from Woolwich to Hammersmith (18 miles),
the contest to eventuate during either July or August.
Another lady swimmer, Beatrice Kerr, left Australia by
the s.s. Commonwealth to fulfil an engagement with the
Tower Co., Blackpool, England, where she opens a season
on July 4th.
* • * *
Coincidence. The West Darling (Broken Hill)
Squatters’ picnic races this year began in dust and ended
in mud. The drought and the tribulation ceased when
Drought and Hard Times tied for first place in one of the
races. A fine fall of nearly 2in. of rain followed.
♦ * * m
Stanbury and Towns are putting up the stake
money for their forthcoming race in instalments. Up to
date about £175 of the amount has been lodged, and both
men are now hard at work training on the Parramatta
River. The locale of the race has not yet been decided,
the property owners along the shore having failed, so far,
to come to terms. It might be a good idea if the con-
testants agreed to give reasonable steamer charges a
show. The day of 10s. tickets is over.
* * * *
Veteran rower Bill Beach recently struck trouble
that at first looked like appendicitis ; however, it turned
out to be a milder complaint of pain under the pinny, and
the oarsman is now about again, talking about the
ancient champions’ race, in which he is taking a keen
interest.
* * .* *
Mr. Deloitte, president of theIST.S.W. Rowing
Association, who has just returned from wandering over
the face of the planet, is enthusiastic over the way Aus-
tralian F. S. Kelly won the Diamond Sculls at Henley,
England. Kelly seems to have impressed the Englanders
mightily, and they regarded his wrist work as real old
vintage. Henley course, Mr. Deloitte told a Sun inter-
viewer, is only a mile and a quarter long, and the result
is that the English rowers train for a short but tremen-
dous burst.
* * * *
Mr. Massy, of Yass, has been [a boss'slaugh-
terer of pigeons since September, 1899, but his
latest triumph is winning the State sparrow shooting
championship at Goulburn. Sydney Referee tells of
the return home from Goulburn of the hero: “The
sportsmen of Yass know how to honor one who
brings laurels to the historic town. Arriving at
Yass Junction at the early hour of 12.45 on Fri-
day morning with champion Massy, and boarding
the train in waiting to take us to Yass, I was agreeably
surprised to see such a representative gathering of ladies
and gentlemen waiting to welcome the champion. The
Yass town band was there, and when the champion
stepped on to the platform they struck up, amid cheers,
‘ See the Conquering Herb Comes.’ It was truly an event
I shall never forget.” And it’s not satire !
* * * *
The Australian cross country riders’ casualty
list for the present season, so far as it has gone, shows A
Williamson top of the list, with 10 falls; F. Burn, D.
Allan, and T. Williamson—six each—follow closely!
Ohevally, P. Cosgrove, M. Glennon, J. L. Cox, W. Ray
and Carter came down five times. The vitality of the
cross country rider is evidenced by the fact that Chevally
had two ribs broken on the 7th of one month and was
riding again on the 24th.
* * * *
The mighty fallen ! Street Arab, who won
Sydney Cup from 17 others three years ago, is entered
for the “all heights” event at Ascot (Sydney) pony
meeting next Saturday.
* • • •
Further developments of the war in Sydney
ponydom are that Ascot will run a meeting next Satur-
day in opposition to Rosehill Racing Club, because the
latter body opened its gates to the Hawkesbury R.C.
some few weeks ago on a day that Ascot was in evidence.
The associated pony clubs are hitting back with a Rose-
bery Park Club meeting at Kensington, also on Saturday.
Last few days of present week are providing a veritable
feast of racing. Ascot and Kensington had fixtures for
Wednesday, Epping Club is alone on Friday, and Rose-
bery Park, Ascot, and Rosehill Clubs will be goino- on
Saturday. °
* • • •
Sydney Hunt Club opened the 1906 season
auspiciously at Eastwood on Saturday with a run which
attracted some 40 horsemen. Hunting is a sport that
does not gain nearly as much attention in Sydney
as it should. There are splendid runs in the neigh-
borhood of the city, and a decent hunter is within
the means of the man of modest income. It is probably
through ignorance of the facilities for cross-country hunt-
ing that the Hunt Club is not numerically three or four
times its present strength.
* * * *
The big cheque which the Maoriland Rugby
Union gathered from the tour of the All Blacks in
England is to be split up—£6ooo being invested at fixed
deposit, and £6OOO loaned to branches at 2t per cent.
* # * *
Most promising young athlete Australia has
seen for years is Warialda (N.S. W.) man Tom Maher, who,
as one of East Sydney’s team against Western Suburbs
(Brisbane) combination, t’other day, scooped the 120yds.
hurdles easily, then beat Australian high jump champion
Frawley (sft. lOin. to sft. Bin.), and came out again same
day to hurl the discus further than the continent’s top.
nptcher, J. Kearney. Possibilities for Maher, if he im-
proves as he matures, are big indeed ; at present he is
the best all-round amateur this section knows.
• * • •
The battle between Sydney’s welter Ted Nelson
and Melbourne’s middle-weight Ed. Williams, drew so
big a house that it is believed the decline of the game in
Sydney is followed by a marked revival in Melbourne.
The fight was an excellent scientific mill, and went gaily
for ten rounds, slowed down for six, and finished with
a remarkable sprint. Williams had too much length and
weight, combined with cleverness, to set off against Nel-
son’s remarkable talent as a fistic specialist, and he dented
and damaged Ted considerably in the earlier rounds, and
fairly held hisown in the rest. The Sydneysider took Bsecs.
on the boards in the third round, and later his nose took
on painful purple and crimson hues, and was sadly
swelled, but Edward continued to fight with spirit, and went
at it ding-dong in the last round, hoping to leave a good
impression, but he was hitting regardless of the necessity
of reaching a tender place on his enemy, and his work
was more spectacular than effective. Williams from the
10th to the 19th acted like a man who had a heap of points
behind him, and was willing to go slow. He won on
points, and was never for a moment in difficulty, finishing
as though fresh from a warm bath.
* * * •
The Griffin-Reeder scrap, at the Sydney Na-
tional Sporting Club, was one of the briefest things on
record. The ex-Maoriland amateur champion has im-
proved considerably since his last appearance in the same
hall. Beeder’s appearance was not re-assuring, for, al-
though he is longer and bigger than Griffin, he looked
soft. But there was a fearful willingness about both
men. Griffin bounded in, delivered his blows like a flash,
and was away out of reach. His aiming was a little
wild—fortunately for the target, for the brute
strength behind his wild swipes was appalling. Three
blows that missed Reeder that night would have laid him
right out had he stopped any one of them. He smote
Reeder twice in the midriff, nasty smites that echoed.
Reeder clinched, Griffen held his hands out, and as
Reeder broke Griffen chopped down on his ear with the
left and banged him on the jaw with his right. Then he
sailed out of reach, and, coming back to kill, there were
heavy exchanges, both men missing with real knock-out
blows. Griffen sailed out of reach once more, and then
orouching, he seemed to aim his right for the jaw and
hurl his whole body behind it. It landed right on the
jaw just as Reeder was in the act of turning. Reeder fell
prone, hopelessly stunned for the time being. Time,
66secs.
* * * *
Roulette is not in it with boxing for uncer-
tainty, as Mathew Mitchie discovered to his cost on
Saturday night at Sydney Gaiety. It was a packed
house, and the winner’s end of the gate was a thing of
joy. For seventeen rounds Turner had worried him
round the ring, and given him a bad time generally, and
then he managed to hook his tormentor on the jaw.
Turner sagged badly, reeled to his corner, and smothered
to avoid punishment. But Mitchie swung himself clear,
and showered blows on the huddled figure in front of him,
which sank down on to its knees. Mitchie, wild with
excitement, failed to notice that he was walloping a man
who was down till the referee suddenly disqualified him,
and gave the battle to the huddled mass on the floor.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen applied the
mailed fist vigorously and inflicted heavy disqualifications
on the members of the League who have seceded in favor
of the unregistered agitation. Having gone thus far, the
League should refuse to hearken to the “unregistered”
section henceforth, and attend more strenuously to its
own affairs. More good can be done by straightening its
own tangles and discrepancies than by going grey over a
handful of pedal-pushers who have grown tired of League
management. The State Leagues have combined to
squelch the revolutionists, and there’s no reason why the
movement shouldn’t succeed. And the discontented
cyclists will grow more miserable the more they are left
in the cold.
* * * *
Re the discussion on the feelings produced by a
knock-out blow. Bernard Shaw gives these concise des-
criptions “ I once asked an ancient prize-fighter what a
knock-out was like when it did happen. He was a man
of limited descriptive powers, so he simply pointed to the
heavens and said, ‘ Up in a balloon.’ An amateur pugilist,
with greater command of language, told me that ‘all the
milk in his head suddenly boiled over.’” The milk meta-
phor seems to be about as apt as possible.
Good Health.
Old Age Made Vigorous by the Use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The first essential to good health is to keep the
stomach in a sound condition. It is not the
quantity of food we eat but what we digest and
assimilate that nourishes the body. When the
stomach and organs of digestion and nutrition are
diseased the food eaten is only imperfectly
digested, there is loss of nutrition, and the body
loses strength as a natural consequence. To
reach a green old age and enjoy good health
can only be attained by the care of the system
HENRY H. JOYCE.
(From a photo.)
which may at
times require
a little assist-
ance. That
D r. Morse’s
Indian Root
Pills are a safe,
sure and re-
liable remedy
is vouched for
by Mr. Joyce
and his wife,
who are hale
and hearty in
their “green
old age.” “For
some years
Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root
Pills have been
our sole medi-
cine, and we
have found
them to give almost instant relief in cases of in-
digestion,” writes Mr. H. H. Joyce, of 56
Mitchell-street, Sydney. “ I have -suffered from
time to time with palpitation, and that heavy,
languid feeling after eating, but a dose or two of
your pills have always acted satisfactorily. My
wife also is a great believer in the merits of these
pills, which have relieved severe attacks of
chronic rheumatism. Speaking generally, we
both enjoy good health, which we attribute to the
occasional use of Dr. Morse’s Pills. You are at
liberty to publish this, as we are always ready to
advocate the use of your valuable remedy in all
cases of sickness.”*


inn
SIR EDMUND BARTON:
“I am directed by Sir Edmund Barton to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 25th inst.,
and to thank you for the box of cigars, ‘ Surabarang,’ at 40s. per 100. I am to inform you that
Edmund Barton has smoked one or two of the cigars, and he thinks their quality is very good inaee ,
especially considering the very moderate price at which they are sold. Sir Edmund Barton win
pleased if you will send him a box containing a hundred of the cigars in question."
The nARSOMA cigar can be submitted to careful
analysis or microscopical examination. It is made
from the choicest growths of tobacco from the
Islands of the East Indies, skilfully blended in a
scientific manner, producing a result which is
absolutely unique.
SOLE -A-G-lEItTTS :
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, B.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
k
I MELBA ACCORDEONS
P»7
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send It Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
376-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
MOTHERS FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P, KLEESA.TTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.-
THE HIQH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
+T (Regd.)
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SEtVEDQfI.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST NIGHTS of LAST NIGHTS
BLAND HOLT and his
FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in Drury-Lane’s Greatest Success,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
Written and Dramatised by HAI)L CAINE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manairer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in
A COUNTRY GIRL.
The Brightest of all the Gaiety Successes.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2, THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
I TZG ERA LD’S CIRCUS BUI L D I N|Q
(PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE).
E. Erskine-Scott Business Manager.
ENORMOUS and GENUINE SUCCESS
of
KEMP’S WILD AUSTRALIAN
EVENING.
BUCKJUMPERS,
EVENING.
Acknowledged I)}' Press and Public to be the Finest
Exhibition of Rough Riding ever seen in the
Commonwealth.
PROFESSOR KEMP—THE DARE DEVIL.
MISS KEMP—THE OUTLAW QUEEN.
And Jack Morissey, Snowy Baldwin, Tom Frost, and a
Host of Others.
A TREMENDOUS GATHERING OF TALENT BOTH
HUMAN AND ANIMAL.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc.
o
SJ
Weekly
EDISON Pay-
PHONOGRAPHS. Cash. Terms. Deposit, me"*"
GEMS £2 10 0 £3 0 0 10s 2s
STANDARDS.. £5 0 0 £5 15 0 20s 5s
HOMES £7 10 0 £8 10 0 30s 5s
VIOLINS £2 10 0 £2 15 0 10s 2s
ACCORDEONS £1 5 0 £1 7 6 6s 2s
ANGLOS £2 10 0 £2 15 0 15s 2s
ORGANETTES £3 0 0 /£3 10 0 20s 5s
AUTOHARPS.. 12 6.' 15 0 3s Is
Packing Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SON,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia-
-137 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
E. T. WALSH,
Practical Tailor,
Expert Cutter, jz?
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS. —Send your name and I will send my illustrated Style Catalogue,
also Samples and Measurement Chart and Outfit for measurements.
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUR MONEY BACK.
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street, NQ FA C TOF Y WO/?K»
London, employed 1 V
359 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY,
Direction of EDWIN GEAOH.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, the
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD NEW LONDON COMEDY
COMPANY, including MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
the Famous Society and Beauty Actress, in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Day
Tickets at White Rose.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURCIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia.
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public.
All subjects instructive and entertaining.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat'. Each artist a star.
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmony
and finish.
KATOOMBA, FRIDAY, MAY 26.
BLACKHEATH, SATURDAY, MAY 26.
LITHCOW, MONDAY and TUESDAY, MAY 28 and 29.
PENRITH, WEDNESDAY, MAY 30.
WINDSOR, THURSDAY, MAY 31.
RICHMOND, FRIDAY, JUNE 1.
WINCHAM, THURSDAY and FRIDAY, JUNE 7 and 8.
TAREE, MONDAY and TUESDAY, JUNE 11 and 12.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mjt. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Reception of BLAKE and GRANBY.
Great Success of THE OARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
Emphatic Success of HOMER B. MASON and
MARGUERITE KEELER CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
TAMBO & TAMBO, Original Tambourine Spinners.
MISS NITA LEETE, THE SISTERS WARNER,
FANNY POWERS, THE CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS.
HARRY SADLER. BABY SUTTON, FRED. BLUETT.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
KELLY and AGNES, Comedy Duo.
THE THREE LEES, Vocalists, Dancers, Acrobats.
BABY WATSON, Juvenile Vocalist Actress,
i LILIETH LEYTON and Mr. HARRY KENDAL in
i Comedy Sketch, THE ORDER OF THE BATH.
MARTINETTI and GROSSi; Novelty Act.
O’NATIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers,
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
And a host of others.
Plan at Allan’s. AST PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, MAY 24, FRIDAY, MAY 25, LAST TWO
NIGHTS of FOR THE SAKE OF A WOMAN.
SATURDAY, MAY 26,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
the Original, Novel, Interesting, Mirth-Provoking Play,
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 26, America’s Foremost
Comedian, MR. WILLIAM COLLIER,
THE DICTATOR.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
M HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS, EVERY' EVENING,
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
-|- Ow N HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 26, positively LAST NIGHT
in Melbourne of
Living London & Moving Melbourne.
The Greatest and Most Remarkable Moving
Picture Ever Exhibited.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
EVERY EVENING,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY CO. in
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
Reappearance of MRS. BROUGH.
ents
THE
of the
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every, pipe is
guaranteed, *.
v
til
, A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
t»ood, well-seasoned.
TO be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
cbnists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only aftom FELDHEIMj
GOTTHBLE & CO., Sydney. _
Compulsory Wlndlng-up of the Insolvent
Stock In the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
t Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
SjHammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 0
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price £0 8 9
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
- -and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5.
Sale Price .. £2 15 0
'l2 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£0 16 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. 6s. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, fid. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
•7*74
7jf
TBS
-M
WALKI
£>
MOTO
0
'
na
*r:
I
w sm ?
I ■
HE
wnisfsiws
ifTOtVMWSS
%
*m\
*lO
ķ
Legal Notices.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA.
Re HARRY WALSH, Miner, Deceased, Intestate.
'THE next-of-kin' of the above-named deceased, who
1 died at St. Adrian Island on the 2nd February,
1905, is requested to communicate with the undersigned,
H. W. CHAMPION,
Acting Curator of Intestate Estates,
s POET MORESBY.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA.
Re JAMES YOUNG, Miner, Deceased, Intestate.
<THE next-of-kin of the above-named deceased, who
* died at Qibara, Milne Bay, on the 14th March, 1900,
is requested to communicate with the undersigned,
H. W. CHAMPION,
Acting Curator of Intestate Estates,
PORT MORESBY.
Mike Williams, “sent for” by John Wren to
fight Bill Squires, will be remembered by many an Aus-
tralian farm-burner as the British soldier attached to
one of the pom-pom batteries, who carried off the
heavy-weight prize at the Klerksdorp tournament
in 1902. Mike won the final from a big Maori-
lander, but it took 20 rounds to down the Maori-
lander; and, at the end of that period, Mike
himself looked as if he had been taking on De Wet’s
crack commando single-handed. It would surely be
worth somebody’s while to trace out that hard-fisted
Maorilander. Mike is reckoned by many the best man in
the Southern Hemisphere, and the man he couldn’t beat
under 20 rounds ought to have a future before him in
the ring.
* * * •
A Bendigo lady is the latest victim of State
interference with Private Enterprise. She lives near the
chief sports ground, and on a recent holiday she propped
a ladder up against the fence and allowed all and sundry
to climb over by it and see the sports at a reduced rate —
children, Id. ; adults, 2d. The private-enterprising dame
did a roaring trade till a policeman poked a Socialistic
nose in. Then State meddling was plainly seen to drive
capital away.
' * * * *
“S.S.”: The female whisperer is the latest in
tipsters. She is a city barmaid, once prone to putting
dollars and half-dollars on “ dead birds.” Asked her how
shegotonover the Easter meeting. “Tiptop. Tipped
every winner. Little Toy, Noreen, Collarit, and the rest
of them.” “Back them?” “No ! not me. You see the
fact is, I tip every horse in the race ; and one of them must
win unless the whole show’s struck by lightning. I tell
the customers I got it from the stable, and they’re to
keep it quiet, and that sort of thing ; and not to forget
me if they have a good win. A friend of mine put me up
to the dodge. Better than backing them! Bather!
You don’t win a bangle like that, or a ring like this, back-
ing them. Several customers had me on a pound on some
of the winners. By the way, you ought to have a bit
on .” I left.
* * * •
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union should
insist on first-grade football matches being started to the
minute. The lingering practice has gradually grown on the
teams ; but, in many cases, it is the fault of unpunctual
starting in the early matches put on the list to fill in
spare time. The Union should deal heavily, with the
teams which cause the delay and make the tail end of a
match drag out into the twilight and almost into the
starlight.
# * * *
The “ Green Gate ” pub., between Killara and
Gordon (N.S.W.)on the North Shore Road (B. 10/5/’O6), has
other points of interest beyond its ancient lineage. In
the thirties and forties, the present Gordon Road was a
lonely thoroughfare, and the chief avenue of approach to
the Hawkesbury district and beyond. As such, it
became the resort of footpads, who defied the police and
the troopers in the thick bush country on either side-
bush reaching to the Lane Cove River on the one hand
and to Middle Harbor on the other. Local tradition
has it that the “Green Gate” was the headquarters
of these people, and that the place was equipped
with a prize-ring and a cockpit to prevent the
time hanging heavily on the hands of the fre-
quenters. The cockpit, it is said, is still there.
But the “ Green Gate’s ” principal claim to fame lies in
the discovery of Peter Jackson. Peter was working on
the Lane Cove River, and a casual visit to the pub. led to
an impromptu appearance in the prize ring. Perhaps it
was thought that it would be good sport to knock the
stuffing out of the nigger. But the nigger knocked the
stuffing out of the other fellow. Waterhouse, the owner
of the inn, immediately saw possibilities, and Jackson was
secretly kept there, and trained and taught. When the
time came, he was matched in a fight at Larry toley s
saloon—wasn’t it against Slavin ?—and the novice knocked
out his opponent and won a heap of money for Water-
house. After that the “Green Gate” knew Jackson no
more.


WEDDING
lIIK
msm
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, cut crystal glass, 255.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE WILL
PROVE AN INVALUABLE HELP, AND AID
VOU IN MAKING A SELECTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
stand,'-STbSL SmT , J ? E *” a FISH
, ’ ase ' 20s - Other styles, 27s 6d, S5s.
"*f
A. SAUNDERS.
Walnut CABINET CLOCK, 8-
day, strikes hours and halves, 17in
high, 17s 6d. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s 9d.
ĸ
WE PREPAY ALL EXPRESS CHARGES T
ANY PART OP AUSTRALASIA, WHICH
MEANS A BIG SAVING TO YOU.
PRESENTS
BSs&ek
M
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, pure silver*
plated, cut crystal bottles, 12s
6d; other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d. 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver SEWING COM-
PANION, comprising 4 articles, in
silk-lined case, £2. Other styles, 15s
Cd, 18s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic CALL BELL, pure silver-
plated, richly embossed, 12s Cd. Other
styles, 4s 6d. 255.
YOU MUST
BE
SATISFIED
The very widest
range of choice, and
the very highest
quality at prices
LESS THAN ELSE-
WHERE.
Our Guarantee is
YOU MUST BE
SATISFIED.
All Goods sent
POST FREE to
any address in
Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRYSTALITE SPECS, 3s 6d; Pure Pebbles 4q fid 1n
English Gold-filled Frames, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s;' Soli^Gold.^Ssfsos
We ask you at your leisure to pay a visit to our u
your sight carefully tested by a skilled Refractionist ExamiL?inn mS ' snd5 nd have
Free. If unable to call, send for Home Eye-test Chart' sent no”? £ d g ice
SEND
FOR IT
NOW.
Our Illustrated
Catalogue enables
you to shop
leisurely and con-
veniently in the
privacy of your
own home.
Write to-day.
You will receive
it by return mail.
You assume no risk
when dealing
with us.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING MUG, pure silver-
plated, 20s. Other styles, 13s
6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel SHAVING COMPANION com-
prising Mirror, Soap, and Hot-water Bowl,
Brush, and Paper-clip, on wooden base, 235.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET BOOK, Morocco Leather,
pure silver mounts and lock, 12s
6d. Other styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s.
Svonky
"mm.
'' l 1 "
mui
1
■
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, cut glass, solid
silver mounts, and spoons, in silk-
Imed case, 12s 6d, Heart-shaped, 13s
Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, pure
plated, opal Venetian glass
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 25f
silver-
, SOs.
si £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure silver-
plated, satin finish, richly pierced, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-plated on nickel
silver, richly embossed, serrated edge, £2 10s
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid silver HAIR
BRUSH, finest white
bristles, 15s 6d.
Others, 12s 6d, 17s
6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO FRAME, solid silver cabinet
Size, richly embossed, 10s 6d’ Other
styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER . CRUET, 4 cut crystal
bottles, pure silver-plated, ' 255.
Other styles, las 6d, 17s 6d
21s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Jam Spoon, Butter Knife, and Sugar Sifter,
. solid silver, mother-of-pearl handles, gilt bowls,
m silk-lined case, 30s. Other styles, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SUGAR BASIN,
China lining, pure silver-plated 1
mounts, 15s 6d. Extra mounted,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, tinted
enamel dial, Onyx base, accurate
timekeeper, 12in high, £2 sa. Other styles,
12s fid, 15s, 17s Cd, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or MARINE GLASSES,
sharp definition, with leather
sling- and case. £2. Other
styles, ?<'■-
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and
pure silver-plated on nickel silver,
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
TONGS,
12s 6d.
20s.
\. launders.
English Oak CRIB-
RAGE BOARD and
Card Drawer, pure
silver-plated mounts,
15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, fitted every
convenience, 20s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather PURSE, pure silver mounts
and lock, in tan or green, 8s 6d. Other styles, 4s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Oak PEPPER MILL,
pure silver-plated mounts,
8i 6d. Others, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
Gent.’s TRAVELLING CO M-
PANION, comprising Brush,
Comb, and Mirror, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d,'lss. 20s.
CERKBOS SALT
CASTOR, pure Silver-
mounted, 3s 6d.
Others, 3s 6d, 5s 6d.
WiNcritLo RowootnamaCS
■i-i l iii i i■n , wimi i .ii.i.. l ‘i».in'i.>:.iu|
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation CUTLEit'r SET, comprising set carvers,
|-dozen each Dessert and Dinner Knives, best Sheffield
Steel, £2 ss. Extra Mounted, £2 10s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
A. SAUNDERS
j 809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817)
( GEORGE-STREET, )
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


p
5k
ffc
*
w
V
i
si
%
a
I :
-
£3
/
&
3f
«?.
M
W'f
§*(
!§:
;■ j
m
m
mm
■ .
m
'■%.
m
storv
■
A Comforter and Friend —CAPSTAN TOBACCO.


a
0
A
=700
•
jMm
S
m .<jsm
WWkh
\*k
2tg£i
I
I '
•<]
Sees
*•«?*
illfe. *
ifcll
ass?
!||§§|
■iS
1$
or
r .;:-.*V-
¥;#?t
iliil
H
«&>*. r
sfe
H
lU’^w-v
v-
■■^mKkhmBK
1
®z
i,.V
W;
#4
m
&
iH
»ks
i-o
3-5
ill
A
|»M
A
«
.'j.* ( ; i'M*
gsgfca
a*
M®!
e»
m
:•>'
Hi
pi
$2
raES&SS
SgS
»857»3
;> ; v'*V-Vi.V-;V,
illlil
Sp
*..•'W.'Vi’joK •'/?
;i - V?’" :
»*
£W
18
.
&»s
■■V : .;
’ll
mm
ilPills
5
Sgsi
m
r
m
bsolutely the Best on the MarKet.
MADE BY AUSTRALIANS IN AUSTRALIA FROM
THE FINEST AUSTRALIAN MATERIALS.


yr.-J
r*.
m
***
m
■
m
m
m
ssm
MS
'■*
w
k
teUi
im ~*+o
v $
m
r
m
<w
y '■
si
:\A
■■_■<
•'yj- ~
——
zMk-
j-v
3r
V '*"*W
■
am
~i «
**■?%
« #
&r
w
I
■
SB
r V '
: V.
' ...
■ ■''- ■ ' A
* ■
;&i mm
m 3.
n&ms
KBS
Tea</irv§ ik e
iToulL .A h
/Wlfc.
duritv£
""Wirvtef''.
Queensland makes Sunny Winter.
Tbe Tourists* Ideal Trip in Winter is to
go aboard tbe Mail Train at Sydney or
Melbourne, and waKe up in Sunny
Queensland.
Write to the Queensland Railway Department.
Brisbane, for full particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON
‘BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE
‘BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS
‘BRISBANE and CAIRNS
. &e o
. 10 o
. 12 0
- 14 5
- 9 15
- lO lO
lO 17
‘lncluding Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
CiOOOOOO


WAX
\
6oy
&
i *
ill',
BOOKS
WORTH
READING
THE £5OO BOOK. SANDY’S SELECTION By STEELE RUDD.
With 40 Illustrations by the leading: Black and White Artists of Australia.
Press unanimous that this is one of the Best Australian Books ewer published.
*i Ma a j V . P r * s P statement of the life of an Australian selector, it rings true.” —Tiib Daily Telegraph.
Sydney Morning Herald' WUI re “ d With interest by the admirers of this promising author."— Tub
‘‘,y, ou can ’ fc do better than to fill yourselves up with the adventures of Sandy.”— The Queensland Grazier.
reader will laugh almost to exhaustion over the absurdities presented, but he will understand that
there is something beneath the fooling. —Melbourne Leader.
THEBOOK OE THE season, STEVE BROWN’S BUN YIP
AND OTHER STORIES, By JOHN A. BARRY. With Introductory Verses by Rudyard Kipling.
Price 2s 6d. Postage, 6d extra.
HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED THE SCORE
AND OTHER VERSES AND SKETCHES By THOS. E. SPENCER.
With Portrait and 12 full-page illustrations by Lionel Lindsay and H. W. Cotton.
Full Cloth, Price 3s. 6d.; Post Free 6d. extra.
To those in search of first-class recitations, warranted to “ bring down the house," this book will be a godsend.
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT
Edited by AMBROSE PRATT. Illustrated. Price, Paper 216, Cloth 3/6. Postage 6d extra.
S.M. Herald says : “ The bushranging career of Frederick Ward (otherwise known as * Thunderbolt ’)
contains many points of interest. Ward’s daring and recklessness, not less than his consummate horsemanship,
commend the story to persons who love this kind of reading. Mr. Pratt loses no opportunity of bringing out
the redeeming features of ‘Thunderbolt’s’ character, and treats with much dramatic power his varying
adventures ‘ on the road.* ”
OTHER BOOKS HAVING AN EXTENSIVE SALE ARE
COLORED CONQUEST,” by Rata. Illustrated. Price Is, post free 1/2.
tt the colored races captured the world. Forecasts the blacks rising in South Africa.
R'yERFALL, by Porter. Illustrated. Price Is, post free Is 2d.
A stop’ with a strong touch of the socialistic element. This story, in America, reached a total sale of
250,000 copies. Edward Bellamy (author of “ Looking Backward”) wrote that “It is one of the best
stories ever written.”
FOUNTAIN PENS. Value for Money.
. “ THE BOOKSTALL.”—Ita.de of the best Para rubber, nicely finished, fitted with 14-carat gold nib
OtrrPr/ce 6cf Wl *' b indium. Money returned if found not satisfactory. Worth lOs 6d.
. THE BUN YlP .''—Best quality vulcanite case, fitted with heavy 14-carat gold nib (guaranteed),
indium tipped and twin feed. Equal to any guinea pen on the market.
NlBS.— Fine, Medium, Broad.
Thousands of POST CARD ALBUMS, POST CARDS, and BIRTHDAY CARDS
stocked. Send for Lists.
83T Any book reviewed, noticed or advertised can be supplied at bedrock prices.
Kindly address order THE CASHIER,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.
476 George St.,
Sydney.
This Wonderful Outfit
ONLY 1/6.
Everybody Needs One.
Comprises a beautiful nickel Combined
PEN, Telescopic PENCIL, and FOLDING
RUBBER STAMP, with any name in any
st3’le of type, together with Self-Inking
Pad. Thousands selling. Purchasers
delighted. PRICE ONLY 1/6, Post
Free to any address.
AGENTS WANTED.
We are now supplying our Rubber
Stamps and Rubber Stamp Novelties to
Agents, Canvassers, Travellers, &c., at
ABSOLUTELY THE LOWEST PRICES
IN AUSTRALIA. Send for Price Lists.
We invite comparison. Inter-State clients
guaranteed PROMPT DELIVERY. Those
desirous of earning money in their spare
time can have no more profitable or quick
selling line than our Rubber Stamps.
Applicants for agencies should state
nature of business or employment.
A. J. Smith & Co.
6 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
k
On the
Trail
Of the
Trusts
Powerful
Illustrations
by Hor.,
Vincent,
N. Lindsat,
and Weston.
*
Price
1/-
Post Free
from The
Bulletin
Office,
1/3
A Practical
WorK on Protection
Puts the case for National Industry
—from all points of view with
rare cogency and brightness.
ķ
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
w when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trams and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
THE COCOA OF
THE OLD COUNTRY.'
mm
(ADJBUKYS
Qcoa
It is tlve purest a i\d nvost economical
cocoa iivuse. Its nicest too.
*f/1f IANCEf sa/s •- “Cadbur/s is hiqhestpurity
LEMON WHISKY.
WHAT IS IT ?
HE subject of this article, for several important reasons, should be given preference over
ordinary whisky. It is less intoxicating, yet more satisfying, and is therefore destined to fill
a great want —a beverage suited to persons of temperate habits, yet not teetotallers —a
stimulant which strikes the happy medium between ardent spirits and the mawkish soft drink,
i Lemon Whisky supplies this want; it is at once a stimulant, a luxury, a food, and a medicine. A
happy combination of all the qualities which are essential to an ideal beverage.
I The ingredients used in this preparation, although simple and familiar to everybody, possess most
important medicinal qualities. It is not a mysterious chemical compound ; it is simply a scientific
preparation of ripe lemons, pure whisky, and specially refined cane sugar. It is guaranteed to be
absolutely pure, containing no adulterants whatever.
We invite our readers to carefully note what medical authorities have to say about the ingredients
contained in this unique beverage ; the authorities quoted are the best known and the highest in the
world ; their opinions cannot be questioned.
LEMON JUICE.
Dr. Robert Farquharson, late lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Mary’s Hospital Medical School,
etc., in las work, “ A Guide to Therapeutics,” p.p. 208-209, says :
“ Lemon juice has some important therapeutical properties unexplained by any action it possesses
over the health}' organism.
“ There is no doubt that persons afflicted with chronic rheumatic pains may often derive benefit
from taking a tablespoonful of this agreeable remedy two or three times a day with their meals.
‘ Ihe occurrence of scurvy on board ship is now looked upon as a clear indication that the regu-
lar administration of lime or lemon juice has been neglected, and that the crew has been attacked by
a painful and dangerous disease, the absolute preventability of which experience has amply confirmed.”
The same authority points out “ that citric acid, from which most of the so-called lemon prepara-
tions are compounded, is in no degree antiscorbutic.”
. will be interesting to here mention that, by an Act of the British Parliament, every ship
sailing from a British port must provide at least loz. per day of lemon or lime juice for every member
of the crew.
In the “Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia,” 1899 edition, p.p. 400, we find:—
“Lemon Juice—medicinal properties—refigerant; when diluted, a particularly useful bever-
age in the prevention and treatment of scurvy ; relieves thirst in febrile and inflammatory affec-
tions. In acute rheumatism, to 1 pint daily.”
Dr. Heinman, speaking on this subject said:—“You cannot take too much lemon juice, the
natural salts of which act as a solvent on uric acid in the blood, the cause of so many painful
maiaaies.
WHISKY.
We will now say something concerning the whisky contained in this preparation.
P 1- Robert Farquharson, while deprecating its excessive use, states:—“A moderate quantity
ot alcohol stimulates the mental faculties, and is often beneficial to weakly persons by giving tone
to the digestive organs and aiding the due assimilation of food. It is of great service to dwellers in
large towns, and others, whose mode of life involves much mental strain.”
nr j ln r? '‘Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia,” 1899 edition, we read:—“ Alcohol.—
Medical .Properties: Internally a powerful diffusable stimulant, especially cardiac: mildly anti-
pyretic, diuretic, diaphoretic; used in states of acute disease characterised by excessive debility,
as in typhoid, acute pneumonia, and influenza, in insomnia of old people; as an aid to digestion
more especially in the aged and feeble, and those exhausted by overwork.”
Dr. Robert Hutchinson M.D Edin., M.R.C.P., author of “The Principles of Food and
.Dietetics, says, pp. 324 ‘ Alcohol must be regarded as a digestive stimulant ” ; pp. 323: “Diges-
tion is not merely a chemical process ; the movements of the stomach walls play a large part in it
also, and here the action of alcohol, in dietetic doses at least, is entirely favorable, for it has a won-
derful power of increasing the activity of the stomach peristalsis. Alcohol not merely increases the
stomach movements ;it promotes very powerfully tihe secretion of gastric juice.” pp. 324 : “ Alcohol
in dietetic doses, 30 to 40 grammes (about two tablespoonfuls), taken before or during meals, actually
shortens the time required for the digestion of a meal by half an hour. The net influence, then, of
moderate doses of alcohol upon stomach digestion, even in health, is favorable rather than the
reverse, while in some conditions of disease its power of exciting the movements of the walls of the
stomach, and promoting the flow of gastric juice renders it a valuable aid to the digestion of solid
food. Ihe importance of these conclusions regarding the influence of alcohol upon digestion can
hardly be over-rated, for they explain much of the benefit often derived from the moderate use of
alcohol even in health, and still more in cases of disease.”
SUGAR.
To complete our description of Lemon Whisky, which contains a considerable proportion of sugar
it will now be necessary to inquire what are the effects of sugar on the human system. In doing so,
we cannot do better than again refer to Dr. Robert Hutchinson’s work, treating of the nutritive value
su^ ar * On pp. 271 we find it stated that “refined sugar is to be regarded as a practically pure
carbohydrate; that being so, its food value must be high, for every gramme of it will yield 4’l
calories of energy.”
aS 3 musc l e f° 0( l that sugar is of special importance. We have already learnt (pp. 38) that
carbohydrates are probably the chief source of muscular energy, and sugars, on account of the ease
and rapidity of their absorption, are better calculated to perform this function than any other
member of the carbohydrate group.” Dr. Hutchinson’s treatise on sugar is too lengthy to be fully
reproduced in the space at our command ; we will therefore condense some of his more important
statements, which are as follows :
“ To Swiss guides and Arctic explorers, the value of saccharine has long been familiar.”
“ Sugar is given to blood horses in order for sustain them in the trials to which they are sub-
jected.” J
“Sugar has a notable effect in lessening muscular fatigue.”
“ Vaughn Harley found that if he took of sugar per diem, his power of doing work
was increased 61 to 76 per cent.”
Sugar is a specially valuable food for persons who have to perform a single muscular effort,
especially if they are obliged to do so in a state of exhaustion.”
“Extensive experiments have been made in the German Army, and it was found that the men
who given ten lumps of sugar per day in addition to ordinary rations, marched better and
sunered less from hunger and thirst than their fellows not so supplied. As a result of the experi-
day 1 ” 8 * thS SUrgeon in charge recommended that the sugar ration be increased to 60 grammes per
Certain rowing clubs in Holland found sugar to be a valuable food in training. The rowers
who used it always won, on account of their superior powers of endurance, and it seemed to counteract
the bad effect of an exclusively meat diet, so that the men did not become ‘stale.’ ”
We do not think it necessary for our purpose to quote any further from the overwhelming mass
of evidence at our command to prove to the satisfaction of our readers the great value of the ingre-
dients used in the manufacture of Lemon Whisky. We have quoted sufficiently to show that it is
entitled to first place in the category of alcoholic stimulants, and that it is beyond doubt over-
whelmingly superior to all other liquors.
It pleases the palate, aids digestion, cleanses the blood, quickens the circulation, creates energy,
and strengthens the powers of endurance.
These are not our own bald, unsupported assertions; they are the teachings of our greatest
medical authorities, beyond whom there are none to refer to.
THE QUANTITY OF LEMON WHISKY TO TAKE.
After a careful computation of the component parts, the quantity it would be advisable to take,
according to expressed medical opinions, would be 10 to 20oz. (half a pint to a pint) per day.
HOW IT MAY BE TAKEN.
Ist. Plain, in a wine-glass, as you would take a liqueur.
2nd. Diluted with cold water to taste.
3rd. As a summer drink. A wineglassful mixed with cold soda-water.
4th. A wineglassful mixed with a large glass of cold water, with your meals.
sth. For a winter drink, mix with hot water.
6th. It is doubtful whether there is any better cure for chills and colds than Lemon Whisky, if
taken hot and strong on going to bed.
7th. For a sore throat or a troublesome cough, a teaspoonful undiluted at frequent intervals will
give great relief.
Obtainable from all Hotelkeepers and Wine and Spirit Merchants throughout the Commonwealth.
Sole Proprietors for Australia—LUCAS, LOCK, and CO., Pitt-street, Sydney.
“ Melb.” : Seeing a detective and a crimi-
nal exchange nods in Bourke-street to-day, I was
thinking that the public hardly understands the
relations between such parties. I am not in-
sinuatmg anything wrong, only that each regards
the other as a tradesman. How astounded Mr.
Jriekwick was, in court, when he Saw his barrister
shake hands with Mrs. Bardell’s ! There is a deep
moral in that for the unsophisticated. Do detec-
tives, policemen, warders, beaks, lawyers, judges
want crime to be extinct ? What a pitying smile
comes over the face of a “ D.” when you venture
to argue on reducing crime ! It must go on like a
machine.' 1


British Australasian
1 BROAD BTREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
!
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. «l. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &e.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
%
HriMUBW
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s .
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Ite-
oorder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 /Os.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing: Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Sold >
by
allfirst-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“DAMP A,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
ĸ
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
POLICY fob I’HK COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd; Posted, Bd,
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
Sc/fct'h
from a.
Granp
BRAS
etc-etc-
Recovd^fasis
Si6nor(2\RLoI)ANI
FIT]
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLE PH ONES
TWO SPECIAL 2 The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS The New Standard,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING, AGENT. 316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
fl
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
I
EL
HOI
QueeAsGdeTerrd.ee
London. 5.W.
t
UNDER
ROYM
PATRONAGE.
OF
THE
\\fashionable,
\\ HOTELS IN
\\ LONDON
NOTED
'ITS COMFORT &\
CONVENIENCE
m
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms In South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREA M, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 10| inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
3 for 10/
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Posta
Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 1216. Length, liyds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourhe and Swanston Sts. r Melbourne-
k
A CHAMPION
RAZOR-^>
THE PLUM!
Worth its weight in gold to the man who wants a
clean, easy shave in quick time. Requires no grinding,
gives no trouble. Made of specially tempered steel-
hollow ground—the finest razor ever sold at or near
the price.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6;
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21 j- ;
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/-;
Pair in Handsome Case, 307-
POST FREE to Any Part of Australasia.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. -
ISIELVEIR FAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
A. CARDi
OLD DOCTOR LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Begs to inform his patients and the ailing public
generally that HE and HIS STAFF OF EXPERT SPECI-
ALISTS may still be consulted as in years past, either
personally or BY LETTER, FREE OF CHARGE.
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF MEDICAL ADVICE,
WRITE FOR QUESTIONCHARTATONCE.
POST FREE. Doctor Langston’s
Popular Medical Work, latest edition
(lllusti uted):
MENS SANA IN GORPORE SANO.
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know.
WRITE FOR IT NOW.
™ DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1887.
All Communications Sacredly Confidential.
Mention thu paper when writing.
WHY ?
AERTEX CELLULAR
OPINIONS OF THE BRITISH MEDICAL PRESS
The Lancet.— The idea embodied in the Aertex
Cellular cloth is that of providing ready means
of escape from perspiration as vapor.
British Medical Journal. —Aertex Cellular
cloth affords a free escape to the skin exhala-
tions.
The Hospital. —Aertex Cellular cloth is light,
remarkably warm, and is manufactured on
scientific principles.
The Broad Arrow.— We regard Aerlex Cellular
goods as a special boon to officers of both ser-
vices.
The Queen. —Aertex Cellular cloth is porous, so
that all that ought to be eliminated from the
skin is allowed to escape.
The Era.— Aertex Cellular garments promote the
cleanliness of the skin by their non-absorbent
qualities.
Cycling. —ln our opinion there is nothing like the
well-known Aertex Cellular clothing to ward
off King Winter’s chill breath and searching
sting.
Golf.— Aertex Cellular cloth is not only lighter, but
better ventilated than ordinary fabrics, and is
easier to wash.
The Gentlewoman. —It combines lightness
with warmth in a satisfactory manner not
attained by any other material for underwear.
Sols Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM <fc CO.
94 King Street, Sydney.
Don't
waste time in
experimen ti ng.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Oxbridge
v £ung Tonic
to be the WOULD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It eanba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE .
\SUBSTITUTEsJ
ĸ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu'stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyies, Inverted Lever Him
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee sale
delivery.
2G0
Second-Hand Cycles
1 all makes, £2.10
good as new, , .
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE ruachine. r< ActlYe Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once tor
free catalogues and our special offer , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., hat t prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. B39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAIRY FICURESforFAT FOLKS
I Dr. Le Sclendre’s Famous Discovery “Obeoura”B
CURES CORPULENCY. ■
Send at once £or treatise on How to Reduce
your Weight 5 lbs. per day. Posted FREE.
JAS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I
“Twone”: I have never seen the Vic-
torian Lands Department; but if asked to say
what sort of an animal it is, I would guess that it
must be lean and long, built for speed, with a
harried look about it, and a restless glare in its
eye. Anyhow, it would be a dangerous animal to
be chased by. Its pace, when properly going,
must be terrific. In 1904 a settler wrote, re a
certain allotment, asking if it were available tor
application. In April, 1906, he received a reply,
referring to previous correspondence, and stating
that the land was now open. That’s what I call an
official greyhound. It only took two years to
reply.
The growing advocacy of an elective
Ministry reminds an old hl.S.W. man of an occa-
sion when a Ministry was elected in 1S.S.W.
Legislative Assembly. It was in the early days
of Responsible Government when Martin, Dailey,
Richard Driver, Richard Hill, and others blent
law-making with practical jokes. One night the
House was counted out just after assembling, so
the members present determined to carry on
informally. Driver took the Speaker’s chair, and
proposed the nomination and election of a Minis-
try. Various names were proposed, and the
alleged virtues and vices of the nominees were
discussed with great frankness. Finally a Minis-
try was elected. With the exception of Driver,
every man then elected became afterwards mem-
ber of a Government.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking,
The jank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of- Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
Rational Rank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. '.. 413,240 15 0
Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hp in Oppipp •
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461—Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sodtii Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, O.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Brucf, Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Rank of Reui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
total capital paid-up .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Bank of f|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Meters. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL—Authorised ... .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £100,000
Uncalled . . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J ' £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direotors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns!
Bliilp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq!
Managers: Melbourne, 1). Ci.ynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M ‘Faid, an u ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart; Perth, A. W.
Fahquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements,
[ 'vm
\tm
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND. 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITED. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. I). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦XIILTIADES
MORAVIAN
NINEVEH
T. F. Spalding
A. Simpson
A. Robb
Noon, June 2
Noon, June 30
Noon. July 21
"Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £52 £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed,
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
k
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-toil Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
12th JUNE,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEYIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A /> plication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
OCEANIC S.S. Co. -A.. & A.. X-lISTJES (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST L-INE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. SONOMA. 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 2.
hor Lull Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
ķ
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £25 —there are no
extras; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“ Holiday Hints ” ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
gnnni.jfy ■■■! -i
FAIR INTEREST. *
EASY TERMS.
WE
w
<s>
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
[ilont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAG-H ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
June 11, July 9, Aug. 6.
The Cheapest
and
Most Interesting Route to
Europe.
CHEAP EXCURSION TO CANADA-
£6O for 63 Days,
INCLUDING ALL EXPENSES AT SEA
AND IN CANADA.
i-jT Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
♦
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard I
GEO. 11. MOOKE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager. rii?
T s e South British
PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP 00.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian}
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Grantala, May 26.
S.S. Marloo, June 1.
S.S. Yongala, June 9.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Oairns. I
S.S. Wollowra, June 2.
S.S. Marloo, June 16.
Best, and Cheapest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritime's
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including* table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY. Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omior and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
T H F: Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
_ the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Oharges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
tH* tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Da3’, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. IMS. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
6OO Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War, Patriotic, Condo, Coon,
Nigger. Sacred. Pathetic, and Love Songs of England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, «c
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection over bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6. posted •■>/ <l.
If stamp-'nnlv ore enclosed add 31. extra. List of Song- for sto
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.


Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849 . .. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
t>AS money to lend City S o C r U Suburban Properties, or on
u and c P. fCombined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Se
tmna V n e Ttatcs t or e Ncw t Zeatknd SCr,be IVesTcURRENT RATES V INTEREST.
up t r notfce or e payrnent of an^finel
£S$ cape! «■*
General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F-I-A., Secretary.
WKAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, RQBEBTJ I OAMEBO^hecretar^
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
III!
*
I
,!
a.?
a
lii
l! iil
mi
k
.22 calibre cartridges cart]
be relied upon to help;
cleart Out the rabbit'pests*
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack
or' smokeless, powder,
■ are'accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungrOasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets, which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A. t ,ilII1IIfllit;illflf?!
Beautiful Home Decorations
ķ
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” GOLD KVAMKIj (Washable) Kich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOLIV EW AMBUS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
BATH TUB BSAMBIi. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT,''SAPOTJN floor
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ** ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-S* Capatite marked ENO*B 'FRUIT •ALT;’ Without It you hare •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
*npar«d only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. BNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, ®
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cu»« tbe D.blllt;, Lo-« P»«“.
I T?£ o?Yous.?uf st'enKT'ia vi^»Ut“?e-es»bUah "
BLOOD CURE PILLS. gi™s's oresi^frfnary^rouble^and all Blood
nicrmHouc roxfs 8s COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOIT C^A^SU^f^sf6a. CC Kn^^ilve^al^^l^Cure
Weak Women ggSJif Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
ssMssraa
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST. f SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 'fWLJEVEV c S J” rJfnnnPMP t
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIEr
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z<
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.,
A TORPID LIVER.
A CATALOGUE OF SYMPTOMS.
THE! CASE OF MRS. M. WING.
(By a Sydney .Reporter.)
which at one time , nressman recently called, and was courteously accorded an interview.
S, now?- MrsVing, Bine I took OlemeSte’ Tonic for indigestion
and neuralgia, but if it were twice thit time I should never forget how much I owe to that reined, for
its powerful curative influence.” .
:: “an ga‘th n e“ Jom that what a wreck I WM, Even from childhood 1 had
been agreat sufferer from nervousness, and each year found that complaint more fully developed thafi
peen a great suue , , „ ; n mv i a ws, all about my head, behind my eyes, and at the
ever. When neu g , down were unendurable. Night after night passed by and
I folk almost dazed for the want of rest Th»
not an nour ss e f adversities, for I daresay you know what indigestion is like ?
Bud; vvhene ver^l^ook 1 any food—and I did not have much at a time, my appetite being «
It meant fc bat , , like a tightness, as if I had overeaten, and a nasty, full, uncomiort-
P Ki OT f fc a i«n ifWterl mv stomach But the bilious attacks I had were horrible. Some days, from
down in the evening I coold do nothing but retell,
and on the£wS£■Session? I had such a fearful sensation m my head that I could not hold it
nn °Talk about being depressed—why, that was no name for it; I was absolutely melancholy, and
Xit also helped me to be so was a continual presentiment that something Was going to happen, IrY
what also neipea n head t i, e idea that some kind of trouble was waiting me, and if
■ ? u “ d I a dav T was sure it would arrive to-morrow. Oh ! it was a life that one should be pitied
it didn t c °“® ‘ y V-d d all i can to help other poor women out of similar predicaments. Now
I°kiow^that« iifilihS curets within the°reac P h of everybody. I consider it but right that I should
i i fthp world what that cure is, and for this reason alone lam actuated m going into full
details! Yes when those bilious attacks were on I was so upset generally that I could not even take
, • r TsTctliino- whatever would stay on the stomach, so its nothing to marvel at that 1
tht as a shadow 3 And the giddiness that I had to contend with ! It used
to come on suddenly, and almost cause me to fall sometimes, and it was strange how my eyes fe -
swollen and the disordered state of the liv er,*> remarked the Writer.
“'F'vaotlv and further evidence m support of that lay in the fact that my mouth had a bitter taste,
and I had^wWte coating^ over and not untfl I had taken some Clements’ Tome, could I
get rid of those symptoms either.” .
“ pills and medicines ever heard of, and there was not one of them that was
fE tt.u't wViDr i-ffrpfer to Such useless trash I didn’t think possible could exist, and it just shows
vou liow advisable it is to relate such experiences as mine so that people’s money should not be thrown
awav Doctors too, they used to attend me and prescribe medicine, but it never came to anything.
£*• # i
::^re^Xo“&^
mnfl w !H, nam like I frequently used to be, to fruitlessly spend money m all directions trying to get
I km now heavier than I have ever been, before.
PlpmpTim’ Tonic l’ife was only a drudgery that was not worth enduring, i have advised dozens of
pS to ClsmeS TS&, and shlll always do so. You also have my perm,ss,on to publ.sh «K,s
interview in any way you like for the benefit of the general community.
STATUTORY DECLARATION. , . , ,
I, MARIA WING, °Y^ ) °Yggi!( 1 r g e carefuHy 0 tbe e annexed “consisting of five® folios
rny illness cure by Cements niake this'solemn declaration con*
statements which I g , A nr i hv virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue or tne provision ui (S^#) MARIA WING.
Subscribed and declared at Hurstville this twenty-third day of September, one thousandnine hundred and four,
before me, • .
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
/
MAGNESIA
There’s SECURITY in
arters
ITTLE
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
torpid LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
[INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
they
touch «» LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose- Small Price.


T. Atkins is busy learning shorthand. A recent British
War Office order offers a bounty of £3 to every soldier
who can attain a speed of 80 words a minute, and £7 for
a speed of 120 words. Some day, when the British army
has got up to 130 words a minute, it may meet an enemy
who can only write shorthand at 75 words a minute, and
knock saucepans and old boots out of him.
I MOTHER l
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP,
A remedy composed of the extracts
. of leaves, roots and barks, ahd that
has the splendid record of 35 years
Of popular Use and approval)
CURES
INDIGESTION
Atii) Att OTHKR
Oisorders
the
STOMACH,
LIVER & KIDNEYS.
Win. Francis Meaney, of 18, Hope
Street* Spring Hill, Brisbane, was
cured of severe kidney disease by
Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
Mrs. Jessie Mathewson, of Botany
Street, South Randwich, N.S.W.,
was cured of indigestion and
ness by Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
TRV IT.
IT WILL CURE YOU.
Visitors to Melbourne X
Neale's Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Tblephone 1640.
Mre ifeu
Afraid
for your baby, mother ? Do
you fear the day when the
tiny teeth will begin to come?
You need not. Scott’s Emulsion of
cod liver oil and hypophosphites of
lime and soda has finished that trouble
once and for all. Use it at the first
sign of discomfort. You will soon have
your little chap so strong and bonny
that teething won’t bother him one little
bit, and you yourself will get the
Siidt
you badly need at night.
7, Wattle Street, Chippendale,
N.S.W., Nov. 3rd, 1905. “When
first I gave my William John Scott’s
Emulsion he was very ill from teething,
and I was afraid he would get convul-
sions. Before he had finished taking
one bottle I noticed a great improve-
ment in his health, and also two teeth
through, and now he has six teeth and
is well and strong.” (Mrs.) A. Black.
The lime in SCOTT’S EMULSION
makes the
Heeth
come white, straight and strong. Scott’s
is so pure and so digestible, thanks to
the perfection of the original, unique
Scott process, that there is never any
trouble in giving it. Always have
Always get the Emul-
sion with this mark—the
Fishman—the marklhf
the “Scott" process!
Scott’s for babies.
We will gladly send
you a free sample
bottle by return of
post. Send 4d. for
postage and mention
this paper. Scott &
Bowne, Ltd., 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
15 LIFE WORTH LIVING?
(By “Philo.”
To almost everyone there occur times when the question whether life is worth living thrusts itself
upon them, but there are, fortunately, very few who come to a negative conclusion and decide to
anticipate nature by hurrying “behind the veil.”
To those in the possession of buoyant health the question occurs but seldom, but there are so
many people who are never in thorough health, and others who suffer from pain and sickness, that to
them —the far higher class —the vital question is apt to intrude itself with persistency.
It is remarkable how many people suffer from pain and sickness which they could readily be cured
of if they were aware of the cause of their trouble. Of course there are diseases which cannot be cured,
but such disorders as rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, lumbago, backache, sciatica, blood disorders,
ftiiffitnia, indigestion, biliousness, jaundice, sick headache, general debility, gravel, stone, bladder
troubles and Bright’s disease are all curable. One and all arise from a diseased or inactive condition
of the kidneys and liver. When the kidneys and liver are working actively and in harmony, uric and
biliary poisons are thrown off from the system in a natural manner, and as it is the presence of these
poisons in the blood which causes the suffering entailed by any of the complaints mentioned, the
removal of the poisons means the consequent cessation of pain and suffering, . .
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of Urir.b
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains
in weight, of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matters varying from a third of an ounce to
nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains ill the blood and flows through the Veins con*
taniinating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poison, sUcli as rheumatism,
gout, lumbago, backache, sciatica, persistent headache, neuralgia, gravel, stone, and bladder troubles,
A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some Urine, passed the first
thing in the morning, ih a covered glass, and let it stahd till next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows
a sediment like brick-dust, is of ah unnatural color, or has particles floating about ih it, the kidhejs
ttre weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s disease,
diabetes, Or Some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning Will result.
The liver is ah automatic chemical laboratory. Ih the liver Various substances ate actually made
from the blood. TWO or three pounds Of bile ate thus made every day. The liver takes sugar from
the bloOd, converts it into another form, and sto.rbs it Up sp as to be able to again supply it to the
blood, as. the latter may require enrichment. The liVer changes brie acid, which is insoluble, into
iirea which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpUsCles Which haVe lived
theit life ahd are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive Or diseased WO suffer from Some fbrfn
of biliary poisoning s'Uch as indigestioh, biliousness, anaemia, jaundice, sick headache, general debility,
rtnd blood disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the Wbrk done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy, and vice
versa. It was the realisatioh of the importance of this close union 6f the labor of these vital Organs
which resulted in the discovery Of the medicine hoW knoWh throughout the World as Warher’s Safe
pure. Certain medical men, knowing What a boon it WOuld be to humanity if some medibinb ebtdcl bb
found which would act specifically On both the kidneys ahd liver, devoted themselves tO an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by theirsuebess in compounding
a medicine which possesses the required quality ih the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Curb exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease Of the kidneys and liVer, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, curbs all bomplaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys Sind li vfet
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effeett d
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [6]
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
For Men’s Winter Wear.
We have an admirable Al/CDrrtlLTC all in Good Materials, Well-Made, and
. . . range of V” I O Newest Styles. They comprise:
CAPE-AND-SLEEVE OVERCOATS, in Tweed, lined throughout. Sizes 3 to 8.
22/6, 25/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 42/-, 45/- each.
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS, in Fox’s Pure-Wool Serges, in Brown, Black,
and Pure-Indigo. Sizes 3 to 7. 22/6 each.
CHESTER OVER COATS, Rainproof Material, Yoke Shoulders, in Fawn and Grey.
Sizes 38 to 44in. Breast. 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-, 50/- each.
Carriage Paid to 5 per cent, of value.
For Smart Overcoats you can’t beat FINNEY’S.
THE...
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World, SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS,
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, <tc.
To arid from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY ORANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE ~ .. 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE . i, " 5,000
LANGTON GRANGE.. ~ .. 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) ~ .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE .. .. 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE .. .. 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS , .. 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships, Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran. Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
&
Ss
&
i
&
<&
*
Trump Card
FROM
i 11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DIKING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcock.&C“ 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM
£.11.5.
MILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly . finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
knWwn cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
The Inky Way.
... “ Ejayepi ”; The recent Bulletin announcement that,
squent upon the death of F. W. Haddon, a rearrange-
of the high positions op the Argus would plant fed
Cunningham in the editorial chqir, brings to mind the
pareer of E.S.O. Cunningham, over 25 years ago, was a
perspiring struggler on the Age reporting staff when
E. C. Martin was its fighting chief. He wasn’t regarded
as a man for “ specials ”or original writing—he was simply
a painstaking grafter. A lisping relative of his once said :
“Oh, Tedth getting on thplendid. He’th been menthoned
in Parliament twith.” Poor Ted, as a matter of fact, had
been hauled over the coals for some alleged inaccurate
reports. Anyway, he had the good sense subsequently
to throw over the Age and go on the Argus, with a com-
fortable life-long billet. He fought his way, step by step,
became a member of the Athenaeum Club, went to
England to do the Diamond Jubilee, and while there
fixed up a smart “ scoop ” for his paper. George Turner,
then Premier of Victoria, returned to Australia from the
Jubilee at a time when things political were complicated,
and of course he was an extra special attraction for
the Melbourne press. When, the steamer berthed
at Fremantle Turner announced that he wouldn’t
discourse to the press until he got to Melbourne. So said
the Age, but the Argus came out with a flaming two-
column interview with the Premier. The Age thereupon
wept with rage, but the explanation was soon forthcom-
ing. Cunningham had travelled in the train with George
Turner just before he left England, and the interview
thus obtained was written and despatched by the vessel
which carried Turner. Then the Argus representative at
Fremantle wired it to Melbourne, and the public assumed
that it had been obtained from Turner on the spot. As a
writer, Cunningham never got beyond the complacent,
ponderous style of the comfortably-established journalist.
When Howard Willoughby dropped out Of the Legislative
Assembly weekly screed as “Timotheus placed on high,”
Cunningham took on the job as “ Ithuriel, with his spear
touched lightly.” But he proved himself to be only a
sort of Howard Willoughby at low ebb style, and Ithuriel
seemed to wallop things with the blunt end of his spear
most of the time.
• * • •
On sth April, Armidale (N.S.W.) Express completed
its 60th year of publication. During its half-century of
existence its ownership has not passed out of the hands
of the families of Craigie and Hipgrave, its founders.
Surely this constitutes a record for lengthy proprietorship
of a N.S.W. country journal.
• • • *
The Age is much more lenient towards citizen Jack
Wren than the Argus is. The latter paper maintains an
attitude of virtuous indignation, and always prints Jack’s
rather flamboyant racing advertisements with their
pathetic grammatical errors thick upon them, whereas
the Age generously edits the pretentious documents, and
restores all the broken parts of speech.
* • * *
The origin of one Brisbane daily paper’s weather fore*
casts might set mariners ruminating and make sailing
men wary. They say that at about three o’clock (bar
Sundays) the weary sub. throws up the window, pokes out
his head, and after surveying the clouds and the heavens
generally, proceeds in cold blood to write out his
forecast.
« • * *
“T. O’Fipp ”: One of the best pugilistic encounters I
ever saw occurred when I was working on a little N.S.W.
border print. A teamster dropped into the office one
morning and remarked, “Gi’s a copy er the rag.”
Inkwey went mad instantly. “ ‘ The rag,’ d’you call
it?” he yelled, and leaped over the counter with blood in
his eye. The innocent teamster was taken by surprise, but
when he saw that fight was wanted, he did his best,
and a willing go resulted. Eventually Inkwey prevailed,
and he proceeded to point the moral. “Now, my man,”
he said to his fallen foe, “ perhaps that will teach you to
speak decently when you wish to purchase a copy of the
Mulloko Boomerang and Eumaraleek and Dullallalby
Intelligencer, circulating in the districts of Pimbullalby,
Wyeeboo, Jen-jen-moon, Neelum and Marp 1 ” His man-
ner as he rolled off this description of his one ewe-lamb,
unheeding the fact that he had two discolored eyes and a
split lip, was truly majestic. Ever since then I have
regretted that no great painter was present, so that our
nation might have had among its treasures a picture of
“Inkwey Vindicating the Dignity of the Press.”
» * • *
“ Night Owl ” : I would like to know why the proof-
reader of a newspaper is always considered very small
potatoes by the rest of the staff? I have been at the
heart-breaking occupation for a number of years now,
and have not yet discovered whether I rank as a member
of the literary staff or somewhere on a level with the
printer’s devil. The proof-reader has to help author,
sub., and last, but not least, the reckless comp, in the
straight path, and he is the first to receive the mana-
gerial “ Please explain ” if an inaccurate statement or
one approaching the libellous happens to make its
appearance in the Daily Curse. If he goes down to the
sub. and points out a mistake, he sometimes wishes
he hadn’t bothered, and goes away wondering if he
hasn’t made a mistake himself. On treasury day,
too, the small “bit” in the closed envelope
makes him wonder why the paper employs a
reader at all. I look for the turned “s” in a room'about
12ft. x Bft., and swelter in that box with five others
through the long night while the man with the forme
mallet pounds like a fiend on one side of the wall and the
lino.-men dash down their “takes” on the other. Dr.
Talmage wondered why proof-readers swear. I wonder
why they ever do anything else. If I didn’t swear, I would
kill the board of directors in cold blood and shove the
dead body of the editor into the printing machine.
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Had a curious experience, the
other day, driving to Rumblyburrah. On the roadside
was a stout sapling stuck firmly in the clay. In a cleft
at the top was a note with this intimation writ large:—
“ Mr. Dash Blank of Wheresthis Station lost his false
teeth here or hereabouts last night while coughing at a
heap of rotten rabbits. £1 reward will be paid on de-
livery at the Homestead or at Rumblyburrah Post Office.”
Judging by the maze of footprints and the multitude of
dead vestas lying round, a protracted search had been
made for the missing mouthful, but in vain—hence the
unblushing amateur advertisement.
A man applying for a billet (as a mere reporter of trage-
dies, divorces, and so on) in a Sydney newspaper office
was solemnly asked “if he had any ecclesiastical refer-
ences.” Now guess the name of that paper 1
MY SONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have sung of our bushland broad and green
And many a glorious Austral soene,
And I’ve called our Island a jewelled Queen
In the South Sea sparkling brightly ;
And I’ve sung of her scorching wastes of sand,
Where the sun’s rays burn like a seething brand,
When drought and sorrow assail the land,
And the mirage dances lightly.
And I've sung a song of the golden moth,
When dewdrops glisten on grass and corn,
And the jackass heralds the day new-born
With a burst of rippling laughter.
And I’ve sung a song of the sunset gay,
And the crimson clouds in the West away,
And the phantom shadows of twilight grey,
And the twilight that follows after.
And I’Ve sUng of the silver-shining moon,
And the light on the lonely, grey lagoon,
While the cUrlew whistled a mournful tune
in the sighing depths of the wild wood.
Aild I’ve Suhg a song of the hiils ablaze
With a niyStib garland—a golden haze
Of wattle blossom and forest maze,
Where i revelled in my childhood.
t have Siitig of the bushman brave and browh,
And thecoiintry maid in het rustic gown,
Arid the lofty swell in the streets of town,
Ahd the pale-faced youth dejected.
And I’ve siing ot the golden city’s throngs,
Their joys and soirows and rights and wrongs,
In short, I have sling you a thousand songs,
But they all have been rejected.
VIC.
E. STEWART BYRNE.


Public Notice.
The Clyde Engineering
Company, Limited
(incorporated under the Companies Act).
INCREASE OF CAPITAL.
FURTHER Capital being required to purchase addi-
tional plant, machinery, tools, and material ih coh-
nection with the contract for building 60 Locomotives fot
the Government, the Directors have decided to Offer to
the public the balance of the uhalloted shares at 26/-
each, payable 10/- pet shale oh Application ahd 10/- Oh
allotment
Shares ahead) issued and oil which 20/- .
pel share has been paid ih cash .. 75-,479
Shares now offered to the public at 20/- 24,521
Making Total Capital .; .. £lOO,OOO
The 24,521 Shares will early a Preferential Dividend at
re rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
The Assets, as pel Balance-sheet tot .
1905, amohht to .. .. £117;617 19 5
The Liabilities, as pel Bidahc'e-She'et fol
1905, amount to .. .. .. 30,000 15 9
£37,617 3 8
The Land and Buildings have been
valued by Richardson and Wrench,
Ltd. ; and the Plant, Machinery, and
Tools by Norman Selfe, M.1.C.E.,
M.I.M.E. The valuations show a
sum in excess of book values of .. £43,662 17 6
The Dividends paid during the past 7 years average
8J per cent.
Although the businesses well established, and the pros-
pects of extension most promising, no premium is asked
for goodwill.
The Contracts, amounting to about £330,000 at present
in hand, should keep the works profitably employed for
some years.
Further particulars may be obtained at the Company’s
Office, Mutual Life of New York Building, (2nd Floor),
Martin-place, Sydney.
Applications for Shares addressed to the Secretary till
May 31 will be dealt with in the order received.
JOHN J. WOOD, Secretary.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy lias failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
' 25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ASTHMACURE
I EMITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB.
KTTES. Bold by all Chemists.
gOLP-MQUNTEP BACK COMBS
For the Dancing Season.
SPECIAL DESIGNS by STEWART DAWSON & CO., The Jewellers.
amm?
-DEEP
IW
&27m 3-WIDE s'f DEEP
P RICE, 35./-
II;
C 27
EEP
5&-DEEP
PRICE2S/
C 2751;
WWIDE
.
■MBMUIHU
'
? $
r?sZ-
wm
'THESE COMBS are very handsome-looking in wear, both for outdoors and indoors, and are a few of our
1 NEW DESIGNS for the Season. They are strongly made, and will give satisfaction in every way. You
will see these Combs on many of Sydney’s most fashionable dressers to day. Come in and see them. Don't
trouble if you know you don't want to buy; we won't mind showing them m the least. We have others,
oerhaps a bit less elaborate, for 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d and 21s; and others again at 32s 6d and 47s 6d.
Also specially fine Gem Set Combs for 67s 6d, 70s, 80s and 120 s. They are worthy of Inspection.
ORDERS BY
POST
CAREFULLY
EXECUTED.
POST FREE.
CORNER,,CEQf?"
MONEY BACK
IF
WE FAIL
TO
FLEASE YOU.
Cures While
You Sleep
re&o&wu
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
and distressing coughs in young and old.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE,.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz., 2-8, 2 oz., 1-8.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
WINCHESTER
Model 1904 *22 Caliber Rifle
ĸk
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
IT WILL STAY ON THE SHEEP’S BACK AS LONG AS REQUIRED.
IT WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL and can be SCOURED FROM IT.
BLACK, RED, and BLUE (in 8-Callon Cases) :
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE
Kerang is a fine example of the Victorian
Bhire that doesn’t pay its way. Thus its treasurer
reports on the 6tate of its finances : Fox account,
overdrawn, £229; rabbit fencing account, over-
drawn, £923; general account, overdrawn, £4950;
tramway account, overdrawn, £6B ; loan account
(£7OOO borrowed), credit, £1809; overdue interest
on Koondrook tramways loan, £BOOO. The shire
cheerfully added £1142 to its indebtedness by
passing accounts for payment. Then it decided
to cease all works, to sack its ehgineer. and to
hold a special meeting to find out whom else it
could sack. The Only thing it didn’t consider Was
the raising of its rate —Is. in the £ on a shameful
under-valuation of £75,000. If the land was
valued at what it is really Worth, the Is. rate
would soon clear off all the debts-.


k
" Is superior even to meat and 0S
Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says!—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL k
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children *
deficiency of proteid it especially dangerous.”
»**• »«a*M mi»m m* >ix< waoQ
'Theßesttonsoler
IS a
Briar Pipe.
< Obtainable
I from all Tobacconists
Bp
superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venlence.
Each Capsule hears the name D*r
k
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Bloo.d Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be 'treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate Cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
11052 MASONIC TEMPLE* Chicago, U.S.A.
SUFFERERS!
t cured in y self of Weakness, Loss of Strc igth
ahd Energy, in a most simple find easy maimer,
after tnany failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until ybu have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Ageht, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
Wa
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
V EMBRACING!
fHIE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK;”
By Dr. E. B; FOOTE;
fclates. 36 Chronios; 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
tT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS; and shows up Humaii
Mature as it exists; Here are answered, in plain language, a thou;
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
Which they fefcl a delicicy ill consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
Women both in and but of marriage; No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense ( can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived;
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address fot SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’.!) Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De. Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is (id. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6o'.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyhook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is-post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power. (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, -3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to "Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, IST posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushranger's, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our. New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
OF PLEASURE, Is 6d. LUNG COMPLAINTS, Is 6d. FRENCH
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid,
Don’t toe fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. !.i*£ hxtnbUs/ied 30 1 ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK GAN
BE GOT FROJT THIS A DVT
♦
Write lot- my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
s eht Anywhere for the Asking *
REMIT IN ST AMPS-OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT,
How to Make tJD, illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6ti.
Aristotle, .3s Gd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, 3d.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1908 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s Gd post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingkrsoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvassk’s Advice .to a
Mother, hs (id posted. ' Wo>derl’uL Budget Song
Book, over 3JO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s each posted,
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s Gd. The Wife’s' Handbook, :
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, lspost. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings,. Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
is'post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
ss : Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
os', Decameron of Boccaccio, Hepta.meron, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of the First
N(giit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is Gd.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay arid loss o{
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for( self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
m
INSTRUCTION FREEH
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affect iou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism Which 1 send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell yoU
all about this marvelous science. It Contain*
beautiful and artistic engravings, and show*
£oU just What Hypfiotisin is ahd
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, till* wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. _ If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include A large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifet'»•>*>.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt St., Sydney^
k
DR. j. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this Well-knoWtl
tlfemedy for OOOGHS; GOLt)&
ASTHMA, BEOMOHITia
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28; J 895, says :
4 f If. I were ask fed which single medicine 1 should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusibh of all
Others, I should sat Ohlorodyne. I never travel
Without it, and its general applicability td the
Relief of a large nuinber Of simple ailments forms
its best Recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
ķ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, ts-
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 1 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
#
1 TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send vou full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hpntkr St., Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
06 RTCOftO's
tsss** cE, °f \.\ f
The omy'iiuaiiiM.t; Kennedy for WEAKNcoici & ucdILITY.
Used for over a.Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., cr four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding 1 & Co., 16 O’Connell St. (
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY arid DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward tha same, free o; Charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Cockle’s
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
Jl\e JCarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirably
preparation.”
S7re British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION. LONDON.
3
FOOD
» nd <Ke aged.
Benoer's fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : The anti-sosh. crowd is
always talking about the ruin of Australia through
living under a Democratic Government. In be-
tween times it talks about the glorious prosperity
of Australia through being part of the British
Empire and living under the great and good King
Edward VII. Now, allowing that we can be
ruined and prosperous at the same time, may not
things have got mixed ? May it not be that we
are ruined through the British Empire and
Edward VII., and wildly prosperous by reason of
our Democratic Government and anti-nigger
legislation ? I only offer this as a suggestion.
“ F.C.” : Met one of Tait’s railway “ care-
takers” the other day. He is a youth of 18,
and has been two years in the Victorian Railway
Department. He is irt reality a relieving station-
master, as the ganger’s wife is away oh sick leave.
He has to do the whole work of an outer suburban
station—non-goods—from 6 a. to.- to 12 p.m. There
are 25 trains a day, so fixed that he cannot leave
the station for more than an hour, and then Only
twice a day, and as the nearest house where he
cart get board is half-a-mile dff, he has practically
to be On duty the whole 18 holirs. He gets 4s.
let day— 28s: a week. Evert the shit of clothes
16 is supposed to get three months after joining
iasn’t arrived yet,, though lie was measured for it i
12 months ago. He has to sweep and scrub the |
station offices, light the lamps, work the signals,
etc,, on a station where from £G to £lO is taken
daily irt passenger, fares. He goes to another
station “ relieving ” as sodri as the ganger’s wife
Recovers. She gets Is. fid. a day. All this isn’t
Sweating. It is merbiy ah imported way Of
thakihg the railways pay. j
John Murray, Minister of Labels in the
Vic. Ministry, and one time a Vigorous professed
democrat, lias been having a recrudescence of his
Old political symptoms of late. Travelling up
Country, he received a deputation from some
thembers of the gdod old roads apd bridges bri-
gade, who asked Him to Come dotyn with the
Usual Government assistance fob road impairs arid :
SiirtdribSi Murray Came dovVh with both fUet I
itiStead, and told shine plain truths to the effect I
that thb Shires would liavb plenty of money to db
theit Own repairs if it ivaSn’t that their hates, by a
Shameful process Of ilndfer-valuation, wfere levied
dp a mere fraction of the real value of the lands;
Then, at WarrnanibOdl, Murray stated at a ban-
quet that, the Closer Settlement Ac.t Was ineffec-
tive, and that Victoria rOq hired compulsory
purchase Of large estates. This brought Bent [
hastily forward next day in the Melbourne
lleraLd with a splutter that these were only I
Murray's individual opinions, and the matter had i
hot yet been Considered by the Cabinet.
“ Melbournian ” : How singular it is that
this city has seen no electric traction until just
now, with the opening of three miles of line from
St. Kilda to Brighton, via Elwood, the little
settlement by the sea. The impression made is
profound. Cable trams are doomed. They origi-
nated here with Hallidie, the San Francisco in-
ventor, whose man, Casebolt, did the Melbourne
laying. This city of ours was ahead of anything
on earth for a bit, but now we feel as if we had an
old-fashioned grandfather’s clock with the weights.


Clean White
TH fkfx-f h mean sound teeth, fit for their
* work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
(212)
6 6lnternation a V9
Steel Land Roller
Has never, so far as we can learn, failed to olve absolute satis-
faction to each <ii>sd every one of the hundreds of its users
throughout Australasia. It Is a strictly first-class Implement
built In Australia from Imported parts, and carries with It our
guarantee of "GOOD WORK OR YOUR MONEY BACK.’'
Our 8 ft. 2 Section Rollers are equipped with either thills
or pole as desired, our 11 ft. 3 Section with pole only.
These rollers have sheet steel heads closing the drums
entirely, and preventing their becoming filled with earth—
stronger and lighter than the cast ends generally used.
Descriptive circulars giving full particulars, prices, and
terms, free on application.
International Harvester Company
of America
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Launceston and
Christchurch . . .
Agents Throughout Australasia*
ILL ANDRADE
FOR
s
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is !
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, bard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horsk. and Cattle
Doctor, 6,d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter,, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter., Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron op Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Game’s, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
jjgNESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 'ls; posted 1/3.
U I
c£fc*s-
'f,
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2— Conjuring 1 Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels In
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanlca
Books.
No. 6 —Books for the
Married.
No. 7--Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gat Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3cL Hoffmans
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20tn
Century edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives* Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s od, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
1 Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases— theircaiMes,howto kno
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/6.
breaking,
them and
201 BOURKE ST
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
MELBOURNE.
ĸ
A*
*
..v
$> &
&
:v
Si
&
«* 4>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down ” or “out of sorts. _ Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mos*: welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
ft
♦ #
ft
w
ft
&
-
c
m OINTMENT
k
-^811
I AIDS DIGESTION.
£ BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
u non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cupa Ot
any ordinary cocoa.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your nan.,*
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTKIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
ib the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will give free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLUNS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper,
FREE
by post, a perfect
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN i SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they'
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who, need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Gastlereagh St. f
SYZDIET'IE'Y'-
WHAT IS CATARRH?
*C9B
MED1CAT0R.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
_ THOUSANDS
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being [“
rftlinrn b y Dr Langston’s Perfect
bUKtU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Belief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Tertunony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book
RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY &. CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
[the LAN6ST0N INSTITUTE]
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
RUHR'S
gout
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
i that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
i Of Chemists and Stores, 1/34 and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors — PSLOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
“Gip,” who has also been at the bar,
writes this: —
That bar-girl “ L.” writes about (B. 19/4/’06), who was
smart but not smart enough, should have gone to Surry
Hills to finish her education. I spent twelve months in
a bar there, helping mv dad to work up a “ gone down
house, in which the brewer had despairingly placed a
caretaker. It was some years ago, and the pushes
were strong. It was necessary to get the money safelj
in your hand before you served a drink—if you didn t,
you could whistle for it; and before you could snatch
the glass from the man’s hand, or scream for the police,
or do any other rash thing, your drink and your man
were gone, and your glass rolling down the pavement-
that is, if it hadn’t been smashed in the hurry. A knock
at the jug window meant the disappearance of a bottle
from the shelves. Had to keep all necessary bottles well
under the counter ; those on the shelves we filled with
colored water. , , ., .
I watched one night a clever steeplechase rider, since
dead He was leaning on the counter, apparently very
drunk. I heard a knock at the jug window, and backed
towards it, still with an eye on the jockey. I turned for
a second to take the proffered jug, then glanced again
at the jockey. His head was down, and he looked
drunker than ever—but a bottle was gone. Knives and
forks used at counter lunch had to be chained to the
wall. An odd sock on the line, a dressed chicken
hanging in the kitchen, a broken case in the yard, an
empty bottle on the counter—all went, unless you sat
down and watched them. If that bar-girl had been edu-
cated in Surry Hills, she’d have taken the jug back to
the beer-engine what time she drew the pint for the
trickster’s bottle.
We were popular with the pushites. I have seen
Long Andy ” lay out a man for letting a big D. slip in
my presence, using lurid language as he did so. He d
teach the blank not to blanky well swear in front of a
blanky lady. After the performance Andy found that he
had the price of a refresher for himself, but he had two
thirsty pals peeping in at the door. Of course the “ lady
couldn’t do less than shout for them.
The tearful tales we were told about broken-hearted
mothers who welcomed them home when they came out
of quod and always had a clean shirt for them, were
many and various, but there were always free drinks
hanging to them. Only once did the pushites turn
nasty. It was 2 a.m., and Baddy, the leader of a
notorious gang, developed a mighty thirst. He and three
others called up the boss. “ We want a drink, boss, we’ve
got the coin.” The boss answered from the balcony : “ Too
late, Paddy, you can’t get in now.” Paddy argued persua-
sively. The boss was obdurate. Paddy muttered lo
threats, which gradually became more pronounced; i
you don’t let us in, we’ll smash your windows. Th
boss was angry and determined. ? add ?, Chines'
Qtroklv from every corner came creeping daik-thi
p iig up stones as they came. Paddy s gang hail
arrived. But the boss held a trump card I,ve got
Constable Smith here ; you d better clear, 1 addj.
Paddy and his push laughed derisively. Constable Snuth
was verv drunk, but he was in uniform. A. stone
smashed' through a skylight, and tw ° S A ‘ n i it
wall. The boss lifted the drunken constable A man H
the hall lamp. The boss threw openJthe dooi, and th
six feet of him held the intoxicated Pieman ni view.
1 never saw Paddy again until the episode had
blown over.


TATTERSALL'S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday...
S— s—ZLzll BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tasmania, June 4
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RAGE, Flemington, Vic., July 7 •••
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
ķ
HM1
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “AHenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
DRUG H7».BIT
LIQUOR HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILEI- THBOUGH
DRUNKENNESS
UI BUII BUDON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is sale, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :—
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course , which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink ,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 6. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
129a COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
Mid a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have hot had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“ For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” ' (Mrs.) W. J. WISH ART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of anv other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken.” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.” —CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen j’ears ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quicklv cured us both."
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
BRA — DEPOT; Office: Mo. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


ft
W.U
A
m
Is undoubtedly the most valued preparation ever compounded for external application, because it is the
most reasonable and scientific of modern medicines. It is totally different from any other liniment on the
market, and contains rare products not previously employed in like preparations. It will penetrate to
your very bones, soothe, soften, and subdue all aches and pains. It is an antiseptic and germicide of the
highest order. Applied to a wound, it prevents germ infection, avoids fhe. danger of blood poisoningyir
lock-jaw, and any wound heals five times as quickly as without it, and heals like a surgical wolmd,
without inflammation.
PSWJ6
—r O
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Cuts
Sprains
Bruises
AHOAtL KIHDS OF
iNNAMMAtION.
PWCPAWCD By-
ShciponDwucC?
. Soston" px
Syon*y.N.S.W.
W
simile n oize.
DR. SHELDON’S
Magnetic Liniment
It will heal any and every Sore.
It takes the pain from a Burn or Bruise.
It destroys the poison from Stings of Insects.
It instantly relieves Itching,
It cures Rheumatism.
It allays all Inflammation.
It always relieves a Lame Back.
It gives immediate relief for Headache and Toothache.
It checks Bleeding of the Nose.
It takes the soreness out of Tired Feet.
It strengthens the Muscular Tissues, after hard exercise.
It quickly cures Sore Throat, Quinsy, &c.
It heals Cuts and Lacerations.
It invigorates in Old Age.
It immediately stops Neuralgia.
It will cure the most painful Corn.
It allays Irritations of all kinds.
It destroys all Skin Diseases.
It is a positive and speedy cure for Lumbago.
It is a most effective remedy for Chilblains.
It instantly relieves Sprains.
It affords prompt relief for Scalds.
It is the best remedy for Lameness.
It heals running So res.
It Will loosen a Stiff Neck.
DR. SHELDON'S
Magnetic Liniment
Is the result of many years’ careful, scientific and chemical research. It is unlike nearly all other external
applications, in that it does not blister the skin, but is a soothing, cooling and healing antiseptic remedy.
l/6 AND 3/■
It reduces swelling, removes all soreness, stops the burning,
drives out fever and inflammation, and will instantly relieve
Muscular Rheumatism, Sore Muscles, Sore Joints and Neu-
ralgia. It is the only external remedy that will penetrate
directly to the seat of pain, and draw out all inflammation.
PRICE ,
1/6 AND 3/-
Every bottle is guaranteed to give satisfaction or money refunded.
If not obtainable locally, will be posted upon receipt of the price by the SHELDON DRUG CO n
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Don’t Neglect Your Skin.
L
S’
7
ABOUT 80 per cent, of prevalent skin diseases
is due to thoughtlessness. The skin is one of
the most sensitive parts of £he human body,
and because it is also the most exposed to
injury and disease, it ought to get more attention
than most people think necessary. A sudden chill,
contact with disease germs during perspiration, dirt
in a cold-crack, or small abrasion, and skin weakness
are all likely to lead to trouble. Neglected chafings,
“ chaps,” cold-sores, or cuts may also cause more serious
disease in the shape of festering wounds, ulcers, or
itching sores, and even chronic Eczema is often trace-
able to neglect in the early stages of a simple affection.
Zam-Buk, a balm of the gums and juices of rare
medicinal herbs, is the ideal application for the skin at
this season. No ordinary ointments or salves concocted
from rancid animal fats or mineral irritants can do
for the skin what Zam-Buk does. Such coarse
and harmful preparations never give lasting
satisfaction—the sort of satisfaction that is
undoubtedly got from rubbing Zam-Buk in.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost
I instantaneous cleansing and restorative effect.
I So pure are the vegetable juices in Zam-Buk
that they sink deep into the pores, permeating
all the minute “ machinery ” of the tissues, and
they just go to work right away to end the
trouble PERMANENTLY AND THOR-
OUGHLY. Zam-Buk works hand in hand with
nature, as befits its natural origin, and it first
expels all that is retarding the every day work
of the skin. Having done this and stimulated
the natural functions to normal activity, Zam-
Buk helps to replace the injured or diseased
parts by thoroughly sound and healthy tissue.
This marvellous work is so small and compli-
cated that a powerful microscope would be
required to view it in any stage of progress. What the sufferer does notice, as the appli-
cations of Zam-Buk are continued, is, that all itching and inflammation are quickly
allayed. Burning sores cease to torture, ulcers and eruptions dry up and grow less, and
in the end, thanks to Zam-Buk’* ideal method, all disfigurement is forever banished. No
skin looks so well—or is, in fact, so sound and healthy throughout—as the skin that has
had frequent dressings of Zam-Buk. And this reflection is more than “skin deep”
seeing that a healthy skin (made healthy by Zam-Buk) often exerts a wholesome influence
upon the rest of the body. The Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival
of one of the best arts of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was universal.
ZAM-BUK is invaluable for ECZEMA, ULCERS, RINGWORM, PSORASIS,
BAD LEGS, INFLAMMATION, RASHES, ERUPTIONS, PIMPLES, SORES,
SCABS, SCALES, PAINS, SWELLINGS, CHAPPED HANDS, SORE FACES,
COLD SORES, CHILBLAINS, CHILLS, COLD IN THE HEAD, CUTS, BURNS,
FESTERINGS, GATHERINGS, POISONED WOUNDS, &c. Of all Chemists, or
ISuk
ant
post free from the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39
Pitt-street, Sydney,
price Is. 6d., or 3s. 6d.
family size (contain-
. ing nearly four times
the quantity).
A Dream of Life and Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ADAM turned on his leafy couch
And drew a mighty breath ;
Now ’twas no pleasant dream he dreamed,
This dream of life and death.
The sun sank down and the sun was red,
And the moon stole up the skies,
And Adam thought ten thousand years
Of sleep had dimmed his eyes.
“Wake up, kin soul, awake, my wife !
I dreamed that the earth was bare.”
And the woman turned and looked at him
Through a maze of yellow hair.
“ Now, what did you dream ?” the woman said,
“Yet pause and cry a cry,
That sun and moon may halt the while
And hearken in the sky.”
And Adam called his lordliest call,
And a magic spell was wove;
For the sun in the west stood still as stone,
And the moon forgot to move.
“Yet cry your cry again,” she said :
And the dreamer called once more,
And the green wave heard and curled to a crest,
And pushed far up the shore.
And the lion crept from his twilight den,
And fawned before his lord ;
And the tiger came on velvet paws
And coiled upon the sward.
And bird and beast from bough and brake,
Took speed to hear the dream ;
The sun was still and the moon was still,
And the tune of a distant stream.
“Now, hearken Eve, and sun and moon,
And bird, and beast, and stream ! ”
And they hearkened and heard how Adam slept,
And dreamed a dreary dream :
“It seemed the Lord walked here one day
And called on me by name,
But Eve and I had sinned a sin
And seen the face of shame.
“And the Lord went crying up and down,
But Eve and I were mute,
And the Lord took stand beneath a tree
And counted of its fruit.
‘ ‘ Then the woods were still and the winds were
still,
And the buds forebore to burst;
And I dreamed we went out hand in hand
To wander the world accurst.
“ And that was the time I ’gan my dream —
It seems ten thousand years—
And that was the time that eyes first rained,
The ancient birth of tears.
“We tilled the earth and the earth replied ;
The tall wheat grew to gold,
But the sun, my servant, scarred my back
And the night-wind whipped with cold.
“And after a many, many years,
Eve yielded up her breath ;
And that was the time I met him first,
The thing that my dream called Death.
“Then cold and still as marble stone
Gold vanished from her hair—
I made a pit in the moisty mould,
And housed the woman there.
“ The green leaves grew and the brown leaves fell,
Till when my strength was gone,
I fell asleep in an inner dream
Of Death—but still lived on.
“ I lived again in those whom we
Had brought upon the earth;
And the whole mind so whitely clear
Grew dim at each new birth.
“ In thousand shapes of maid and man
We trod the earth again,
And felt the pain of life and death
And that strange other pain.”
The Dreamer paused and the still sun glowed,
The moon turned soft and warm ;
A silver sweetness filled his voice,
A splendor touched his form ;
The lion looked through yellow eyes
And crouched with resting head ;
A rose burst somewhere in the woods
And flaked the air with red.
And sang a bird in golden tone,
And cooed a nestled dove,
While Adam pictured in poet-words
The dawn of the dream-thing Love.
“ Sometimes in that grey age-long dream,
I glimpsed over ancient bowers,
And saw white Eve at sunset walk
With angels in the flowers.
“ Anon in deeps of midnight gloom
I sought the face of Fate;
And dream went whispering to dream
Of some dim after-state.
I starved myself in every age,
/ And, with a legion hands,
Self-slaughtered self on many a sea,
And reddened many lands.
“ Whoso hath lived I lived in him,
A long and shadowy stream,
And that grim tale of life and death
Was only Adam’s dream.
“ There fell a time as ages passed.
And pulseless slept the tide,
When in the deep and starless dark
The white moon sank and died.
“ The sun fell faint as a waning moon,
And shone with no avail;
And ashes rose from faded fires,
And blew upon the gale.
“ There followed fibres of bleak grey winds,
The circling dust of death
Blew out from many broken tombs,
And mingled with the breath.
“ And one by one the many failed,
Till Eve and I alone
Were left with littered heaps of dead
And piles of mouldered bone.
“And then, methought, athwart my mind
A dawn of glory broke,
A dim fog slowly rolled away,
t shuddered and awoke.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Squires.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Patriotic :
“ XT' AIRS ! I’m Australian right through
ter the other side, an’ when I go out I
hope it’s another Australian that gives
me the knock-out. They tell me I look like an
Australian too. A feller that’s knocked about the
world a bit, he says ter me the other day that he’d
know I was an Australian be the looks o’ me,
even if he never heard me speak. I don’t know
whether he was kiddin’ me. I sp’ose there’s
somethin’ in it. Parents ? Irish ? Not a bit of
it. Both me parents are Australian, of English
descent. I s’pose I’m about the only pug in the
world that hasn’t a bit of Irish in him, but I
seem ter get along without it somehow. That’s
right. I’d like ter have a look roun’ the world,
like all the rest of ’em ; but Australia’s all right.
From what they tell me, it’s the best o’ the lot,
an’ I don’t see any points about settlin’ down any-
where else. Australia’s my home, an’ it’s goin’
ter be till the gong sounds.
Bill Proud :
“No ; I never did any farm work. I was born
at Narrabri, an’ grafted with the ole man when I
was a boy. He used ter take on contracts for
fencin’ an’ dam-sinkin’, an’ so on, an’ I used ter
help. Work ! I don’t like skitin’, but, my oath,
I have worked. I don’t think any man in Aus-
tralia has worked harder than me. I done a bit
on the railways—plate-layin’—an’ the last six
years I’ve bin coal-minin’ at Newcastle, mostly in
the Pelaw Main, an’ I never run across a man that
could work alongsider me. I don’t like skitin’,
but, straight, I have worked. It’s a fine thing
ter be able ter work like that an’ feel yer doin’ it.
Yairs. I like work. I know I never felt lazy on it.
I s’pose it’s funny that the work I’ve done hasn’t
made me muscle-bound, but I’m not too slow at
gettin’ about. No, I never went in for any other
sport ’cept Rugby football. I don’t think I was
too bad at it. Still, I wasn’t a crack—never got
into any inter-State team or anything like that.
I done a little wrastlin’, but only a little.
Wrastlin’ slows a man, I think.
Bill Political :
“Yer don’t know what hard graft is till yer
gets in a coal-mine. My oath, yer have ter work,
layin’ on yer back half the time hewin’ away at a
rate that’d take it outer a lot o’ hard-workin’ men
if they were standin’ up straight. That’s right.
I’ve bin a member o’ the Union all through. I’m
a workin’ man, I am, an’ I believe in a man
gettin’ a fair day’s wages for his work. Socialist ?
Yairs. I’m Socialist right through. Always
voted Labor since I had a vote. The workin’
man’s got ter look after himself or nobody else
will.
Bill Modest :
“Fightin’. Oh, yairs. I was near forgettin’.
Well, I can’t tell yer much about fightin’, yer
know, because I don’t know much about it ter tell.
It must be a sorter gift with me, that I’m able
ter knock men out. Yer see, I never did much
fightin’ up ter the time I come out as a boxer. I
was never a feller ter knock roun’ or drink or any-
thing like that. I always kept outer trouble an’
I don’t s’pose there’s any feller who’s had less
fights—fights outside the ring—than I have.
On’y once or twice I got pushed into rows I
couldn’t keep outer, an’ had ter fight fellers. No,
they didn’t give me much trouble in knocking ’em
out. But I never knew I could fight—fight
properly. What’s that ? Mute, inglorious Milton ?
Yairs, I s’pose I must ha’ bin one o’ them you
say. Acourse I’m sorry now I didn’t take on the
game sooner. I’m 27 now, an’ I was a better man
when I was 20 an’ I might ha’ made a bit more’n
I did in the pit.
Bill Reminiscent :
“It was like this, the way I took ter it. I was
always fond o’ boxin’—fond o’ lookin’ at it, because
I never had a glove on in me life up ter the time
I’m talkin’ about. I remember seein’ McCall an’
Scanlan fight. I never thought when I looked at
’em in the ring that I was good enough
ter fight ’em meself. Well, some o’ the
fellers in the mine used ter go up to Smith’s
gymnasium in Newcastle, an’ one night they took
me along. That was the first time I ever had a
glove on. I stood up ter one or two o’ them, an’
Smith, he says, ‘My word, you can fight.’ I says,
4 Can I ? ’ just like that, because I thought he was
kiddin’. After that, he got me down often, an’
in a week or two I’d gone through all the fellers
in the mine that was reckoned fighters. Then
Smith said, ‘ How’d yer like ter fight in the
ring ?’ an’l says, ‘All right.’ They brought up
a big feller from Balmain. No, he didn’t
trouble much. Then I started fightin’ others,
an’ I beat ’em all. I went over ter Mel-
bourne, an’ beat ole Starlight. One or two o’
them there reckoned that I was pretty good, an’ a
lot o’ others reckoned that I was no good at all.
On’y once I was knocked down—by Felix. Early
in the fight he cut me left eyelid, and what with
it failin’ an’ the blood, I was blind in one eye all
the fight. I was feelin’ pretty confident, an’
didn’t take enough care, so he sent in a hook that
got me on the jaw an’ dropped me. I wasn’t
silly, but I stayed down six seconds ter rest. I
wasn’t takin’ any more chances, an’ I done him in
the twelfth roun’.
Bill Prophetic :
“D’reck’lyme fights are over I goes back ter
work again. It’s the best game. Keeps yer in
form and saves yer wastin’ money. Anyhow,
what’s the good o’ loafin’ roun’ doin’ nothin’ ?
Three weeks before me next fight comes on I
knock off work an’ start trainin’. I reckon that’s
the best way. A man who wants to be a fighter’s
got ter take care o’ himself. He’s on’y got six or
seven years ahead o’ him, if he does, an’ even
then he’s got a chance of his hands goin’, an’ then
he’s finished as far’s fightin’s concerned. A lot o’
these pugs are dead silly. They make a lot o’
money an’ spend it as it comes. They think
they’re goin’ter fight for ever. I don’t kid meself
I’m more cunnin’ than the rest, but I know a bit
better’n that.
Bili Critical •
“ What’s the good o’ me sayin’ what I think I
can do ? Of course, I’d like ter be a world-beater ;
but it takes a mighty good man ter be that. I
reckon I oughter beat Gunner Moir—lie’s cham-
pion o’ England now, they tell me. I seen him
fight, when he was here with Hackenschmidt,
an’ I fancy I could do him. Then there’s
Mike Williams, the South African charii-
pion. It took him 20 rounds to outpoint
Cripps: On that showin’ I oughter beat him.
But yer dori’t know what these Americans can
do. I’m not frightened o’ them. A man that’s
bin used ter standin’ in the pit with bits o’ coal
failin’ all round him, expectin’ a lump o’ twenty
ton on his head every minute, isn’t likely tbr bb
scared o a trian s uSt. I fancy 111 be able to put
U P a g°°d light whichever way it gobs;
Bill Methodical :
“ What are me methods b’ fightin’. 0, I jest hit
’em.”
F.F.


KIDNEY DISEASE MAKES you MISERABLE.
You Cannot be Cheerful if Your Kidneys are E
When you think of the great
work the kidneys have to do —how
for 24 hours every day they are fil-
tering the impurities and waste
from the blood—can you wonder
that they so readily break down,
and retain the liquid poisons that
cause backache, rheumatism,
gravel, urinary disorders, heart
trouble, nervousness, sleeplessness,
etc. ? Before you can be perman-
ently cured, these poisons must be
driven out, and the kidneys must
be made well again, so that they
can keep up with their work.
If you have any form of kidney
trouble—backache, rheumatism,
gravel, dizzy spells, urinary dis-
orders —-if you are easily upset and
worried —if you never feel rested,
don’t enjoy your food, and can’t
sleep —if your skin is yellow and
your eyes puffy —don’t hesitate
any longer, but begin at once with
the genuine Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, for every day that
kidney complaint is neglected it
becomes more dangerous.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
m
m
m.
m
r m
i
w
m
m
; srS
i
m
m
Mm
* Every Picture
Tells a Story "
Are You Impatient and Irritable ?
Are You Weak and Nervous ?
Do You Have Headaches ?
MOTHER and CHILD CURED
or
BACKACHE, HEADACHE, DIZZI-
NESS, AND WEAK KIDNEYS.
12 MONTHS WELL.
Mrs. Louis Smorti, 1 Little Selwyn-street, Moore
Park, this city, says:—“ I can give Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills a real good recommendation to all those
who suffer with weak kidneys. I have proved this
medicine in the case of my little boy, who had very
weak kidneys. Every night he lay in discomfort in a
wet bed, and the secretions were very discolored.
Indications showed that the kidneys were in a very
unhealthy condition. I heard of children having been
cured of this complaint by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, but did not use them at first; .1 tried various
other remedies. After a good many failures, a friend
again strongly urged me to try Doan’s Pills. I
resolved that I would give them a trial, and am very
pleased to be able to tell you that they have wrought
a permanent cure. Two boxes were quite sufficient
in his case, and he has been quite well for over a year
now.
“ I might also mention that Doan’s Pills proved
very good in my own case. I suffered with back-
aches, headaches, and giddiness. Some days I could
scarcely get about my work. I used four boxes,
and am quite cured —and cured permanently, for over
a year has passed, and I have had no return of the
ailment.”
mm
KiDNEY
• l -V,-
BACKACHJ
m
SS36
Pursued.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
RAGE took me. I turned me at bay
At the fall of the day,
I met my reproach face to face
In that twi-litten place.
Rage armed me. I struck but one blow,
My reproach was laid low.
I stood as in triumph—then fled
From the gaze of the dead.
Bone-weary, I rested at last
Secure, the deed past;
Relief unimagined, heart-deep,
Allured me to sleep.
Day stirred me, I roused to his beam
Half awake, half adream ;
I heard, lost in exquisite ease,
The faint hush of the trees.
Then I waked—for the thing that I fear
Drew stealthily near.
I escaped down the dew-laden turf
To the brink of the surf,
Feet bare, I fled over the sand
Casting looks to each hand
In vain—there seemed none to pursue,
Yet I knew ! Oh, I knew !
I followed the curve of the bay
Thro’ the earliest day,
Then took to the heath and fled back,
Lest one follow my track.
Past noon, thro’ the life-sucking heat,
I delayed not my feet,
Till, at close of one desperate mile,
I must stay me awhile.
Deep hid in the thicket I lay,
Eyes fixed on the way,
Ears strained for a sight or a sound
In the vacancy round.
Thro’ all the hot stillness naught stirred,
Naught saw I nor heard,
Till the silence and emptiness grew
To an agony, too.
I climbed all the long afternoon
Grassy slopes boulder-strewn,
Skirted round the great peak, at its side
Took the torrent for guide.
I paused when the evening was red,
Bathed my feet, for they bled,
Then strained, for the summit stood high
’Neath the wind-winnowed sky,
Drew deep breaths, felt the lift of the air,
Had a fresh heart to dare.
Faced the night—the clear solitude bred
A new fear, and I fled.
Past the verge where the rock-ridges lay
Making perilous way.
Plunging down over treacherous shale
Under stars shining pale,
I raced headlong, on ! on ! and still on !
Till my last breath was gone
In one choked, inarticulate cry,
“Rest! rest! or I die ! ”
When darkness had brought me relief
I crawled like a thief
To a shelter of rock and crouched fast
While mine enemy passed.
Mute, formless, a blood-chilling dread,
Blind, bleached, dry and dead, «.
It drifted as wind-driven snow
To the dimness below.
Did I hope ?—ln the blackest of night
I won back to the height
And a whisper behind me came clear,
“ I am here ! I am here ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
A. W.
A Hero Bureau.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A POMPOUS politician stood ogling the
barmaid as we breasted the bar. From
his watch-chain swung a gold medal, with
which he was ostentatiously toying. Curiosity
tempted us to glance at the trinket. It was a
Humane Society award ! Just then a seedy,
shattered human wreck sidled up to the legisla-
tor and whispered into his ear. The latter turned
angrily away, and walked out of the bar.
“Yer won’t stand me a drink, won’t yer?”
the frowsy one yelled after him. “ Why, blime,
I made yer wot yer are.”
The deadbeat’s words hinted at a story. We
offered him a drink. “What did you mean by
saying that you made him?” we inquired. And
he talked readily enough.
“Fifteen years ago that bloke was completely
busted up perlitically. ’E wanted ter get ’is name
up agin, and one of our coves from the ’Ero
Booro dropped across him, quite casual-like, one
night at the Empire.”
“Never heard of that establishment before ! ” I
broke in.
“Wot,” he exclaimed, looking surprised,
“ never ’eard of the Booro. Well, I’ll tell yer
all about it presently. ’Owever, as regards this
perlitical bloke, we agreed to make ’im a ’ero and
spread ’is name about for fifty quid. We takes
’im down to Manly on a public ’oliday w’en there
wuz crowds linin’ the pier. Of course, we made
sure that ’e could swim abit. I’ad the job of
failin’ in, and I wuz fishin’ there quite comfort-
able like. I wuzn’t saposed to know ’im from a
crow. Just as ’e comes near me I gits up, and
trips over me other foot quite accidental-like, and,
with a yell, tumbles into the briny. Under I
goes, strugglin’ like ’ell, and several coves started
peelin’ off ter come in after me. ‘No, no,’ the
pollertieian cried, ‘ I’ll save ’im.’ In a jiffy ’e ’ad
jumped out of the slippers ’e ’ad put on for the
purpose, and plunged in beside me. I grabbed
’im by the legs an’ ’eld ’im up. There wuz the
crowd cheerin’ ’im like blazes, and I goin’ under
every now an’ then, and all the time keepin’ ’im
afloat. ’E wuz scared like blazes, an’ wuzn’t
assistin’ a bit. ’Owever, a boat wuz lowered,
and we wuz took ashore. An’ yer never ’eard
the like of ’is reception. A couple of
our coves from the Booro led the cheerin’,
an’ the crowd went crazy with applaudin’ ! The
Manly brass band, w’ich was on the Corso,
struck up, “Seethe Conquerin’ ’Ero” as they
marched on to 1 the pub for drinks and a change of
togs. Our blokes worked it up orlright, an’ sent
letters to all the papers, an’ every rag in Sydney
’ad glowin’ accounts of ’is ’eroic act of life savin’.
Our secretary brought the case before the ’Umane
Society, and the pollertieian got the gold medal
(that cost ’im an extry twenty quid), an’ ’e wuz a
public ’ero ! It wuz jest before the elections, an’
the meetin’s used ter cheer ’im fer five minutes
before ’e could speak. ’E went in at the top of
the poll, an’ ’e’s been there ever since, but it wuz
me that made ’im, by cripes it wuz !
“It wuz a goin’ concern orlright, that Booro,”
he went on. “A couple of smart Yankee blokes
started it, an’ they made a pile. I ’ear they’re
workin’ the States now. Seems ther’s more wealthy
toffs over there —millionaires an’ such like !
“ Any bloke who wanted to get ’is name up ’ad
only ter come to the Booro, ’an we pulled ’im
through. Droppin’ inter the ’arbor wuz con-
sidered the best line. We thort of pullin’ up run-
away traps and such like, but that wuz too risky,
so we stuck to the water business.
“ I wuz a grand swimmer, an’ it wuz as easy as
failin’ off a log. Of course the bloke ’ad ter know
somethin’ about swimmin’, but once ’e got a ’old
of me, ’e ’ad no more worry. I done the rest.
“We ’ad different rates fer different jobs.
Eallin’off the pier wuz a cheap line (’ceptin’ the
case mentioned). We only charged a fiver fer
that unless we supplied the applause Droppin’
off a steamer in the ’arbor wuz more pensive, as
it gave our client a bigger boostin’ up, an’ wuz
more costly an’ troublesome to us. Yer see, we
’ad to square the engineer ter be ready ter stop
quick, an’ so on.
“Wot kind of people patronised us ? Well, we
’ad all sorts! Members of Parliamint who wuz
gettin’ unpop’lar, actor blokes, poets (I noticed
one poet cove lately jumped from the Quay an’
saved a poor woman, but ’e only got a bare men-
tion in the papers, an’ not a thrippenny bit nor a
medal out of it. It would ’ave bin different fer
’im if ’e ’ad jumped in under the auspices of the
Booro) ! Oh, we ’ad all kinds ! Perleecemen look-
in’ fer promotion. We ’ad a cheap rate for per-
leecemen, but they got too strong fer us. So many
coppers got promoted through the Booro that
they wuz nearly all sargints in Sydney, an’ we
’ad ter ring off !
“A good-lookin’ young swell came to us once,
an’ arsked us ter ’elp ’im. ’E ’ad no money, but
wuz gettin’ on A 1 with a girl who ’ad stacks o’
brass. The torf said she loved’m right enough,
but she swore she would never marry a man ’cept
’e ’ad done somethin’ noble an’ ’eroic, or such-like.
Well, we takes the job on spec, an’ we gets down
ter the Quay. We meets the pair of ’em standin’
there, an’, by cripes, she wuz a beauty. I felt I
could ’ave done the job fer nuthin’, jest ter ’elp
’im ter get ’old o’ such a clinker, let alone ’er
brass ! In I falls, accidental-like, an’ ’e after me !
Oh, yer should ’ave seen the girl perform ! She
wuz up an’ down the Quay yellin’ ‘My dear
Charley! Isn’t ’e a ’ero?’ The crowd wuz
cheerin’ us like blazes. W’en they ’auled us up
she rushed ’im, an’ flung ’er lovely arms round ’is
neck, an’ kissed ’im a dozen times, although ’e wuz
wet an’ drippin’. Well, ’e married the girl within
a week, an’ ’e treated us ’ansome. As soon as
’e got ’old of ’er brass ’e sent along a cheque fer a
’undred !
“Did we ever ’ave henny tragedies? Well, not
exactly, but a publican bloke who said ’e jest
wanted ’is name spread about for custom sake
gave me an ’ell of a fright. We took ’im on quite
innocent like. I falls in an’ ’e after me, but
blime, he didn’t make a move to save me, but
starts goin’ under ’imself on ’is own. I wuz in a
fix ! I wuz frightened ter swim ter ’is ’elp for
fear of putting the Booro away, but ’uman-like, I
couldn’t stomach seein’ the bloke drown, ’specially
as he ’adn’t paid ’is fee in advance ! Of course, I
thought ’e ’ad the cramps or such-like, an’ didn’t
suspect nuthin’ else. ‘Well, ’ere goes. I’ll risk
it,’ I says to meself, an' I struggles over ter ’im.
He was under twice, an’ just about gone. I could
’ear the crowd cheerin’ us. ‘ Blime if the drownin’
man isn’t rescuin’ the ’ero 1 ’ I ’eard someone yell.
I grabs ’im by the ’air jest as ’e wuz goin’ under
agen, an’ pulls ’is chivvy out of the water. ‘Blarst
yer, let me drown,’ ’e spluttered with a voice
w’ich was nearly all salt water, an’ w’ich e flung
inter me face, an’ nearly blinded me. I wuz
flummixed. I was jest about lettin’ ’im go alto-
gether, as ’is remarks ’ad taken the stuffin’ out of
me, but I ’olds on ter ’im, an’ we wuz pulled up.
We ’ad a great reception, and ’e accepted the
situation. I ’eld my tongue, and ’e ’eld is fer the
moment-like, an’ ’e paid ’is fee !
“There wuz great crowds at ’is pub., fer weeks,
an’ one day I ’ad a word with ’im. Then ’e ups
an’ tells me that I ’ad blocked ’is ’appiness—that
’e wuz very miserable an’ wretchid with ’is old
woman, an’ wished to get out of the world alto-
gether, but to get out decent-like. ’E didn’t
want ter bring disgrace on ’is family, an’ thort it
would ’ave looked grand to ’ave died as an ’ero.
It wuz a fine idee, no doubt, but it wuz playin’
it down low on th’ Booro, an’ I told ’im so.
“ W’y did we shut up the Booro, do ye arsk?
Well, I wuz the cause ! We got ’old of a book-
maker cove, who wanted to make a name. I
never sighted the bloke until ’e jumped in after
me, and blime, when I looks at ’im I reckonised
’im as a cove who ’ad scaled me fer a fiver at
Randwick. Me blood wuz up, an’ I swore I
wouldn’t assist in makin’ ’im a ’ero ! I fergot all
about the Booro, an’ started swimmin’ away like
’ell. The blokes from the Booro were yellin’ at
me, but I wuz so wild that I lost my block alto-
gether. It’s no use worryin’ you with a long yarn
about it. The people on the pier ’eard our blokes
talk, and saw through the ’ole business. It spread
about, and our boss shut the shop and cleared.
“Of course,” he added loquaciously, “I saved
a nice bit, but the drink knocked me out. I wus
a teetotaller straight wen I joined the Booro, but
every time I wuz pulled out of the water the
kind blokes around persisted in shoving brandy
down me neck ter revive me ! And blime, if the
’abit didn’t grow on me. I done in all me savin’s,
an’ ’ere I am.”
Just then a well-known actor passed out of the
hotel, and the remembrance flashed upon me that
he had, some years ago in Sydney, secured a
world-wide advertisement through an heroic act of
life-saving from drowning.
“By cripes, ’ere’s one of our old clients ! ” the
Bureau man joyfully cried as he sprung up
from his seat. “’E’s allers good for a few bob,
an’ I’m goin’ ter strike ’im fer a dollar.
WALTER J. HEGAKTY.


This is the strong and convincing
lady residing at Balmain, N. S. W.,
testimonial of a
whose portrait
is also given.
“Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
would become so ill I would have
to go into a neighbor’s house'
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
K
1
things lasted for months.
“At last I remembered yonr advertisements m the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYERS Sarsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
*? « M u
« I H K.J|
L
GUARANTEED
IN EVERY CASE
UNDERTAKEN
>
As a Sufferer, a remedy
sold on this plan must
appeal strongly to you.
We want to cure you
because we know our
Belt will do it. We
guarantee it because
we know its virtue, and.
have , absolute faith in
its qualities. . . . Give up taking medicine, and turn to Nature’s true remedy.
Electricity will cure when all else fails. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt was
made for all such sufferers as you. Worn at night—while you sleep, it pours
a warm, soothing, rejuvenating current of new life into your blood and
tissues for hours at a time. It has cured thousands, and has the widest
reputation of any remedy in the world. Once worn, the patient becomes an
ardent advocate and supporter of its virtues.
We would like to talk with every man who feels that the lack of Nerv-
ous Energy, Vigor, and Health has kept him down. We want to have a
heart-to-heart talk with you, either personally or by post, because we know
our Belt will be worth its weight in gold to you.
Let us send you, Free and Postage Prepaid, our Handsomely-Illustrated
Book, which tells you how Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt cures—to stay
cured—Weak Back, Nervousness, Insomnia, Low Vitality, Inability to Con-
centrate your Faculties, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Paralysis, Epilepsy,
Stomach and Liver Complaint, and Weakness of the Bladder. ... It cures,
forever, all Weaknesses of Men. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt carries a cur-
rent of Electricity in your body for hours at a time. It saturates every
nerve and tissue, stimulates the circulation, destroys unhealthy or worn-out
tissue, and creates new life. This wonderful appliance will restore a weak
man to his full normal vigor in three months.
Call at our office for Free Consultation and Advice. In obtaining our
Free Book you place yourself under no obligation whatever. Hours: 9 till 8.
Our Belt Effects Permanent Cures.
Sciatica anti Lumbago.
HILLGROVE, N.S.W.
Gentlemen,—l have much pleasure in informing
u that after wearing your Belt for about three
eVs the pains I was suffering from left me en-
■ eU. It is, without doubt, a wonderful invention,
’jit has done more for me than I expected. I
fc'.ghly recommend it to anyone suffering from
i'ea and Lumbago as I was. Yours truly,
W. H. CRANSTON.
Debility of the Muscles•
BURNETT CREEK, BOONAH, QLD.
Dear Sirs, —Your Belt is wonderful. Before using
it I suffered untold agony, and could scarcely use
my legs, even had to be helped up from a chair. I
am now well and hearty, and consider your Belt has
been worth twenty times to me what it cost.
Yours gratefully,
PRICE WILLIAMS.
CUT THIS COUPON POST IT US TO "DAY* TWENTY SHILLINGS*DISCOUNT.
I
t
The DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO. WOW. Market St., Sydney
54 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. SO William Street, Perth, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your Free Book and credit me with Twenty Shillings as per this Coupon,
Name
Address.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
26/4/6 B.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
bek,"Ws
77 0 R Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chi 11s, h lush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Cos riven ess, Biotcl# on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHK 11KSL iWoK
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINNTES. This is no fictidn. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and it ey will be acknowledged to be WORTH A
BEECH A M’S PTLLS, taken as directed, w quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of toe system. For a /
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs;; Strengthening th«
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion; bringing back the keen edue o£ efclt ®b hega
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human fi ame.
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to >
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the J.argtst Sale of any Patent Mediei
he u-ortd. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLANB
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
<3£D r*
m
omzL
c
m
mm
(3
m*
0
§
.V
H
H
v : : ii
? A.-
immwSfjiiltM 1 '-
R
EftMlIui 1 * 1
“hi | <ii,
'.II 1 ; |l II!)n|
hniiHi:ii •
a
o
n
«
st,
Stf
sot
r
i
3®i8
k :
•i* -jsf&y
Mi
111
M
Wr
5
41
S“i|ini<i
£3 Parcel of Jewellery
” 8 ARTICLES OF STERLIHC VALUE
Something for each member of
the Family.
High in Quality-Low in Price.
The reason that we are able to offer such
high-grade goods at so low a price is that we
manufacture all of the articles (except the
watch) in our own works, and they carry but
one profit* , . , ..
The watches are purchased from the
manufacturer in very large numbers for cash.
You get the share that usually goes to the
middlemen. That is your gain.
If you bought these goods at any store in
Australia you would probably have to pay
pretty well double the price for them.
THESE ARE THE ARTICLES—
No. i— Boy’s Keyless Watch, solid
Silver Hunting Case, Jewelled Movement.
Warranted to wear io years, and kept in order
lay us—except breakages—for 2 years, free of
charge. Although this watch is described as
for a boy it will suit most men, and is made
to stand really hard wear.
No 2.— Gentleman's Solid Bilver
Albert, with the Government Stamp on
every link. Complete with Sliding Bar and
Two Swivels.
No. 3— Solid Silver Locket. Govern-
ment stamped.
No. 4— Gentleman’s 9-Carat Gold
Scarf Pin, set with 2 pearls and 3 rubies.
No. 5 — Elegant 9-Carat Gold Bell
and Chain on Lace Pin.
No. 6— Heavy Gold Band Ring.
Any name engraved and made to any size
you may desire. An excellent souvenir.
No. 7— Gold Brooch (9ct.) of charming
design. Nice present for a girl.
No. B— Lady’s Purse in Real Morocco
leather, with solid silver lock.
If desired, we can supply a Lady’s Silver
Watch and Muff Chain in place of the Boy’s
Watch and Chain, for the same money.
THE PRICE OF THESE EIGHT ARTICLES
PACKED IN STRONG BOX AND DELIVERED
AT YOUR ADDRESS IS £3.
We do the largest Mail Order Business
in Jewellery and British Silver Plate in the
Commonwealth, and this remarkable offer is
made because we know that you will be so
delighted with the parcel that we will gain
you for a regular customer
Write now for the parcel. Remember,
your money back at once if you are not
absolutely satisfied.
ANGUS & COOTE,
“The Store where Quality counts,”
&94 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ask for our 72-page Catalogue. It con-
tains hundreds of illustrations, and will save
you money on every purchase.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility,' Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent bv mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHIELINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IDEaFI
xne New latent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
Consult PR. MARTIN,
The Old Established, Reliable
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
MEN
NO
WOMEN
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S Great Work on the
Diseases of Men and Women, contains 34 Illustrations and
Colored Plates. Write To-day for it. POSTED FREE.
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you
apply to him now a copy will be Posted Free for 3s. This
Magnificent Medical Work contains 692 pages Crown 8vo., over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 with Beautifully
Four-Colored Plate—the most interesting, up-to-date and reliable
Medical Work Published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of men
and women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books
advertised FREE TO THE PUBLIC, It is a complete Encyclopaedia
of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-standing,
chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book
has ever been published.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT
A limited number of Resident
Patients received. Terms Moderate.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO-
DR. MARTIN, M.D.
ELM LEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
{Please mention this paper when writing.]


GOLOSHES
ĸ
“THE BEACON ”
Pore Gum.
Hen’s - - 5/= per pair
(Also at 3/11)
Women’s - 3/9 per pair
(Also at 2/11)
“ The Iceland Beacon ”
Pore Gum, Rolled Edge.
Men’s - * 6/« per pair
Boys’ - . 5/- per pair
Our List of Winter Requirement j Free on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.£
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
C4T/ILOG(/fS FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted! Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
HARDY’S
—. TINTARA
PP WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about ISlbs. Operated by comnressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Btrlctly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE, 606 L A '™ t
64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
warn
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock, SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc «
PARKE & LACY CO., ik
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents : Be van and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
ilFilliiiiiilWfliiiimi
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
J
a' *. :■* i , : 'V'. ■• - ;>‘
ANreceipt of P.O, O.
forward to anv
of our HANBSOME
ROUND WIRE
ur iu.va iu j/- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. GOLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Hell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. U.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SXDUEY.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
m
.
' ;
s' a*
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS GIFT.
CARD ORE CONCENTRATOR.
We claim for this table a 50 per cent, greater capacity, higher concentrates, and lower Tailings
than any other table, a much greater dressing area, much less chance of losing concentrates,
perfectly even surface when working on account of it being mounted on the Patent track-rods,
never runs hot because of the large bearing surface and good workmanship. The table is easily
adjusted, and requires very little attention.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
SOLE SALES 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, **■>
AGENTS, 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
