

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
WHISKY.
FI. <3K €3o.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mij ug and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ ancl Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS 4lnd GENERAL IRONMONGERY NSW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILA
gds
HOBART.
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
TRACTION ENGINES
McLAREN’S Compound Traction
Engines are used throughout
Australasia
FOR
General Haulage, Farm Purposes, and Direct Ploughing.
LARGE STOCKS OF ENGINES and DUPLICATE PARTS HELD IN SYDNEY.
For Full Particulars apply to Sole Agents, GIBSON, BATTLE & CQv Bent SI, SYDNE —S—^
I
\
99
Take it back •
I must have -
FincApplc Brand
§ y M
CHUBB'S
STRONC ROOM
DOORS
TlafionaL
fIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A qibb, Manager.
Active Age ts andOanvaasers Wanted.
GLU ,
tL
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
1
RpYAL
Dutch
mm
ś
ASK
FOR
0^
STANDARD PALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY-
»W I3ST BOTTLER
• ’ ' i
l
a
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
[GINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GOXjZjIKT & CO., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1395.]
[Thursday, November 8, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Hobbes, Dream and the Business, 2s 6d &3s 6d, post 6d.
Shelley, Enderby, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Bullen, Frank Brown : Sea Apprentice, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Living Races of Mankind, Vol 2, many illus., 12s 6d, p. Is.
McCutcheon, Jane Cable, author of Graustark, Nedra,
&c., illus. by Harrison Fisher, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Kenealy, Larly Fitzmaurice’s Husband, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Oxenham, Princess of Vascovy, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Easton, Money Exchange and Banking, 6s, post 9d.
Pitman’s Mercantile Law for Law Students, Business Men,
and Advanced Commercial Colleges, 7s 6d, postage Is.’
Davis, Back at Our Selection, 4s 6d, postage 6d.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY.—
Under this title has been issued an admirable series of all the well-
known classics. The size chosen is handy and convenient, and
they are clearly printed on good paper and uniformly bound. The Library includes 150 works, most of which
we ha ve and m large stocks. They are issued in two styles : cloth, gilt, 1s 3d ; limp leather, gilt top, 2s 6d,
postage 4d extra. A complete list may be had on inquiry. " ’
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
G.ttUDSO/V.
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR HUDSON’S-Take no Substitute.
SOLD IN TINS, .1/6
May be taken daily by old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the Sole
Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. [l.
THE RED PAGE.
ROSES AND WHITE ILLIES.
Concerning h. g. w e iis...
Literature is Life viewed throug
the spectacles of a temperamenl
Here is Life, tumultuous, meaningless
inchoate ; and the writer dimly peer
at it, fingers it, guesses at its meaning
probes for its formulas, desperately attempt
to write it down. And this thing, vague!
discerned through blurred glasses, is th
author’s conception of Life—his book. Th
reader, viewing the result, sees this colorec
impression of Life through the blurrin
spectacles of his own little individuality ; t
each reader there is a difference in the ton
values. Yet, here and there, despite th
limitations of words and of individual tem
perament, the author’s impression of Life i
recognised by a number of diverse minds a
true ; despite the intervening blurrin
glasses, the picture stands clearly out.
Returning to H. G. Wells. . .
Every author sees Life through th
spectacles of his own temperament. Th
Japan depicted by Lafcadio Hearn and tha
shown us by Pierre Loti are two differen
places ; the South Seas of R, L. Stevenso
are terras incognitas to Louis Becke. So Lif
itself is a series of strangely differing lands
when looked at through the temperaments o
Meredith, Conrad, Hewlett, Henry James—
or plain Bill or Henrietta. Each individua
sees his world colored to a tint that he
takes for white. A landsman looking
at a ship sees something strange!
different to the thing that it appear
to a sailor ; yet to each that object is re
cognisod as a ship. So plain Bill Jones
looked at by his child, his creditor, his wife
his book-maker, his mother, his employer
his dog, is to each a different being. Imagine
these all looking at Bill Jones at the same
time, and instead of one Bill Jones, you see
a curious and far-stretching line of diverse
Bill Joneses, at one end of the processior
the looming, heroic figure of Bill Jones as he
habitually appears to himself, and at the
other, possibly, the indistinct unsubstantia
shade of the insignificant Bill Jones that he
really is.
Reverting to H. G. Wells. . .
It is this accidental coloring of Life seei
through the author’s temperament, the iridi
vidual limitations of his brain, tuned to re
spond only to certain chords, deaf to al
harmonies that do not synchronise with the
wave-length of his receptive powers—it is
this blurring interposition of the human sou
that makes for us the peculiar charm of our
favorite authors. Hewlett’s throbbing ro-
manticism, Maeterlinck’s misty beauty, Ber-
nard Shaw’s swift-glinting, irresponsible
humor throw for us a new, strange lighl
upon this 4 ‘ poor, little, angry, miserable
world ” that is so much with us. Peering
curiously through these several spectacles
we see Life in aspects that charm or pleasantly
shock us, and willingly we surrender our
individual vision to the wonder of those dis-
torting glasses. So it is in art; it was the
same world that Watts and Whistler saw,
yet how unlike, and how separately beauti-
ful ! But sometimes the white light comes ;
some author sees things as they are, un-
blurred, unhumanised—and we blink.
J*
Hauling back to H. G. Wells . . .
This time we shall nail him down ! Wells
may be conceived as a writer without a per-
sonality, a brain detached, a vision that
has discarded glasses. He stands apart,
lonely, seeing Life as a series of little vivid
pictures, in which he has the mere profes-
sional interest that a lantern-operator has in
the views he throws upon the screen, careful
only that the pictures he projects are dis-
tinct, that the illustrations are exactly in
focus. “You figure. .. ” he says, with a
mannerism that begins to obtrude, and then
he flings this picture upon the screen :
He was a handsome young man, a gallant young
man ; his pride revolted at the idea of being dic-
tated to by a “lot of bally miners,” and he meant,
he said, to make a fight for it. The world had
treated him sumptuously from his earliest years ;
the shares in the common stock of five thousand
people had gone to pay for his handsome upbring-
ing, and large, romantic, expensive ambitions
filled his generously nurtured mind. He had
early distinguished himself at Oxford by his scorn-
ful attitude towards democracy. There was some-
thing that appealed to the imagination in his fine
antagonism to the crowd—on the one hand, was
the brilliant young nobleman, picturesquely
alone ; on the other, the ugly, inexpressive multi-
tude. dressed inelegantly in slop-clothes, under-
educated, under-fed, envious, base, and with a
wicked disinclination for work, and a- wicked
appetite for the good things it could so rarely get.
For common imaginative purposesone left out the
policeman from the design, the stalwart police-
man protecting his lordship, and ignored the fact
that while Lord Redcar had his hands immedi-
ately and legally on the workman’s shelter and
bread, they could touch him to the skin only by
some violent breach of the law.
Wells has the scientist’s almost inhuman
detachment from personality; he is equipped
with the calm, coldly logical, dispassionate
thinking machine that is interested only in
facts. It happens that Wells, instead of
studying the motions of atoms, or the man-
ners of ants, or the measurements of stars,
is intent only upon the manoeuvres of
mankind. He peers down through his
microscope at the curiously writhing, strange
little things called men, and. experiments
and notes and deduces, and in the end pins
his samples neatly out on nice white paper.
The personal equation seems lacking in his
work ; his intellect is as nearly as possible
achromatic ; he has cleared from his outlook
the cobwebs that for us add a strange irri-
discent beauty to our vision. To his semi-
detached brain Shelley is a person of “ gassy
prose and atmospheric verse ; ” Ruskin, “a
volcano of beautiful language and nonsen-
sical suggestions.” And “smoking—that
queer old practice ! ”
Take, for example, from his latest socio-
logical study, In the Days of the Comet
(Macmillan), this concept of that “enormous
irrational obsession ” which we dignifiy with
the name of War :
Of all the monstrous irrational phenomena ol
the former time, war was certainly the most
strikingly insane. In reality, it was probably far
less mischievous than such quieter evils, as, for
example, the general acquiescence in the private
ownership of land, but its evil consequences
showed so plainly that, even in those days
of stifling confusion, one marvelled at it. . . .
The old war of savage and barbaric nations
did at least change humanity, you assumed
yourselves to be a superior tribe in physique
and discipline, you demonstrated this upon
your neighbors, and, if successful, you took
their land and their womon, and perpetuated and
enlarged your superiority. The new war changed
nothing but the color of maps, the design
of postage stamps, and the relationship of a few
accidentally conspicuous individuals. In one of
the last of these international epileptic fits, for
example, the English, with much dysentery and
bad poetry, and a few hundred deaths in battle,
conquered the South African Boers at a gross
cost of about three thousand pounds per head—
they could have bought the whole of that
preposterous imitation of a nation for a tenth of
that sum—arid except for a few substitutions of
personalities, this group of partially corrupt offi-
cials in the place of that, and so forth, the
permanent change was altogether insignificant.
(But an excitable young man in Austria com-
mitted suicide when at length the Transvaal
ceased to be a “ nation.”) Men went through the
seat of that war after it was all over, and found
humanity unchanged, except for a general im-
poverishment, and the convenience of an un-
limited supply of empty ration tins and barbed
wire and cartridge cases—unchanged, and re-
suming with a slight perplexity all its old habits
and misunderstandings, the nigger still in his
slutn-like kraal, the white in his ugly, ill-
managed shanty.
But Wells has, happily, something more
than a mere philosophic interest in his sub-
ject; his brain, after all, is but semi-detached.
Life has taken him in hand, has put him,
writhing and wriggling, under the micro-
scope, lias investigated and callously probed.
The early years of Wells’s life—those years
of counter and usher’s desk—have graven
their lesson deep into his brain, and
dowered him with something warmer
and more impatient than a philosophic
interest in reform. He knows how
uninspiring, how drab, how maiming
life is in the lower depths of modern civili-
sation. He has, as it were by a miracle,
emerged ; but, he still shudders at the dismal
conditions of existence among the intel-
lectually starved, the socially stunted. He
was Kipps, and Mr. Lewisham, and Willie
Leadford, his latest sorry hero. Wells
is a Kipps who has been able to
put himself under the microscope, and
contemplate, with a queer distaste, yet
with a tolerant and almost loving humor,
the curious futile strivings of that in-
articulate and cloudy soui. So it is in
Wells that one finds conscientious studies
of an insignificant class of insects much
neglected by the novelists of the day. His
Kipps may rank with Jude the Obscure, or
Lord Jim, as an illuminating interpretation
of the human soul almost asphyxiated within
its terrible limitations.
And the needlessness of it all—or, at least,
of the larger part of it ! It is the conscious-
ness of this that has made Wells the re-
former, the enthusiast of the Future, the
New Republican, the wholesale and reckless
manufacturer of Utopias. The memories of
his youth have made him savagely, and
quite unphilosophically, impatient of so
much preventable misery ; he will have none
of it, and in his latest book—not so great a
work as Kipps —he gloriously revels in the
giant bon-fires in which the regenerated,
world, washed clean of all imperfections by
the green vapours of his comet, burns up all
the sordid and clogging machinery of the
present individualism. Into the fire with
everything unbeautiful, everything bastard.
Our theatre-sheds, our banks, and inconvenient
business warrens, our factories, and all the “ un-
meaning repetition ” of silly little sham Gothic
churches and meeting-houses, mean-looking shells
of stone and mortar, without love, invention, or
any beauty at all in them, that men had thrust
into the face of their sweated God, even as they
thrust cheap food into the mouths of their sweated
workers. . . Then, also, there was a great harvest
of fences, notice boards, hoardings, ugly sheds, all
the corrugated iron in the world, and everything
that was smeared with tar, all our gas works and
petroleum stores, all our horse vehicles and vans
and lorries had to be erased.
Jt
It is a characteristic of the semi-detached
scientist’s brain that it has little room for the
use or culture of the emotions ; and Well s
work suggests an impatience, almost a con-
tempt of that “queer thing, Love.” Yet m
the study of the human insect, much can be
gleaned from a knowledge of those egotistic
impulses that control so many of its ap-
parently purposeless movements. So, as
one would patiently investigate the peculi-
arities of snake poisons, W ells works away
at the habits and customs of the human
lover. He recognises that human emotions
just as urgently need study as human stupidi-
ties ; and carefully he dockets them for
future use—the dawn of young love, the
manoeuvres of woman, the quaint humors of
jealousy. So Wells, the scientist, has much to
say on love. In Kipps , Love and Mr. Lew-
isham, and The Sea Lady, he has delightfully
analysed that strange obsession of the human
intellect; but still he is dissatisfied with the
thing. In his latest book there is a curious
suggestion of a solution that comes with the
shock that struck the world when George
Meredith suggested his terminable leasehold
marriage scheme. He finds Love to be “a
cruel, proprietary thing.”
The old-world theory was, there was only one
love. ... The whole nature of a man was supposed
to go out to the one girl or woman who possessed
him, her whole nature to go out to him. Nothing
was left over—it was a discreditable thing to have
any overplus at all. They formed a secret
secluded system of two, with such children as she
bore hitn. All other women he was held bound
to find no beauty in, no sweetness, no interest;
and she, likewise, in no other man. The old-time
men and women Went apart in couples into defen-
sive little homes, like beasts into little pits, and in
these “ homes” they sat down purposing to love,
but really coming very soon to jealous watching
of this extravagant mutual proprietorship. All
freshness passed very speedily out of their love,
out of their conversation, all pride out of their
common life. To permit each other freedom was
blank dishonor. .. .
“ Love is such a queer tiling ! ... Is there one
love? I mean, only one love?” (asks Nettie,
after the Great Change, sitting between the two
men who love her). “But, what is it, this love
for you ! It’s a mass of fancies —things about
you—wavs you look—ways you have. . . . And all
that had rolled up together and taken to itself the
wild help of those deep emotions that slumbered
in my body ; it seemed everything. But it wasn’t.
Ilovv can I describe it ? It was like having a very
bright lamp with a thick shade —everything else
in the room was hidden. But you take the shade
off and there they are—it is the same light—still
there ! Only it lights every one !”. . .
“No woman believes these things,” she as-
serted, abruptly.
“ What things ? ”
“No women ever has believed them.”
“You have to choose a man,” said Verrall.
“ We’re brought up on that. W 7 e’re told—it’s
in books, in stories, in the way people look, in the
way they behave —one day there will come a man.
He will be everything, no one else will be any-
thing. Leave everything else ; live,in him.”
“And a man, too, is taught that of some
woman,” said Verrall.
“Only men don’t believe it! They have more
obstinate minds. . . Men have never behaved
as though they believed it. One need not be old
to know that. By nature they don’t believe it.
But a woman believes nothing by nature. She
goes into a mould hiding her secret thoughts even
from herself.”
And later, when the green vapours have
recreated the race
“ Here am I between you ” (says the woman.)
“Here is Edward. I —love him because he is
gav and pleasant, and because—because I Like
him ! Here is Willie—a part of me—my first
secret, my oldest friend ! Why must I not have
both ? Am I not a mind that you must think of
me as nothing but a woman ? imagine me always
as a thing to struggle for?” She paused ; then
she made her distressful proposition to me. “ Let
us three keep together,” she said.... “Why
should we not'anyhow keep triends? Meet and
talk?”
“Talk?” I said. “ About this sort of thing?”
And by-and-bye Willie married a plain girl
named Anna. But
“ And after a little time my love and desire for
Nettie returned as though it had never faded
away. . . . For every one there are certain types,
certain faces and forms, gestures, voices and
intonations that have that inexpicable un-
analysable. quality. These come through the
crowd of kindly, friendly fellow-men and women—
one’s own. These touch me mysteriously, stir
deeps that would otherwise slumber, pierce and
interpret the world. To refuse this interpreta-
tion is to refuse the world, to darken and deaden all
life.... I loved Nettie. ... And between my
wife and me there was no bitterness. .. . For
now Anna could let Nettie live in the world of
my mind, as freely as a rose will suffer the pre-
sence of white lilies.”
It is well to recall that all this happened
after the coming of the Comet, whose green
vapors touched and transfigured this poor
little human race. All this is in the new
Utopia of the inconceivably distant future.
“And had Nettie no other lovers?”
“A beautiful woman like that! I know not
how many loved beauty in her, nor what she
found in others. But we four. .. ”
It is not yet, that race of mankind cleansed
of all imperfections by the kindly green
vapours of Wells’s comet, that garden of
affable roses and white lilies.
♦
In the Mist of the Mountains (Ward, Lock
& Co.) is another of those pleasant, gossipy
stories of Australian children that Ethel
Turner knows so well how to write. The
family she introduces us to has all the
humor, the good nature, the irresponsibility, the
charm of typical Australian childhood ; and if the
“grown-ups” are really children, too, the
audience that Ethel Turner has made her own
will not greatly mind. It is a delightfully
written, easy-going story, and it treats of things
and types that are familiar and loved. There is
no need for the lover of books about children to
go abroad while the home-made article keeps up
so cheerful a standard.
By the same mail, and from the same
publishers, arrives Betty, the Scribe, by Mrs.
Curlewis’s sister, Lilian Turner. The fact
of the simultaneous publication of two sisters’
novels recalls the issue, some years ago, of two
books within one week by an Australian mother
and son, Louisa and Henry Lawson. Betty the
Scribe details in leisurely fashion the struggles of
a young girl along the literary path. Every girl
who yearns to write can find here priceless in-
formation about the troubles of the scribe—how
the children interrupted, how she buried her
MSS. at night, what the editor was like,
how she furnished her attic, how it feels
to be a “society” writer, how she was dis-
missed, and what her publisher wrote to her.
The other characters are deliniated with affec-
tion and humor. Lilian Turner promises.
Elinor Glyn but continues the Visits and Inflec-
tions and Vicissitudes of that ingenuous trio,
Elizabeth, Ambroisine, and Evangeline, in her
new novel, Beyond the Bocks (Duckworth, received
from the Book Club). There is the same adorable
girl—this time named Theodora, this time with
gentian-blue eyes, and this time married to a
millionaire named Josiah, and there is the same
naughty lord. “ She looked at him. His long,
lithe limbs stretched out, every line indicative of
breeding and strength. She noted the shape of
his head, the perfect grooming, his lazy, insolent
grace, his whimsical smile. Englishmen of this
class were certainly the most provokingly beauti-
ful creatures in the world. ■ It is because they have
done nothing but order men, kill beasts, and sub-
jugate women for generations,’ she said to herself.
‘ Lazy, naughty darlings 1’ ” When these pro-
vokingly beautiful creatures love, they love
volcanically. “He had gone out in his automo-
bile, and was racing ahead considerably above the
speed limit. He felt he must do something.” A
novel for the sentimental girl—of both sexes.
Hall Caine's reasons for turning his novels into
plays are : —First, that their subjects seemed to
him especially proper—he might possibly have
said “improper”—to the drama; second, that
the stage offered a greater vividness of presen-
tation ; third, that in the event of success the
theatre promised a still larger public; fourth,
that an audience gratified the author by a
swifter, more visible and personal response;
fifth, that the talents of the actors held out the
hope of a greater reality and a more luminous in-
terpretation than is possible on the printed page.
He forgot to mention sixth, that there’s more
money in it.
Now transpired that Jules Verne, boy’s
novelist, is of Jewish origin. Both Verne’s parents
were Polish Hebrews. Their name was Olzcewizi.
“ Leonardo,” in reply to “ Ignotus,” points out
that “Esperanto words are derived from the roots
of living languages, and that many of the words
of English and European tongues can be traced to
the same root.” Exactly ; hut the Esperantists
overlook the fact that language is an organic
thing, instinct with the principle of growth.
With the flower of speech already blossoming,
why dig up the roots ? Language is like religion
or clothes. It is as impossible to graft a new
language upon a civilisation as it is to clothe
a savage race with a ready-made religion, or make
an Asiatic look genial in trousers. If Esperanto
became a living tongue, it would promptly pro-
ceed to adapt itself to national requirements, just
as the alleged English language m America and
Australia is slowly being enriched and colored by
local needs and conditions.
The second volume of Ernest Haeckel's Evolu-
tion of Man, reprinted by the R.P.A., with two
hundred illustrations, is a cheap and interesting
sixpenny-worth.
Those interested in the history of the relations
between Church and State will find the subject
concisely treated by E. S. P. Haynes in Reliyiout
Persecution, another of the R.P.A.’s publications.
“H.” writes: —In B. Oct. 18, Dr. Robert
Schachner, of Berlin University, is reported as
putting Victor Daley on the pinnacle of Australian
poesy. In conversation with me, he said that he
unhesitatingly gave that place to Roderic Quinn
as the “ most inspirational ” of our verse-writers.
The resemblance to Heine he did not consider
altogether a merit in Daley.
The Victorian School Paper is, as a rule, de-
cently and intelligently edited ; and Long, the
editor, is doing good work in the direction of fos-
tering a sound literary taste. Last issue, however,
contains a choice bit of Bowdlerism. Dibdin’s
famous sea-song is printed. Everybody knows
the verse:—
Tom never from his word departed,
His virtues were so rare.
His friends were many and true-hearted,
His Poll was kind and fair.
The last line in the School Paper is altered to
His wife was kind and fair.
Probably Dibdin used “kind” in the trouba-
dour’s sense of the word, but not one kiddy in the
State was likely to read that meaning in it. Pos-
sibly the bowdlerism has something to do with
the “marriage tie” myth.


WOOL
Send Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading* Sydney Salesmen.
THE LEADING FISHING TACKLE DEPOT
We carry a Complete Stock of all the Best Continental Fishing Tackle suitable for Australian Fishing.
The Largest and Most Up-to-date Stock of
Mick Simmons
8008.
Split Cane.
FISHING TACKLE
In The
States.
RODS, REELS, LINES, FLIES, MINNOWS, SPINNERS, HOOKS, Suitable for any Fish.
Rods and Reels Built to Order, Prices on application.
All our Goods are made of the best materials and by the most improved machinery and
mechanics it is possible to obtain, therefore we can fully guarantee that they will bear
out the reputation they have gained of being the best and cheapest m the world.
Best Spiit Cane Rods.
These Rods are made especially to our expert’s
designs and guaranteed to stand the severest tests.
No. 1, Pattern 800—15 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button and metal knife for
butt; weight, 21bs., complete in bag, £5 10s.
No. 2, Pattern 800—14 feet. 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button ; weight, 14oz. ; com-
plete in bag, £4 15s.
No. 3, Pattern 800—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronze fittings, net handle hollow for tops, best snake
rings, silk whippings, button ; weight, 13oz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), £2.
No. 4, Pattern 800—If feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, German silver snake rings, silk
whippings, best finish, button ; weight, Boz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), 21s.
No. 5, Pattern 800a— 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, lock joints, net handle for tops,
serrated ferrules, best snake rings, silk whippings,
rubber button and metal knife for butt; weight,
11 oz. ; complete in bag, £2 10s.
No. 6, Pattern 800a— 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel centre,
spiral lock joint, bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules,
German silver snake rings, silk whippings, landing
handle hollow for tops, rubber button and metal
butt; weight 160 z.; complete in bag, £4 10s.
Best Greenheart Rods.
Many of the leading anglers who have used our Greenheart
Rods speak in the highest praise of their durability.
No. 13, Pattern 200—13 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
14 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 26s 6d.
No. 14, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. : in bag (metal brazed), 245.
No 15, Pattern 200—14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 30s.
No. 16, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short,
balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt; weight, 14 ozs. ; in
bag, 14s. x
No 17a, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short),
balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings ; weight, 16 ozs. ; in bag, 14s.
MICK SIMMONS
800 a.
ŝd
No. 400.
General Rod for Fish up to 61b. Weight.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
18, Pattern 200-12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops. (one short) cork.grip. lock bwt snake
ZUU X.U iecu, O JUIIIUO. u uvjjo w/, o - r > *> . ' . , , , oe
rings, universal winch fittings, wood button, superior finish bag(rn 255,
19, Pat tern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 14oz. ; in bag, 21s.
23*1 Pattern 400—12 feet ,3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ,
24*, 'pattern 400—10 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
24A° d pattern’4oo-ll’feetf 3'joints’ l*top, balanced grip, bronzed Sittings, snake rings, universal winch
fl 2s i,n f:t t W ern d 4oo-l°2 n 5 balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch
bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ;
27 i *p a ttern 40*0—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button, in bag, strong make ; weight, lib. 60z., 16s 6d. . ,
29 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button : weight, lib. 3oz. ; in bag, 16s 6d. Post free, N.S.W., 17s 3d ; Interstate, 17s Bd.
30 Pattern 500 10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, best winch fittings, strong
make wood button ; weight, lib. Boz. ;in bag, 9s. Post free, N.S.VV., 9s 9d ; Interstate, 10s 2d. .
31 Pattern 500 12 feet 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
strong make, wood button ; weight, 11b. 4oz. ;in bag, 15s. Post free, N.S.W., 15s 9d ; Interstate,
32 S Partem 500—12 feet 4 loints, 3 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal
v4ch flttingsTextra strong make ; weight, 11b. 40z.; in bags, 18s 6d. Post free, N.S.W., 19s 3d ; Interstate,
19s Bd.
33, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, 140z5.; m bag (strong make), Us 6d. Post free
34 S pIttenf tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, lib. 6ozs. ;in bag (strong make), 21s.
Best Lancewood Rods .
No. 12, Pattern 100—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced grip, best nickel fittings, best rings, best winch fittings ;
weight. llozs. : in wood case and bag, 10s 6d. ... , . . ,
No. 17, Pattern 200 —12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short), balanced grip, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 15ozs. ; in bag, 13s 6d.
Best Quality Hickory Rods .
These Kods are especially made to our own designs and guaranteed to stand satisfactory tests.
No. 35 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings;
’ weight, lib. 6oz. ;in bag, 7s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 8s 3d ; Interstate, 8s Bd. . .
No. 36 Pattern 500 —11 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings : weight, 14ozs. ;in bag, Bs. Post free N.S.W., 8s 9d ; Interstate, 9s 2d. _ .
No. 37 Pattern 500 —10 feet, 5 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ,
weight, 13ozs. ; in bag, 10s. Post free N.S.W., 10s 6d ; Interstate, 10s Bd. . .
No. 38, Pattern 500—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 1 lb. 14 ozs. ; in bag, 10s 6d. , .... ,
No. 39, Pattern 500-12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt best bronzed fittings snake rings um-
versal winch fittings, best finish ; weight, 1 lb. 2 oz. ; in bag, 9s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 10s 3d , Inter-
state 10s 8d» • • •
No 40 Pattern 500—11 feet, 6 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
’ fittino-s • weight, 1 lb. 1 oz. ; in bag, 13s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 14s 3d ; Interstate, 14s Bd.
No. 41, Pattern 500-12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings,
universal winch fittings, best finish, knife for butt; weight, 1 lb. 3 ozs. ;in bag, 15s. Post free N.S.W.,
15s 9d; Interstate, 16s 2d. ...... .... . . . ,
No. 41a, Pattern 500—12 feet, 5 joints, 3 tops (1 spinning), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, best finish ; weight, 1 lb. sozs. ;in bag, 13s 6d. Post free in N.S.W., 14s 3d ; Interstate,
No. 42 8 , Pattern 500—14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
" winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish, strong make ; weight, 1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag, 2<s 6d.
No. 43 Pattern 500—10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings ;
’ weight, 1 lb. 3ozs. ; in bag, ss. 6d. Post free N.S.W., 6s 3d ; Interstate, 6s Sd.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports , Tobacco Lists, Sample Sheet of Fish Hocks
and Hints on Fishing, POST FREE.
Nottingham Pattern Walnut Wood Reels
■ m.
M -
All our Nottingham
Wood Reels are
manufactured from
the Best Materials
and Properly
Seasoned Wood.
No. I—B es t Solid
Brass Fittings,
Fast Handles, pol-
ished, 2in. dia-
meter, Is 6d
each ; 2Jin., Is 9d
each ; 3in., 2s 3d
each ; 3Jin., 2s 6d
each ; 4in., 3s 6d
each ; 4Jin., 4s 6d
each; sin., 6s
each.
No. la— Solid Brass
Fittings, Fast
Handles, polished,
2in. diameter, Is
each ; 2Jin., Is 3d
each ; 3in., Is 6d
each ; 3Jin., Is 6d
each ; 4in., Is 9d
each.
MICK SIMMONS
No. 2
No. Ib—Brass Back Polished Boy’s Reel, one handle, 2in. diameter, 5d each ; 2Jin., 7d each ; 3in.
No. 2a— Best Star Back, brass handle plates and fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 6s each ,
4in. 7s each, without guard. . . _ , 01 . ~ aA
No. 2 —Best Star Back, brass fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 5s 6d each ; 3Jin., 6s 6d each
4jin., 7s 6d each ; sin., 8s 6d each, without guard.
Our Expert is visiting the Tumut and Cooma Trout
, lOd each.
3Jin., 6s each
; 4in.,7s each
Streams.
No. 10
No. 10—Gunmetal Movable Check Reel, Screwed
Fittings, Plated, 2in., 2s each ; 2Jin., 2s 6d.
Best Tackle Books .
No. 96—Best Combination Tackle Book, 6in., 7s each
No 92—4£in. Grained Leather, 2 Parchment Pockets,
Pao-es lor Flies, Flannel, &c., Is, Is Bd, Is 6d each
No 93—4 in. Leather, Three Pockets, Trout Pages,
Felts, Strap and Buckle, 3s 6d each.
No. 94—5 in. Solid Leather, Two Pockets, Parchment
Pages, Felts, &c., Strap and Buckle, 4s Cd each.
No. 95 —4in. Canvas Cover, Waterproof, Two Pockets,
Trout Pages, Parchment Pockets, Felts, Strap
and Buckle, etc., 5s 6d each.
No. 3a —Best Combination Reel, Star Back, Movable
Check, Patent Line Guard, Detachable Barrel,
3in., 12s each ; 4in., 13s 6d each.
We have just published our Immense
Fishing Tackle Catalogue.
No. 97.
Pa/ley's Cast Case
4in., 2s 9d ; sin., 4s 9d each.
Superior Quality Fishing Lines
No 146—The Standard Waterproof Plaited Braided Silk Line, rolled on cork.
No. 20yds. 40yds. 80 yds. No. 20yds. 40yds. 80yds.
K3OO Is lOd 3s 8d 7s 4d each G6O 3s 6s 12s each.
J2OO 2s 4s Ss „ F4O 3s 6d 7s 14s „
1100 2s 2d 4s 4d 8s 9d „ E3O 4s 8s 16s ~
HBO 2s 6d 5s 10s „ D2O 5s 10s 20s ~
No. 146 T—The Standard Double Taper Lines, for Trout Fishing, waterproof
’ braided, plaited silk in coils of 40yds. No. 30 to 60, 9s. 6d each.
No. 1460—The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Braided “Sure Catch” Silk Line, on
Cork. No. 40, 25yds., Is 3d each ; 50yds., 2s. 6d. each ; No. 30, 25yds., 2s 6d
each ; 50yds., 5s each.
No. 148—The Crown Waterproof Twisted Braided Silk Line, on Cork. No. 60,
No. 148 L—Best Plaited Irish Linen Line XX Strong, on Cork-
No. 60, 25 yards .. Is each No. 40, 25 yards .. Is 3d each
No. 60, 50 yards .. 2s each No. 40, 50 yards .. 2s 6d each
No.
100
■ «.u.u:n
30 TAJKS
20
Best Japanese Gut, 2yds. in one length, no joins
2d. lach ; XX Fine, 3d each.
The
Reliable Gut Cast Lines .
Best Selected Gut, Blue, White or Green.
Quality No.
202 Pine
303 Stout
404 Medium ..
605 Stout
606 X Stout ..
707 XX Stout
808 XXX Stout
909 XXXX Stout
Each.
2yds. 2d.
2yds. 2d.
2yds. 4d.
2yds. 4d.
2yds. 6d.
2ydB. Bd.
2yds. Is.
2yds. 2s.
Quality No. 101, Pine
lyd. in length, with No. 1/0 hook
attached,ld each.
Best Double Gut Cast Lines.
Quality No. 10, Pine, lyd., 3d each ; 2yds., 6d each.
Quality No. 9, Stout, lyd., 4d each ; 2yds., Sd each.
sg
Remittance and Freight Must
Accompany Order.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.


The FREEMAN & WALLACE SPECIALISTS
ARE FAMOUS for their CURES of WEAK, STRENGTH-
LESS MEN. NERVELESS, PHYSICAL WRECKS are
made STRONG with the POWER and VIGOR of YOUTH
We publish here a page of testimonies from patients we have
cured, and which will do any sick and suffering man good to read.
It will show him that no matter how bad and hopeless his case may
be, relief and cure may be obtained if he only writes to or consults
the Specialists of The Freeman and Wallace Institute,
Sydney, who are renowned for their great cures in
Diseases of Men, which are their specialities. These great
Specialists, comprising a Staff of Four Qualified Medical Men,
have practised for over 25 years in Australasia, and
have made thousands of cures of weak men, devoid of physical
power through specific causes. Any special disease from which a
man may suffer, they have special knowledge upon, and treat and
cure with remarkable rapidity. Their Electro-medical methods of
treatment get at once to the root of the weakness, and re-awaken
to life long-dormant faculties, regenerating and re-stimulating the
chief nerve centres and vital functions, and giving to a man the
strength that should be his by Nature. All advice on important
matters relative to the health and strength of men, and Men
and Their Diseases, is given free by the Specialists, who
are registered by Australian and English Medical Boards. Here
are some valuable testimonies, showing the saving of valuable lives.
Read them.
We would like the reader to read carefully this testimony from the pen of Mr.
THOMAB J. SMITH, late Sergeant-Major, now Treasurer, Salvation Army Barracks
Prahran, Melbourne. Mr. Smith, whose portrait appears here, has testified some
thousands of times in the Army ring for the benefit of the moral and physical welfare
of men, and now he testifies to his restoration to health at the hands of the Freeman
and Wallace Specialists. This testimony is straight to the point, honest, and con-
vincing, and should be a guide to all suffering men.
“ Messrs. Freeman and Wallace, —
“It affords me pleasure to express my gratitude since I resorted to
your specialistic methods of treatment. For twelve years I have been
an acute sufferer, the whole nervous and physical organisation being in-
volved. I was afflicted with melancholia, with liver trouble, and, at
times, excruciating pains in back and limbs. I became morbid in my
thoughts, and life became a burden. On visiting your Institute, my case
was investigated by the senior resident physician. I was prevailed upon
to place myself under his treatment, with the result that I am now
cured, and may be regarded as, at my time of life, a new man. The liver
and kidneys are acting naturally and satisfactorily. Since the period
last named* I have have had no recurrence of any of the old troubles. I
willingly make the foregoing statement, hoping that others who may be
afflicted similarly to myself will be induced to seek your skilful profes-
sional services.
(Signed) Thomas J. Smith.
A well-known figure in the political life of Sydney is Mr. EDW. M. CLARK, who
was elected representative for St. Leonards in 1891, remaining a member of Par-
liament till 1904, and was a colleague of Sir Henry Parkes. Mr. Clark has been
an alderman of North Sydney since the Borough’s incorporation, and has been twice
Mayor. He is a J.P., and to show the esteem in which he is held, he has been honored
by being made a Trustee of Kuringai Chase, and of National Park. This is what
Mr. Clark says regarding our treatment: —
Parliament House, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I think it a duty, as well as a pleasure, to inform you that
some months ago, when I was thoroughly run down, owing to the strain
of parliamentary and municipal duties, my nervous system being in a
shattered and debilitated condition, I tried your electro-medical treat-
ment and appliance with very great success, and can now assure you
that I know of no treatment that has given greater relief. The dull,
heavy feeling I experienced has entirely disappeared. My nerves are
now as strong as ever, and I will always make it a pleasure to recom-
mend my friends to use your treatment.
(Signed) E. M. Clark.
Mr. F. BARKER (portrait appearing here), of 262 Victoria-street, Richmond, Mel-
bourne, has reason to congratulate himself for his visit to the Institute’s Chief
Physician, Dr. Wallace, early this year. His condition was most desperate, the blood
being affected gravely, and only skilful and effective treatment saved him from early
death. He had been under, several medical men unsuccessfully, and was still becom-
ing worse. He was ultimately cured by Dr. Wallace, which shows the truth of the
Specialists’ assertion that however bad the case they accept for treatment they
guarantee to cure, and do cure, it. Mr. Barker tells his story, under date February
10,1906
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace.
“I desire to express my gratitude to you with the results of your
specialistic treatment. I was afflicted very gravely, my blood being
out of order, and my entire body affected. Treatment at the hands
of two well-known doctors failed to - do me any good. I was per-
suaded to consult you, and so undergo a course of treatment. The
results have gratified me almost beyond expression. lam now rescued
to one of sound health. I hope this letter may be the means of saving
others from dreadful diseases that tend to ruin the health and strength.”
(Signed) F. Barker.
Mr. G. BLAIR, of Aushburton, New Zealand, writes thus, and 6ays :
“With the greatest pleasure I write you these few lines to let you
know that I have thoroughly recovered from the troubles you have been
treating me for. I feel a changed man, and not one of the old symptoms
now remain to remind me of my dismal past. I have not been troubled
at all with "the old complaint since writing to you in last February, nor
have I felt the peculiar weakness that used to attack me. Ido not
think I will ever need to use any more remedies, as I feel thoroughly
strong and healthy again.”
(Signed) G. Blair.
Mr. JAS. LEEKE, of Peak Hill, West Australia, writes thus :
“ I have much pleasure in informing you that I am now in splendid
health again, the result of a course of treatment at your hands, and I am
entirely a different man now to what I was when I placed myself under
your care, and will always be pleased to recommend anyone to you who
requires a specialist’s advice and kindest, such as you gave me.”
(Signed) Jas. Leete.
MR. W. J. MITCHELL, of Spencer Gulf, South Australia, writes thus :
“I now take the privilege of writing to you and asking you to dis-
continue sending further remedies, for I shall not require any more, as
I have thoroughly recovered from the very severe illness for which you
were treating me, and which, before I consulted you, nearly settled me.
I am now fixed up thoroughly to my entire satisfaction, and feel like the
man in the medical advertisements when he stands up full of vigor and
says, ‘ I feel great.’ My nerves are now thoroughly braced up, and I
thank you for the courtesies you have shown me in the past and for your
many kindnesses.”
(Signed) W. J. Mitchell.
Mr. GEORGE SIMPSON,
Cured of Nerve Weakness.
Mr. THOS. J. SMITH,
Salvation Army, Cured of Debility
Mr. GEORGE TOWNS,
Champion Sculler, who testifies.
Mr. F. BARKER,
Completely Cured of Blood Poison.
Mr. G. E. STYLES,
Cured of Acute Nervousness.
MR. CEORCE SIMPSON, whose portrait appears here, is a man well known in
pastoral circles in Mullawarre. Out in the great Victorian farms and sheep runs, in
all winds and weathers, a man runs a great risk of laying the foundation of a disease
which will eat out the vital forces of nature and ultimately kill. Mr. Simpson was
for some time under treatment of the Freeman and Wallace Specialists, but was
ultimately cured. He concluded a very interesting letter concerning his recovery
recently thus: —
“I consider that you have restored me to perfect health and
strength from a condition of Nerve Weakness and general debility. I
am now in splendid health.”
(Signed) George Simpson.
CEORCE TOWNS, the World’s Champion Sculler, whose portrait is here published,
also says of our treatment :
“I underwent a course of your Electro-Medical treatment. I soon
felt better and strong, confident that I could stand any strain hard
and continuous training might impose. Your Medical Battery is the
best I have used.”
(Signed) George Towns.
Perhaps the most wonderful case that has recently been before us is the case of
Mr. THOMAS DWYER, late of Charlotte-street, Brisbane, who, after consulting
eminent medical men in Queensland, came to us and was admitted into our Private
Hospital, and attended by our surgical medical staff, with such good effect that he
now writes, in his letter, dated September 3, 1900, as follows :
“ Some months ago I came to your Institute in a most terrible state
of health —in fact, I could not have felt worse, and could hardly walk.
I was recommended to consult you by a gentleman in Brisbane, and on
his advice it was I came to see you. You candidly told me it was the
worst case of its kind you ever saw, and surgical treatment and entrance
into your private Hospital was absolutely necessary. After the kind
attention and care shown me by your medical staff, consulting specialists
and hospital nurses, I am now a living monument to your curative skill
and professional abilities. I hope you will prosper in your splendid
work, and effect other cures on sufferers who need the care of reliable,
straightforward, and painstaking specialists.”
(Signed) Thos. Dwyer.
MR. J. L. GOLLINGS, of Burbanks, West Australia, writes thus: —
“I am glad to say that I do not need any more medicine, for I am
now in the best of health ; in fact, I wa3 never better in my life before.
I am going to be married early next month, and am not a bit afraid of
my health giving way. If ever I can recommend your treatment to
others suffering as I have done, most certainly I will do so.”
(Signed) J. L. Collings.
MR. W. M. BROWN, of Hillston, N.S.W., writes and says :
“Since my last report was forwarded to you, I have pleasure in
further reporting that I have much improved, both physically and
mentally. My brain has become clearer and brighter day by day, and
the thoughts of being fully restored shortly to perfect health and strength
again are always buoying me up. I used to be of a very nervous dispo-
sition, and given to worrying over troubles; but now there is nothing
troubles me, and I am more manly in every way than ever 1 have been
before—in fact, lam getting on tip-top, as the saying is, and feel as if I
had been given a new set of nerves, and been changed into a different
man altogether.”
(Signed) W. M. Brown.
From far South Africa, MR. C. J. 8. HOLLWAY, a resident of Simondium, via
Paarl, writes and says :
“ I wish to take this opportunity of again assuring you of my deepest
gratitude for all you have done for me, and I am sure that it must be a
source of extreme satisfaction to you to know that you have so
thoroughly cured me, and that after eight months’ treatment I am now
quite recovered, despite the fact that you have not had the advantage of
seeing me.”
(Signed) 0. Hollway.
MR. C. CROSE, of Bank-street, Wellington, Hew Zealand, writes thus: —
“You will find herewith enclosed Money Order, representing the
balance of my account. Thanks to your treatment, I have gained
strength physically and mentally, and feel myself my old self again. I
thank you very much for what you have done for me, for you had a very
uphill task to effect, but eventually you have cured me.”
(Signed) G. Grose.
A well-known miner in West Australia (whose portrait appears here) writes as
follows: —
Bunbury, W.A.
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace.
“ It took some time before it was convenient for me to interview
you. After travelling from Coolgardie, I went to your Institute to consult
you for a cure of general prostration and weakness, for which I had
previously taken all the patent medicines I saw advertised. I went
under your treatment, and, after a few months’ course of medicines, a
decided improvement manifested itself, and I began to get better
rapidly. I can honestly say that your treatment has acted wonderfully
in my case, by bracing me up, until now I feel like a new man in every
way, and will always feel compelled to speak well of your Institute.”
I am, yours truly, C. E. Styles.
Good health and physical strength is the medium to the best and truest
happiness that life holds. Without either a man’s mission in life is unful-
filled. Without strength a man is virtually ignored by both sexes, for he
fails in the one chief attribute that makes him a man. A strong and
healthy man compels alike the admiration of women and men.
Many men lose their strength before they reach their prime by excesses
of various kinds, over-taxing of the nerve and physical systems, abuses of
various natures, privation, and disease. The latter may result from various
causes, and may affect the'vital centres in such a way that unless disease
and wasting is checked permanent ruin of the vital organs may result.
These testimonies will prove to the reader the efficacy of the won-
derful curative properties of the Electro-Medical treatment of the
Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute, Sydney, who never
fail to cure the most obstinate case of debility or nerve-weakness they may
take in hand. They give a written guarantee of cure in all cases under-
taken, and the Physician in-Chief, Dr. Wallace, L.R.C.S., E., L.R.C.P.,
E., L.M., is one of the staff of Four Qualified Specialists in attendance at
the Institute. All letters sent to this distinguished Physician, who is
registered by Australian and English Medical Boards, are personally
supervised by him, and replied to with that necessary punctuality a perfect
postal medical practice ensures. The Specialists’ 750 page Medical Work
“Clinical Experiences”—post free to any address.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
AND AT MELBOURNE
Howard Freeman, Director.
Dr. Wallace, Chief Physician.
Dr. Elizabeth White, Women’s Diseases.
Dr. F. Bell, Lecturer.


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead.
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
filler’s
flair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don t
care to look; at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful coior it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
Why Remain
DEAF
Or Suffer from Head Noises
when you can cure yourself at your own home,
without any detention from your daily routine
work. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, hut nature’s own treatment by pure Aural
Kinetics with the “ BAROSCOPE.” Endorsed by
the highest Medical Authorities. Thousands of
Testimonials. Call or write for FREE particulars
The “EAROSCOPE” Co., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Free.
Mre i(eu
ylfraid
for your baby, mother ? Do
you fear the day when the
tiny teeth will begin to come?
You need not. Scott’s Emulsion of
cod liver oil and hypophosphites of
lime and soda has finished that trouble
once and for all. Use it at the first
sign of discomfort. You will soon have
your little chap so strong and bonny
that teething won’t bother him one little
bit, and you yourself will get the
si<Mt
you badly need at nig'ht.
7, Wattle Street, Chippendale,
N.S.W., Nov. 3rd, 1905. “When
first I gave my William John Scott’s
Emulsion he was very ill from teething,
and I was afraid he would get convul-
sions. Before he had finished taking
one bottle I noticed a great improve-
ment in his health, and also two teeth
through, and now he has six teeth and
is well and strong.” (Mrs.) A. Black.
The lime in SCOTT’S EMULSION
makes the
Szeth
come white, straight and strong. Scott’s
is so pure and so digestible, thanks to
the perfection of the original, unique
Scott process, that there is never any
trouble in giving it. Always have
Always get the Emul-
sion -with this mark—the
Fishman—the mark o£
the “ Scott ” process!
Scott’s for babies.
We will gladly send
you a free sample
bottle by return of
post. Send 4d. for
postage and mention
this paper. Scott &
Bowne, Ltd., 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
o
J>
&
m
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
a
If
BSSSMS
27
.medals J
ĝs
'i 11
TnaT is your CUE.
When ordering Billiard
„ requisites or
Athletic goods
OF RNY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “ Alt&ocJK*
has been closely associated with SjwwttYng
Requisites In every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance ©o Athlsftio
Goods has precisely the sarra© meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard ©J
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
MELBOURNE,SYDNEY, PERTH.
WELLINGTON, NZ&IpNDON.
OR the Federal Elections, read “A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH ” by
James Edmond, price 6d., post free; and “ON THE TRAIL OF IHE TRUST,
by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated, price Is., post free.
F
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
g
lUs Majesty Tlia
Kinjr and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
11 Herrings a ia Sardines/’
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville. h
BYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
[2
Viyella'
to/ (Regd. i
/?r7rrsr,„.
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballade.
There is an island overseas,
Where black waves beat with sullen roar,
Where gaunt and leafless stand the trees,
And grim the rugged mountains hoar.
No joyous springs the flowers restore ;
The misty air is dank and cold ;
The winds seem sighing “ Nevermore,”
Within the land of Growing Old.
There —hands are folded on the knees,
There—hearts are withered to the core ;
'Men slowly sip life’s muddy lees,
The whiles the hearse waits at the door.
God knows if they the fates implore,
To give them back the years of gold ;
Or pray that life may soon be o’er,
Within the land of Growing Old.
In little groups of twos and threes
They disappear, and none deplore ;
But ever steady blows the breeze,
That wafts folk to that dismal shore.
For one that goes there cometli four,
To wait their turn to fat the mould ;
And many a heart is sick and sore,
Within the land of Growing Old.
Dear, add unto our secret store
One more caress, e’er love grow cold ;
I hear the sad, slow surges pour
Upon the land of Growing Old.
MAORILAND.
TAIWA.
City Folk.
What has our civilisation brought
To every kind of man ?
The grime of labor for Dick and Tom,
And the scrubbing for Mary Ann ;
The worry and wear for you and me—
And life is only a span.
We sweat and we screw for this and that,
We hardly sit down at all,
For we know from the bitter ways of things
That many go to the wall;
We grab and we grind, we fidget and fret,
Lest we should fail and fall.
We spend our money on foolish things
(And it took us so long to make),
On a larger house, or a showier dress,
Or a trifle for fashion’s sake ;
Or we save it up for our sons to spend,
Or for somebody else to take.
On bicycles, trams, and railway trains
We hurry by night and day,
Filling our lives with social shams,
And wearing ourselves away ;
Hunting elusive joys that are
Not worth the price we pay.
For I look up to the millionaire,
And the cook looks up to me ;
We both of us long for a “ broader life ”
Its limits we fail to see;
And the swagman out in the Droughty West
Is happier far than tve.
For what has civilisation brought
For me or the Other Man ?
What boon has it brought to Bill and Dick ?
What profit to Mary Ann ?
And the hearse and the mute are at the door—
For life is only a span.
vie.
A.B.O.
Lux Suprema.
The star beyond a cloud,
The lights above a shroud,
The fire-wheel of the setting sun,
Where all the primal colors run ;
The mild and mellow gleam,
That lies on lake and stream ;
The Danae showers of dancing gold
That lamp-lit harbor waters hold ;
The flaming pennons of the North
That regal Winter beacons forth ;
The sunbeam on the sea
That, through the mist and rain.
Strikes swordlike down to free
The wind-tormented main,
And vanishes again ;
The boundless Ocean’s dazzling shield
With pale and purple fires annealed ;
The diamonds of the morning dew,
Th’ eternal snowflakes’ opal hue,
The lighthouse ray—that lance of light
That stabs unconquerable Night;
The leaping lightning-blaze that rends
The curtains of the upper air ;
The brilliant glory that portends
The dying meteor’s glare ;
The gold and azure splendors spun
Round Heaven bj r the refulgent Sun ;
The myriad broken hues that stain
The glittering prisms of the rain ;
The ruby sparkle of the frost,
A moment seen, for ever lost;
The flashing beam that heralds far
The swift and searching eye of War ;
The bright, transcendent Morning Star—
Wherever these may rise or fall,
However radiantly they shine,
What are they to the Light that all
Their ray and essence doth combine —
That wondrous, perfect fire that lies
Within a maiden’s love-lit eyes ?
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.
“Agricola”: Our local dingo-trapper is
one of those morbid citizens who delight to pro-
spect round in the “innards ’ of dead animals in
search of novelties. He is also an Anglo-Israelite.
Last week he secured a half-grown wild dog, and
was rewarded by finding the stomach pretty well
full of the spines of the echidna—or, as bushies
call it, the “porcupine.” It is a mystery how
the sheep-killer managed to snare the porky.
Tame dogs cannot be induced, either by flattery,
bribery, or coercion, to enter into any familiarity
with that thorny customer, and even if they did
the result would be failure. It is not likely that
the porky was captured while asleep, for in these
modern days he seeks slumber in the security of a
rabbit-burrow. The assault must have taken
place while he was poking round among the fallen
leaves in search of beetles, for when feeding he
devotes what little mind he has to the subject on
hand. The dingo has a reputation for greediness,
but one would think that he would sort out the
quills, and lay them carefully on one side. lam
filled with respect for the digestive apparatus
which can tackle the cast-iron fluff of the porcu-
pine.
Corum was a widower, with one daughter
and a duck farm at Gravel Creek. Sam See was
a Celestial hatter with a market-garden and a
small drove of ducks up the Creek. Wilkins and
David were diggers working one of the gravel
flats. Sam See was an excellent friend to
Wilkins and David, and often sold them ducks
cheap. Corum was the miners’ inveterate
enemy, because lie was convinced that the ducks
wliich w’ent missing from his farm provided Sun-
day dinners for the batchers, and because David,
with the connivance of Wilkins, was making
strenuous endeavors to inveigle Miss Corum from
the domestic roof-tree, and seemed to have an
excellent chance of succeeding. Annie defied
parental authority in the matter. Sam See sym-
pathised deeply with Corum. “Young fella,
Davie, bad man,” he said ; “he sit down longa-
side Missee next wattle tlee. Me see.” Then
Corum would catch up a hoe-handle and sail out
in the moonlight to break up the lovers’ con-
versazione, and there would be exclamations
and hard language under the wattles by the
Chow's cabbage-patch. Wilkins and David
wondered how Corum happened to hit on the
rendezvous so frequently, and Corum wondered
how the villains contrived to get away with his
ducks, no matter how close a watch he kept. At
length David’s suspicions fastened on Sam See.
He had seen the Chow watching himself and the
girl, and sneaking off in Corum’s direction after
they had sought cover. Next time Sam came to
the flat with a brace, of fat ducks nicely plucked
and prepared, the mates fell on him with furious
accusations. David threatened him with a pick
handle, and the Confucian made piteous confession.
“ Allli,” he said, “you no letee me tellum Missa
Corum, you no more get welly ni duck welly cheap.
Me telly Missa Corum. While him catchee stick,
chase after you, Sam See stealum duck, sellem
you heap cheap.” Shocking to relate, the villain-
ous David betrayed the purveyor of cheap poultry,
and next time he went to Corum with his friendly
intimation, Sam See had to go up for medical
treatment, suffering from a virulent attack of
hoe-handle. In his absence, Wilkins and David
just about ate up Ins own private poultry.
Thomas is an autocratic name in Victoria
just now. Thomas Bent bosses the whole State;
Thomas O'Callaghan rules the police force and
Sammy Gillott, the Chief Secretary, with a rod
of iron ; and Thomas Tait owns the cigar-smoking
record and runs the State’s railways.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
ueaacnuiu
on security of Freehold or
_ _ City or Suburban Properties, or on
of DebSn+?.«1 et ! ) Pa ®i°^ a of n<l Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
tralian States or - ent jf re ?» Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
I"° ontai j ls a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to-0 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
i r ectors tf 1 - , 'n ha w mar T>’ T ® P o, at ' or the Hon - J - T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Benjamin
Short, Esq. , James Burns Esq. ; The Hon R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcomb e ; Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Esq
____. _ General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece FIAFFAesc:
HEAD OFFICE. 87 PITT STREFTWnyw eLe , r ■ A -> r.r.A., r .b.b.
' ' rlll SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE I OR N.S.W.
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
* N , NU * L . PREMIUM for £IOC0 > person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement:
W or Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formula) printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present. £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do ns we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
fdfd
Free
£lOO
a Weeß
Given
Away
m
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
I
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
. Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION 1 .
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
<fc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
f
m
m
m
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
sizes the shells, supplies the exact quantity
of powder, and seats the bullets properly.
By using first-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridges for accuracy,
reliability and excellence is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.’
THE
HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE .. .. 6,330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE ..
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE .. .
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS ..
Tons
6.300
9.300
10.500
6,350
11.500
11,500
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Li°-ht.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. °
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
PLASMON
The Food for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmoo Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, Sic.)
111
M
ƒ
fg
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit .pestjj,
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblaclc
or smokeless, powder,
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreased bullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
END’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT/ Without It you boro O
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Pnpuad only by J. O. BNo, Ltd., ’ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BN0„
by J. o. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
[Uj
n
PITTLE
lIVER
PILLS a
There's SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Prioe
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Cartels


For Sunburn
or Sore Eyes
quick relief ean be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It hrs a good record of success for cure of
many tskin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
THE BALLET GIRL
fd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Lite, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0. , SYDNEY,
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— Pß.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
EED U C E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. C R A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ST
Many of the
COMMONWEALTH’S
r sturdy sons and daughters owe their
good health and splendid physique to the
f strength-giving and nourishing properties oi
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
COCOA.
PURE
A liquid food which gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system,
and which can be absorbed with little
digestive effort. Invaluable for young J
and old at all times and seasons. -
“ The Standard of highest
purity.”— -The Lancet.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA)
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •«
NEVER RAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
b* “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.”
The Lancet writes : — “ Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
fdgfd
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONT ERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEM’STS.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St„ Sydney, cAgents.
m
!
m
ft
%
N
Q/3
3^o
z
To Men Who
Want Strength.
This is a. Message to Men. It is to men who would feel
like men, look like men, and act like men. This is to men who lack courage,
whose nerves are shaken, whose brains are muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless,
confidence gone, spirits low and easily depressed, who are backward,
unable to venture because they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide
for them, who are weak, puny, restless. It is to men who have part or all of these
symptoms and want new life, new force, new vigor. We offer it to you in
dr. McLaughlin’s electric belt.
It has restored health and strength to thousands of weak men. If used as we direct
it is a positive cure and cannot fail. It gives the vitalising power of Electricity
without burning or blistering, thereby developing full vigor. It removes forever
all the effects of dissipation.
PAINS IN HEAD AND BACK.
BATEMAN’S BAY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Your Belt did me a wonderful amount of
good, as I used to suffer terribly with pains in the back of
my neck and head, also in the small of my back. Now,
after having used your Belt for a few weeks, I am entirely
free from pain, and have been so for many months. I
credit your Belt with having been the means of restoring
my health, and shall always be glad to answer any in-
quiries from sufferers who may be afflicted in a similar
manner. Yours gratefully, JAMES BARCLAY.
WEAK BACK.
Receiving- Office,
Babbiloora, MORVEN, Q.
The Dr. McLaughlin 00.
Dear Sirs, —About fifteen months ago I obtained your
Belt, as I had suffered from weakness of my back for over
a year. Now Xam entirely well, and have had no return
of the old trouble. In fact, the general improvement of
my health is undoubtedly due to the use of your Belt. I
never fail to recommend it.
Yours faithfully, JOSEPH RYAN.
FREE BOOK
DO YOU SEE THE COUPON?
Being sick, if you are wise, you will fill it in with
your name and address and post it to us, so that we
may send you our Free illustrated Book, which
describes our remedy in detail. Do not imagine that being “ FREE ” to sufferers makes this book
valueless ; such is not the case. It is Free because von need the information and advice contained
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., 100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Please send me your FBEE BOOK, and oblige.
(Name)
Address....
B. 8-11-’96.
CUT OFF HERE.
between its covers, and if you really appreciated its value to YOU,
a sufferer, you would gladly pay Two Guineas for it. Send for it to-day ;
it is full of joyful encouraging news for weak, ailing men and women.
All Written Diagnosis are Absolutely Free.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W» Market Street, Sydney.
TheßestConsoler
gfd
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
VU'ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
»» BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 6/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
1111
SK FOR-
Substituted
AND
REFUSE
fgd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £ 2,10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £2,10
good as new, , __ _ ,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE rnachfne. r ' Ac_tive Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., nai f prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO, B3d
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
L
DEAFNESS
The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
; ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes lo\v
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold.
fdg
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE
L. R. VERNON CO.
60-64 Hunter St., Sydnbt.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


THE “ BRUNSWICK" |CE MACHINE
fdg
may be classed as a small HOUSEHOLD REFRICERATOR.
It’s capacity varies from 10 tons of ice to lOlbs., and it
is in its smallest size that its remarkable convenience
for small households is apparent.
Hotels, boarding houses, butchers, and restaurants
have hitherto had to be contented with an Ice Box and a
few blocks of ice—a wasteful and expensive proceeding.
With the BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE you have a port-
able cold storage sufficient to keep sweet and sound all
your perishable stock, and, in the smallest size, give you
101 b. of ice per day for actual use as ice as well as
refrigeration—equal to 2001bs. of ice. The whole thing
is run by a little J-horse power motor, and the cost is
very moderate.
THE BRUNSWICK HOUSEHOLD ICE MACHINE
solves for ever the question of cold storage
on a small private scale. Send for Circular
and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So/e * qe — s ' 7*9 Market St., Sydney.
21S
Grain Prill
Buyers...
We have on hand a small
stock of the well and
favorably known...
“ SUPERIOR ”
.“AMERICAN”
and “ONTARIO”
Grain and Fertilizer Drills.
They ere new. In perfect condition, and fully warranted
per usual.
Those who act QUICKLY, and aet their orders booked
before the stock Is sold, will pay only as follows:
HOE
9 coulter £29 10 O
11 and 12 coulter 31 10 O
13 and 14 ~ 33 O O
13 „ 34 IO O
Grass Seeders, all sizes.
DISC
£3l O O
33 O O
34 IO O
36 O O
£l3 0 extra.
Delivery: F.o.b. Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, or Launceston,
Orders must be firm —no cancellations permitted.
Terms at above prices: Spot cash at time of startinp or
farmers of approved credit may pay the small sum of £3 TOO
In cash at startlna to cover Interest, and alve two P/IN’s of
equal amounts to cover the above prices, the first to fall due
on February 15th, 1908, and the second twelve months later.
Those who apply EARLY net a full assortment of sizes
to choose from.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
Agents throughout Australasia.
(Incorporated)
Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Launceston
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair <
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*,® TRANSFORMATIONS marie on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOOR.
fgd
ACETYLENE.
THE Headquarters of the Acetylene Business in New South Wales
will in future be situated at . . .
314 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
EXTENSIVE SHOWROOMS have now been completed, and the Public
are cordially invited to call and inspect all the latest improvements in
Acetylene Lighting.
WILLIAM TYREE
Sole Manufadurer of
Tyree “ Perfection ” Generators;
Tyree “ECONOMIC” Generators; Tyree “PERFECTION” Acetylene
Table Lamps ; Tyree “ SOLIO ” Optical Lantern Generator; Tyree Motor
Launch Generators ; Tyree Motor Car Generators; Tyree Miners’ Lamps ;
Tyree Lamp-post Generators; Tyree Bicycle Lamps; Tyree Carriage
Lamps; Tyree Contractors’ Lamps. Patented throughout the world.
Used by all the Government Departments, Sydney llarbor Trust,
Commonwealth of Australia, New Zealand Government. Installations
in every Town and District in New South Wales.
THE LATEST NOVELTY :
C’Ae TYREE Patent AUTOMATIC SPRAY.
PRICE, from £2 lOs. EACH.
No pump required. No syringe required. You simply put in the mixture,
or the paint, and the machine does the rest. YOU CAN PAINT YOUR
HOUSE AND FENCES, DISINFECT THE PREMISES, OR SPRAY
YOUR GARDEN AND ORCHARD WITHOUT WORK, AT ONE
HALF THE COST. Everyone should see this invention at the
SHOWROOMS:
314 George Street, Sydney.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM at Lowest Rates. Send for Printed Matter.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
RAB
S WANTED
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, dc.
Consign to : —
1
Yfi
awn
'£2
JT3S
r
*
:
&
HAVE YOU
SEEN THE
RED RUBERGID
ROOFING and
FLOORCLOTH ?
D ROOFING


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 139!
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1006.
Prior 60.
UNDER THE GRATEFUL SHADE.
FAT : “THIS IS A WICKED TREE-WE'LL HAVE TO CHOP IT DOWN I ”
KYABRAM : “BUT ITS SHADE AND SEED ARE GRATEFUL.”
FIRST LADY :“ O IT’S ALL RIGHT UP TO NOW—IF WE COULD ONLY STOP IT FROM GROWING.”


A Special and Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 13.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and
White work in Australia, and will picture the national
humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
States and Maoriland, (Ad. ; Foreign Addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the A ustralians
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ®
Half-yearly O IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• V / U
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Iwenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thu Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ 'l'he Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be therel the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents o f this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence’’ column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. . . ~
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when vie
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateur* in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
ami interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con■
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. i Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetoivn;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson <fe Co., 88 liiebeclc Street, Cape-
toivn; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouvei, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hons Kong. —Brewer and Co., 88 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will he forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
XMAS EDITION
. . . OF . . .
The Bulletin, 1906.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1906.
THE MEN TO VOTE FOR.
In the near future questions are likely to arise between
Britain and Japan which will require tact and much
diplomatic skill—such questions as the open
Korea and Manchuria, and the admission ob Japanese
colonists into Australia. —London Daily Mail interview
with the Japanese Ambassador.
For as in the days that were before the Flood, they
were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in inar-
ria«'e . . . and knew not until the Flood came and took
them all away.—Scripture (reads as if meant for Aus-
tralia).
At the coming Australian elections the two
essential principles to vote for are High Protec-
tion and a heavy Federal graduated land-tax.
There are many other urgent matters—an efficient
system of land and sea defence, the taking over
of the Northern Territory and the building of
the two transcontinental railways (which are all
part of an efficient system of defence), the con-
solidation and gradual repayment of the fetate
debts (which are also part of an efficient system
of defence, for almost the first essential in war
is much money, and a country can’t get money in
war-time if it has exhausted its credit in ' Tie of
peace), old-age pensions, and dozens more. But
the beginning of all these questions lies in this
country’s want of men —men to fill up its empty
spaces; men to fill its army and man its
navy; men to pay taxes, so that there may be
an army and navy, and an arms factory, and an
arsenal; men to pay off the debt burden ; men to
build and pay for the two transcontinental rail-
ways, without which, ev f i if we had an army, our
troops couldn’t reach ally three-fourths of the
sea-board to oppose an enemy ; men to provide
the money for old-age pensions ; men of a sturdy
white race of fighters —ai ’.ways men. And no
one has yet found out how to get men except by
finding work for the artisan and land for the
agriculturist, and the only way to find work is to
create industries, and the only way to supply land
for new settlers is to abolish the sys.- >
whereby a handful of greedy and unpatri-
otic boodlers own most of the valuable
section of the country, and either warn off
settlers altogether, or else admit them on such
exorbitant terms that they become a race of
miserable bowed-down spiritless Serfs with the
Hoe, and persons of little account. No man ever
shouldered a rifle with enthusiasm to defend a
boarding-house or a landlord’s farm. .therefore
Australia wants small independent cultivators,
not tenants and a bloated squirearchy ; and it
wants industries, and it wants men.
* * * *
The new and rapidly rising countries that are
attracting men can be counted on the fingers :
Canada, the United States, Argentina, Maori-
land —the list is about exhausted. They are all
High Protectionist countries, and they all date
their rise from the day they took to High
Protection. Before that they were nothing,
or just about nothing. And the three best of
them—Canada, the United States, and Maoriland
—are also countries of small estates and small in-
dependent farmers. .Little Maoriland, with its
democratic legislation, its High Protection, its
graduated land-tax and its policy of breaking up
great estates for closer settlement, gained (i4,G98
people between 1892 ai : 1904 by excess of arrivals
over departures; the i.uge continent of Aus-
tralia, with very little Protection and a deep re-
gard for the vested right of the great land-
grabber to block settlement, lost 4607 by excess
of departures over arrivals in the same period.
Again, the old countries, such as Germany and
J apan, which have come to sudden resurrection
of late years, are also countries of High Protec-
tion and small estates. Germany dates its agri-
cultural resurrection from the wholesale compul-
sory purchase and subdivision of many of its
great estates under the Stein law, whi h trans-
ferred nearly half the land from the nob. is to the
peasantry ; and its industrial resurrection date.,
from the beginningsof High Protection in 1879, and
from Bismaiick’s policy of State Socialism. Aus-
tralia, with these examples before it, knows how
population is to be obtained. Let it adopt High
Protection and a vigorous policy of breaking up
the great estates, and within five years it would
have to advertise in Britain for a hundred
thousand farmers and for hundreds of thousands
of artisans, and would gladly assist them to
come out here, so that they might be
on the spot with the least possible delay.
And then the country would begin to have
men enough to create its army and navy,
and to build its transcontinental railways, and to
fill its empty spaces; and the shadow of Asia
wouldn’t hang so heavily upon it as is the case
now.
* w *
If Australia doesn’t get men—a very great
number of men—and defences of its own, things
will almost assuredly begin to happen even in the
lifetime of people who are elderly to-day. Japan
makes no secret of the fact that it will one day
demand free entry for its people into this country,
and on that point the Australian people will take
the chance of ruin rather than submit. Occupa-
tion in any case, would only be a prelude to
ownership, as in the case of the British occupation
of the Transvaal. If Australia, when the question
arises, can show that, by virtue of its population,
its army and its fleet, it is a friend as much worth
keeping as Japan, Britain will probably stand by
us in the matter; also, we will be able to stand
by ourselves. If Japan is still posing as a
faithful and powerful ally, and Australia is little
more than a wealthy encumbrance, the chances
are that Britain will declare that the Japanese
must be admitted ; and then disaster will come.
Britain which flooded the Transvaal with
Asiatics, has no sympathies with the desire
of the Australian people to preserve the
status and dignity of a white race; it isn’t
threatened with a nigger invasion itself, and so
lon°* as that is the case it is satisfied.
And there are other elements of danger.
Germany openly declares its conviction that
it wi'l be able to fight Britain for the
empire of the sea in another half-dozen years.
It believes it will win, and Britain isn’t nearly
so certain of its trident as it used to be. British
historical romances a few years ago were,
to a great extent, built on stones of past
victories and past glories. They have undergone
an ominous change of late, and a new class of
literature has arisen—works like “ I he Invasion
of 1910 ” which deals rather with a possible future
in which the British people will tight on their
own island for bare national existence. lhe
margin of British naval superiority grows steadily
less, and it is only dwellers in a i ools 1 aradise
who assume that Britain will be able always to
keep Asia out of Australia, even if it is always
willing to do so. And, beyond and apart fiom
the visible dangers, there is ever the unseen, the
unforeseeable, and the chapter of accidents.
Australia knows this much for certain, that it is
a prize for which Japan hungers, and that it is
very helpless and very far from assistance. If it
is to defend itself, the first essential is men, and
the only way to get men is by-finding industries
to employ them and land on which to settle them.
* * * *
The Bulletin often wonders if the buzzing,
feather-headed crowd of political men and
women, who take no heed for tue morrow-the
people who urge Australia to believe ink reetrade
and plenty of imports instead of m Protection
and a great industrial population, and who
advocate the preservation of the great empty
estates, lest in cutting them up and creating a
dense and sturdy agricultural population the big,
selfish, unpatriotic land-grabber should be an-
noyed—it often wonders if these persons realise
the size of the gulf which may be yawning before
them A successful invasion, especially when the
invader is an Asiatic enemy, is a great leveller.
The Indian Mutiny was a petty local disturbance,
affecting only a small corner of India, and leaving
the two greatest cities untouched, yet it broke
every bank in the country save one, and that one
Lasu't fullv recovered from its losses to this day.
After a bitter internal war, especially one con-
ducted on Asiatic methods, it is likely to be hard
to even discover where the great bank \™*
offices, and trustee companies used to stand, and
the’idea of finding the mortgages, deeds and se-
curities they represented would be a mere joke.
In a scrimmage like that fortunes vanish in an
hour. To-day, the giddy political female of
Toorak or Darling Point fancies tbat . R oll ‘
tics consist mostly of a picture hat, and a
frilly frock, and the uttering of a few halting
and" supercilious sentences about the advantages
of Freetrade and cheap imports instead of Protec-
tion and a great industrial population, and abont
the wickedness of the people who would compul-
sorily break up the great estates to make room for
the one great essential of defence—men. Only 10
years from now she may realise bv bitter experi-
ence that an unsuccessful war can send the
fashionable women of better suburbs than ioorak
and Darling Point to earn a precarious crust at
the wash-tub. Also, it can reduce many a girl
who has been the belle at bigger functions than
the Melbourne Cup to a haggard, red-eyed seam-
stress stitching her life away in . ®: n a ,
wondering how her youth has vanished while she
is still so young. Likewise, it can bring home o
many a great and arrogant landlord the fact that
sheep and parchment deeds are not defences, and
that it might have been better after all to own
fewer empty leagues of grass, and to have
grown men who could carry rifles, instead
of only growing herbage. There are a'few
men in Australia who realise all these tacts,
but they are pathetically few, Most seem
to realise only a part of the case ; the rest
appear to comprehend nothing at all. ALFRED
Dkakin, affable and halting between two opinions,
believes in Protection to supply the country with
a large industrial population, but he declines to
commit himself to a graduated land-tax to break
up the great estates and make room tor the large
agricultural population which is just as essential
for defence. Ho knows that agricultural popula-
tion is wanted, but he is too affable to supply it
lest he should offend “ the States ’ —this despite
the fact that he is well aware that the States are
doing just about nothing in the matter, and make
no promise of doing much. And of Dkakin
both personally and as the representative of his
party—it can only be said that many an equally
affable leader has died in a ditch with a broken
gun in his hand through making a smaller mis-
take. As for big, blundering Defence Minis-
ter Tom Playfokd, who babbles about guard-
ing Australia with a petty gun-barrel factory, an
infuriated population, when it found out, by bitter
experience, the full and complete area of his folly,
has butchered many a fool who wasn’t one-tenth
as fatuous as big Tom Play ford.
And there are others. The Labor party won’t
commit itself definitely to Protection as the means
of building up a strong industrial population lest
two or three of its members, who represent wharf-
lumping or mining constituencies, should lose their
■•its. It made no vigorous effort, even when it
held the balance of power in N.S.W., to secure a
graduated land-tax, and break up the great
estates, and it spent its days sinking the fiscal
issue. Its proposed Federal graduated land-tax
is a painfully ‘ ‘ moderate ” affair ; and it takes
little real interest in defence or immigration.
And, by reason of these things, it may yet
be Gibeonite to some brown race that never
heard of the eight-hour principle, and which
scoffs at the very mention of White Australia.
Also, last of all, there is the Anti-Sosh party. It
regards the Australian manufacturer as an enemy,
and denounces with lies and slander any attempt
to create industries which will find vvork for an
industrial population. It believes m imports
instead of industries, because it is fashionable to
say its frock came from Pans or its boots from
N’York. It would sell its country for a frill or
a beautiful crease in its pants. It is full of bitter
vituperation over any proposal to make the great
monopolist of empty wildernesses sell his land,
even at its full value, to make room for the settle-
ment of men who can carry a rifle in the day ot
trouble that comes to every nation in time. It is
the Dear Land Party, the Anti-Immigration
Party the Anti-Work Party, and the Anti-
Defence Party—for defence depends on men,
and men in Australia must, for a time, depend to a
great extent on immigration, and the only way to
secure immigrants is to find work for them to do
and land for them to settle on. Also, the Anti-
Sosli party assumed a new character the other
day when it became the Defender of Immorality,
and demanded that the Kanaka who is living in
sin” with some degraded woman should be
specially exempted from deportation, lest, through
his departure, the connection between him and
his paramour should be broken up. h o one has
vet designated Anti-Sosh as the Kanaka s 1 ros-
titute Party, but the name would not be inap-
propriate. If Australia continues to live in a
Fools’ Paradise, there will be the savage satisfac-
tion of knowing—when the disaster arrives, which
comes to everv Fools’ Paradise sooner or later—
that the Anti-Sosh party represents the class
which has the most to lose, and which is the least
qualified to struggle with the rum that follows
upon invasion. , * *
It is common to assume that any alarm about
the possible fate of this lonely, almost-unpeopled,
almost-unguarded furthest outpost of the white
race is mere hysteria. The invariable argument
of the Fools’ Paradise party is that nothing lias
happened yet, and, so far, we have got along all
right. To which the obvious answer is that
nothing ever does happen till it happens, and that
every race that has been wiped off the map gqt
on all right till things went wrong. Utter ruin
seldom comes to a country more than once, a,nd
the fact that it didn’t come before it arrived
which is practically what the answer of those Aus-
tralians who live in a Fools’ Paradise amounts to
—never made anv difference m the other fact that
when it arrived it was distinctly there. Poland
stood till it fell, which is just what Australia is
doing to-day. The world above-ground is full of
men who haven’t died yet—which is a parallel to the
case of a country to which no enemy lias come yet;
but every day men are dying suddenly who never
died before, just as every day things are liable to
happen to a country though they have not hap-
pened to it yet. And when these men die who
never died before, they remain dead, except in
the rare cases when they are raised by an apostle.
And very often the country which perished after
feeling perfectly secure, because it had never
perished previously, also remains dead.
* * * *
All of which leads back circuitously to the title
at the head of this article. Australia now has the
chance, that comes once in three years, to create
a Parliament which doesn’t consist exclusively of
the honorable member for Fools Paradise. I he
man above all others that every elector should
vote for is the man who believes with all his
soul in High Protection and a heavy gradu-
ated Federal land-tax. He should believe
in manv other things—a vigorous immigration
policy, to be established as soon as the
tariff has begun to produce its effect and the
breaking up of the big estates has commenced,
the establishment of a citizen soldiery, a fleet, and
a complete arms and ammunition factory, the
taking over of the Northern Territory on almost
any terms, the construction of the two trans-
continental railways, debt consolidation, etc. —but
High Protection and a Federal graduated land-tax
are the first essentials. They will provide the
country with men—even without a definite immi-
gration policy men will come —and men are the
raw material of defence. Where it is impossible
to find a candidate who supports both principles,
the first vote should go for High Protection, for
the tariff is already half-finished, and the necessity
for completing it is urgent. Where there is no
genuine High Protectionist, the advocate of a
graduated land-tax should have the vote, even
if he have the mental misfortune to be a Free-
trader. As for the possibility of there being, in
any constituency, neither an advocate of High
Protection nor a supporter of the graduated
land-tax to vote for—the possibility of there
being only Anti-Sosh representatives to go to the
poll —that is unthinkable. Rather than that
should happen the local drunk should be
nominated, assuming that the local drunk has
some semblance of political common-sense in
between his drinks.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Brawny Factory Operative.
The worst of all mental diseases is the habit of
taking things for granted. A thing may have
been true when people first took it for granted—
though even that isn’t absolutely necessary—but
the probability is that many people will still be
taking it for granted a dozen or 20 or 40 years
after the change of circumstances has blotted it
into oblivion. For instance, there is a parrot-like
habit, very common among Foreign-traders and
similar cattle, of talking about the "stunted and
unhealthy factory operative.” Applied to certain
places, the description is quite correct. 1 lie “fac-
tory hand” in Great Britain (and some other old
lands) is mostly a rather sorry specimen. He is the
product of generations of other stunted operatives.
He and they were stunted through working for
miserable pay in unwholesome and grossly insani-
tary factories; through living m narrow, foul
streets with open sewers ; through whole families
herding in one room eaeli, often up three or
four flights of filthy stairs; through ignor-
ance, lack of pure air and light, lack of the
decencies of life; through adulterated food,
and through other preventable causes, lliere
is no reason for the British tenement house
except that the great ground landlords have
always demanded so much for the use of the earth
that a horrible economy of ground space has set
in. There is no necessity for dirt, and foul air,
and foul streets, and unwholesome factories.
There is no reason why such cities as Glasgow and
Manchester should not spread out, with cheap,
swift municipal tram services, till every factory
operative has his cottage and his scrap of gaiden ;
and no one can show any cause why the average
factory should not be as clean inside as many a
palace, and as elegant outside as a, town hall, and
why the “brawny” factory operative should nor be
the familiar phrase instead of the “ stunted one.
Yet the Foreign-trader always asks haughtily,
when he can find no other argument with which
to denounce Australian industries, it Frotec-
tionists desire to see Australians reduced to a
race of “ stunted ” factory operatives ? ihey do
not, and they deny that there is any reason why
the class in question should be stunted. As a
case in point, it was mentioned lately that the
employees in Maoriland factories now number
70 403. That means that Maoriland is pre-
eminently the manufacturing State of Australasia.
It has little more than half the population of
N.S.W. and only about two-thirds that of v ic-
toria The proportion of its population that
is “'cooped up in factories,”, to use another
favorite Foreign-trade term, is twice that of
NSW And yet Maoriland has the lowest death-
rate'in'the world, and the death-rate has been
dropping while manufactures grew. By a rigid
process of law it has made its industrial establish-
ments mostly clean and healthy. It has shown that
the man or woman who drives a loom doesn t
necessarily live as one of a family of
six in a single foul apartment, at the
top of a foul tenement house m a slum,
with no baths and none of the decencies of life.
It has evolved the brawny factory operative, who
lives under healthy conditions, is decently edu-
cated, takes plenty of exercise, and keeps in good
physical condition. This example is much more
to the point than that of England, as well as much
nearer. It is the example of a country which
combines industrialism with Protection, and with
advanced Socialistic legislation, and with an
improved land system ; and which has started
fair, without the burden of centuries of inherited
tradition—tradition being mostly the same thing
as dirt. It shows industrialism as the Democratic
Protectionist party will have it m Australia ; and
how they have it in England, with its hopeless
landlordism, its Freetrade, its ingrained servility
to the capitalist, and its five-hundred-year-old
slums, is notour affair. Yet, with this example
before his eyes, the anti-Australian I oreign-trader
keeps blowing off the old dreadful remark with
the monotonous regularity of a fowl with a single
observation in its repertoire. He is a being of
phrases, catch-words and repetitions, and he
mutters “stunted factory operative even as lie
turns over in his sleep . The factory hand has a
tendency to be stunted in England owing to the
conditions under which he lives, ana England is
the world, and what has happened to Eng and
must keep on happening, and what is in En D land
must be everywhere else because nobody can
improve on England-thus the Foreign-trader
puts the whole destiny of man in a nutshell.
-♦ —
The Song of the Brisbane Shirt.
Before much more Democratic progress can be
made in Bananaland it will be necessary to shift
one great Obstacle-the Chamber of Fossils. At
next election Premier Kidston should make th s
his great aim. Many big reforms are required but
all attempts are hopeless at present, for the Fossn
—mostly professing to be Christian Fossils ref i
to be even conciliatory m their attitude towards
the Elective Chamber. The attempt to pass »
Wages Board Bill is a case m point. The measure
was designed to minimise the curse of sweating so
rampant in Brisbane, but the Christian Fossds
recefved the Bill from the Assembly and kicked
it out with both feet. The Christian 1 ossll “f
much money out of sweating. Not only does le
sweat for the local market, but the shirts which
are made out of human lives and human misery
—the cheap flesli-and-blood shirts are h u *
into competition with the products of the Sydney
and Melbourne factories where waMS have ten
raised by the Arbitration Court and thei \V ages
Board i e'spec ti vely, and they help to spread the same


old misery there. The Christian Fossil does not
even attempt to defend the system of sweating ;
he always says he hates it with a deep hatred.
What he is against is “ restriction ” and “inter-
ference with the liberty of the subject,” but
as it js impossible to put down any evil without
restricting somebody or interfering with some-
body, the Christian Fossil gets there just the same.
Yet he is fully aware of the size of the horror in his
midst. Here are some cases, made public on the
authority of the female inspector under the Fac-
tories and Shops Act, and she is not likely to get
hold of the worst samples :
A widow, with three young- children, worked 12 to 14
hours a day at shirt making. Her earnings were Bs. per
week.
A woman, with five children, received Is. Bd. to Is. 9d.
per dozen for making boy’s shirts.
A widow, by making mole trousers, earns 10s. to 11s.
per week, working 14~to 16 hours a day.
A woman, whose husband was out of employment,
earned 12s. per week, working eight or nine hours a day,
making clothing.
Another earned 18s. per week, working 14 hours a day,
making underclothing.
For muslin blouses, 4s. 6d. per dozen was paid.
Three women, by working from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., earned
335. per week among them, at trousers finishing.
Impressed by these examples of sweating, a
member made a few extra inquiries. A young
girl said that she and her mother and sister made
dungaree pants at 2s. ‘Jd. to 3s. per dozen, and
found their own cotton, which cost 6d. per dozen,
and could only earn, by long hours, £2 ss. per
week among them. They had done the same
kind of work at Liverpool (Eng.) and used to get
4s. 6d. per dozen. He also learned that tweed
trousers were made for ss. per dozen, without
cotton allowance, and that it took two days of 12
hours to finish a dozen. Now the Christian
Fossils are strong about the poor widow —in fact,
it is impossible to propose a land tax, even with a
heavy exemption, without them weeping about
the burden would inflict upon the poor
widow with 5000 acres of land and several
thousand sheep—and most of their slaves seem to
be widows. The fact is that it is only
the rich widow who interests them ; for the poor
one—the one whose flesh and bones they grind to
make their wealth and buy their motor-cars —they
care less than nothing. It is a bitter disgrace to
Queensland that the Song of the Shirt should be
Queensland’s national anthem. It is not a case of
merely forcing Queensland’s House of Christian
Fossils to pass this one measure ; it is rather a
case of abolishing them altogether on the ground
that the majority of them—the majority which
threw out the anti-Sweating Bill—are callous
brutes, unfit to legislate for man or dog, and un-
fit to live, and most certainly quite unfit to die.
«
The New Hebrides.
The Bulletin can raise no enthusiasm over the
agitation to force or cajole France out of the New
Hebrides. To the man who lives in a desirable
spot with some very undesirable characters in
near proximity, good neighbors are a blessing.
There is not an atom of reason why France should
not be a good neighbor to Australia, and a possi-
ble valued friend if ever the Asiatic swarm
endeavors to storm this lonely outpost of
the white man. The idea of France ever
making-war on Australia is unthinkable. Were
such a contingency possible, it is certain that the
war would be carried on under as humane and
civilised conditions as are possible in war-time—
and that Australia would win. But the idea of
Asia making war on Australia—war not on
civilised lines, but with the settled purpose of
extinguishing the white race here—haunts the
thoughts of every Australian who can think of
other things besides the smiting of a little, hard
ball with a little bit of wood, or the pursuit of a
large, windy ball with a pair of large boots. And
there is no great relief to uneasiness in the fact that
Great Britain, our Suzerain Power, is allied
to one of the Asiatic races. That alliance may be
of some value in keeping a European invader
away from the coast of England, though even
that seems eminently improbable; it is of none in
keeping an Asiatic enemy away from Australia.
At this very moment, whilst Japan is still the
pledged friend of Britain, there is overwhelming
evidence that it is engaged in stirring up and
training the Chinese masses for a racial war of
yellow against white. The first shock of that
war will beat against Australia, unless the
American power in the Philippines acts as a
buffer. But already the United States seems
rather weary of its imperial policy, and after gaily
taking over the Philippines from the “effete
Latin ” with a view to showing the world how a
real hustling tinned-meat nation could fix things
up, it is fully half-inclined to drop the busi-
ness in despair. If the hordes of Asia move
against Australia, this Commonwealth may have
good reason to be grateful that France is a neigh-
bor in the New Hebrides. No white race has ever
proved itself a better friend or a more generous
enemy.
4
The Epistles of Saint John.
The less unintelligent readers of the Melbourne
dailies have lately been disgusted six times a
week, by the publication of letters which profess
to have been written by John When, in his
character of prince of pony-racing and grand-
duke of “ Sport.” A recent issue of the Age con-
tained two of these precious When epistles, one
addressed to the editor, complaining that the
V.Jtt.C. steward had indirectly classed him as a dis-
reputable member of society, and the other a letter
addressed to the Vic. Government, pleading for
consideration, not for public-benefactor Ween, who
describes himself as “a good loser,” but for the
hundreds of poor dear creatures “ who live by and
through the existence of the pony courses,” and
who, in view of the trouble ahead, are looking to
their beloved Ween for “fair treatment.” On
behalf of these anxious hundreds of hangers-on,
Ween, the law-breaker, impudently besought
the Bent Government to amend its Gaming
Bill, and permit all the pony courses to
flourish as before —but under the management
of a “ properly-constituted board of experts,” to
whom the self-sacrificing Ween (God bless him !)
would transfer Ins interest and guarantee all
liabilities, absenting himself from the courses, in
order to dissociate his wickedly-libelled per-
sonalty from all connection with them. The
tail-end of this letter is a masterpiece of gammon :
I know the sport (pony racing). It is clean, and will
prosper if kept so 1 will retire, sir, but I will do so
honorably, and with due regard to the rank and file who
cannot longer resist the influences which have been
levelled, I sincerely hope, against me alone.
In giving this bold advertisement to the clap-
trap utterances of Ween, or, rather, of Ween’s
ghost, the Melbourne press gives encourage-
ment to the man s cause, which is, in all respects,
an evil one so utterly evil that the conduct of the
Victorian State Labor party in constituting itself
Ween s champion covers that party with shame
and disgrace. Whilst admitting, on the one
hand, that the successful machinations of the
egregious Tote monopolist have created an urgent
necessity for legislative action, the press, on the
other hand, assists his endeavor to win the sym-
pathy of illogical Democrats (and people, as a
rule, are illogical) by posing as an injured em-
ployer of labor, an apostle of liberty, equality,
and fraternity, and a whole-hearted champion of
Sport, with a capital S. Considering how many
letters are refused publication in newspapers
because they express sentiments opposed to the
editorial policy, it is rather a matter for astonish-
ment that journals which profess to deplore the
existence of Wrenism in Melbourne should supply
Wren with the means of booming himself. The
V.R.C. steward who spoke of “ reputable mem-
bers of society” made no mention of Wren
one way or other ; nevertheless that law-breaking
bounder, bloated with ill-gotten gains, was
granted opportunity to jump into print and
prate about his fond regard for his Reputation.
As for Mr. John Wren’s letter to the Bent
Government, it should not have been put before
the public as a thing worthy of serious publication.
For every employee who draws wages from the
pony-racing business fifty other persons—useful
workers most of them—are impoverished by the
gambling which keeps the business alive. Never
a gaming place is shut up but what a few
employees are compelled to seek wages elsewhere,
and no Government restriction of gambling
facilities can be enforced without throwing some-
body out of work. Even if Wren’s pony-racing
were clean sport, which it isn’t, the evil of its
eternal happening would remain undiminished,
for the more people who were tempted to back
ponies, at the rate of six races a day three days a
week, the greater the evil would be, and the
richer Wren would grow by it. This privileged
ex-bookmaker, this sucker of the working-man’s
earnings, permitted to carry on illegal totes, betting
“clubs’’and race meetings until he threatens to
become a Law unto himself—this pestilent person
will never be fully suppressed if the Melbourne
dailies continue to give him support.
We Can’t Afford It.
What some call a strike, others a lock-out, affect-
ing about 2000 workers, is just now proceeding in
Melbourne in a somewhat philosophical but whole-
hearted spirit. Hitherto bricklayers, plasterers,
carpenters, plumbers, painters and their laborers
—the combined building trades—have worked 48
hours per week for wages varying from 12s. per
eight hours’ day in the cases of the four first-
mentioned trades down to 9s. for painters
and Bs. for laborers. A week or two back the
bricklayers, carpenters and laborers formulated
a demand for a week’s work of 44 hours, at the
same wage as has been paid for 48 hours’ work.
The Master Builders’ Association, which includes
all the large and most of the small employers,
refused the request, and, on Nov. Ist, the union
men in these three trades declined to start work
till 8 a.m., the usual hour being 7.30. They were
then told they were not wanted that day, but
could come the next or any following morning
at 7.30, if they chose. So far they have not chosen.
As to the merits of the dispute, views naturally
differ. The men point to the already-established
44 hours of the stonemasons, the similar number
per week worked by bricklayers, &e., in Brisbane
and Maoriland, and ask, “Why not we too?” They
refer to a previous promise of the associated em-
ployers to grant the 44 hours when all the build-
ing trades are got into line (they are not yet
all agreed, however). They charge the em-
ployers with having persistently fought against an
Arbitration Act. They point to the fact that
the building trade is at present outside the Mini-
mum Wage laws. On the other side, the master
builders point to the increased prices they have
to pay for bricks, for earthenware pipes, and for
Oregon pine; they draw attention to the fact
that the men are by no means sweated, as they
toil for 48 hours per week for Is. 6d. and Is.
per hour; and they, say that before at-
tempting to enforce their request, the men should
have given at least three months' notice, and
should have made an effort at arbitration. And
there is much justice in this view of the matter.
If the men can get their old wages for a reduced
week’s work, they may be justified in fighting
therefor, but the present loss falls directly on
others besides themselves, and the future loss will
fall indirectly on the community generally. And
the community generally is just now think-
ing much more of those unorganised toilers who
work 60, 70, and even 80 hours for from
255. to 355. a week, and for whom the compara-
tively well-paid tradesmen seem to concern
themselves very little. But beyond all the pros
and cons of the Master Builders’ and the Brick-
layers’ and Carpenters’ Unions, at the back of the
matter of this strike or lock-out for 44 hours a
week, there lies the bigger question that the
blathering and disastrous Tom Mann long
ago asked the trades unionists —the question that
in reality set this dispute afoot: “ Why should
not six hours constitute a day’s work; why
not ultimately four, or even less?” The suf-
cient answer is that we cannot afford it.
If one trade toils but 44 hours per week,
others will rightly demand, and must ulti-
mately be given, the shorter hours. And, unless
the Commonwealth Parliament imposes an
absolutely prohibitive tariff the Australian worker
who toils 44 hours for 725. has no earthly hope of
competing against the cheap labor of foreign
countries —even the highly-paid American me-
chanic would beat him easily in the markets
of this country, despite a moderate Pro-
tective tariff. But the Australian worker
is very slow in helping to provide a
Protective, let alone a prohibitive tariff.
More important still, we cannot afford it because
we are in debt. These useful, productive citizens
already work shorter hours, on an average, than
the mechanics of any other nation. A reduction
of hours, which must presently apply to other in-
dustries, merely means a diminished aggregate
production ; and a nation that owes over £5O per
head cannot afford to decrease its production.
We want all the revenue, all the income
we can get, not only to pay our interest bills,
but to make a start at reducing our tremendous
liabilities; to build for ourselves an up-to-date,
expensive navy; to construct arsenals, ammuni-
tion factories, shipyards; to plan and erect a
Pederal capital ; to build two costly railways north
and west from Adelaide to Port Darwin and to
Premantle. We want all the money we can get
for a dozen other necessary things, if the most
hideous fate that ever overtook a white nation is
not to overwhelm us—that of being conquered
and enslaved by a colored race. And there will
be no 44 hours a week when the Jap is boss!
Porty-eight hours is a fair week’s work in all but
the most arduous callings. Even if it were a
trifle too much— we can't afford less for many
years yet.
+
The Federal Elections.
The issues at the Pederal elections have been
further complicated by the action of M'Lean,
the other half-Premier in the recess Admini-
stration of G. Reid. M'Lean wholly dis-
avows the Geeid view of anti-Socialism.
Recognising that the electors are resolute to
make the tariff issue the important one of the
elections, M'Lean professes to be as good a
Protectionist as Deakin, and announces that
he is a tariff reformer first, and an anti-
Socialist afterwards. This is important,
mostly as indicating that, even supposing
by some strange mischance the Gbeid party
achieves a majority, G. Reid will not be able to
win to office without further concessions to "the
creature Protection.” He is half-and-half Protec-
tion now ; he would have to be whole-hog Pro-
tection then. There is little doubt that he would
find the conversion easy. G. Reid is willing to
be anything that means office. But that does
not make him or his followers more pleasing
to the electors. However pliable he may
be, Reid must keep some sort of faith
with his Tory following; and Australia has
no use for a Conservative Protectionist when a
Radical Protectionist is available. In addition to
tariff Protection, the Commonwealth wants a full
assurance that a fair share of the benefits of that
Protection will flow to the workers, those assur-
ances which Prime Minister Deakin and the
Labor Party alike offer under the title of
“the New Protection.” The Pederal position in
N.S. Wales has cleared a little. The huffiness
which threatened to set Protectionists and
Laborites at one another’s throats seems
likely to be smoothed over, and there is
some slight . prospect of the unnecessary
Labor candidates being withdrawn in some elec-
torates, a fair certainty of the unnecessary Pro-
tectionist candidates being kept back in others.
The constituencies in doubt are not many, and a
reasonable arrangement with regard to all of
them is easily possible. The Australian party
should be allowed a free run in Robertson, the
Nepean, and Illawarra; the Labor party in Werri-
wa, New England, and Macquarie. That gives the
three best shows to Labor, and Labor should fall
in with an arrangement on those lines. If that
isn’t done the electors must treat any Labor can-
didate in Robertson, Nepean or Illawarra as an
interloper, whatever his fiscal views, and any
candidate other than the announced Labor man
in Macquarie, New England and Werriwa should
be regarded as an enemy to the cause of Protection
and Democracy. The Progressive vote must be
consolidated if it is to have any chance of success.
Success would mean so much that it is worth the
price of some individual sacrifice. A staggering
blow delivered to G. Reid amid his own news-
paper ramparts, and in his own fortress of sec-
tarianism and anti-nationalism, would prick his
clown’s bladder for good. Three or four seats
lost by Reid in N.S. Wales would practically clear
the Australian political atmosphere of the noxious
humbug.
♦
No Use for the Money.
Chairman Skene, of the Colonial Bank of Aus-
tralasia, . pattered the usual patter at the half-
yearly meeting of his shareholders in Melbourne.
Premier Bent proposed to pay off £2,500,000 of
foreign debt, but “it was to be hoped that in
carrying out financial transactions of this kind
due regard would be paid to the monetary con-
ditions prevailing locally, as there might be times
when the transfer of large sums from the State to
pay our creditors in Great Britain might act pre-
judicially to the interests of traders,”&c., &c. When
a man wants to pose as a financial authority, why is
it that he always feels obliged to make vague
remarks to the effect that he trusts the other per-
son will only do the good thing in strict modera-
tion ; in such strict moderation, in fact, that he
isn’t sure whether he ought to be trusted to do
the good thing at all ? The position, as explained
by Mr. Skene himself, is that, during the last
three years, the banks in Victoria have increased
their deposits by £6,000,000. And, he con-
tinued—
If the accumulation went on at that pace it would
appear that investors would have to be satisfied with
lower rates of interest in future. In consequence of the
large amount of money available and the absence of other
investments, a demand had arisen for country properties,
and large sums had been invested in broad acres in Vic-
toria and New South Wales. It was to be hoped that
prices would not be pushed beyond a legitimate basis.
There is so much money that Victoria doesn’t
know what to do with it, and the banks don’t
know what to do with it; therefore, in the absence
of anything more legitimate to do with it, large
sums are being “invested in broad acres,” and
the demand for the broad acres is pushing up
prices, wherefore Mr. Skene sees a danger that
E rices will soar to extravagant heights. Even that,
owever, doesn’t get rid of the money; for, if
somebody buys, somebody sells, and if somebody’s
bank balance is reduced, somebody else’s is fat-
tened. What does happen is that the man with
the reduced bank balance is left with land at a
high price, and, in most cases, a heavy mortgage:
and the mortgagee, in most cases, is the hac*ir,
which has borrowed the money from the man who
has just sold, to lend to the man who has just
bought. When Lad seasons come—as, of course,
they will come ; nothing is more certain than that
—the man who has borrowed from the bank won’t
be able to pay interest, and in many cases the
land will be thrown on the hands of the bank ;
but the bank will have pledged every farthing of
its own capital that the men from whom it bor-
rowed —its depositors—shall be paid in full. If,
temporarily, there is more money than the country
knows how to legitimately employ, that is inevit-
ably what will happen, just as it happened before
when money was poured in from foreign parts.
There are two ways—and only two —in which the
money can be safely and profitably used ; and the
two ways are to a great extent one way, after all,
for both of them mean getting out of pawn.
Australia is in pawn to the foreign money-lender
for its railways and other public works, and it is
to a great extent in pawn to him for its factories.
It can get out of the first pawnshop by paying off
Cohen, and thus reducing the interest-bill for
ever and ever, and making it a lot easier for the
country to pull through when the dry time comes ;
and it can get out of the second pawnshop by
heavy Customs duties, which will mean the em-
ployment of Australian capital to build factories
for Australian supplies, instead of employing
foreign capital, as at present, in foreign factories.
Bank-chairman Skene, who says just what the
unthinking part of the crowd says, warns Aus-
tralia not to pay off its debt because it might
want the money presently. In plain English,
this means that we mustn’t get out of pawn
because, if we pay off the principal, how shall we
pay the interest, and how shall we pay the
foreigner for the things he makes in his foreign
factory ? The whole answer is that, if we pay off
the principal, we won’t have any interest to pay ;
and if we pay off the foreign factory-owner, by
putting our capital into our own factories, we
won’t have to pay him interest on his capital
any more. And that process won’t involve any
boom values, or bad debts, or reduction of interest.
If Victoria uses the money it has, to pay off the
debt it also has, it can be absolutely certain that
it is making a 3A per cent, investment at the very
least, and one about which there isn’t the faintest
shadow of a risk. There won’t be any danger of
the receipted bill depreciating, as there is of the
land-titles that are being forced now to boom
prices. Also, if the money is put into factories
for the supply of Australian necessaries there is
absolute security there, too, provided always that
Australia puts G. Reid and his colleagues away
in a cool place where they can’t do any mischief
to Australian industries.
A Relic of Suppression.
Periodically an appeal is made to Thomas
Bent for the re-instatement of the Victorian
railway enginemen who were sacked because they
rose in insurrection against the cold, glassy
tyranny of Irvine the Iceberg. Three years have
passed since the strike, and still 46 of the men are
working along in minor billets in the hope that
something will happen to Bent or Tait, and the
enormity of their “crime” be forgotten. But,
though Bent, always amenable to influence if the
influence be properly applied, is willing enough to
take the men on, Tait lights another cigar, and is
indefatigable in erecting barriers and making
difficulties. He has sent to Bent a long report
showing, or professing to show, that the reinstate-
ment of the dismissed drivers would mean the
“ dislocation of the whole system of promotions.”
Tf a driver, now shovelling ashes or sweeping out
railway carriages, were put back on the footplate
of his engine, it would mean, Tait says, as he
lights some more cigar, that both the fireman who
aspires to be a driver and the cleaner who aspires
to be a fireman would be blocked. Tait, in
a wave of virtuous indignation, lights a third
cigar, and declares that he could not dream of
consenting to such a manifest injustice. As soon
as this decision of Tait’s became visible through
the cloud of cigar smoke, 46 cleaners and 46 fire-
men announced that they were quite will-
ing to waive their rights to promotion, pro-
vided that the 46 drivers were reinstated.
Tait brushed the cigar-ash off his beautiful
clothes, and said, “ They scarcely understand the
full import of their offer.” Bent has not yet
finally announced what he will do; but there is
very little doubt that he will end by doing
nothing. The drivers are being allowed to earn
a subsistence at unskilled labor ; by the time they
are due to retire Tait will probably offer them
promotion as cleaners or firemen, unless Bent in
the meantime makes up his mind and orders their
reinstatement. Meanwhile Tait dreams behind
his cigar.
Tho Complete Unimportance of Gould.
Thus Senator Gould (of N.S.W.), clamoring for
Toryism (Sydney ’Graph report)
The Commonwealth had no power, nor was such a
thing ever contemplated, of imposing a tax for the pur-
pose of bursting up big estates, and such a proposal was
a barefaced attempt to interfere with the State rights
and the State prerogative.
This yarn is so old that it ought really to be
propped up by particulars. To put the matter
shortly, if Gould will show that section of the
Constitution Act whereby the Commonwealth is
deprived of the power to impose a Federal gradu-
ated land-tax, or whereby that power is reserved
to the States, The Bulletin will give ±5O to any
hospital that Gould likes to name. If he doesn’t
accept this offer he is either a fraud who is telling
vain things, or a person who wickedly prevents a
deserving hospital getting £5O. The cries and
lamentations of people like Gould really give them
away. If they knew, as they say they do, that the
Constitution forbade a Federal graduated land-tax,
the reasonable course would be to let their enemii s
go ahead and impose the tax, and then cover them
with ridicule and confusion by getting the High
Court to rule it out as unconstitutional. It is
j ust because they know that the Federal graduated
land-tax is constitutional, and couldn’t be an-
nulled by the High Court, that they say it is
unconstitutional, in the hope of scaring the public
away from it. As for Gould’s statement that a
Federal graduated land-tax was “ never contem-
plated ” —who was it that never contemplated the
thing? If it was Gould, then who or what is
Gould that he should count in the matter against
the people of Australia? They have a right to
contemplate things without asking the permission
of Gould. The Bulletin for one contemplated
a Federal graduated land-tax even in the days
when the Convention was sitting; and it published
its contemplations over and over again, and
got a large cash sale for them, and it reckons
it can contemplate quite as well as Gould.
And the evidence that the Federal Convention
itself contemplated a land-tax lies in the fait
that it more than once emphatically rejected pro-
posals for abolishing the clause which gives the
Commonwealth powers of direct taxation. This
seems to leave Gould contemplating all by him-
self in a ' ary lonely place.
Oar Land and its Tradncers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thk scoff, the jeer, the bitter gibe,
The loud and lying word let fall;
The frenzied clamor of the tribe
Who owe their native country all ,
Yet—faithful to their serpent breed—
Would sting the hand from which they feed :
These now to sing—but not to praise :
A palsy be upon them ! Far
Be happiness and length of days
From these, and may an Evil Star
Soon blast and blight their strength and health,
Who do traduce the Commonwealth !
Shine on ! Shine on ! Though wrack and cloud
Anon thy fulgent beam obscure;
Though in the heavens the storm be loud,
And discord rule, and strife endure ;
Yet thou art risen for men to see
And light us to our destiny.
And thou shalt rise and nobly climb,
Unstayed, through mist and cloud and wrack*
Above the meanness of the time,
The tongues that hiss, the hearts that lack,
The bats, and all the beasts of night
That dread to look upon thy light.
Shine on, fair Star ! and let thy rays
So touch us that our souls may burn
With pride and hope for those great days
Of coming glory we discern
So dimly now—but yet shall be
For that strong People led by thee.
Or hate be loosed, or strife be still,
Thy path is fixed, thine orbit known,
Irrevocable as God’s will.
Until the appointed time be flown.
Shine on ! and nerve our brain and hand
To guide and guard the Austral Land !
vxo.
O. C. CABOT.


ft
I
V.
GaMafierZf
GOLD
PLATE
Tobacco /
and
Cigarettes
Him: “i ’ll lay you two to
one on the Gold Plate.”
Heb : “I’ll talce you if
you make it Gallaher’s
Cigarettes.”
The Graves of Melbourne.
About the ghouls of St. Kilda (Melb.): —
For eight months the law has been thinking about the
actions of the St. Kilda Cemetery trustees, their strange
a nd peculiar methods of buying and selling grave allot-
ments, and their stranger and more peculiar relations
with the defaulting secretary, one Truelove, who dis-
appeared with a sum of money, the amount of which
nobody has yet been able to ascertain. There is no com-
plication about the affair. Barring the accounts of the
late secretary, it is clear and intelligible as a charge-sheet
at the watch-house. But, as usual, where highly respect-
able members of society and pillars of the church are
involved, the law has been sitting still, thinking so long
that it has grown absent-minded.
It is now nearly' eight months since one of the
trustees made to the public press a statement which,
from anybody else, would have been termed a
“ full confession.” This person was interviewed regard-
ing allegations made by the Chairman of the Board of
Health (Dr. Norris) that the St. Kilda trustees had been
guilty of irregular practices. The person interviewed
was shocked and horrified at Norris’s assertion. He
opened by saying that it was a gross libel on
himself and his fellows, and explained that there
was nothing whatever wrong about the transactions.
He explained that under the regulations (drawn up by
the trustees), the trustees had power to sell themselves
graves at a price roughly about one-fourth that
charged to the general public*. This some of them did,
and then resold to the public at an advance, and
kept the difference. According to all traditions, this is
the point where the detective should have come on the
scene, but he didn’t. To the mere ordinary person, un-
skilled in legal subtleties, the proceedings of the trustees
who voted themselves allotments below current rates,
to dispose of them and pocket the difference,
seems indistinguishable from that of any other
agent who sells himself £lOO worth of his em-
ployer’s goods for £25, and thus takes £75 of his em-
ployer’s money. But the authorities considered the
importance of the trustees, and their respectability, and
their glossy belltoppers, and no action was taken.
It was left to Elmslie, M.L.A., to stir the matter up in
the Assembly, last Thursday night. Elmslie is a low,
rude Labor person, with no fine feelings towards
pillars of the church, and he not only set out the
history of the grave trafficking, but he offered to produce
proof of a whole lot of other nauseating stories.
Long before the disappearance of the late secretary, said
Elmslie, the trustees had been informed that he
was engaged in an illegal traffic in graves. The
same graves had been sold over and over again.
Persons who owned ground in the cemetery found,
when they had occasion to bury a relative, that it
was already full of strange bodies. Worse than all,
to prevent possible discovery in cases of the sort, bones
and coffins had been resurrected and burned in the ceme-
tery hothouse. All these appalling allegations, including
the burning of bodies, were brought under the notice of
the trustees, said Elmslie, hut they paid no heed, except
that they called the informant a scoundrel. The circum-
stances connected with Truelove’s disappearance were
also so fishy as to call for exhaustive detective work.
For some strange reason, the trustees delayed
the dismissal of the man when his defalcations
could no longer be concealed from the public.
For possibly the same strange reason the warrant for his
arrest was held back in the Police Department until
Truelove had got a fair start. There was also reason to
believe that Truelove returned to Melbourne some time
after the warrant was issued, and, although this was
known to certain persons, the warrant was still li Id in
abeyance. Minister of Health Cameron admitted that
Elmslie was practically correct, but held that the trus-
tees had never got more than double what they had paid
for the land, which amounted to a further charge against
them of undercutting the prices of the cemetery, the
interests of which they were supposed to watch. How-
ever, Cameron promised a full inquiry, and, if the
charges were proved, said he would compel the trustees
to resign. If the charges are proved, the public should
demand much more than mere resignation.
♦
Bloate’s Railway.
The names of the principals behind Moate, the
S. A. transcontinental land job railway representa-
tive, are still a dark mystery. Bloate’s scheme
bears the resemblance of a full brother to the
lovely Snow tramway fake, which was also used
as a Tory electioneering device. In Snow’s time,
also, beautiful pictures were drawn of hordes of
laborers in full employment during the winter,
and of thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of
pounds being poured into Adelaide business
places; but there wasn’t a day’s work for any-
body in all Snow’s gorgeous tramway scheme,
and the money it spent in Adelaide business places
wouldn’t have paid for a cotton gamp. Snow had
no rich principals and apparently no capital. He
got his paper concession on the understanding that
the building of the tramways was to start imme-
diately, and hawked the document round Europe
as if it were fish, and finding no buyer he simply
melted away. Floate’s new transcontinental
land-grant railway scheme is also decorated with
whooping tales about how Private Enterprise is
going to spend £6.000,000 amongthe people of S. A.,
and find employment for every laborer in the State,
but it is commonly reported that it also has little
behind it except the deposit, and that Moate and
his friends, whoever they are, will simply try to
sell their concession in Europe, and will drop
the painful subject if they fail to find a pur-
chaser. But, meanwhile, the alleged splendid
courage and vigor and progressiveness of Private
Enterprise made some kind of an election cry,
though it was a mighty poor cry, after all. So many
shadowy capitalists have threatened to supply
S.A. with a transcontinental railway, and haven’t
put a pick in the ground, that the State regards
the joke as overdone. As a side-issue of the
Moate case, a prominent Adelaide citizen says
that Moate told him how he had to “square”
Agent-General Jenkins over the matter.
Premier Price says Moate told him the same
thing, in the presence of a witness ; and J enkins
denies being squared, and Moate, of course,
denies saying lie squared Jenkins, and there is a
horrible, horrible, horrible row. It recalls another
row in Adelaide, when a British M.P. and com-
pany-promoter —now, or lately, in gaol for trying
to hire somebody to murder his wife —tried to
square Kingston. Kingston’s “No!’’was so
loud that the defendant has never heard properly
with that ear since.
As far as the count has gone at time of writing,
Premier Price and his Liberal allies in S. Aus-
tralia have several reasons to be satisfied. They
win something, and their opponents absolutely
nothing. Every metropolitan seat goes to Labor.
In the country, though the counts are not
quite complete, Catt, Livingstone, and Foster,
all marked with the brand of the National Ass,
are left in the rear. But more significant still has
been the result of two appeals to the Legislative
Council electors themselves. Both these contests
have been won by Labor men. That the
Assembly electors would support Price in his
fight for a more liberal Leg. Council fran-
chise was certain ; in fact, he had in the
Assembly an easy majority already. What wasn’t
so certain was the attitude of the favored two-
sevenths who are already Council electors. These
two separate contests supply the answer that the
Council says it has been waiting for. It rejected
Price’s scheme of franchise reform on the plea
that the Leg. Council electors had extracted from
it certain pledges. It may now consider the
alleged pledges broken into sixty-seven pieces.
. ♦
Some humorous extracts from a letter in Sydney
Telegraph concerning Private Enterprise and
the proposed N.S.W. North Coast railway :
If the railway is built, the shipping companies can
very well afford to reduce their fares one-half. ... As the
steamer fares will then be not more than half that of the
railway, where will the railway get its passengers from ?
. . . Mr. Lee foreshadows that, when the railway is built,
all expenditure on coastal harbors will be discontinued.
By this, he indirectly paralyses shipping, and forces a
heavy tariff of fares on the North Coast farmers. ... Is it
just to force a non-paj'ing railwaj' and high fares on the
people, and, at the same time, stifle the private enterprise
of the shipping companies, who have, at much expense to
themselves, brought out a magnificent fleet of coastal
steamers 1
This seems to imply that Private Enterprise has
been charging such high fares that it could afford
to cut them 50 per cent, and still live. It has
done this through huge State subsidies spent on
providing artificial ports for the benefit of Private
Enterprise. Private Enterprise has become so
accustomed to these subsidies that it now demands
them as a right. It says proudly that if the State
goes on subsidising it (as a matter of course) so
that it can compete against the unsubsidised
State railway, it will knock the unsubsidised
State railway into a cocked hat. And when the
State threatens to leave off subsidising Private
Enterprise, that institution boils over. Yet it
calls itself Private Enterprise.
The Law in Victoria is supposed to be thinking
hard over the case of William P. Gardiner, who
is part of the old trouble that surrounds the wife-
beater, the child deserter, and the defaulting
citizen generally. Away back in 1900 William
P., who seems to have been a man of property,
was ordered to pay his wife £2 a week mainten-
ance, with Costs. He paid the Costs and then let
the matter drop. In ’O3 his wife asked the Law
to speak to him, and on his paying a trifle more,
with Costs, the Law wiped the slate, and inci-
dentally reduced the allowance to £1 7s. After a
week or two he once more lost all interest in the
matter. A few months back the wife again drew
the Law’s attention to William’s negligence, and,
as the arrears then amounted to £214, the Law
fined William£2o. It didn’tcollectMrs. William’s
£214 ; but it gathered in its own £2o—with Costs
— and let the matter stand at that. William P.
also let it stand at that. Last week the wife
again besought the Law to negotiate with
William ; and, after considering a space, the
Law said that apparently the only way to deal
. with him was to put him in gaol, where it would
have to maintain him—and it couldn’t see that
Mrs. William would be any better off even if he
were in three gaols. And the maddening part of
the business is that the Law accepts its own
incapacity quite as a matter of course. It doesn’t
seem to have a faint idea that it is the most
desultory, inefficient power in existence, and all
because it hasn’t nous enough to follow the German
plan of putting persons confined in gaols to profit-
able work, and making them support those depen-
dent on them out of the profits of that work.
♦
The Melbourne Age reporter reckons he heard
this at the back of one of Deakin’s meetings, it
being a dialogue between a local lady and an
patronising feminine of an anti-Sosh league :
Lady (enthusiastically) : Oh, what a lovely speaker Mr*
Deakin is !
Mrs. League: Humph! Why he is supporting the
Socialists ! In fact, he is a Socialist 1
Lady : But he has just said the opposite !
Mrs. League: My dear woman, if you had studied
politics as I have, you’d know better. Let me ask you
one question—Do you wish to come down and scrub out
this great Alfred Hall ?
Lady: Good.g’racious, no ! Why should I?
Mrs. League: Well, if you support Deakin and the
Socialists, you will have to. Think the Socialists are
going to let their wives do the scrubbing? No fear ! It
is you and I who will have to do it under Socialism, while
they go to Government House and the Mayor’s ball and
have their At Homes.
Lady : Oh, I don’t think that would be.
Mrs. League : My dear woman, sticking at home like
you do, you don’t know that you are alive. If you kept
on the run like Ido you’d know better. And how would
you like to see your Algernon taken away from college
and made’ to carry round fish in a basket ? And, sup-
posing there were Socialism and your husband died !
They’d probably select for you as a husband some big, fat
Socialist, and you’d have to have him and mend his socks
and scrub for him and do no end of things. And how
would you like your little ones to be sent to the Socialis-
tic asylum? The Socialists have started already by
throwing thousands of children on the Neglected Chil-
dren’s department. If Deakin gets in we’ll have to do
that too. How would you look in winsey ?
It may not be strictly true, but as a picture of
the anti-Sosh intelligence it is amazingly accurate.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “The Betting Book, or the
Gambling Evil.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Virginian.”
Criterion ‘‘ The Rake’s VV ire. ”
Tows Hall Amy Sherwin.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace.”
Her Majesty’s “The Spring Chicken.”
Theatre Royal “ The Ladder of Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall Leslie Harris.
Fitzgeralds’Building.. Bostock and Wombwell’s Circus.
Alexandra Avenue Wirths’ Circus.
St. Kilda Esplanade. .. “ Dreamland.”
♦
After giving Sydney a fortnight to find
out who the Christian in “ The Christian ” is—
whether it’s John Storm, who wants to kill Glory,
and is bought off with passionate kisses and an
abundant view of the lady’s hair, or Drake, who
won’t “ruin” the girl when she gives him the
chance, and who finally performs the heroic part
in the marriage scene—the Waldron-Humphrey
co. will present “The Virginian,” at Her
Majesty’s, on Saturday night. Contrary to
expectation.it isn’t “ The Virginians ” ; so Syd-
ney won’t have the chance of seeing George 11.
in snuff-colored clothes, and Dr. Johnson with
dirty finger-uails and sauce on the front of
his shirt, and of listening to the Royal
Family talking of “boetry” and “brose.” Instead,
“The Virginian,” in the singular, is a story
of ranch life ; but it will have its compensations,
for it will give a chance again to Big Bill of “The
Squaw Man,” the most popular person of the co.
In “The Christian ” all they could give Bill was
a basket of vegetables and a two-minutes appear-
ance ; and the good people who only saw “ The
Christian ” probably wondered why the man with
the vegetables got so much applause.
MISS FLORENCE MORRELL , the newly-
imported lady for the Williamson Comic
Opera Co.
“ The Rake’s Wife,” running more
smoothly now than during the first week, con-
tinues to impress a great moral lesson at Sydney
Criterion. The lesson is that if you go a-raking,
your wifewill go away from you, and then your rich
aunt will die and leave you ’a fortune, and you’ll
be forgiven and live happily ever afterwards. The
piece is much assisted by the smart kiddies who
sing and dance and frolic through its scenes,
* * *
As a discouragement to gambling, Judkins
is not in it with “The Betting Book,” staged by
Bland Holt at Sydney Royal on Saturday last; in
fact, his name is Mudkins by comparison. For,
whereas the gentleman who isn’t a preacher, but
preaches to call public attention to the fact that
he runs a magazine, is such a palpable judder that
sometimes he can’t get a hearing for his judds,
Bland Holt’s show always wins a hearing, and
applause as well. And, in the main, “The Betting
Book ” is an exposure ot the sordid evils which
arise from the slimy little betting club in the mean
street, and shows how the “bobs” which flow to
Wren and make him a great man and a philan-
thropist often represent the bread filched from the
mouth of the hungry child, and the garment
stripped from the back of the shivering wife. In
fact, “ The Betting Book ” is so good a sermon as
to be a very poor play, chaotic in story, exagger-
ated in incident, unreal in development. Butthe
sermon is gilded and decorated and tricked-out
with excellent scenery and sensational mechanical
effects —including a spectacle of the police storm-
ing the Woodyard Tote—and plenty of strong
incident. And here again it scores over Judkins,
for Judkins is his own scenery, and, regarded as
scenery, he is only second-rate.
4. * * *
The acting throughout “ The Betting
Boole”—which calls for a mighty cast—is even
and good. Miss Harrie Ireland has the task of
representing the faithful heroine, who stands to
Frank Wilton, even when he puts baby’s bread-
money on the tote; and she plays brightly and
forcefully. By way of a change from his usual
role of villain, Albert Norman makes an
effective Frank Wilton, and his temporary rise
into the bracing atmosphere of stage virtue seems
to do him good. Norman has looked worn and
ill of late, and presumably , Bland Holt has sent
him to the lofty peaks of dramatic goodness for
change of air. The closeness of the dens in which
Norman sometimes conspires must be very trying.
Mr. and Mrs. Bland Holt are in charge of the
merriment department and push sales with vigor.
Baker is a jolly back-country squatter, and
rollicks through the part in a fine, breezy style
and there’s sound work to be praised from Arthur
Styan and Miss J ennie Pollock.
# # ifr *
Except that nowanights the machine that
is partly a cinematograph and the rest a gramo-
phone shows Mrs. Harry Rickards presenting
some prizes in England, and subsequently reports
how Mr. Harry R. made a few well-chosen re-
marks, the programme at Sydney Tivoli isn't much
changed from what it was last week. The
“Motoring” sketch, the advt. mentions, wont
be there much longer ; and, when it goes, one of
the most cheerful items that the bill has known
tor a long while will be missing.
ifc -fc ifr #
The circumstance that chiefly distinguishes
“ The Spring Chicken” from a dozen other musi-
cal pieces played by the Williamson Comic Opera
Co. is the omission from the programme of all in-
formation as to the “ Chicken’s ” genesis. The
production at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) is styled a
“ London Gaiety Success.” Not a word about
the cooks who prepared the dish, which is a
highly spiced ragout of French farcical comedy,
French music, British interpolations, and Aus-
tralian parodies of local melodrama. French
farce supplies the only food for serious reflection
in this stew, and the reflections are bound to be
more severely moral than the subject matter.
“ The Spring Chicken ” is the old, old story of
human giddiness multiplied by three. The first
scene represents the incredible office of a French
avocat—an office where scores of people, mostly
girls, are always waiting outside, prepared to
troop in and sing a chorus. For eight months
of the year the learned advocate is an
irreproachable young husband, not to be
tempted by the blandishments of a baroness
who brings him her divorce case. But at
the first breath of spring he bursts into conjugal
infidelity, shaves off his beard, makes an appoint-
ment with the baroness, and remains a joyfully
improper person for four months. His British
father-in-law is always improper, notwithstanding
a wife who thinks she has cured him of
early indiscretions, and who sings about
her worldly wisdom in such matters.
A new parlor-maid from the country is
also looking for amorous intrigues.
Moreover, when the scene changes to the
Crimson Butterfly Restaurant, it appears
that several other ladies are ready to be
wined and suppered by the first man they
can get to pay the bill. The superfluity
of naughty suggestion in the narrative
would be rather nauseating but for fre-
quent interruptions and spectacular
diversions in the first two scenes. A
restaurant-waiter, played by Fred Leslie,
introduces some bright extravagant fool-
ing, and a pair of make-believe children
(W. S. Percy and Miss Jessie Brown)
are a source of innocent me'rriment, the
girl presenting a genuine appearance,
whilst Percy is sufficiently like a boy to
be a humorous fraud. The third and last
scene of “ The Spring Chicken ” converts
the principal characters into a burlesque
company, who “poke borak” at “The
Fatal Wedding” and “ The Squaw Man.”
They did it fairly well on Saturday night
without leaving room for doubt that they
might have done it a lot better. But the
best possible burlesque of “The Fatal
Wedding ” could not be half so funny as
the original.
Roberts, considering that he is a
tenor, long accustomed to sentimental
bachelor characters, shapes very well as
the young husband, not always hairy and
righteous. Lauri frivols genially in the fat
r6le (the term rdle sounds suitable to
Lauri) of a hardened old sinner who
doses the children with sleeping-draughts
when he wants to go forth and meet the
parlor-maid. Ralston and Bantook are
heavy items, and graceful Miss Barber,
as the giddy baroness, seems a little too
anxious to avert suspicion from her
small share of the dialogue. Miss
Florence Young (the parlor-maid) scores
a pretty big success in all re-
spects. Also Miss Clifton makes the
most of 'her smile, and her hearty manner,
and her one fetching song. There is an
even more remunerative song for Miss Olive
Morrell, the new lady, fresh from London. Miss
Morrell has a thin, tuneful singing voice ; speaks
with a languid twang, and is colorless in the
tame character of a confiding young wife. Chorus,
ballet, dressing, and scenery are altogether
admirable. The music is artistically conducted
by Andrew MacCunn, who manages the William-
son orchestra as it never was managed before. If
the show is apt to weary some people by its fre-
quent repetition of familiar stage effects, the
fault is in its London Gaiety manufacture.
* * *
“The Ladder of Life,” at Melbourne
Royal, is perhaps a more numerous displav of
gallant Gordon Highlanders and plain citizen
supers than it was in its previous revival, whilst
the wickedness of the Treacherous Cousin remains
exactly as before. On the present occasion,
Dunbar is the thwarted villain of the piece in
place of Willard, but Bert Bailey stands where
he did, and the three acrobats come to the rescue
in the same old nick of time, and the limelight
streams upon Miss Duggan’s impressive hat with
unerring accuracy, born of long practice in that
direction. “The Ladder” is not a first-class,
or even an upper second-class, melodrama. It is
merely a rather bad melodrama that always en-
sures good business for manager Anderson, and
will be received with tremendous enthusiasm for
a few more nights.
** * *
Leslie Harris, assisted by Miss Buckmann,
will hang out his advt. at the Athenaeum Hall for
a few more nights, and in the meantime J. andM
Tait are announcing a Moving Picture Show on a
mammoth sheet at the Town Hall. Some of the
pictures are the same as were shown at the
other place a few weeks ago, but the principal
subjects are new to Melbourne, and the Tait advt.
is loud in their praise. To-night and to-morrow
(Friday) the mammoth sheet will be taken off the
line, owing to the hall having been previously
engaged by the Mayor or some other rival show-
man, but on Saturday the cinematograph season
will be resumed.
** * *
A woman lodges her objection :
“ The Little Stranger,” a play which, under a mantle
of burlesque, aims a blow at a phase of feminine credulity
and fetisnism, remains outside the pale of intimacy
though it has now been at the Melbourne Princess rising
three weeks. A satire on fashionable folly, it has tor
chief impersonator a human freak. A small child is
engaged to ape a dwarf. The effect is not exhilarating.
Ghosts, skeletons and suicides, real or suspected, are
not such stuff as genuine comedy is made of. kike
the “Polite Lunatic” in the “Belle of New York,
they're apt to “gall the kibe” of spectators who
seek cheerful entertainment. The idea of the re-


XMAS EDITION
. . . OF . . .
The Bulletin, 1906.
A Special and Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 13.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the fore,most writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and
White work in Australia, and will picture the national
humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will he supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
States and Maoriland, 6J<2. ; Foreign Addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. O. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
IT
Ml|£
77TT737TT
Jilin l
William Fiemihg# equitable bpq, GEORCEsr.svDnEv.
ty'3Jeming/ dydnews
c/htfam ft) tfandmujyou,
Ju/ifiazdv-mdattfut foruJ
fuwt co?M faMy u/i/to uotv/'
tMomahm- economy y Wtoi-
fecZLon . sne ccmfmruLLunf
fturt Vruty Jfrfao
JK&awwu
THE vK£2Xl* OTHER
EST
w\
a
vw
s
cei
FISHER & CO.
WHOLESALE CHEMISTS & DRUGGISTS
MANUFACTURERS OF THE FAMOUS
D? MORTON S
SARSAPARILLA
PURIFIES THE BLOOD &
STRENGTHENS THE STOMACH
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS TUCKER &C? ‘
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS SYDNEY.
pulsion inspired by a knowing old sinner in infantile
guise, was probably suggested by the “ Preco-
cious Baby” of the “Bab Ballads,” who “died an en-
feebled old dotard at five.” As for the lesson meant to be
conveyed by the somewhat gruesome materials utilised in
“ The Little Stranger,” all the plays in the world will
not cure idle womefrof their restless desire for new ex-
citement. Mohammed bellowed like a young camel in
his prophetic moments, but Ayesha and Co. laid their all
at his feet, undeterred by his uncouth frenzy. In Mel-
bourne, to-day, there are educated woman who were
Faith-Healers yesterday, are Anti-Socialists to-day,
and will be Christian Scientists to-morrow. “The
Little Stranger” is a piece which keeps performers
on the stretch to ward off boredom. In consequence,
Lindsay, as chief conspirator, is over-noisy and ram-
pageous. There’s a comic scene with h : s best girl (Helen
Russell), where he claws down all her hair and carries on
like an insane barber scalping his victim by hand. The
co.. as a whole, hardly earned the applause bestowed by
what seemed a very meagre attendance for Derby night.
“ .The Little Stranger ” music is rather novel, interspersed
with baby-screams and toy-harmony, perpetrated by tin
whistles, &c.
** * *
On Saturday the Brough-Flemming Co.
returns to the Princess’s, and the flag of high-class
comedy will float on the breeze of public esteem
for five weeks. The opening piece is to be “ Mrs.
Grorringe’s Necklace,” for the first time in Mel-
bourne. This is the comedy which the late Brough
was greatly impressed by when he saw it in
London five years ago, and in which the small
parts are said to be as interesting as the large fat
ones.
* * ifc *
Wirths’ Circus, likewise Bostock and
Wombwell’s Circus, will be glad to note an im-
provement in the Melbourne weather. The tents
by the Yarra bank and the spacious building on
the other side of Princes Bridge are full of attrac-
tion for the populace on a balmy night, or a
pleasant Saturday afternoon, but Melbourne, at
time of writing, had lapsed into the depths of
winter, and the general feeling towards Circus and
caged animals was one of cold neutrality.
* * *
The foregoing remarks apply, also, to
Princes Court and to Dreamland by the Sea.
Dreamland, down at St. Kilda, was opened last
Friday night for the first time. Rain fell heavily
on the inaugural proceedings, and the crowd that
went to dream remained to swear, owing to an all-
round failure in the side-show arrangements.
Dreamland, in proper working order, will doubt-
less supply a long-felt want when Melbourne
l>egins to warm up. The scheme of entertainment
is based on five acres of ground, and the lighting,
and the band, and the brass trimmings of the
large, undisciplined staff excited favorable com-
ment, even amidst the bitterness of Friday night’s
fiasco.
** * *
The Opera House bill for Cup week is
what it was last week, with one or two trifling
alterations. This is a period when the percentage
of thirsty men in a Rickards audience is larger
than usual, and the weakest “turns’’ strike one
as having been ordained by Providence for the
good of the refreshment bar.
* 5k * *
Miss Annie Mayor and Madame Blanche
Arral have been crowding Adelaide Town Hall
and Theatre Royal with their single-handed
dramatic renderings. The former filled in some
gaps in the average playgoer’s knowledge. The
great curse from “ Leah,” for example, though
often talked about, is seldom heard nowadays.
Her resolute rendering of dialogue as monologue
-“Eh? What do you say? Is it not so set
down in the bond ? ” —is reminiscent of Mrs.
Caudle, who, indeed, is one of her best impersona-
tions. The two entertainers were for the most
part able to avoid clashing. Mme. Arral, who
relies more upon stage accessories to assist her
glorious voice, is continuing her operatic se-
lections. The Tivoli glode easily from melodrama
into farce, and from that to a variety show ; just
now it is doing Living Picture of fish and other
moist objects. And rose shows are everywhere.
The comic opera regiment of all officers
and no privates threatens to materialise in the
Australian Defence Forces. An attempt is being
made to form a Motor Volunteer Corps. The
corps is to be composed solely of owners of motor-
cars, and all members will rank as commissioned
officers. The qualifications are to own a first-class
car, and to be able to drive it. There ought to be
at least one private to fetch petrol for the cars,
and a corporal to blow away the stench, but
apparently nothing of the sort is provided for.
LATEST BETTING TRANSACTION.
Someone lately offered the Sydney Y.M.C.A. £500 if it could briny its collection up to £14,500
by a certain date. In other words , the Y.M.C.A. was laid £500 to nothing on the event.
There was only one animal in the race, and it ran like
AT POVERTY POINT.
Edna May, the original Belle of New York, whose act-
ing ability is a rather vexed question, has been asserting
her divine right as a “ star ” performer to an undivided
sovereignty of shine. Another Yankee girl in the co. was
supplied with a new song on the strength of her engage-
ment to a future marquis, whereupon Edna May refused
to “star” any further. She retired from the show
(“The Belle of Mayfair”) because she was not shining
with all the superior lustre that her salary entitled her
to, she said. The other girl was being “ featured ”in
the bill, and the grovelsome London public cheered her
vociferously on account of her engagement to the Hon.
Mr. Somebody, although she got only £2O a week whilst
indignant Edna drew £125. If a theatrical manager pays
insufficient homage to the salary of his most expensive
performer, the slighted artist goes mad and chucks up
the job. How money does talk 1
When Edna May quitted “ The Belle of Mayfair ” cast
in injudicious haste because Camille Clifford, the Gibson
Matron who used to be the Gibson Girl, was starred on
the bills before all London, she was succeeded by Phyllis
Dare. Phyllis was a successful child-actress who had
retired into a convent school abroad, and strange rumors
had made a halo of advt. around her. It is difficult to
locate this kind of talk, but at last Seymour Hicks, the
hustling young comedian who is married to EUaline
Terriss, got hold of a weedy cigarette-youth of no account,
who, to find favor with a barmaid, had posed as a brother of
the Dare family, and had penned elaborate stories of how
Hicks had “ got poor Phyllis into trouble.” Apparently
he did this also to interest the barmaid. The no-account
person, being prosecuted, and perhaps shaken, said he
was sorry, but he had only repeated what he had heard,
but he didn’t seem to explain where he had heard it.
Hicks promised to prosecute the authors of the scandal
if he only could find them ; and —the Edna May crisis
occurring just at this moment—little Phyllis was brought
from her convent-school by her father (a well-known civil
servant), and dropped abruptly into the leading part in
the leading musical comedy of the moment.
“ J.A.0.” : In the course of a misspent life I have said
many things derogatory to the amateur actor. I wish to
take some of them back. I used to think the only good
amateur was a dead amateur. I am now prepared to
qualify that opinion. I went last week to one of the
Histrionic Society’s Sydney recitals, and witnessed a per-
formance which would have been creditable to any good
professional company. Everything was done neatly and
without flurry, and showed signs of careful preparation
and stage management. Therefore, as I said already, I
take back some of the obloquy I have uttered.
From a London paper : —“ At Mr. W. T. Stead’s express
invitation, La Milo, of Pavilion fame, has visited that
gentleman at his residence in Smith Square, and taken
afternoon-tea with him.” The holy gentleman will prob-
ably proceed by gradual steps from this harmless
beginning to entertain a leading lady of the high-kick
persuasion with oysters and fizz. The stage is an insidi-
ous sort of meadow for an elderly gentleman to graze in.
The irrepressible Daniel O’Connor telegraphs to his
anxious family from New York not to worry, as some
person named Spalding has “ banked 5000 dollars to his
credit ” (presumably Dan’s credit), and his lecturing tour
has set Yankeedom on fire—at least, that is the substance
of the tale. Daniel will probably end by marrying the
widow of a very big Chicago meat-cannery, and going
into Congress.
In a burlesque piece of melodrama in one of the London
“ halls ” the hero rushes on just in time to see the tail
end of the contents of a tin of canned meat disappearing
down the heroine’s throat. She has been forced to eat it
by the villain. Latter sneaks off with a triumphant
“Ha ! ha ! ” Hero sits down to await the end, when
suddenly a bright idea strikes him. He seizes the tin and
examines the label. “ Saved ! saved 1 Thank Heaven 1
Saved! It’s Australian ! ” are the last words heard by
the audience as the curtain comes down.
Evidently, there isn’t a living in the heavyweight
game. Peter Felix is now leading a troupe of cake-
walkers in a variety co. through Sydney suburbs.
Miss Milo Montague is lucky in the possession of such an
astute advertiser as Oruickshank Laing. All along the
game has been splendidly worked ; but the manner in
which the Stead criticism was seized upon amounted to
real genius. Not only was Stead’s article in praise of
Milo reprinted, with illustrations of the bare beaut}', in
nearly every London daily, but the moment the article
was published, Milo wrote to St. Stead a long gushful
letter, thanking him for his generous criticism, and
observing ingenuously that it had “gr atly stimulated
her in her work.” Stead grabbed the hook like a
starving shark, and Milo was invited to dine at his
private house, where she was “introduced to
14 clergymen,” whether in “ costume ” the reports
omit to state. The Rev. Copeland Smith, who
denounced Milo’s business as indecent, obscene and dis-
gusting, was also prevailed upon to gaze upon the lady
behind the grease paint, and tumbled over himself re-
canting unreservedly as a person who had talked through
his hat without understanding. On top of it all, Mrs.
Ormiston Chant, London’s wild W.C.T.U. priestess, has
jumped into the field to declare that both Stead and
Copeland Smith are disgraces to Puritanism, and only
what might be expected of men. At latest, Milo was in-
viting Mrs. Chant to see the show, and a clerical body
was suggesting that Milo might take off some of that
paint without destroying the beautiful artistic effect.
Judkins, the irrepressible, has jabbed a dirty left at
Maggie Stirling, because she accepted an engagement to
sing at a concert in Melbourne Exhibition Building, the
concert being engineered by John Wren. “I am sorry,”
says Jud., “ that the lady who sang before the Queen is
now going to sing before John Wren.” Would Juddy
feel any better if the lady sang after John Wren ?
Surprising to find how very few of the middle-aged
customers at Melbourne’s most musical-and-dramatic
pub—the City Club Hotel —are aware of the fact that
the manageress was a member of the first Brough and
Boucicault Co. As Miss Rita Wyndale she appeared at
the local Opera House in “Our Regiment” and “Little
Jack Sheppard ”.
“Spring”: Wangenheim, of Sydney, who died re-
cently, was once the only person in a crowded audience
who saw, or thought he saw, the point of the “ gag ”
which the principal comedian delivered at every oppor-
tunity during the performance. He and the comedian
were together at the races, and the heat, the odor of
dead meat, the whisky, the excitement, the intoxicating
frocks, the pretty ankles and flashing ey s, the | erfumes,
the galloping hoofs, the cheers of the winners and curses
of the losers, the spielers, the bright chatter and pouts,
the spinsters and grass-widows, the demi-monde and the
semi-monde, the stray dog on the course, the peanut
and the “hot-pie, meat or fruit" men. the policemen,
the gay carriages, the dirty steam trams, their Excel-
lencies, the drunks, the dust and dirt, covetousness, ex-
travagance, viciousness, trickery, hawks, pigeons,
tale-tellers and fabricators—this weird mixture dis-
organised the comedian. Apropos of something which
he never could afterwards recollect, he said impressively
to Wangenheim, “ What about me’arf-quid ? ” Wangen-
heim, for reasons he could never sort out
afterwards, laughed uproariously. After that they
had more drinks. The comedian said at intervals
“What about me ’arf-quid?” And Wangenheim
laughed every time. The thing became a habit.
That night Wangenheim’s face beamed like a full moon
in the front stalls. The comedian asked, “ What about
me ’arf-quid?” whenever he got a chance, and Wangen-
heim’s shriek of glee made other people laugh more or
less, though a haggard look of bewilderment began to
appear in some quarters. A lot of people made a note to
ask Wangenheim about the joke when the show was over.
Some of them did, and then Wangenheim searched his
memory, and found, to his surprise, that he had forgotten
what the jest was about. He knew it was about some-
thing funny, and that was all. He rushed round to the
comedian. The comedian had a hazy idea that Wangen-
heirn had started it, but couldn’t really remember why.
He knew it was about something very funny, but couldn’t
tell what. He thought Wangenheim had dropped a half-
quid in the grass, or lost it on a horse, or bought pies
with it, or something. So they agreed to bury the sub-
ject, and the half-quid joke died that night.
“Z.”: Critic WilliamiArcher puts “ The Two Orphans” in
the forefront of melodramatic plays. After a three months’
passage round the Horn, in a rat-ridden barque, writer,
in company with the port-watch (all Dagoes), stepped —
off the icebergs, so to speak—into the old Melb. Bijou.
At the moment, George Rignold, as Jacques, was about
to begin the fight with the little lame knife-grinder (Dot
Boucicault). Crouching in the background was Nina
Boucicault, as the blind girl, listening to the tiger-like
pad-pad of George as he circled with his long, thin knife
round the little grinder. It was more than my Dago
port-watch could stand. They rose en masse, with
tender gleams of assassination in their eyes. “Let us keel
heem,” they said, earnestly. But the gods interposed and
hustled the men of the sea into the dark corridor, where
they watched the little grinder’s knife sink deep into the
shirt of Henry. It was good, but looking back through
mists of bellow and tank dramas produced here during
the last decade, writer places “ The Only Way,” taken
from Dickens’ “A Tale of Two Cities,” as prime stuff to
melt the eye.
“ Theorbo ”: Gluck’s “ Armide ” was a success in the
London Grand Opera this year. Such being the case it
will of course percolate to Australia some time. It is an
eighteenth Century work. Gluck, like Heine, Meyerbeer,
and Chamisso, was a German who found his scope in
Paris. His only surviving operas are french, such as
“Armide,” “ Alceste,” “ Iphigenie,”and ■ which
gave the cue for Offenbach’s impudent work, heard in
Australia long ago. Gluck was the forerunner of Wagner,
who regarded Rossini, Bellini, and Donizetti as decadents.
“ Armide,” from Tasso’s Armida in “Jerusalem Delivered,”
presents the story over again of Ulysses and Calypso.
Wagner pursued it with “Tatinhauser” and Venus.
Luscious spectacular effects are involved. We are carried
on to thoughts of Tasso’s misfortunes at the Court of
Ferrara, through his passion for the Princess Leonora.
Goethe treats it in his beautiful play of “Tasso,” with
long swathes of poetry, but little action. Rousseau was
a great admirer of Gluck, who said to him “ My opera of
‘Alceste’ has dropped flat.” “Yes” said Rousseau,
“ from the sky.”
The overdue slump in the elocutionary and vocal com-
petition business is arriving at last. Brunswick (Vic.)
held one of the horrors recently, but it panned out so
poorly that the committee had to pay its secretary with
a vote of thanks. The officer eventually sued for £lO
out-of-pocket expenses, and then it came out that lots of
competitors had offered 6d., instead of the usual Is. entry
fee, and the committee accepted the coins on the prin-
ciple that “ sixpence was better than nothing.” The
committee was ordered to find the £lO, and, when the
money is paid, that squalid competition will be buried.
A Melbourne “ serio-chronic ” who has been well
rewarded for her pluck in going to foreign lands for
popularity is Daisy Harcourt. Daisy was of small import-
ance as regards salary what time she did a “ turn ” at the
Gaiety' Theatre, Melbourne. Rickards had no vacancy
for her. If he gave her a show, it was only for a week or
two. So, dead against the advice of her unhopeful
friends and relatives, Daisy went to America, and
boomed herself as a popular English “serio,” fresh
from a triumphant engagement in Australia. She made
a specialty of coster gal ditties, and followed the risky
lines of Marie Lloyd. Having knocked the Yankees con-
siderably in San Francisco and elsewhere, she went to
England, and is now making £5O to £6O a week. Of
course, she had more than the average Daisy’s capacity
for business. As soon as she got started in ’Frisco, she
burst forth with an audacious advt. for a nice, kind,
middle-aged lady to act as a travelling mother. The rule
with American stage girls was to carry a mother about
with them, said Daisy in her little ad., therefore she was
anxious to adopt a matron of irreproachable character
who would take every care of her. The “ gag ” tickled
the fancy of showmen, and Daisy Harcourt was at once
accepted as real smart.
Colonel Mapleson has been telling the story of his
father’s first and last production of “Maritana” in
Italian. It happened at the Theatre Royal, Dublin, with
a company' that included the great Titiens, and Trebelli
(mother of Dolores), and Guiglini, who was still a famous
tenor at that time. The audience tried to be interested
in this new rendering of the familiar opera, until Guiglini,
as Don Caesar, started “Let Me Like a Soldier Fall.”
Then the gods “struck.” They wanted it in English.
The Italian singer fled, and presently Mapleson, to quell
the uproar, promised that Wilford Morgan (a cockney
who passed for an Irish tenor) would give them “Let Me
Like ”in English. So Morgan came and warbled, and the
gallery insisted on three encores, which have been multi-
plied by three in the popular Dublin tradition. Speaking
of his dad’s unfortunate experiment, the present Maple-
son remarks that “ II Tro>atore ” in English is even more
incongruous than “ Maritana ” in Italian, “ and the same
applies to all Italian and French operas sung in weird
English.” All the same, there is a demand for this incon-
gruous Anglicising of foreign operas. George Musgrove
produced a range of grand operas in English.
“ Cockaigne Hales, of Edgware and Mill Hill (England),
is a unique purveyor. He is not in the circus line, but
he supplies the theatres of London, and all Britain, with
trained horses, cows,'sheep, dogs, pigs, and whatever are
required. Whenever they take part in a London pro-
duction they are moved to stables near Covent Garden.
Many of the animals have been on extensive tours. The
word is always “Go to Hales.” His creatures are guar-
anteed not to misbehave on the stage. Some are of very
great value. His Fire and Water dogs, Bobo and Moses,
are expert in the use of mimic fire escapes. They'appeared
in “ The Flood,” at the Hippodrome, &e. Pudding is a
famous horse for theatrical pieces. He appeared at the
Colosseum, in the Derby, and is engaged for the next
Drury Lane drama. Mascot, a cow, is in train-
ing for “ The Bondman,” at Drury' Lane, where she
is to be milked on the stage by Miss Margery Day. Two
other cows, Daisy and Tomboy, will appear in the same
piece. A celebrated white horse, Terry, has had plenty
of stage experience, since he appeared in “The English
Rose,” at the Adelphi, 17 years ago. The pony Rose was
driven on the stage by G. Alexander, in “ The Prodigal
Son.” Irving had a white mare for Don Quixote’s
Rosinante, and Rignold rode one in “ Henry V.” Hales
shows a group of a dozen cows, all actors. They had to
plunge into tanks, in “ The Flood,” at the Hippodrome.
Joey is a valuable cow, because she can be relied on to
lead a herd anywhere. Renard is a tame fox, by far the
most valuable in the world. Billy is a wonderful pony
for dramas. One horse is warranted to drink a bucket of
champagne, but has to rehearse on water. He ought to
have been knocking round in the Australian gold era,
when bank-notes were chucked on the stage (we never
met anyone who saw any).


The Lone Hand
A Monthly Magazine of Imagination
(The Bulletin’s New Publication)
CONTRIBUTIONS ARE INVITED.
PICTURES. PROSE. POETRY.
Anything that will interest Australia
and the World.
Address —The Editors,
LONE HAND,
21k George Street,
Sydney.
SOCIETY
AN INCIDENT OF CUP WEEK.
KTKD MELBOURNE OFFICER: “Hi, wake up!.
Take this cab anil go home.”
GENIAL SYDNEY SOUL : “ O' ri.”
K.M.O. : “ Where d'ye live ! ”
G.S.S. : “ Darlin'slroad, Sydney."
One of the rarest sights in Australia is the
grave of an Anglican bishop. The grave of
Bishop Stanton, who died the other day, has
been photographed, and the photo, is going the
rounds of the episcopacy, no doubt as an en-
•couragement to others to do likewise. Australian
Anglican prelates like to die in England.
After piling up a monumental bill of costs
and getting the Law into several large-sized
tangles, Win. Alex. M'Kelvey has finally quitted
these shores for S’Africa. He originally arrived
here from Natal in Nov. ’O5, leaving some credi-
tors behind him. His total possessions then were
some £2O, but as his wife carried £lOO worth of
jewellery and a bank-draft for £555, the creditors
“took steps” towards persuading the Com-
monwealth to return this valuable property
and person. Panton, P.M., first interviewed
M'Kelvey, and ordered that he be returned;
but M'Kelvey applied for a habeas, and
then applied to the Full Court. That body
reached his case at length, about March, 1906,
and decided that Panton’s order was sound, and
that the S’African gentleman had better go and
see his creditors. But he had a prejudice against
S’Africa, and appealed to the High Court, which
went steadily on with its business until Sep-
tember, when it caught up with his case and up-
held both previous decisions. By this time
M'Kelvey was a gentleman at large, on bail, the
S’African detective, who had arrived after Pan-
ton’s judgment, having long since gone home. In
between times, and to help his hand, M'Kelvey
fought Sergeant O’Donnell and P.M. Panton as
to the custody of the bank-draft and the £lOO worth
of trinkets, which ended in O’Donnell beingordered
to hold the property. After that M'Kelvey’s
Natal creditors, viewing the Costs somewhat
gloomily, told the Victorian Insolvency Court to
make the best it could of William, and get the
job finished ; so the Chief Clerk in Insolvency
collared the paper and the gew-gaws, and put
them in a safe place. At this stage, M'Kelvey
also wearied of the undertaking, and told his
creditors to do the best they could with the pro-
perty. He possibly thought that this generosity
would soften the Law’s heart. But the Law
hasn’t got any heart; and when the High Court
finally disposed of his last appeal, the Natal
Government desired Bent, or Judkins, or
Carruthers, or Wren, or somebody to
seize its subject and ship him back under
section 27 of the Fugitive Offenders Act,
which was accordingly done last week. So
M'Kelvey goes back in the custody of nobody
save the captain of the ship, who doesn’t seem
legally bound to look after him much —and there
are handy wayside ports. Anyhow, the Law
has heaved a sigh of relief. Also, it files a noble
bill of Costs. Heaven only knows where these are
to come from, or whether the creditors will ulti-
mately see much of that £055. Costs have a
splendid habit of getting themselves liquidated
when there’s £055 to do it with.
¥■ * * *
Rev. Tremayne Dunstan (a Sydney clergy-
man whose continuance in a pastoral office is
something of a scandal) was the other day com-
mitted for trial, charged with marrying a
woman under age without the written consent of
her father. He seems, according to the evidence, to
have had the verbal consent, and a religious
scruple as to taking an oath prevented the father
signing a written consent. Under the circum-
stances, the Attorney-General ought to have
issued a nolle prosequi. It was ridiculous for the
Crown to proceed under the circumstances, and
the acquittal that followed was but justice.
# * * *
Just when the great collecting effort of the
Sydney Y.M.C.A. was tottering a little on its
basis it was steadied up by two gentlemen, who
laid the Y.M.C.A. £5OO to nothing that it couldn’t
raise the total subscription to £14,500 by a certain
date. This gambling transaction had a good
effect on the collectors, who set to work with
renewed energy, and with great hopes of collect-
ing the bet. Under the circumstances there is no
suspicion that the Y.M.C.A. is running stiff;
in fact, the way it came up the straight was a
marvel to the persons who had laid the odds.
They are quite solvent and reliable, so there is
never no fear that they may balance or welsh
the Y.M.C.A. on settiing day. In fact, it is a
straight gamble, and the sports have a fine run for
their money.
* * * *
“The Prawn”: lie “The Hack” (B.
4/10/’O6) on the fire habit—and consumption.
Here is my experience. I am one of four, all
healthy but myself. At a very
early age—through the neglect
of nursegirls, I am informed—l
contracted chronic chest com-
plaints, including asthma and
bronchitis. As 1 grew older my
life was made a burden to me.
I was not allowed to walk in the
wet grass in the morning. While
other youngsters were playing
about, getting in a glow, I was
sitting in the kitchen with my
feet at the stove, waiting for the
last school-bell to ring. Then I
was quickly bustled off, over-
coated and gloved, though it was
only 100yds. to school. The river
ran past our house, but I was
never allowed to learn to swim,
though my brothers and sister
did. If I coughed in the night,
my anxious mother arose and
anointed my chest with a home-
made mixture of gum-leaf extract
and turpentine. However, after
being Molly-ed for 17 years, the
doctor’s fiat was, “Five more
years for him,” and I was
turned out, as a last resource,
to look for life on a dairy
farm. As a natural reaction,
I suppose, and partly from
despair, I gave up overcoats
and dry feet during the
winter. I went out shoot-
ing on wet days, learned
to swim, and forgot all
about the fire. The five
years were up last Christmas,
and I am now the strongest of
the family, and the one least
affected by exposure. Let the unfortunates
threatened with consumption lead a clean life,
in the open air, and we will have no need to
endow homes for incurables. There won’t be
any incurables to endow.
* * * *
A battered Maoriland ancient of 70
winters, whom the old age pension had somehow
missed in its benevolent path, the other day stole
eight spuds, of the value of threepence. A Solon,
with a George Reid stomach, fined him £lO or
three months. On the same day, in the same
court, and before the same Solon with the identi-
cal stomach, a man was charged with cruelly ill-
treating his wife. The sworn evidence was that
he had held her by the throat until she was black
in the face, and, when he was compelled to let her
go, blood rushed from her mouth. Fined £l—
less than he would have got for steal-
ing one spud.
RECOMPENSED.
MISS PINKEM (in background): “There goes that Toilsome girl. I don't think much of
her catch."
HER FRIEND : “ Better than nothing. All the others got away."
Touching the great Sydney Lands trial:—
It was a poor play, considering the lavish expenditure
on the staging of it. Willis came in with a smile, but he
was obviously ill; his usually full-blooded countenance
was pale; his sliin drawn, and his eyes wearied and
deeper set. He betrayed no anxiety, but was alert and
attentive. M'Nair looked debonnair, was clean-shaved,
closely-cropped, clear-eyed, firm and at ease. He was
just as comfortable and as matter-of-fact as a reporter.
He was quite a master of ceremonies, ready to assist
everybody, even the Crown brigade or the quiet little
Associate to the Judge. Hoskins stroked his dark mou-
stache and then folded his arms and sat motionless and
stolid. He had been waiting impatiently for 12 months
for a chance to get back to the bush, the sheep, and the
other live stock. Justice Pring came in in five or six
strides, for he is a long-legged bearer of the ermine. He
sat down stiffly, and his thin features and closely-clipped
beard and stern aspect presaged a period of austere
calm. Throughout, his Honor never smiled. People
must be acquitted or convicted before Justice Pring
without levity. He is a whale for the suppression
of levity. Prosecutors Pilcher, K.C., Garland and
Pollock were depressed, and defenders Lamb,
Gannon, Pickburn, Levien and Wilson felt his
Honor’s eye keenly. Crick frequently occupied
a chair near the table, and at other times he moved
about the court rather restlessly. As Crick was a lawyer
without a client about him, and as he, when in court,
generally manages to have most of the say, it must have
been anguish for him to refrain from making remarks.
More than once the spirit seemed to move him, but by a
supreme effort he remained silent. The proceedings
mostly consisted of putting in papers and keeping out
papers, and asking witnesses if they identified their own
or somebody else’s signature. There was nothing en-
thralling about the papers that got in, or the papers that
fell out, and there was nothing dramatic about experts
who said they could to the Crown, and confided to the
defence that they’d rather not. Incidentally, there were
harmless bickerings and premeditated sarcasms at the
table ; and the Judge wanted to know why counsel lent
him so little assistance, and what they were there for if
they didn’t aid him in a difficult case? The defendants
were in the custody of the Sheriff, and the locked-up
jury were allowed the telephone, shake-downs, tea and
cake and ginger-pop.
* * * *
The Australian squadron showed up con-
,picuously in the matter of the search for the
second-hand dredge Walrus, which the economi-
cal Geelong (Vic.) marine authorities started to
import from S’Africa. The Walrus left Durban
on 13t’n August, with 23 men aboard and only 60
days’ provisions ; and when it hadn’t heaved in
sight of Australia —or any other known locality—
after some 80 days, Geelong Harbor Trust
besought Premier Deakin to haste to the rescue.
Deakin asked the Admiral to send one of the
alleged Australian warships in search, but the
Admiral replied that there wasn’t a ship in the
West just then, and there wouldn’t be unless he
made a special effort, and the effort, of course,
would take time. Apparently the squadron was
so unready that it wasn’t worth while trying to
get it ready, because the poor old Walrus would
probably be a very dead marine beast before it
could be made ready. The other cheap and very
second-hand dredge which the Geelong people
bought from the Natal Government sank the day
after it started for these shores. Geelong’s
second-hand dredge mania amounts to a tragedy.
* * * »
Messrs. J. A. Roger and Co., Williains-
town, Vic., write:—“Last week the merits of
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm were again demon-
strated locally. A customer of ours had a child
very bad with mumps. One of our salesmen
suggested giving Chamberlain’s Pain Balm a
trial. This was done, and the Balm applied—
(NOT RUBBED IN)—and a flannel bandage
was fastened round the throat and head during
the night. By morning the acute pains caused
by the swollen glands had disappeared, and in a
few days the mumps had entirely gone. We
think this simple and effective cure should be
widely known, as this distressing throat disease
is very prevalent at this season of the year.”
Keep Chamberlain’s Pain Balm on hand. It is
an antiseptic liniment and causes wounds to heal
in less time than by any other treatment. For
sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
Auckland (M.L.) has a State Frights party
of its own, comprising most of its property
owners, and, as a natural corollary, most of its
journals. These interesting papers are fond of
reproducing photos, of country roads in the Auck-
land province, labelled "The Neglected (or the
Starved) North,” and the point of the picture is
generally a buggy or a motor-car stuck in the
mud. They also print articles about these roads
and bridges, and anything else they think the
central Government at Wellington should con-
struct for them, but doesn’t, because it is at
Wellington. There is a little less love between
Auckland and Wellington than between Sydney
and Melbourne; and the former city rankles in
its alleged mind with the idea that it was robbed
of the capital. The great grievance of Auckland,
however, is that it has not got, and has little hope
of getting, a not very useful canal to connect
Auckland harbor on the east with Onehunga har-
bor (a shallow mud depression that under-sized
steamers can only use, with great care, at full
tide) on the west. Fat citizens in Auckland are
eternally making speeches about this unnecessary
canal, and speaking of the selfishness of Welling-
ton because they don’t get
It is a wise public servant who looks after
a job near what is supposed to be the heart of
things. At N.S.W. Guv’ment House, for in-
stance, there are no such things as deductions.
There isn’t an attendant doorkeeper or other sort
of flunkey paid out of the public purse there who
doesn’t get a “bonus for extra duties” ; and the
bonus runs up to 50 per cent, of the salary. If a
Guv’ment House messenger washes the towels he
has to get a bonus for it; and if the doorkeeper
runs up Guv’ment House flag, he gets paid extra
for the wear and tear of his arm. Also, if Parlia-
ment House watchman gives an eye to the fire-
extinguishing appliances, it is enough to call for a
bonus. But when theN.S. Wales’ public servant
happens to be an attendant or a nurse at Rook-
wood, Newington or Liverpool, no bonuses come
his or her way. On the other hand, even the
nurses have £25 deducted from their poor
wage of £9O a year, to pay for their quarters.
The head wardswoman at one of these asylums
gets £77 a year, and then, having to live on the
premises, because she couldn’t be a head wards-
woman if she didn’t, £25 is deducted to pay for
her accommodation. It is a pretty good sign of
the relative importance the State authorities
attach to the Guv’ment House flag and the hos-
pitals. , « »
A gentle Kanaka, on being returned to his
island from the Commonwealth, signalised his
arrival by murdering a missionary. The inhabit-
ants of his island were, on the whole, a quiet and
peaceable lot. and had never thought of killing a
holy man. The peace was only broken when this
Kanaka, who had “come under the civilising
influences of steady work and Christianity in
Queensland.” arrived. The cry of the Tory party
used to be that it was the gentle, unarmed, re-
turned Kanaka who would be butchered. Instead
of this, he seems to have returned with a gun.
MINE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The extremists would take everything for nothing,
as if it were a case of restoration of stolen property.”—
U. H. Rbid.
The greedy, feckless lout who loafs upon the corner-
flags ;
The pampered son of toil, and he who brings the
breakfast-chops ;
The easy-living lumper and the waster in his rags—
Queer men like these, and silly girls who work all day
in shops,
They want to take my goods and hand them generously
round,
To pass free beer and bread along the grasping labor-
line ;
They’d like to grab the fatness which my shrewd fore-
fathers found,
And split it up among them, hut—why, damn it, you
know, it’s mine !
Crack track-gallopers, crusted port, motors and caviare,
Delikatessen, English beers, furniture “ Made at
Home ”;
Theatre-seats and stunning hats for the girl in the
private bar ;
Carriages, harnessings silver and black, trappings of
g ild and chrome ;
Manicure, bric-k-brac, trips abroad, up-to-date books and
things ;
Painted ladies who “ like my way ’’—laughter and
sparkling wine,
Switches and powder and rustling silk, mirrors and
diamond rings ;
I buy th.se things for cash, and—why, damn it, you
know they’re mine !
My station up North, my crib on the Spur, and my
little place out at Toorak ;
My good, hard cash in shares and bonds, my money in
mills and mines,
And all the things that the dirty folk in the markets
rightly lack;
My handy men and my chambermaids, my wife and
her marriage-lines 1
Her sheltered children at breast and knee —the Faith of
their Fathers and such ;
My horses and cows and forage-stacks, my thousands
of sheep and swine,
They want to take ’em and give ’em away—give ’em
away, not much !
They can’t do that kind of thing, you know, with stuff
that I’ve paid for . . . mine !
River-frontages, grassy and green ; favor of gods and
men,
Power and place and preference at the hands of the
grovelling herd ;
Service of hireling sword and sweetness of scribbler’s
fulsome pen ;
Fawning of pimps and pandars—cads who skip at a
careless word ;
Solid return in kisses and cash for my barns of garnered
grain ;
Hothouse flowers and splendid frills for the Feminine,
flash and fine ;
Dead men’s shoes which I wear with ease, products of
paddock and plain,
They want to take ’em and hand ’em round, but—damn
it, you know, they’re mine !
TIC.
FRANK HENTY.


SHORTHAND
TYPEWRITING
L Uct J.ical
Ro\*«2£
OKKEEP/
ARCHITECTURE
man & m
BUILDING
CONSTRUCTIOH
Ipitmansl
Send for “ Home Study,” Post Free.
STOTT CSL HOARE’
BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street.. SYDNEY
COMMERCIAL
rn hN
Itlllllllllicll
/g.
WRITING
'mk-
m\
AUPi;BIICEMMS°
ANOTHER SOFT FELT *
IN TWO
SHADES,
DRAB and
DUST
FAWN.
gfd
12/6
'T'HIS is another shape of
4 Soft Felt. It is not
intended to be creased in
the crown as the Hat we
illustrated last week, but is
worn dented as shown.
It is of very smart Shape—
the Felt is of Fine Quality,
and it is finished in First Class Style.
It is indeed a High Quality Hat, and
great protection from the sun.
PRICE 12/6, postage 9d. extra.
FILL IN THIS ORDER FORM
and Post to Us.
Please send me the above
described Hat, for which I
enclose 13/3. Size
Color
NAME
ADDRESS
'PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
Hen’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
309=311 George=st., Sydney
The particulars of the Ebenezer Vickery
church amalgamation scheme, outlined by his
widow, show that the wealthy Sydney ex-bootmaker
and mortgage-holder nursed the fad which is the
common, last baby of the religiously-disposed
trader. It is simply the establishment of an
ecclesiastical palace emporium. The spectacle of
a swarm of little theological ragshops, each with
barely enough customers to keep its staff from
starving, shocks the Napoleon of the Counter as a
waste of force and dissipation of resources, and a
fooling away of labor and taxes and gas. So
he projects one big shop to swallow the little
ones up. Ebenezer’s scheme for the amalga-
mation of churches as if they were building
societies or insurance offices is practically the
same as that which struck James R. Fairfax,
of the Herald, in regard to the Congregationalists
and other sects and Bethels. The scheme is a
very old English one, and almost every pious ex-
cotton-spinner and brass-founder in that country
goes to the grave with it on his mind. The small
conventicles keep apart owing to theological dif-
ferences, but trifles like these count for nothing
to the Napoleon of the Counter. In building up
In's business he never let small differences of
opinion get in the way of large profits.
THE DEMON HOUSE.—ITS MINISTERING
ANGEL AND ITS VICTIMS.
The closed cemeteries question jalone
would justify the call for a Greater Sydney and
Newcastle, each under one authority. Every
petty littlesuburb whose graveyard is shut up by
the Board of Health turns the decree into an evil-
smelling source of income by levying a small
fine on anyone who breaks the regulation. It does
not really try to put down the illegal burying;
when a cemetery is so crowded as to become a
horror, and the bodies are heaped one on another
till the dead haven’t room to breathe, the local
council is glad right down to its blueher boots,
and adds £5 to the burial fee, calling the
charge a “fine.” The Board of Health
pleads with the pot-headed little councils to do
something effective, but it has been successful in
only one case. Petersham Municipal Council has
agreed to a bylaw raising the penalty to a mini-
mum of £l5. But even that isn’t a serious proceed-
ing- The Council, if it were in earnest, could pre-
vent anyone planting a dead body in a closed
cemetery just as definitely as it could prevent the
mourners taking up the floor of the mayor’s draw-
ing room and putting the defunct underneath.
Melbourne’s boss mystery—the finding of
half a hundredweight of cut-up man in the Albert
Park lagoon—has fizzled out. The detectives have
failed to arrest the murderer or to trace the
murdered man, so they have decided that it is not
a murder at all. They think that some ghoul of
an undertaker cut up one of his corpses so that he
might embezzle the value of the coffin and the
funeral, and shied some of the deceased into the
lake. Rewards are offered, presumably to induce
some undertaker to come along and confirm the
theory whereby bobbydom explains away its
failure. But the careful tying up and weightingof
the parcels, the smallness of the pieces the body was
chopped into, the haphazard hasty fashion in
which the chopping had been done—all point to a
murder. The undertaker theory looks ridiculous.
Ghoul and Co. could only make a profit out of the
business through a series of extraordinary circum-
stances. Say that somebody had a dead man on
the premises, and he paid the undertaker in
advance for the coffin and burial, and he got
Ghoul and Co. to shift the man to their own pre-
mises, aud told the firm that no one was coming
to the funeral, and that there would be no tomb-
stone and no inquiries, then Ghoul and Co. might
as well put that man in Albert Park lagoon as
anywhere else. But it is improbable that they
would take the risk under other conditions. And,
under those conditions, what did the man die of ?
The negleeted-child accusation seems
as comprehensive as the charge of “disorderly
conduct.” Lately a 15-year-old Daylesford (Vic.)
girl named Elsie Powell was sent to service in
Melbourne. There she became so homesick that
at last she started to walk the 100 miles back to
her old haunts. Bhe stuck to the railway as a
sure guide, and was making good time through
Footscray when she was arrested as a neglected
child. If she had been 21 instead of 15 the charge
would probably have been “ disorderly conduct.”
Next morning the local bench found itself con-
fronted with a wild-eyed, terrified infant, who
wanted to go home, and who was prepared to
swear that she hadn’t stolen any trucks or loco-
motives ; and that rare thing, a sensible and
kindly J.P., felt in the leg part of his clothes for
her fare, and sent her home.
• * * *
“F.H. ”: Re “ The Parson and the Priest ’’
(B. 27/7/’O6). A dignitary of the Church recently
stirred the hearts of the faithful, in a Vic. town,
concerning as-
sorted Asiatics
—of course, re-
presented as
meek creatures
going round
with halos, and
humbly asking
the preposter-
ous white per-
son if they were
not “a man and
a berruther.”
Thedivine-went
on to white-
wash the Af-
ghan, the creepy
thing from Ben-
gal, and the
smellful Chow,
till his “ deahly
beloved” blush-
ed to think they
were merely
wicked whites.
He vehemently
denounced the
White Austra-
lia policy as
anti - Christian,
having no por-
tion with a
Church that
drew no invi-
dious color dis-
tinctions. I saw
the same prea-
cher, making
haste to enter a
first-class car-
nage at the
station, next
morning. He
had dashed his
gamp into the
rack before he
sighted two
Chows at the
other end of
the compart-
ment. They
were well-dress-
ed, without
talons __ or pig-
tails, but still they were Chows. Then the
preacher precipitated himself out of that car-
riage, with his gamp and his goods, and made
for a compartment at the other end of the train,
and, having made quite sure it was Chowless, the
pillar of toe Church that drew no color distinc-
tions blandly entered in with his goods and his
gamp, and settled himself with a comfortable
sigh.
* * * *
When the Carruthefs Government, pushed
on by the Labor party, passed a law making
State school education free in N.S.W. the question
was asked, “Would the threepence taken off as
fees be put on as some form of payment for school
requisites?” Joseph answered “No.” The
answer should have been Yes-No. School
equipment is now a thing much bellowed
about by the heads of the Department.
School equipment means, in a vague sort of way,
something essential that the Department doesn’t
supply. It doesn’t include the big building, or
the teacher, or the forms and desks, but still it is
something essential—maps, or bottles to put the
pollywogs in. Last week Wagga parents met
and agreed, it is reported, to pay “equipment
fees” to the extend of 3d. or 6d. per head per
week. Apparently “ free education” only means
that the compulsory fee has given place to the
voluntary cadge.
* * * ■*
The claim of the high-placed civil servants
for the right of private entree at Government
House levees is, on the face of it, not one to in-
spire much enthusiasm in a sensible Australian.
The “ right of entree ” doesn’t give anything else
on the menu ; it doesn’t mean sandwiches and
free drinks, and isn’t in itself worth worrying
about. But what is of some importance, and
gives to the civil heads of departments a reason in
their agitation, is that the privilege denied to
them is given to certain military officers. In a
democracy there should be no attempt to make
the military official superior to the civil one.
That’s all very well in a despotism, or a monarchy
that has grown out of a despotism, but it has no
place in a free community. Whatever privileges
are granted to military personages should be ex-
tended to civil functionaries in the same degree.
GOING TO THE REAL FOUNTAIN-HEAD FOR TRUTH.
The statement that we have combined on fiscal peace is not true. To make doubly sure I questioned Mr.
Reid in the street respecting it, and he assured me there was not the slightest foundation for it.— Ex-\-Premier
M'Lean.
M‘LENN : “ I’m only a plain farmer man, sir! You would not cheat ME, would you ? "
The memoirs of the late Prince Hohenlohe
give striking testimony to the intolerance of royal
persons as regards criticism of royalty. The
writer repeats a conversation that he had with
Kaiser William’s wife re Count Herbert Bis-
marck’s awful presumption in speaking disrespect-
fully of the Kaiser. “He had the impudence to
tell the Prince of Wales (now King Edward)
that the Kaiser was unable to talk, and
was really incapable of ruling. The Prince
of Wales had informed the Empress that if he
had not attached importance to the good relations
of Great Britain with Germany, he would have
thrown Count Herbert Bismarck out of the
room.” The Prince of Wales, as he then was, is
the Kaiser’s uncle, and social etiquette permits
any young man to express an unfavorable opinion
of any sort of potentate to that potentate’s
nunky, especially if the opinion is as well-
informed as Was Count Bismarck’s. But what
H.R.H. resented was the awful “impudence” of
a mere subject in speaking contemptuously of a
Kaiser to a Prince. That was where the blas-
phemy came in, and caused the royal blood of the
listener to boil with indignation. Yet, rather
than disturb the peace of Europe (ye gods !) the
outraged uncle refrained from personal violence.
Just so ! In a rough-and-tumble it would have
been 10 to one on the Count—if this statement
doesn’t amount to illegal publication of the odds.
* * * *
An anniversary : On November 2nd, 1838,
Governor Gipps ordered a general fast through-
out New South Wales,, which then included Vic-
toria and Queensland, on account of the drought.
And the drought went right on. The gloomy
record for February, 1839, reads: “The Cow-
pasture River ceased to flow for the first time
since its discovery, 48 years previously.” And
for March : “Dead cattle along roads. No food
for man or beast.” Still there seems to have been
food for Gipps.
* * * *
At the special Criminal Court at Darling-
hurst (Sydney), on Thursday, an expert in hand-
writing admitted that he had, at a previous trial,
made a mistake. He added, however, that the
prisoner had been convicted all the same. It
would be interesting to know if the mistake con-
sisted in alleging that the prisoner did it when
he didn’t do it, or in declaring that he didn’t do
it when he did.
The 28th Anglican Synod at Auckland
(M.L.) struck a sensation. The Bishop of Auck-
land conceived the idea of inviting the Labor
leaders to select a speaker to attend a men’s mass-
meeting and explain what they thought of his
Church. Percy Andrews was chosen. He wasted no
time in informing the meeting that the Church had
started with the best of intentions, but had got
into bad company and gone to the dogs ; and that
it was now recruited from members of the privi-
leged classes who had been mentally disabled at
English ’varsities. He bluntly stated that the
empty churches were due to empty parsons, and
the Church would have to come off its pedestal
and work for social reform, or be swept aside as
a relic of the Dark Ages. It was no use preaching
holiness in the slums and brothels of Auckland, or
Brotherly Love and Christian Forbearance in the
social jungle, where mankind preyed on each
other like the brutes which perish. It would be
better to alter the economic conditions which
caused social evils than to merely rescue a few
isolated victims. After half-an-hour of this, the
Synod felt rather sorry for its invitation, but the
Bishop faced the roar of battle like a man.
* * * *
The Carruthers Government rightly de-
cides to do justice, even if it is tardy "justice, to
the long-suffering N.S.W. bobby. The bankrupt,
Police Superannuation Fund is to be put on a,
steady financial basis, so that Grandfather Cop
may now hope to retire at 60 on a well-earned
pension instead of dying of old age on his beat.
* * * *
The decree nisi, that plum of the Divorce
Court fruit-tree which has usually ripened in
three months into the luscious decree absolute, is
declared green by Justice Simpson, of N.S.W.,
and, except in extraordinary cases, will be guarded
by the Court for six months in future. Yet there
are people with hats quite as glossy as his ’Onah’s
who say there is no sense in his ’Onah’s innova-
tion, and tha,t it merely typifies the lingering
habits of the law, and the lingering dignity of his
’Onah.
* « * «
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance,
from George or King-street,*
THE VISION OF GLOOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Judkins rules,
Slow-moving teams across the droughty plain
Will plod to lusty hymns ; and no profane,
Full-flavored oaths will hurtle to the sky.
And pubs., and men, and things will all be dry,
And dancing halls will serve for Sunday-schools,
When Judkins rules.
When Judkins reigns,
The curfew bell will grimly toll at eight
(Ah ! woe to youthful lovers who are late).
To break the thrall, though baldheads may incline,
They’ll And it best to be in bed by nine.
A Sabbath wash will mean a week in chains
When Judkins reigns.
When Jud. is king,
Gay birds and bards will all be slain at sight,
And curtained gloom will shroud the stars at night.
Rut—pleasant thought ! —though joys will all have fled
’Twon’t matter much, to men —for they’ll be dead.
Oh, Life, where is thy charm, or, Death, thy stmg,
When Jud. is king?
N.B.W.
NULLA.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. «< Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
n arjrv Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
RUDCI Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’* Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Dir^itor.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian State Treasurers are having a
memorable time. Look at the revenue receipts—for the
first four months of the financial year, except in the case
of S. Australia, whose figures are for three months :
1904. 1905. 1906.
N.S. Wales ..£3,416,058 £3,557.444 £3,976,679
Victoria .. .. 2,220,772 2,276,293 2,479,628
Queensland .. 1,207,511 1,294,137 1,426,096
Westralia .. 1,094,374 1,070,672 1,042,428
S. Australia .. 580,603 583,156 611,721
Tasmania .. 267,778 271,586 286,699
Totals.. ..£8,787,096 £8,863,288 £9,823,251
Under such circumstances it might almost have been ex-
pected that even an Australian State Treasurer would be
virtuous. But, apart from Queensland, there isn’t one
State which doesn’t still reckon its land sales money as
revenue ; and there are only Victoria and Queensland
which are not still borrowing heavily, and even Queens-
land is spending a good deal of previously borrowed
money. So far as revenue and alleged revenue is con-
cerned, the past month’s figures are unusually good :
State Revenues for October.
Oct., ’O5. Oct., ’O6.
N.S. Wales.. £1,000,967 £1,114,941 Inc. £113,974
Victoria .. 555,773 589,265 Inc. 33,492
Queensland .. 261,759 304,223 Inc. 42,464
Westralia .. 283,849 257,603 Dec. 20,246
Tasmania .. 85,090 94,563 Inc. 9,473
And the first four months of the last two financial ye rs
compare in this way :
State Revenues for Year so far.
1905. 1906.
N.S. Wales (4 mos.) £3,557,444 £3,976,679 Inc. £419,235
Victoria (4 mos.) ... 2,276,293 2,479,628 Inc. 203,335
Queensland (4 mos.) 1,294,137 1,426,096 Inc. 131,959
Westralia(4 mos.).. 1,070,672 1,042,428 Dec. 28,244
Tasmania(4 mos.).. 271,586 286,699 Inc. 15,113
S. Australia (3 mos.) 683,156 611,721 Inc. 28,565
For a little of the increase it is possible that the recent
rushing in of dutiable goods in expectation of a higher
tariff was responsible. For the first four months of last
year the Customs collections were £3,041,975 ; for this
year, £3,351,702. In this increase Westralia does not
share ; the collections in that State fell from £309,182 to
£286,959.
There are, as usual, expenditure figures from
only three States :
State Expenditure for Year so far.
July-0ct.,’05. Julv-Oct., ’O6.
N.S. Wales ..£4,268,081 £4,388,797 Inc. £120,716
Queensland .. 725,677 774,400 Inc. 48,723
Westralia .. 1,104,996 1,086,409 Dec. 18,587
So far as N.S. Wales is concerned, the new Public Works
Fund has to be kept in mind ; some services which were
once paid for out of revenue direct are now being paid
for out of the fund. Instead of drawing the beer straight
out of the barrel into the mugs, it is first drawn into a
jug, and then poured into the mugs. The process really
doesn’t increase the beer ; but a crafty Treasurer can
point to the beer in the jug, and build some sort of a
reputation on it. If, however, he had 10 jugs, it wouldn’t
alter the facts that N.S. Wales is grabbing for
revenue about £1,000,000 a year derived from the sale of
assets, and, in addition, in four months spent £404,458 of
loan money. The State’s actual expenditure for four
months has been £4,793,255. The revenue, plus about
£300,000 of land sales money, has been £3,976,679, leaving
a deficit of £816,576.
Westralia has a deficit of £47,418 upon the past
month’s transactions plus whatever was spent out of loan
account. This State is drifting deeper and deeper into
trouble ; its expenditure is increasing, and its revenue is
decreasing ; and, instead of pulling itself together and
facing the situation, it proposes to disguise the truth a
while longer by further heavy borrowings. So long as a
State borrows, so long will it hide'the facts from itself.
The beginning of all honesty in Australian finance is the
stoppage of loans. When that happens (as it has happened
in Victoria) the people see for the first time just where
they stand; and when they have readjusted matters,
things go cn just as well as they did in the days when
they didn’t dream of passing an open pawnshop without
dropping in. * *
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers re-introduces his
Bill for the amalgamation of the two N.S.W. savings
banks, but he does it apologetically and after the manner
of one who walks softly upon eggs. A poll of the deposi-
tors of the Barrack-street institution is to be taken, and
if they dislike the idea of being absorbed by the Post
Office Savings Bank, they won’t be absorbed. Yet why
should there be a poll? If the depositors dislike being
absorbed by the State institution they can simply with-
draw their deposits, and there are private banks and
building societies galore to put the money in. One thing
is certain : If there is a poll, and the Barrack-street
depositors decide that they will not be absorbed by the
State Savings Bank, then the State guarantee and super-
vision ought to be withdrawn, and the Bar ack-street
enterprise should be left to go its own road at its own
risk as a mutual and purely Private Enterprise concern,
with directors elected by the depositors.
* * » *
The Bank of Australasia
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
April, 1900 £133,422 9 p.c. =£72,000 £20,000 £887,575
Oct,., 1900 151,466 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 939,041
April, 1901 145,119 10 „ „ 80,000 35,000 969,160
Oct 1901 140,077 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 1,009,237
April 1902 144,468 11 „ „ 88,000 16,000 1,049,705
0ct,’1902 136,943 11 „ „ 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
April 1903 157,705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353
Oct., 1903 151,598 12 „ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,146,951
April, 1904 150,934 12 ~ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904 140,066 12 „ ~ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
April 1905 136,153 12 „ „ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct,, 1905 137,451 12 „ „ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
April, 1906 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Profits in the aggregate still show up well; but the
bank’s money is not earning what it was ; for in running
the eye down the profits column, the fact has to be re-
membered that in the six years shown above, £641,000
has been earned and not distributed, and £641,000 of un-
divided profit at 4 per cent, is worth £12,820 per half
year, so that, other things being equal, the bank ought
to be showing at least that much more profit per half-
year now than it did in 1900. Coming down to the last
four years, the profits on the basis of shareholders’
capital and reserves have been
Oct., 1902 .. £lO 6 9 p.c. Oct., 1904 .. £lO 1 9 p.c.
Apl., 1903 .. 11 15 0 „ Apl., 1905 .. 914 0 „
Oct., 1903 .. 11 3 3 „ Oct., 1905 .. 913 9 „
Apl., 1904 .. 10 19 9 „ Apl., 1906 .. 912 3 „
Certainly, the figure is still high ; the ’Asia stands very
near the top of the list of Australian banks in this matter
of earnings. But if money earns money, there is no
reason why there should have been the fall shown above.
At least there ought'to be nareason. Australia has plenty
of use for the money—it is absurd to suppose otherwise of
a country which is still borrowing, and still importing-
manufactured goods which it could produce for itself.
If the Bank of Australasia and other Australian banks
were financing Australian factories, and more Austra-
lian farms, there wouldn’t have been this fall in profits
simply because money was plentiful; on the contrary,
with so much to finance, the more material they
had available for the work the bigger the
profits would be. As matters stand, the banks
have to depend very largely upon a couple of
industries which in their turn depend upon so uncertain
a thing as the Australian weather, and they most of the
time find themselves either taking tremendous risks or
locking up the money in their vaults till they see how
the season is going to turn out.
The Bank of Australasia’s profits are still high,
probably not because it is making much better use of its
money than most, other Australian banks, but because of
the great quantity of deposits with which it is favored.
The public’s money in the business is very nearly seven
times greater than the shareholders’ money. Of course,
this carries its risks both to depositors and to share-
holders. Shareholders’ capital is, so far as the depositors
are concerned, merely an insurance fund for the repay-
ment of deposits ; and the less the capital is in proportion
to deposits, the less is the insurance. In effect,
however, the risk only starts when deposits are
put out in advances or property. In this case capital
and reserves represent 18 per cent, of those in-
vestments—all the rest is depositors’ money. The
Royal Bank of Queensland, almost at the other end of the
list, only has twice as much of the public’s money as it has
of its own ; of its advances, &c., no less than 44 per cent,
is its own money, and only 56 per cent, is the public’s,
as against 82 per cent, in the other case. Every £1 of
’Asia shareholders’ capital and reserves has to carry the
risk of the depreciation of about £5 ss. worth of securities ;
every £1 of the Royal of Queensland shareholders’capital
has to carry the risk of the depreciation of only about £2
ss. worth. There is an idea that the bigger the bank, and
in general the more profitable it is, the less the investor’s
risk. There is clearly another side to that question.
Certainly, the big bank scores in that it can pay for six
first-rate men to reduce risks to a minimum, whereas the
small concern has to be guided by perhaps one man’s
judgment.
Bank of Australasia figures as at April 30,1906,
compared with those of 12 months previously in this
way
April, 1905. April, 1906.
Notes .. .. £495,237 £543,748 Inc. £48,511
Bills, &c. .. 2,401,773 2,924,503 Inc. 522,730
Deposits .. 10,286,330 16,904,281 Inc. 677,951
Liquid Assets.. 6,765,732 7,661,127 Inc. 895,395
Advances .. 15,055,970 15,484,095 Inc. 428,125
Premises .. 294,741 280,060 Dec. 14,081
The liquid assets represent 37J per cent, of all liabilities
to the public. Very nearly half of these liquid assets are
on short call in London ; if it were not for the high rate
ruling in London, Australian bank profits would show up
a good deal worse than they do. When that demand
eases off some of several things must happen. The banks
can go for safety and cut down deposit rates still further
—which won’t be pleasant for depositors. Or they may
pay present deposit rates, lock the money up, and show
less profits—which won’t be pleasant for shareholders.
Or they n ay lend the money out on land at boom prices
—which will be pleasant for shareholders and depositors
for a while, but is likely to make them both smart later
on. Or they may help to find legitimate use for all the
money available, at good rates, by a policy of High Pro-
tection, which will mean more industries to finance.
• * » »
The Colonial Sugar llefining Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1900 £89,389 10 p.c. = £89,344 £45 £420,680
Mar., 1901 93,608 30 „ „ 93,537 71 420,751
Sept., 1901 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421,071
Mar., 1902 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421,494
Sept., 1902 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
Mar., 1903 100,298 10 „ „ 100,000 298 422,185
Sept., 1903 100,316 10 „ „ 100,000 316 422,501
Mar., 1904 100,412 10 „ ~ 100,000 412 422,913
Sept., 1904 105,111 10 „ „ 104,608 503 423,416
Mar., 1905 155,322 10 „ „ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905 112,343 10 ~ „ 109,965 2378 416,411
Mar., 1906 112,042 10 „ „ 110,000 2042 418,453
Sept., 1906 111,679 10 „ „ 110,000 1679 420,132
What the profits are before the allowance for deprecia-
tion is written off it is impossible to say. Five years ago
“ sugar mills—land and improvements ” stood at £315,412.
By March last they were down to £245,378 ; now they
stand at £246,151. Whether this reduction of £69,261
represents sales or amounts written off cannot, how-
ever, be ascertained from the accounts. Refineries,
mills, and other fixed investments stood in at
£2,281,372 in 1901 ; now, five years later, they stand at
£2,472,873, an increase of £191,501. Whether that
represents the full value of the additions, or whether
other additions have been paid for out of profits, is
another thing that can’t be ascertained from the
accounts. In short, the true profits may be even less
than is represented, insufficient being written off for
depreciation, or they may be much greater, the excess
being hidden by being spent on improvements and
additions, and then written-off. The whole thing has to be
taken on trust. At Sept. 30, 1896, refineries, plants, and
similar fixed investments stood in the books at £2,127,202 ;
the disclosed profit was £85,546, or at the rate of
£8 os. lOd. per cent, per annum. At Sept 30, 1901, they
stood at £2,281,372; disclosed profit, £93,930; rate,
£8 ss. 7d. per cent. Sept. 30, 1906, refineries, &c.,
£2,472,873 ; profit, £111,679 ; rate, £9 os. 7d. per cent, per
annum. This growth—£B os. 10d., £8 ss. 7d., £9 os. 7d.—
at least suggests that the chief assets have been kept very
well written down, by the simple process of adding
largely to them out of undisclosed profits. Mostly the
C.S.R. Go. is accepted on trust as an investment; and
these figures, though not conclusive (because, for instance,
much more undisclosed profit may have been used for
additions in 1896 than is being used now), nevertheless
give a hint that the concern is no less heavily gilded than
it looks.
■* * * *
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building Society
(Sydney), from the year when, £42,881 having previously
been written off capital, interest on deposits was reduced
from 5 to 3 per cent. :
Depre-
Business oiation Nominal Owing
Profits. Written Re- to De-
Sept., Off. serves. positors.
1896 .. £5605 £59*3 £225 £150,017
1897 .. 5152 5000 377 118,315
1898 .. 3385 3500 262 110,891
1899 .. 2617 2600 279 105,433
1900 .. 2985 3000 264 98,626
1901 .. 2473 2500 237 93,556
1902 .. 3544 3500 281 89,820
1903 .. 3341 3500 122 85,436
1904 .. 3496 3500 118 82,049
1905 .. 3601 3500 219 75.596
1906 .. 3575 3500 294 75,543
In conjunction with which read this :
1895. 1900. 1905. 1906.
Deposits .. .. £180,541 £98,626 £78,596 £75,543
Ocher debts .. 14,135 1,685 1,268 2,242
Advances .. 217,414 118,128 96,990 95,257
Offices .. .. 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000
Other assets .. 413 5,035 5,681 5,410
Total debts .. 194.676 100,311 79,864 77,785
Total assets .. 223,827 129,163 108,671 106,667
Nominal surplus 29,451 28,852 28,807 28,882
The process hitherto has been to use profits to pay off
depositors, writing down assets by approximately the
same amount. How long is this writing down to go on ?
In the past year advances, properties, &c., showed a return
of £6 4s. per cent., after paying rates and repairs; and
that is rather lower than it has been lately. That is a fair
return, and ought to mean, under ordinary circum-
stances, that these assets have been written-down to
something approaching their true value. Still, there may
be special circumstances ; the properties may be old, for
instance, and a purchaser, instead of basing their capital
value on 16 years’ purchase, might only value them at 10
years’ purchase.
* • * *
A movement has been made in Sydney lately
to get authority for the St. Joseph’s and other building
societies in more or less similar circumstances to open
their doors for new'business ; and the necessary bill has
passed through one State House, but sticks at that. In ere
is no apparent reason why they shouldn’t re-open, pro-
vided that the society has a valuation of its assets
made by an approved appraiser, and "rites off
capital sufficient to cover any deficit. It would be a
grossly improper thing for any society to canvass in any
way for deposits on the strength of a fictitious capital,
but if any fictitious capital that may be discovered is got
rid of, and the depositor can see just what is the strength
or weakness of the concern, there is no reason "’hy Ine
existing organisations shouldn’t be made use of. Some
of th'm have battled through well and patiently, and
have learned lessons for the good of themselves and the
public that the new man in the business isn’t likely to
know. For the further security of depositors the
societies might very well be barred against making
advances exceeding (with the value of their offices, pre-
mises, and other properties) three times their capital and
reserves. That would mean that the advances and pro-
perties would have to slump 33J per cent, below book
value before the shareholders’ interest in them was wiped
out and the depositor and other creditor was touched.
In the case of the St. Joseph’s, whose shareholders’ in-
terest in its fixed assets amounts to only 28 per cent, of
the total, this provision would bar the society from taking
any new deposits until either some more of the old
deposits were paid off or the capital was increased.
* * » *
Harrison, Jones, and Devlin, Ltd., wool-
brokers, &c., of Sydney :
Written To Re- To
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
181)6 .. £13,629 8 p.c. = £BOOO £5,000 £629 £14,016
1897 .. 18,176 8 „ ~ 8000 5,000 5176 19,192
1898 .. 13,120 8„ „ 8000 2,500 2620 21,812
1899 .. 14,424 8,, ~ 8000 4,000 2424 24,236
1900 .. 12,741 8,, „ 8000 2,000 2741 26,977
1901 .. 6,120 7„ „ 7000 10,000 16,097
1902 .. 11,192 7 „ „ 7000 2,500 1692 17,789
1903 .. 9,014 7„ „ 7000 2,000 14 17,803
1904 .. 8,845 7,, „ 7000 2,000 17,648
1905 .. 11,778 7„ „ 7000 4778 22,426
1906 .. 14,805 7,, „ 7000 5,000 2805 25,231
The goodwill item (£40,000) was wiped out during 1904 ;
and the balance-sheet now looks clean, though details
are few. As far as they go they show this progress
1896. 1900. 1905. 1906.
Debts on Mortgage.. £87,000 £78,000 £60,000 £60,000
Other Debts .. .. 94,821 115,605 73,673 65,114
Freeholds (cost) .. 179,513 179,514 179,514 189,514
Total written off Free-
holds 14,513 28,014 34,514 39,514
Advances, &c.. .. 134,836 173,052 114,599 103,845
The shrinkage in “ advances, &c.” is noteworthy. Pos-
sibly the co.’s clients don’t need the help now that they
did in 1900 and thereabouts ; possibly, also, the co. has
decided that this isn’t the time to make lavish advances
to new men to become squatters. Anyhow, the advances
are much smaller. Yet the profits (“ after providing for
bad and doubtful debts ”) are larger than they were when
the advances were 70 per cent, heavier ; and £1 made by
risking £lOO is a good deal better than £1 made
by risking £l7O. Altogether, the figures have a
good look about them, in 10 years the co., besides
paying l a steady dividend, has written £25,000 off pre-
mises and added £11,215 to reserves; and moreover,
judging partly by the profit shown (which isn’t an
infallible guide, certainly, because commissions are
lumped with interest earnings), the £103,845 of advances,
etc., now on the books are worth £ for .£ at least as much
as the £134,836 on the books at the end of 1896. Further,
,in 10 years £27,000 has been lifted off the mortgage, and
that means at least £lOOO a year ; in other words, it
ought to be as easy for the co. to pay 8 per cent, now as
it was to pay 7 per cent. 10 years ago.
♦ * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston): —
Dividend and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1901 £760 6 per cent. = £315 £445 £1612
Sept., 1901 623 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
Mar., 1902 465 6 „ „ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903 470 6 „ „ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904 815 6 „ „ 315 600 3131
Sept., 1904 667 6 „ „ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905 696 6 „ „ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905 1148 6 „ ~ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906 1042 8 „ „ 420 620 5317
Sept., 1906 818 8 ~ „ 420 398 6715
The profits of this concern move in a mysterious way, and
one doesn’t like to see that in connection with a trustee co.
It may mean speculative business ; it may only mean that
the co. takes credit for its corpus commissions in lump
sums, instead of spreading them out over the whole period
through which the realisation of the estate lasts. The
co.’s own funds (capital £lO,OOO and reserves) are repre-
sented by Treasury deposit (£5000) and mortgages
(£10,369); nothing can be said about the earnings ci
these investments, and no idea of their quality can be
formed, because interest received is lumped with com-
missions. Expenses are creeping up—Sept., 1904, £403 ;
Sept., 1905, £547 ; Sept., 1906, £633. How these stand in
relation to the work done cannot be judged either,
because the co. doesn’t mention the value of estates in
hand. In the matter of the things they don’t mention
the accounts are most unsatisfactory ; in that respect,
this is one of the trustee cos. which are busy piling up
reasons in favor of a State or Federal Trust Department,
such as Maoriland has. The one thing conspicuously in
favor of the co. is the large additions it has made to
reserves ; but still, even these may be bogus, unless the
assets are good, and that can’t be tested one way or the
other.
* * * *
The Pastoral Finance Association (Sydney):
Bonus to In lteduc-
Visible Wool-selling tion of
June, Profit. Shareholders. Deficit. Deficit.
1901.. £25,925
1902.. £2530 .. £1037 .. £1493 .. 24,432
1903.. 1611 .. 915 .. 696 .. 23,736
1904.. 3117 .. 1129 .. 1938 .. 21,748
1905.. 3983 { Cowritten off \ 21 > 176
1906.. 10,675 .. 1819 .. 8856 .. 12,320
In 1905 something apparently considerable was written
off doubtful assets, and this year £7500 is said to have
been written off freeholds, plants, &c. The £2OOO
shown above as written off in ’O5 is simply referred
to in the accounts as an appropriation. The pub-
lished statements are very fragmentary ; the profit
and loss account is a mere statement that the
profit was so much, with no hint as to how it was
made. The capital is £122,279; the debts to the
public (including mortgages, debentures, &c.), £98,188.
The assets consist of freehold and plant (the huge pile on
the North Shore, Sydney), £135,494 ; advances, invest-
ments, &c., £69,643. Twelve months ago the former item
was £139,600 ; and two years ago the latter item, was
£72,447. Evidently the co. has had a very good year ;
but, apart from that, nothing worth much can be got
out of the accounts. All that looks at all clear is that
until the past year little or nothing had been recently
written-off the'big item; and whether anything much
has been written-off “ investments, &c.,” out of
undisclosed profits is undiscoverable. As previously
mentioned, a few thousands were apparently written-off
in 1905, though in that case the greater part of the
“ profit ” thus disposed of seems to have been made by
writing up other assets.
* * * *
Illawarra and South Coast Steam Naviga-
tion Co. (N.S.W.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1901 .. £2777 8f p.c. = £2490 £287 £27,401
Sept., 1901 .. 1590 8f „ „ 2490 26,501
Mar., 1902 .. 2392 8f „,, 2490 26,403
Sept., 1902 .. 2508 8J ~ ~ 2490 18 26,421
Mar., 1903 .. 3060 8| ~ „ 2490 570 26,991
Sept., 1903 .. 2319 8J ~ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904 ... 2692 8J „ „ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904 .. 2192 8J „,, 2490 26,724
Reserves capitalised, £19,224 ; assets written down
or applied to capital, £21,050 ; increasing capital
from £49,797 to £74,695 .. .. .. 7,500
Mar., 1905 .. £3562 7 p.c. = £2614 £948 8,448
Sept., 1905 .. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906 .. 3062 7 ~ „ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906 .. 3079 7 ~ „ 2625 454 8,822
Besides the reserves shown above there is something that
may be a reserve —“ Repairs, suspense and contingency
account, £2657 ” ; an addition of £157 was made to
it during the half-year. The profits are shown net, an
unknown amount being charged to profit and loss for
depreciation. Some sort of a hint of the amount written
off out of profits may, however, be got from the following
(on account of the rearrangement of things in 1904 it is
no use going back beyond that) :
March, Sept., March, Sept.,
1905. 1905. 1906. 1906.
Capital £74,695 £74,695 £74,695 £75,000
Debts to public.. .. 1,165 2,841 5,848 1,683
Ship Property .. .. 40,393 39,839 42,471 43,488
Cash, Treasury bills, &c. 42,235 43,958 44,303 39,732
Other assets .. .. 6,295 6,773 7,252 7,567
Ship property has in 18 months increased in book value
by £3095. But during that time £7070 has been paid on
“new steamship (Moruya) account”; also the steamers
Peterborough and Coomonderry have been purchased and
presumably paid for, along with other assets ; so appa-
rently there has been paid out of profits the cost of
these two vessels, together with about £4OOO towards the
cost of the Moruya—whioh seems a very liberal set-off to
the general depreciation of the fleet, especially as repairs
have been also paid for out of profits. Certainly, if the
unknown amounts written off for depreciation are not
excessive, then the dividend is quite as much as the co.
can stand, and a while ago it was more than it could
stand. In 18 months only £374 has been added to the
formal reserves. The greater part of those reserves is
an insurance fund ; and £374 is a very paltry amount to
add net to a shipping co.’s insurance fund in 18 months,
seeing that there have been no ascertainable losses dur-
ing- the period. Still, the movements under the “ Ship-
ping property ” heading before mentioned suggest that a
very liberal allowance is made for depreciation ; and on
that account the dividend maybe justifiable, though it
could hardly be justified if the profit were only what the
co. says it is in the profit and loss account.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co. (N.S.W.)
Written To Ee- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept.,’o4.. 10 p.c. =£5703 £3OOO £12,962
Mar., '05.. £8053 10 „,, 6250 3000 11,755
Sept.,’os.. 8427 5,, „ 3185 2000 £3242 14,997
Mar., ’06.. 3528 5„ „ 3554 1000 13,971
Sept.,’o6.. 2368 5„ „ 3750 12.559
Or, so far as the past half-year is concerned, it might be
put that £4048 profit was made, but that £l6BO, the cost
of re-opening the Stanford-Merthyr mine, where the ex-
plosion and fire occurred, has been written off. The co.
has come out of its troubles very well; it has paid its
6 per cent., and, after writing £lOOO off coal properties,
and providing £3436 out of profits to cover depreciation,
it has in the 12 months only trenched on its reserves to
the extent of £2408, which is no doubt too much ; but,
then, something can be forgiven a mining co. which has
built up reserves to be trenched upon, and which has
gone on providing substantially for depreciation no
matter what has happened. Twelve months ago, the
co.’s liquid assets were £5BBB in excess of current liabili-
ties ; they are now £5860 in excess. Meantime the paid
capital has been increased from £138,740 to £150,000 ; but
that has gone into plant, &c. Certainly the co. has
no spare coin available ; its cash in hand is hypothecated
for more machinery, and it had an overdraft of £3225
before paying the present dividend ; but considering
what happened at Stanford-Merthyr, one of its two mines,
it makes a fresh start under far more favorable fcondi-
tions than might reasonably have been expected. The
East Greta mine stands in the balance-sheet now at only
£10,551 (against £12,613 twelve months ago) and the
Merthyr, which is leasehold, still stands at £ll,OOO. The
railway, the freeholds in connection therewith, plant,
and equipment constitute the bulk of the assets ; among
them they stand for £136,578.
• * * *
The Heddon-Greta Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
Total Deficit
charged to (apart from
Coal Land Develop- Develop-
Sales. Sales. merit. merit.)
Mar., 1902 .. £504 £1,798 £1951
Sept.,-1902 .. 2,983 £668 4,888 1241
Mar., 1903 .. 4,290 1685 5,692 521
Sept., 1903 .. 8,599 94 7,573 380
Mar., 1904 .. 9,927 209 9,881 1520
Sept., 1904 .. 11,898 278 11,017 2054
Mar., 1905 .. 11,986 12,450 2054
Sept., 1905 .. 6,956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906 .. 12,420 14,323 3538
Sept., 1906 .. 10,375 14,323 3394
Which means that a profit of £144 has been made during
the past half-year. It has been a long struggle. And
unfortunately the ordinary shareholders, who put up the
money in the first place, have not come out of it without
losing a leg or two ; for on account of the accumulation
of debenture and other debt, with the colliery still
dependent on hired trucks, it became necessary to
issue preference shares; and the terms are not
too pleasant for holders of ordinary shares to think
about. Even now, with £20,844 of preference capital
(the ordinary ditto is £42,573), there is £9285 of deben-
ture and other debt. Considering the labor and other
t roubles the co. has had this past half-year, following
upon the previous half-year’s mine-fire from which the
io. stili suffers, the result is pretty good. It is only
just now that the fire-area is being re-opened ; it appears
that, though the destruction has not been very great, a
fair but unknown amount will have to be spent to make
that part of the mine workable. Still, in spite of that,
the co.’s outlook is brighter than it has ever been before,
though, by reason of the preference shares, ordinary
shareholders can never be where once their hopes planted
them.
* « * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
(N.S.W.)
Mine
Develop- Re-
Profits. Dividends. ment. serves.
Sept., 1901 £6sll{^ , ; l^P; c -= _ £lBB6
Loss.
Mar., 1902 1661 Nil —22 a
Sept., 1902 25 Nil 200
1 ’ Deficit.
Mar., 1903 525 Nil 325
Sept., 1903 1163 Nil
Mar., 1904 1214 Nil 2702
Profit.
Sept., 1904 353 Nil |349
Mar., 1905 105 Nil 2244
Sept., 1905 289| Writte „ $ £lBso } £221 4032
Mar., 1906 577 Nil 751 4206
Loss.
Sept., 1906 2 Nil 2974 GB2
The deficit includes the amount spent on mine develop-
ment; but the profit or loss shown is apart from that item.
Two years ago, the old mine having been worked out, a
new property was acquired at Cessnock, at a cost appa-
rently of £7435. But, so absurd are the published figures
of this co. that, while the new property only stands in the
balance-sheet at that figure, so far as one can make out,
the old worked-out property is still in the accounts at
£Bl,OOO. If the old property is worth nothing, the
honest thing would be to write £Bl,OOO off capital, which
now stands at £105,160. Meantime, the development of
the new property is being charged to profit and loss,
that is, the book-value of the new property is not being
added to by the amount spent upon it. But, unfortu-
nately, the cost is not available out of profits. In March,
1905, just before the Cessnock purchase began to figure
in the accounts, the paid capital was £104,370 ; and since
then (18 months) only £790 has been got in. At the
former date, the liquid assets exceeded the liabilities by
£1749 ; the current liabilities now exceed the liquid
assets by £12,208. Though the co. is ostensibly charging
development to profit and loss, it is therefore simply
running into debt for the cost. It has really paid neither
for the new property nor for any part of its develop-
ment. On paper the co. had a capital of £104,370 when
it started its new life ; but in reality it had no more than
probably £15,000 of capital, the assets «.;presenting the
rest having been “ blewed.” If, instead of keeping the
£104,370 in front of it, it had set down the figures
£15,000 (and even they are probably excessive), it might
have more easily come to a decision that it must put up
some further capital. As matters stand the finances
are utterly unsatisfactory; for apart from the
fact that it is paying 5 per cent, on the
purchase price of the new colliery, its working
■capital is being borrowed at 7 per cent.; and it is
extremely improbable that the £lO,OOO arranged for
at that rate will see the business through. The co.,
having been shamefully improvident in the past, is tr> ing
to get a new lease of life without disgorging any of the
old profits (which weren’t all profits) or putting up any
new capital; and if it can pull through on that basis it
will have more luck than it deserves.
* * * *
Melbourne Ice Skating and Refrigerating
Co.—the concern which owns and runs the Glacianum in


How t
Make
Your
Will
5o that it
Will be
Carried
0ut......
L
cl
nffM
mi
mmm
'^rj,
TIC
R
Mi
m
Melbourne, and is now proposing to go in for ice-making
and cold storage :
Profits. Dividend. Written Off. Deficit.
£387
Premium on shares, £125 262
Sept., 1906.. £5732 5 p.c.=£1225 £1457 2788
The co., with a capital of £22,500, had its premises ready
early in June; and in four months its receipts ran to
£10,582, while the running expenses were £4631.
Question now is what to do with the building during the
summer months ; and the directors—shipping people
mostly—are said to be hatching a scheme. The
co. has put £38,006 irito land, buildings, &c.,
and that has left it (before paying dividend) with mort-
gages, overdraft, and other liabilities, totalling £8035.
The deficit to begin with (£387) was preliminary ex-
penses ; but there is another £2OOO, representing shares
issued for which no money was paid, which may possibly
be also a goodwill item, though there is no certainty
about it.
* * * ■*
Divs. declared by W.A. mines and works
during October tot up to £242,935, as against £237,063
for 0ct.,’05. The mines responsible are : Great Fingall,
£62,500; Ivanhoe, £50,000; Kalgurli, £45,000; Persever-
ance, £35,000; South Kalgurli, £20,000; Hainault,
£7500; Sons of Gwalia, £16,250; Black Range, £1688;
and Fremantle Smelter, £5OOO.
* * » ♦
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, continues to open
out very satisfactorily, and the ore reserves must have
greatly increased since December 31, when they were
estimated at three years’ supply. This included no ore
from Hamilton shaft, where levels have been driven at
800 ft., 1000 ft., 1200 ft. and 1350 ft., all in good grade ore.
At 2050 ft., in the main shaft, the lode has been cut only
27ft. west of the shaft, and is 7ft. wide, worth lOdwt.
The management has decided to instal another No. 8
Krupp ball mill, and a new furnace, the invention of
engineer Dagger, of the Associated, and to raise the
output to 16,000 tons monthly. The additional plant is
expected to start in February next. There is n w
an accumulation of about '600,000 tons of o d
residues, worth about 12s. Od. per ton, which it
is intended to treat in the Ridgeway machine. One
of these machines has been working on the mine for the
past tw'elve months, and an order for ten more was
given ; but their construction has been suspended owing
to an injunction having been lodged for an alleged in-
fringement of patent. A number of these plants will be
installed, especially on small mines, once the dispute is
settled. The machine can treat 60 tons of slimes, or
residues, daily, and the blanket boy can attend to it.
One is being tested on the Associated.
* * * *
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie, after treating
40,000 tons during the past financial year, ends up with
ore reserves officially estimated at 101,800 tons, worth
855., against 89,400 tons, worth 945., a year ago, and
67,000 tons, worth 108 s., on Ist October, 1904. When
manager Roberts took charge in 1903, the mine was said
to be w’orked out; and yet, after crushing continuously
forthree years, there is still two and a half years’ ore in
sight, and these figures are reckoned on what looks like
a conservative basis. The Oroya shoot is, however, so
badly defined that it is never safe to predict, that a
smooth face is a wall ; and, over and over again, rich ore
has b< en found behind what was regarded as a wall. 00.
has been earning about £ll,OOO a month profits, and
paying divs. at rate of £7300 only, so must have a large
reserve, and may declare a bonus at the annual meeting
in December.
* * * *
Boulder Main lieef, Kalgoorlie, after a verv
long spell, has resumed crushing. The treatment plant
has been thoroughly overhauled, and brought up-to-date,
and Manager Wauchope is sanguine of making the mine
pay. On June 30, ore in sight was estimated at 20,000
tons, worth 345., or about 10 months’ supply. Since
then a lot of development has been done, and ore of a
better grade opened up, so the results should be better
than the estimate. This mine has been unlucky in its
past management, and has not been fairly averaged.
Rich shoots were rooted out, and the poorer stuff left
behind. In this way good stuff may have been missed,
and the mine may therefore have a longer life than it at
present looks to have. Work is being carried on right
down to 1700 ft., and every level has been sampled by the
present manager, though a predecessor reported that
sampling was useless, as the mine was worked out.
♦ * * *
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, has resumed sinking
below the 750 ft. level, and will next open up at 850 ft.
The mine has not shown up so well lately, and the ore
treated has been much poorer. During the past six
months values have averaged 28s. sd. per ton and profits
£1450 monthly. During the preceding six months values
were 325., and profits £2OOO. Unless the grade can be
brought up to its old standard the value of the scrip
must fall. The extension of the treatment plant is now
being pushed on, bub it is slow work adding to a plant
and maintaining the output at the same time.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) is again looking hopeful in the
main shaft below 1150 ft. Down to 1248 ft. values varied
between 13dwt. and 18dwt. per ton ; then for 10ft. the
grade dropped to 2dwt. From 1258 ft. to 1273 ft. values
improved to Bdwt. The twelfth level will be opened up
immediately at 1250 ft., and Manager Moss has no doubt
the result will be satisfactory. The winze below the
eleventh level is going down in ore worth 12dwt., which
is a good sign. Co. has fully four years’ supply of ore in
sight, and allowing for every expense, barring deprecia-
tion, there is, on the official estimate of ore, a visible
profit of 1525. 6d. per share, without allowing anything
for future developments, Co. is now earning profits at
the rate of over 200 per cent, on its nominal capital, and
distributing at the rate of 150 per cent, omy, so is build-
ing up a large reserve fund.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) started crushing in
June, 1905, when 2100 tons, worth 265. 3d. per ton, were
treated at a loss. Since then about 8500 tons have been
treated monthly at a profit of £4OOO to £5OOO. Latterly
the grade of ore has been falling off, though the profits
have been fairly well maintained. When the mill started
ore reserves amounted to only 18 months’supply, and it
is doubtful if developments have been kept ahead of treat-
ment. Both the Perseverance and the Lake View lodes
are notoriously patchy and poor below 700 ft., as the pro-
gress reports show. The main shaft is now down about
1500 ft., and work at this point will soon prove whether
the lode at this depth is 14ft. wide, worth 40z., as a drill
alleged. If work verifies the bore, both the Hainault and
Perseverance should benefit, as the rich ore was calculated
to be 345 ft. from the Perseverance and only 90ft. from the
Hainault boundary.
» ■* * *
Narlarla Hills, Kimberley district (W.A.),
boomed as a second Broken Hill and Wallaroo combined,
has bitterly disappointed a lot of poor devils who were
lured to that sultry locality by reports of sensational
finds of tin, copper, gold and silver, also diamonds,
rubies, and other things that sparkle. At latest advices
there were 70 men waiting at Derby to get away, but the
steamship agent wanted to see their fares first. On a
previous trip half-a-dozen stowed away, and at Fremantle
they were gaoled—a sorry ending to their fortune-hunting
trip. The country is good for cattle ; for minerals it
would be dear at a farthing per square mile until
systematic prospecting has been done. Further south
the tin spurt continues, about 1000 men knocking out
a living. Moolyella, close to Marble Bar, is about the
best patch at present.
* * * *
Barrambie Ranges mine (W.A.) has not been
able to get moving, though shares are top-sawyers in the
Melbourne market, and Sydney occasionally nibbles at
them. It is said (although the rumor is hard to verify)
that the Board won’t let visiting experts below. Tins is
either false or foolish. Either a mine is a mine or it is
not. In either case, the sooner the truth is out the
better for the real investor. Maybe the Board wants
battery music first, so as to have yields to speak should
a Stock Exchange wrecker turn up. This is all
right; but once the stampers drop let there be no
secrecy. Co. claims 1000 tons at the surface, worth
3Aoz. Everyone says that rich stone has been
bagged. Big early yields are therefore looked for.
Whether they can be kept up is another matter ; and
the mine should certainly be opened to let the public
judge. In any case, divs. have to be paid on 50,000
shares, and they stand up at towards 50s ; so co. will
need to have plenty of gold to give a decent return on
£125,000. Of the show r , one thing is certain : it is in
decent hands. The manager must be a good sort also, or
lie would have grabbed the Golden Hill lease for himself
instead of passing it on at bed-rock rates to the Barrambie.
The accounts of the Zinc Corporation, Ltd.,
show a loss for the half-year to August 31 of £7OBl. But
the figures are little good, anyway. On the one hand,
much of the work was experimental, and it shouldn’t
cost £5105, plus management expenses, to treat £4362
worth of concentrates in the future. If it did, as the
tailings that the concentrates were made out of cost a
further £2363, the outlook would be inky. On the other
hand, £67,330 has been put into machinery, plant, &c.,
during the six months, and charged to capital account,
and it has yet to be proved whether the purchases are
worth half that money—in other words, whether the
half-year’s losses are not four times greater than the
accounts show. The co.’s actual liabilities on August 31
were £150,360 ; this is almost all owing to Broken Hill
Block 14 00., the options held over other cos.’ tailings not
being shown as liabilities. The cash in hand is £8217;
instalments and calls due or to come due on issued
shares, £47,546—t0tal £55,763. Apart from payments
for South, British, and oth r tailings, supposing those
deals are completed, and demands for more machinery,
the co. therefore needs £64,597 to provide for actual
liabilities. Hence the new issue of 150,000 shares, 113,333
of them, underwritten at 255., bringing in £141,666,
while the underwriters have a two years’ call on the
balance at £2. The 113,333 will go to present share-
holders in the proportion of one for every three held.
• • * *
There is no nonsense about general-manager
Delprat, of the Broken Hill Prop., and spokesman for the
Barrier cos. in this matter of the demand for a rise in
wages. The unions wouldn’t meet the cos. in conference
because non-unionist workmen would be represented,
too ; and there was a deadlock. The unions retired to
their Trades Hall to decide on a course of action. While
the mass meetings were on, up turned the general-
manager. Would they let him into the Trades Hall ? He
wanted to talk to them. They would, and did. So he
got to business straight away. Whether what he said
smoothed all troubles is not known yet; but it is agreed
on all sides that his visit to the Trades Hall has made a
settlement much easier.
* * * •
It is figured out that the 12J per cent, rise in
wages offered by the Broken Hill cos. would mean
£138,000 a year, of which about £55,000 would be paid
by the B.H. Prop.
* * * *
North Broken Hill’s profit for four weeks in
October was £8779. Lead is taken at £l9 Is. 6d. per ton,
and silver at 2s. lOd. fine. At present rate of production
£1 a ton for lead means £lOOO per month to this co.;
and 3d. for silver means about £3OO. So £l4 Is. 6d. for;,
lead, and 2s. 7d. for silver, which are beyond the average:
prices, would mean a profit of £3479 for four weeks. This'
present co. only took over the mine at the beginning of
July last year, and its first month’s output was valued
on the basis of £l3 10s. for lead and 2s. sd. for silver.
That was only 16 months ago. Now lead is reckoned at
£l9 Is. 6d., and silver at 2s. lOd. In 16 months ! And
still there are people who act as though such a feverish
state of things will last.
* * » *
Again there is the whisper of a movement to
shift the head-office of the Broken Hill Prop, to London ;
of the 960,000 shares only a few short of 700,000 are now
on the English register, so they can do it if they want it
done. And if they do it, the next whisper will be that
Bewick, Moreing, and Co. are to be appointed to some
control over the concern. But the B.H. Prop, had better
let 8., M. and Co. prove themselves at Broken Hill first.
Their start isn’t too encouraging.
* * ■* *
The South, Broken Hill, is keeping up its repu-
tation as the most-improved mine along the line of lode.
The phenomenal ore body at the bottom level is still
showing in the end of the western crosscut, and the
values of the ore are well maintained. Also, the car-
bonate lode which was uncovered alongside the South
road, just in front of the manager’s residence, gives pro-
mise of something good in the far southern portion of
the mine. If it turns out so, it will be a set-off to the
poverty-stricken south drive at the 825 ft. level, where
the silver values have dropped to a fraction over loz.
This drop does not make things look very hopeful
for the South Blocks, towards which this south drive is
burrowing.
* • * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, has large quantities of
ore below the 1215 ft. level, so the diamond drill alleges.
On the other hand, nothing in the way of a payable shoot
of ore has yet been found by the drill which is boring
out westward at 315 ft. Nevertheless, some of those con-
nected with the mine still possess an unbending faith in
the existence of a western ore body. One of the directors
is game to keep the drill ripping away westward for 800 ft.
» * * *
A syndicate, which has the pick of the copper
claims at Wertago, far west of Cobar, in the White Cliffs
district (N.S.W.), is putting up a concentrating mill.
The field is very well worth testing, in spite of its awful
distance from everywhere. By picking ore a few ; mall
parties have made a living there in the less droughty
times for 12 years.
* * * ■*
Something new in the way of gold-mining in
Australia is proposed for Araluen (N.S.W.). For years
past a family of Dogans have been making a living out of
a block adjoining what is now the ground of the Araluen
Valley and Araluen Redbank Dredging cos., by barrow-
ing away the Bft. or 10ft. of over-burden and panning off
the rich wash underneath. Water can’t be got up to this
ground, so dredging and sluicing are out of the
question ; but a co. proposes to put in a steam
shovel, and handle the stuff on a big scale.
It is the idea of M. T. N. Bluck, an engineer who
worked the shovels in the scooping of the Manchester
Canal. There is one small steam shovel at work in con-
nection with a dredge in Victoria ; but in that case it is
simply an accessory. The present scheme looks good ;
if it pans out up to its looks, there will be this advantage
—that when this ground has been worked out, the whole
plant will be easily shifted to other ground. The work
being done by steam shovels in America is simply
amazing ; to shift and load 2000 tons of stuff per hour is
a fairly ordinary record.
* * * *
Melbourne Cope’s Creek dredge, Tingha
(N.S.W.), 41 tons stream tin from 4889 cubic yards.
At present price that should run to something over 2s.
per yard. If that can be maintained, tin-dredging in
New England will stand a considerable drop in the
market. Surface that will go 21b. of stream tin to the
yard pays very well. Cheap methods of handling poor
dirt is just as important a factor in tin production as the
high price.
* * * X
The good prospects pf the Harden mine
(N.S.W.) sent the crowd rushing for the West Harden,
when that show was put off on Monday. It is in fifty
thousand shares—lB,ooo paids (10s.) to the pro-
moters, 22,000 to the public, 10,000 in reserve ;
promoters also take £ll5O in cash and six months’
bills, which will mean pretty prompt calls, for
only £1650, less flotation expenses, will be available oh
application, and allotment. The crowd at once ran the
sh ires (Isl od. paid) to a premium of Is. Well, if the man
in Pito-stre&t, who has never seen the mine (if it is a
mine, which has yet to be proved), thinks he knows
better what it is worth than the shrewd people
who are selling: it, it is his funeral. The
land may have the Harden reef, but the gold
in the Harden reef occurs in shoots, and the shoots dip
to the east, and away from the West Harden ground.
Harden began on one shoot and has since developed two
more ; but the prospecting it has done has been easterly,
and not westerly, presumably because the best pro-
spects lay that way. The West Harden is a perfectly
legitimate prospecting' venture; but it is only a prospect-
ing venture. The capital available, after paying the pur-
chase money, will be ridiculously small; and it looks
almost certain that another 4s. per share will have to be
got in at least. Of that, Is. 6d. should have been called
for on allotment.
Lloyd’s (N.S.W.) makes a further issue of
50,000 shares, bringing up the total to .'i:,0,000. Picking
up the lode beyond the fault is an expensive process, and
probably this is put forward to justify the scheme in
London, where the office is ; all the same, 300,000 is a
ghastly burden of shares for even the Lloyd’s to carry.
The new issue will get rid of the debenture and other
debt, and leave a few thousands in hand. It will bring
divs. nearer, but it will make them thinner when they
do arrive.
* * * *
To the announcement regarding the finds at
Gardner’s Blocks, next the C.S.A., Cobar, there was
added—" And a co. is being- formed by Mr. Frank Gard-
ner to provide adequate working capital.” The men who
might have given the shares in the group a fillip thought
they knew what the milk in the cocoanut was, and C.S. A.
shares scarcely budged. Yet the find is important. True,
nothing in the shape of sampling - results are given ; all
that the public has seen is a collection of very alluring
specimens. But the workings in Gardner’s Blocks are
about 1000 ft. away from the O.S.A. ore, and there are
large possibilities in a body of the width of this one when
it persists for over 1000 ft. The Gardner stone consists
largely of carbonate of lead of the same character as that
which has been sent from the C.S.A. to the smelters.
* * * *
Manager Thomas, of Stanford-Merthyr Colliery
(N.S. W.), where the explosion happened just over 12
months ago, has been looking up recor.,B, and, as a
result, puts down the re-opening of that mine as the
most successful for a propert}’of its size and character.
The man who has seen a colliery on fire hasn’t often
given any account of it; but some idea of what the thing
is like may be got from the fact that, in this Stanford-
Merthyr, the fire ran along over 1000 yards of roadway-
three-quarters of a mile of flame and flash. When the
mine was opened, they picked up out of the roadways
268 waggon-loads of coke —coke, not coal ; the mine had
been turned into an oven for the moment.
Monday’s cablegrams lifted a veil, and showed
what was behind the spurt in Loddon Valiev and
Victorian Deep Lead shares in London. Quite a” boom
was on, and the Argus penned a lecturette on the
iniquity of building up a market over deep lead
shows on bore prospects. This read well from a
simple Australian journal which thinks mining means
either call paying and then divs., or a prompt burst.
Had the Argus man had before him the history of the
way in which the Loddon Valley, the Moolort Goldfields
and other flotsam from the Whitaker Wright wreck, were
acquired and reconstructed by the Bewick-Moreing com-
binations, he might have hit the right trail. The
present boom was worked on the prospect of the
Loddon Valley rising into wash. The boom once
achieved, out of Pandora’s box flitted schemes
for the reconstruction of the Moolort and the
Victorian Deep Leads, both hard-up Bull show's. The
underwriting concerns are the Consolidated Deep Leads,
Limited, and Australian Commonwealth Trust. These w'ent
in up to the hiltover the original promotions, and now they
go the whole hog by guaranteeing ssuesof 100,000 shares
to each of the reconstructing shows. In their present
emergency shareholders of the Consolidated, as well as of
the Commonwealth Trust, may recall the pretty little
speech of Mr. P. L. Geli, the chairman, made at tile Con-
solidated meeting tw'o years ago : “ Shareholders are the
very worst protectors of their own interests so far as a
free market is concerned. It is a great advantage to a
icoi of this kind that there should be a large holding in
competent and experienced hands—in the hands of some
men who will look into your position and take the
trouble to promote your interests—so far as the market
is concerned.” Bead this sentence into the boom in
-London ; follow it with the announcement of the two
reconstructions ; and can there be any doubt that “ com-
petent and experienced hands ’’have been struggling
hard to promote the interests of the rank and file of
shareholders in deep leads?
* * * *
Chiltern Valley, Chiltern (Vic.), is one of the
great alluvial mines of the State. When widow Wallace
had to fight for her right to administer the estate, this
was one of the assets she pinned her faith to, and the
mine has been loyal to her. The other day the co.
touched the million mark in the matter of production.
Only £15,000 has been paid up in calls, and £215,000 has
been distributed in divs. Most of the balance of the
million won has gone as follows Wages, £450 000 •
mining materials (No. 2 shaft), £193,000; contracts’
£lOl,OOO ; general charges, £21,000. Yet the co., with
all the gold w'on, has only a reserve of £5OOO. It
should have three times that amount, and if its
directors had had the foresight they w'ould have
secured the Prentice and Southern in order to ensure a
long life to their organisation. Hugh R. Reid, the chair-
man (a brother of George H.), isn’t very partial to mining,
and often W'ails dismally about the miner. The share-
holder might, for a change, wail about the director. Co’s
half-year’s work shows that at the east end the mine is
getting within view of the old No. 1 shaft workings
There is, however, a pretty big slab of the lead from the
western face to the No. 3 shaft; still the position would
be immensely improved if the No. 3 shaft dirt panned out
better. It only returned £1 155., while the average
obtained at the No. 2 shaft is £3 Is. per fathom. There
is, though, no valid reason to assume that the 1000 ft. of
gutter is all only Bdwt. ground, so there ought to be no
chicken-hearted policy over the opening up of the lower
reaches of the lead. Adelaide folk bought early into
Chiltern Valley, a good deal through Paul Northey, and
have done well.
* * * *
Ten Mile, towards Woods Point (Vic.), had a
mining constellation in full blaze not long since The
central sun was the Star of the West, and round it
revolved the Extended, New Britannia, Champion, and
half a dozen . other worlds. Each had formations —
some a few' inches; others 40ft. champions. Such
prospects should have brought golden rays to the horizon.
Star of the West did show up like an Aurora Borealis,
and Extended followed like a comet with an attenu ted
tail ; but they soon faded. Star of the West, being off
the gold, is now driving for the “ May Do ’ shoot; while
the others are thinking of giving up the ghost. Fact
is, Ten Mile and Kevington have good ground for private
parties, and that only, as the shoots are short and don’t
seem to live down ; they have never supported a decent co.
“ Deficiency account, R. Gilpin, £38,” and
"R. Gilpin, deficiency account, shortage in cash, £l5 ”
were items in the balance-sheets of the Duke of York and
Old Caledonia cos., published in Melbourne within the last
few days. On Tuesday morning the papers reported that
Gilpin had suicided. There were half-a-dozen other cos.
in his offices at Melbourne and Ballarat; and, either now
or previously, some of these have suffered. The fact is,
he should have been relieved of his duties some time ago;
and the directors acted imprudently to let things go on
as they did. Now one of their number has been appointed
acting legal manager. That is bad. The directors are
responsible to some extent for what has happened, and it
was desirable that somebody who could not be accused
of any connection with this mismanagement should have
been got in.
* * * *
G. D. Meudell puts up a pair of 7gOz. gloves in
"’-fence of his float, the Bendigo City Gold Mining Co. :
“The prospectus may have been painted with a broad
brush ,n a too roseate tint; yet by no canon known to me
should the truth be confined to auctioneers’ advertise-
ments and those relating to uric acid remedies. The
Bendigo City lease is side by side with the Great
Extended Hustlers Hill, and further west, in a direct
line, are the Garden Gully and Victoria Hills. In all
these hills the best of Bendigo’s gold was got
4ooft. The good mines— in Bendigo are
side by side on the, main lines, and so are the 1
duffers. We only Claim for the Bendigo City lease
t '!i ls un Vied, and we hope to repeat the experien *e
of Tuff and Joseph, Ballerstedt, Lazarus, Rae and J. B.
Watson, and get gold near the surface. Most of the
seventy five millions of gold won in Bendigo has been
got above 400 ft. ; as the sixteen main lines have been
survey edfor thebestpart of 16 miles; Bendigo’s future pros-
perity depends on the shallow mines, nob on the deep
holes like the Viotoria Quarts and New Ohum Railway.
It is safe to bet neither of these mines will sink to 6000 ft.
for the next reef. The cost is ruinous in men and money,
and both would be more profitably used near the surface,
where the air and the gold are most plentiful.
The Bendigo zone of reefs runs from Malmsbury
to Ray wood, 67 miles, and probably under the
tertiary drift overlying the Silurian rooks these reefs will
run from Raywood to the Murray, 90 miles further.
Bendigo will be putting- out gold when Johannesburg
will only be identified by the heaps of the tibia bones of
defunct Chows, and Kalgoorlie is only to be traced by its
jam and fish tins fossilized into opals by the lapse of time.”
* * » *
Ravensthorpe, Phillips River (W.A.), is being
unduly boomed by interested parties, with the result
that many people have recently been induced to go there
to almost starve. The Gaufmann Syndicate, which has
acquired a number of properties, extending over 14 miles,
employs about 150 men, and is doing- legitimate work. A
few men are working gold and copper shows on their
own, but money is very scarce, and very little outside
capital is available. Kaufmanu’s crowd obtained a hotel
license on the plea that it intended to build a place on
the lines of the Kalgoorlie Palace, but this was possibly
to bluff off competitors. Anyway, the talked-of great
hotel hasn’t arrived.
* * * *
The “ Wonder” Air Hammer Rock Drills have
established a decided lead for preference. They are the
Adam and Eve of this class of Hammer Rock Drills. They
have only one working part, are very strong, and the
vibration is less than on other machines—consume about
25 feet of free air per minute, at about 801 b. Holes are
drilled in hardest formations about l-2in. per min., in
softer material up to lOin. per min. Particulars from VV.
and J. Lempriere, 506 Little Colllns-street, Melbourne.
Hollow or solid drill steel or bits can be used, also water
attachment for allaying dust.*
* * * *
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Co.’s new: Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision against
any increase in the volume of water now that they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71-6 percent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each wi th unqualified success.* [a]
* * m -k
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The British Australasian, in its issue of 9th
July, 1906, wrote regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited : —“ The society has advanced
rapidly, especially during the last three years, and it is
pretty generally admitted that the directors are conduct-
ing a large business on very safe lines.”*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
D, H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
■* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
■K * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 4Q years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
: 'x * * m
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. GeOi A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is tneir Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now'
making the Ilornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street. Mel-
bourne.*
*** . *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
w'here.*
* * * *
The Rea veil Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
Charters Towers.—-Minirig speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange; for the 'latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* • * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write Us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
POSTCARDS.
A RTISTS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, &c., are invited to
z submit Designs or Ideas suitable for Reproduc-
tion as Post Cards to HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
Local Postcards—Every storekeeper should stock
postcards of his own locality- Write for samples and
prices. A splendid line for Christinas.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
it will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGIN
ALITILS
“ T.F.”: It was a western town in Queens-
land. The hotel proprietor got up a sweep on the
nextprincipalracetoberuninSydney. Sandydrew
the favorite, and, to make sure of a start, lie sent
the owner the following wire : —“ Drawn your
horse. Will lay you a tvvelfth of the sweep-
money. Collect.” That same evening, Sandy
received the reply:—“Will take three-quarters
or scratch my horse.” After deliberating for
awhile, Sandy thought it wise to accept, and
wired to that effect in the morning. The same
day, the race was run, and the favorite won by a
head. The owner received 9s. from Sandy, an
honest three-quarters of the bob sweep of 12
members. The owner had thought it was a
Tstt’s winner he was dealing with, and it is
alleged that his remarks were not well-selected.
THE NEW SCAPE-GOAT.
HIS NIBS : “ So they now say you’re the gause of
most of the misery that’s going, poor beast.
Well, it’s near time they gave me a rest.”
‘ ‘ Caber ” writes :
“Ooolibah” (18/10/’O6) didn’t wait to see how a
ton of wood burned 20 tons of prickly pear, else
he wouldn’t hazard the statement that a splen-
did patch of pear didn’t crow where the burn-
ing operation was celebrated. If, as he says, the
pear is 80 per cent, water, how the deuce did he manage
to make a ton of wood burn 16 tons of water? The pear
can nearly be destroyed by digging a trench, filling it with
about equal parts of firewood and pear, setting the wood
well alight, and. covering the'treneh with earth; leaving
the fire to smoulder the pear and wood away. And that
leads me along to remind “Quan”(B. 4/10/’Oti) that giving
land at 2s. 6d. per acre won’t help along the eradication
of the pear at anything like a record spin. Foxton
offered the Canning Creek lands on a 50 years’lease for
nothing, and didn’t get one application. - Some of the
best land in Queensland is held as homesteads at 2s. 6d.
per acre, and when Kidston starts a grim grapple with
this spiney curse his Government will have to bonus,
and largely bonus at that, the man who is game to select
a block on, say, Durah or Weranga. Else he will have to
employ every adult male in Bananaland to keep the
prickly pear in check. Only closer Settlement will eradi-
cate it, and that settlement must he paid for. No hope
in “ Quan’s ” 2s. 6d. per acre idea.
*** * #
“The Prooshan”: I one day asked a
bus!)man to direct me to a certain householder’s
place in the wild-hop country. He evidently
took me for a modern Atlas. Said he : “ You
3arry that there hill on your left shoulder for two
mile, Then you lift a bit cf a gully, and carrv a
ehoek-and-log fence on your right shoulder for
about a mile.’ You’ll strike a hut then, and you
must carry that hut on your back till you come to
a scrub, and when you get through the scrub,
coo-ee, and if you don’t yere a dorg bark you’re
lost.”
“N.L.” : I wish to record another Albert
Park horror. This one took place many years
before the recent dredging of bits of tragedy
out of the lake. At the time, night work led me
into a habit of taking a short cut homeward across
the park at an early hour a.m. One morning I
was surprised to hear a voice, even as that of
Rachel when she refused to be comforted, crying
“Losht! Losht ! An’ all the water’sli brackish !”
I rushed to the assistance of the mourner, who
turned out to be a man well stricken in beers. As
far as I could make any sense out of his tangled
tale, he had started to walk from St. Kilda to
East Melbourne after attending a smoke-night,
and, somehow, had found himself in the Central
Australian desert. Tne arid area was relieved,
certainly, by numerous magnificent' stretches of
water, but the liquid was “all—all brackish!”
Beelzebub only knows how many times the lost
one had meandered round the lake and sampled
its waters. However, he brightened up consider-
ably when I gave him a start towards home along
St. Kilda-road, for there he saw the wonderful
new tram-line that took one direct from Port
Darwin to East Melbourne.
“ Gip ” : The day had been sultry. A
storm was coming—the father of all the other
storms. Villainous snakes of lightning lit the
darkening sky. Thunder crashed fearsomely.
Behind me somewhere, horses were galloping.
Trembling, I looked for shelter. The horses came
closer. I turned, and an awful sight met my
gaze. Had fear turned my head ? A crowd of
blood-stained men had stopped short beside me,
their horses back on their haunche3 mauling
viciously the storm-laden atmosphere. Around
their bodies were strips of blood-soaked bagging—
their arms and hands were red with gore. Scream-
ing, I fell to my knees, and muttered a sobbing
prayer for mercy. The leader of the gory band
leapt from his horse. Snatching me in his arms,
he sprang again to the saddle, and galloped madly
onward. “Sit up or hang on,” he growled
fiercely. With an astonished, but relieved, gasp
I dropped my ice-cold hands from my eyes. Could
it be? This sack-covered, blood-soaked thing
who smelt so infamously of tar and sheep-dip was
—er—my nearest relation. He and the other
men had been chopping off the eloquent little
tails of 1129 lambs. That was all.
* * ■» •
“Agricola”: The proposal made in Vic-
toria to protect foxes because they are great
rabbit-destroyers originated probably with the
skin-buyers, who make large profits out of fox-
pelts. Foxes do largely destroy rabbits, but,
during the lambing season, they more than make
up for this by their iniquities. In the Tumut dis-
trict they have been caught devouring the newly-
dropped lamb, and they have even been known
to kill the ewes, to get the lambs beforehand. A
neighbor recently consulted me about the state of
five of his lambs, which looked very weak and
starved, though their mothers were young and fat.
I examined them, and found that the tongues had
been bitten out as far down the throat as possible,
and, as the lambs were slowly starving, being
unable to suck, they had to be killed. The
damage had been done about three days, and
there was not another bite or scratch on the
victims. Yet I have heard a meftibe” of the
Pastures Protection Board assert that foxes only
play with lambs. But, then, both he and the
foxes were imported—bad luck to them !
* * * *
Sydney Telegraph is in the habit' of
pointing out that the remarkable prosperity of
Maorilaud is not due to Socialistic legislation,
but to the splendid rainfall. The Tory organ
may be surprised to learn that in
Canterbury district alone there are over
4030 miles of water-races used for irri-
gation purposes, and that it is now pro-
posed to irrigate the central plateau of
Otago—which is always spoken of in
Australian papers as the wettest place
on earth—by the same means. As usual,
the progressive Government which pro-
poses to do this discovers that some
fool Administration, in the good old
days when men ran the country for
the honor and glory of the thing, jobbed
away the water rights to mining com-
panies fora mere song. Now it is pro-
posed to assert the right of Eminent
Domain (the right w'hich Carruthers savs
is another wrong to Ma State) to recover
the use of the water for the purpose of
making the wilderness blossom like the flame-
tree.'
+ * * *
Another illustration of mixed Australian
place-names. Everybody who ever looks at
mining or market news knows Mt. Boppy. But the
Budgery boom digs up the fact that the official
name of the parish is Buppe.
• * • *
“A. Borig”: The fishing season is on,
and an observant person (like me) can get a lot of
fun out of the fishing of other fellows. One of the
most joyful things 1 know is to see a careful fisher
hook one of the large water lizards which abound
in the coast streams. They are the most
amphibious animals I know, and can stop so long
under water that they must have gills, but are
darned lively when on land. They grow up to
2ft. long, and weigh, probably, 51b. The fisher
drops a cricket carefully in a nice, dark hole, be-
hind a log, and, if a ’go. is roosting on the log, ten
to one he will take the bait and dive like a shot.
The angler has some noble sport until he yanks
him out with a flop on the bank, when the scene
changes, and the vision of a 51b. perch coming for
him like a whirlwind creates more activity in Isaak
Walton than he has shown since he was five years
old. If the linegets tangled in hislegs hekicksfran-
tically, and breaks everything in an insane desire
to get away. Finally the fish runs up a tree, or
perhaps, if the tackle holds, it is dragged to a
clear place and slain, and the hook cut out. Then
the fisher proceeds to disentangle and re hook,
and curse all reptiles indiscriminately, and pro-
ceeds to a hole where there is no cover for any-
thing but fish. A ’Bidgee turtle is also a joke for
the fellow looking on. He has a head like a
snake, and therefore not to be trusted. He comes
out like a bag on the line, and his head has to be
hauled out and cut off in record time, or he starts
his perfume going, and then he must be aban-
doned in quicker than record time. Both body
and head are kicked into the river, if the place is
within half a mile of the camp, because of the
perfume aforesaid. Have heard of a live snake
being hauled out by an eel fisher, but that was
before Wade’s Liquor Bill. In 35 years’ fishing I
only caught one platypus, and that on a set line
with a worm for bait.
ONE GOOD REASON.
NEW-CHUM : "By Jove, it's a curious thing, don’t you know. Why do you Australians lean
so much on posts ! ”
AUSTRALIAN (lucidly): “ Confound it, we can’t all have seals in Parliament.”
“Winkle”: A lot of money, time, and
thought have been spent in evolving a perfect
wool and mutton-growing sheep. A fortune awaits
the breeder who can evolute a jumbuck with brains.
All the sheep drowned in the Campaspe (Vic.)
flood, in September, wore drown-*: simply because
they were sheep. Had they been pigs, horses, or
kine, with sense enough to stay where they were
placed, not a beast would have been lost, for all
the flocks were driven above flood-level on the
rises. But the perished ones, with the cussedness
of sheep, would move back towards the water,
which engulfed them in the end. Cows and
horses, left to their own devices, were saved in
every instance. The Government might offer a
bonus for a brainy breed of jumbuck.
* » • *
“ Paul Cupid ” : Many horses have a
decidedly objectionable and sin-producing habit
of breaking bridles, and many a man has had to
walk home in consequence. The owner
afterwards buys a bull-hide bridle, or
carries a halter about to secure his moke
with. This is an unnecessary expense, as
well as a plan that often miscarries and
seldom cures. The best plan with a chronic
bridle-breaker is not to tie him up by the
head at all, but by the tail. A half-inch
rope should be put under the beast’s tail,
crossed over the loins, brought forward
through the bridle rings, and tied to some-
thing firm in front. When the animal
rushes back to break away, he is so aston-
ished and disgusted to find the strain is
at the root of his tail instead of at the
butt of his ears that he ceases pulling, and
seldom tries it again. The same principle
will always beat a horse that takes the bit,
and bolts in saddle or harness, the only
difference being that the rope or leather
reins with crupper attached (either will do)
are passed through the rings of the bit, and
then brought back and held by the rider or
driver with the ordinary reins. When the
bolter enters on what the newspaper reporter
calls “his mad career.” the 01 dinary reins are
not used at all, except for steering purposes,
but the pull is brought on the other pair, and
the runaway soon finds himself pulled into a
heap, and stops as dead as an improvement lease.
“D.” : There were strange relations between
the Brownsand the Wedlocks. Dad Brown and Dad
Wedlock were hostile friends on adjoining farms.
Dad Brown always helped Dad Wedlock with his
corn-pulling and threshing ; and Dad Wedlock
returned the good deed. They met on Sunday
once a month to hear the visiting parson preach
of “love and goodwill,” etc., and shook paws
after “ prayers ” ; yet, on Monday, Dad Brown
would swear that it was Dad Wedlock that “knoo
all about old Gypsy gettin’ staked last night.”
And Dad Wedlock would arise betimes and swear
that it was Dad Brown that turned his cows on
to his green stuff, “ jes’fer the sake of bein’
spiteful.” Sometimes one dad would come out
of his house, and, glancing towards the other
dad’s place, would sight him. Then you’d see
two hairy fists shaken at each other across 30 acres
of farm. Yet the two dads would sit up all night
together, like brothers, when either of the missuses
was casting another drop into the ocean of life.
The climax came when Dad Brown lost a shedful
of hav by fire. I suggested spontaneous com-
bustion. Dad Brown looked hard at me, as if he
thought I was joking. “No,” he said ; “ I know
who done that. An’ if ever I catch that cow of a
Wedlock, I’ll belt the socks off uv ’im !” That’s
two years ago. But I hear that Dad Brown
helped Dad Wedlock with his “pulling” last
year, so I suppose they are deadly friends again.
“ Gip” : The desire to mother something
must be strongly developed in some canines. A
kelpie here, robbed of her pups, went into the
bathroom and stole four kittens, the property of
the family cat. She carried them to a stable and
proceeded to mother then.. The cat recovered
her blind property, speaking sharply to the shame-
faced kelpie meanwhile. For some hours the
dog’s grief was unpleasantly audible, and aftir
the *JBtli stone had been hurled at the gentle
thing, she went sorrowfully to a neighbor’s, half
a mile off, seeking relief. And she found it in
the shape of three more kittens, and brought it
home bit by bit, and at the present moment ;s
domiciled under the house with it. I have a
horrible fear that this will not be believed, hut
so true is it, that for the last two days hardly
anything else has been discussed in this primitive
wilderness. There are few amusements here; you
see, Williamson’s Opera Co. hasn’t done a half-
night season at Nimmitabel for quite a while.
SOMETHING WHICH WE THOUGHT
HAPPENED.
THE COPPER : “ Look here, Shickers, where are
ye going with that ? ”
S[?]CKERS : “ Blessed thingsh came over on me
(hie) and nearly kitted me (his). So
thoughtsh ’d take ’t home (hie) for publiesh
safety (hie).”
“The Prooshan’' : Foxes are surer than
blacks in their probe after rabbitlets. I have
found dozens of their shafts in the bush. They
average about Bin. in diameter, and any depth
(usually or 2ft.) according to the depth of the
rabbitiferous strata. When they strike prey, up
comes the feather bed, quilts, blankets, and all
the rest of the rabbit’s household effects, and
Mrs. Rachel Doe will not be comforted for a
space of some weeks; then she sports another
family. The fox’s shaft is usually two or three
feet from the sealed mouth of the burrow, and
dead on the line of reef.
THE TEN MILE HOLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A dreary place is the Ten Mile Hole,
Where the wraith of a Chow takes his evening stroll
As far as the ridge where the German died
By the hand of the Danish homicide.
The dingoes howl and the watch dogs bark,
And creepy sounds, when nights are dark,
Disturb the trav’ler, who camps at e’en
By the creek wh£re the strangled gin is seen.
Who camps there once ne’er camps again
If he sees the hand with the blood-red stain.
The phantom horses kick swingle-bars,
As they rush in the night thro’ the dark belars.
Their fleshless d iver, with head down bowed,
Is wrapped in a greasy green-hide shroud ;
His eyes are beacons that light the gloom
To guide his team to the Land of Doom,
And he utters the shriek of a frizzling soul
As he grinds his teeth at the Ten Mile Hole.
It is Crooked Mick who tells the tale
Of an awful something, weird and pale,
That swung by the neck from a blighted limb,
And it rattled its bones as a sign to him
That it wanted to speak ; but he turned and fled,
And awoke next morn in the dry creek bed.
He showed us the gum-tree, gaunt and bare,
With the wreck of a bottle lying there ;
And the marks of riot around that trunk
Almost seemed to say that the ghost was drunk.
Mick swears when he left that the bottle was whole,
But strange things chance at the Ten Mile Hole.
There are sighs and groans on the evening breeze,
There are strange dead moans in the sad box trees,
And many a whisper of crime or blood,
And of men who died by drought and flood.
There the plovers lament, and the post and rail
Cast shadows dim on the pathway pale,
And, hushed and death-like, the far bells toll
As the sun sinks red o’er the Ten Mile Hole.
N.S.W.
KELPIE.


Wolfe’s Sclmapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
Buy Whole Bottles.
ZEISS and BUSCH
PRISMATIC , .
FIELD GLASSES
We have just opened a fresh Ship-
ment, and, as direct importers, can do
them at the following prices:—
fgd
REDUCE:!) PRICES.—No. 6 Zeiss. £7 iOs.; No. 8 Zeiss, £8; No. 9 Goerz, £7 10s.;
No. 6 Busch, £6 ss. ; No. 9 Busch, £7; No. 6 Busch, Rigid Bar, £5 15s.
Call and see the BUSCH — it’s a Wonderful Glass.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
Vice-Regal
Opticians,
23 Hunter St«, Sydney
“Ylenod”: Speilvogel, in his “Gum-
sucker on Tramp,” mentions a Scotchman on
board steamer who invited him to drink, paid for
his own drink, and left Speilvogel to do likewise.
At Gatton (Queensland) it is not unusual among
the German residents for a man to invite a num-
ber of acquaintances to have a drink. Each man
pays for his own, and says “eesh look” as he
lifts it to his mouth.
HIS TROUBLES.
“ Jus! fancy making all that fuss over a little
thing like that !”
“ H.S.R.” : Writing from McGinty’s Flat
(proposed site of Jaw Cook’s mausoleum), I wish
to enter our shepherd or sky-pilot as a competitor
for The Bulletin’s rabbit-proof medal. I saw in
The Bulletin where a sky-pilot got the blue ribbon,
or something of the kind, for a fat horse. Well,
our S.P. knows a lot better than that. He simply
starves his yarraman, and when unfit for anything
but the cats’ meat cavalry brigade, a member of
the preying band (I hope I don’t spell it wrong)
goes around and takes up a collection and buys a
new one. At one time the S.P. had two mokes,
which could be seen affectionately propping up the
fence at the parsonage. These were known as the
Hacks of the Apostle. They have both gone
to a better world, or have fallen in with a
Chinaman, which would be the same thing for
them. One parishioner, a farmer, says he will
give the S.P. no more sugar. He will have to
take his share of the stipend in horse-feed; and
another says he will subscribe to no niore
“funds” unless the reverend feeds his moke.
KEEPING HIS WORD.
MILLY : “ Goodness gracious ! Isn't Mr.
Jaggers a funny man [?] He's fallen off
again.”
TILLY: “ Yes; but you know he said he
was going to lay himself out to amuse
us when he came over."
The bush school is often a small, isolated
building standing among the trees, with no fence
around it, and no house in sight of it. But little
tracks, winding through the bush in many direc-
tions, show where the children come from. Some
of them walk four or five miles to school, starting
away at daylight on winter mornings, and
returning in the twilight, or after dark.
When the grass is white with frost or wet
with dew, or when rains have left pools
and sheets of surface water along the
track, and set the creeks and gullies
running, the bush kiddies carry their
boots in their hands or over their shoulders
to keep them dry, putting them on when
they reach the school. In the dry in-
terior regions, besides the usual dinner-
bags and books, they carry bottles and
water-bags. They get over riversin flat-
bottomed punts, and any creek that is
too deep to ford is crossed on the trunk
of a tree that has been felled across from
bank to bank ; they pass through mobs
of half-wild cattle, and at times through
miles of burnt and burning grass ; they
climb trees after ’possums and birds’
nests, root in hollow logs for cats and
dingoes, and have many a startling ad-
venture with snakes ; but they very sel-
dom come to any harm. Some drive to
and fro in light traps; others ride —at
times three and four on a horse, and
have races, jumping contests over logs,
humiliating busters, and all sorts of ad-
ventures along the road. Many a coat
is peeled off on the school track, too,
and many a punched nose goes bleeding
to the waterhole. Frequently half-a-
dozen are seen running through the bush,
the big ones in front, the little ones
flushed and panting in the rear. They
have been playing on the road, or have
started late, and are making up for it.
Some have to run part of the wav
home, so as to be in time to put the calves
up, or to change their clothes and carry an armful
of wood or a bucket of water for the morning;
and if they live on a farm, they have to join the
parents after tea in the barn, husking corn. Pre-
paring for examination under these circumstances
is pretty stiff work for Bushman Jumor.
» * * »
“ Terra Australis,” from the islands :
Speaking of native customs, a gruesome one prevails
at Espiritu Santo, New Hebrides—that of strangling the
wife or wives (have heard of ten being sacrificed at one
time) of a defunct chief.
Within a short time of the dusky magnate’s death the
ceremony begins. There is haste, because the chief’s
ghost must not get too far ahead. Otherwise it might
be subjected to the ignominy of boiling its own yam in
the spirit land before its subservient wife-ghosts arrived,
panting, to take up the cookery.
The women themselves take it all as a matter of course,
and not only offer no resistance, but voluntarily take
part in the preliminary, as well as the final, ceremony.
A narrow path, 50yds. or so in length, is cut, at one
end of which a noose hangs gracefully from an over-
hanging bough. This noose is rather higher than the
average woman’s head, but the onlookers, in order to
save the lady unnecessary trouble, place a block of wood
underneath for the interested party to stand upon.
The doomed woman runs up and down the path until
thoroughly exhausted —so that she may die the easier,
perhaps. Then she mounts the scaffold, and slips the '
noose over her head ; an obliging onlooker kicks the block
from under her feet,, and a queen bobs in the air.
Dinny and Jim were wallaby shooting at
Tin Stream, and doing very well. They had built
themselves a paling hut, and had furnished it
comfortably, and were quite contented with their
lot until they discovered there was a plump
widow named M‘Kay living on the other side of
the spur within a morning's walk. Then the
trouble began. Dinny was 30 and Jim was 40.
They had never been great conversationalists, but
now they became less communicative than ever,
and a cold mistrust planted itself between them.
Mrs. M'Kay was about 36, but looked much
younger, and her 300 acres were all first-class
land, and her egg business was the best in the dis-
trict. Dinny and Jim never visited Mrs. M‘Kay
in company, and neither breathed a word to the
other as to his sentiments or intentions in the
matter of the pretty widow. But one day they
met in the bush, about a quarter of a mile from
the farm, each heading for the widow’s slip-panels.
They stopped dead, they eyed each other
bitterly for one minute, and then silently
off went Dinny’s coat. Jim’s coat followed,
and the mates clashed on the grass, and
fought nine violent rounds in which both were so
severely knocked about that they could hardly
crawl home, and they kept to their bunks for two
days after. After that Jim visited Mrs. M‘Kay’s
to carry on his spiritless courtship every Wednes-
day, and Dinny Went on Sundays. This condition
continued for some time, during which the men
lived in the same hut. and carried on their busi-
ness as before, but without exchanging a word.
Then came a Sunday night when Dinny did not
return from his jaunt. Filled with direst fore-
bodings, Jin) made for the farm on Monday, and
on Wednesday a telegram reached Dinny, at
Traralgon, which read: ’‘Come back, you, old
fool. It’s the widow I’m after.” Dinny had run
off with widow M‘Kay’s 18-year-old daughter,
and the pair had wasted their fighting, and spilt
their blood in vain, for they weren’t rivals after
all.
“ Mallarpoonie ” : Here is an example of
the Socialism that George Reid says is a tiger,
ramping through the country, seeking whom it
may devour. A couple of prospectors lately sank
a well and erected a trough in the dry channel of
a western river. Afterwards they abandoned
the locality, and left the well and trough for the
benefit of the travelling public, but, in order to
make sure that their friends—-the numerous bush
birds and half-tame kangaroos and wallabies that
were in the habit of watering there—would not
perish of thirst in their absence, they left this
notice nailed to an adjacent gum-tree :
NOTICE.
This trough is run on purely Socialistic principles.
Any Socialist watering here will not omit to bale in as
much good Australian liquid as he takes out, but, as
anti-Soeialists and supporters of Reid’s anti-Aus-
tralian party cannot be expected to bale, they are
hereby disrespectfully requested to scab on the great
Australian Democracy as little as they possibly can.
Jiy request of
A SOCIALIST.
And until rain came that trough continued full
to overflowing.
THE SHIP HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Printed in a reckless moment because of the staff’s
inability to decide what it is about.)
How ships are built into Australian Homes !
•No timber of the ship is there,
No iron, copper, cordage, naught of sail,
Vet the ship is there.
Some Harpley, Sovereign of the Seas, Red Jacket.
Some Lightning, painted green with straight cut-water,
Or Marco l’olo or Great Britain.
The old folks hear the murmur of the shell,
They leave the Chalk Cliffs and England’s gardens,
Its dewy meadows, humid roses,
Its chokcd-up London ; yet, perchance, most dear
’Arnpstead, ’Ammersniith, ’Aekney, ’lghgate,
’Olborn, ’Olloway, ’Ounslow,
The Cockney and the Coekneyess in the blood.
Ah yus ! the ship slid with them adown Thames.
Farewell Gravesend, Deptford, VVool’ich, Chattum ;
No more will good old Grin nidge greet our eyes
Unless we come back with a pot o’ gold.
Cut buck up, lasses ! buck up, sturdy lads !
Slavery shall no more rattle chains ;
No more touching hats to Lord Nozoo ;
Right away past the blowy Nore ;
Shiver my timbers and hitch my britches up.
The sea ! the sea 1 The broad and open seal
The rolling fresh and ever free —
Australia is the land for me.
Dad lights another pipe ;
He courses in his thoughts o’er Biscay’s Bay,
Past Teneriffe and Cape of Storms,
With waves up twenty feet.
We had the pluck to come.
At last fair Adelaide loomed in the haze,
All yellow dusty with a rare hot wind
That fanned our faces in the Bay.
Fruit comes aboard, Australia’s peaches
ltosy-cheek rascals, and blushily delicious.
Yet on to Melbourne through the rushing Rip,
And here we are in Canvas Town,
Sighing like Israelites for Egypt’s fleshpots,
But through the quagmire the wa!y must be ahead,
Like Australia with its Federation.
Sinking holes for gold at Ballarat,
A w hilom forest overrun with tents.
Fighting then in Melbourne for a bit of laud.
Lord Nozoo here too !
Striking out into the bush, and well-nigh eating bark.
But planting down a Home.
VIC.
STARGAZER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice (except of a hunt,He character) •will be taken of
communication!) insuilieiently stamped. Xante and
address must appear on MS. Xo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; anil no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
General: Of “Vanquished 5 ’ we can say con-
scientiously that it is a rushing' poem, and covers a lot
of ground—too much ground, in fact, and with too big a
rush.... Flick : (1) Your statement that the Westralian
people would give an overwhelming majority for secession
is all right if you are personally acquainted with an over-
whelming majority, anJ have ascertained its views. But
you haven’t. (2) You say “It would be futile to enu-
merate the many grievances of Westralia in regard to
Federation.” You don’t hold off because it would he
futile, but because you can’t find any genuine grievances.
(3) Your statement that, the “great journals of the
Fast never miss a chance to malign ” Westralia
is very silly and bumptious lying. Try and he
a grown-up citizen—not an irrelevant kid
Fuzzy-VVuzzy: Has plenty of “ go.” Pity it is so faulty
otherwise....F.H.li. : Gracefully written, hut not
enough in it.... Arthur Avia :An admonitory theme of
that kind would need much stronger and brighter verse
to carry it off. . ..Dooley : A flagrant, hut faulty, imita-
tion of Kipling A.A.G. : Stiff, unwieldy, and much too
10ng... .C.F.S. : Audacious and spirited, but unequal
arid imperfect Defence : Your theory about sending
the whole fleet out to look for the enemy is very beauti-
ful on paper, but no nation is fool enough to work on
such lines. It is too big a gamble. A coast defence
squadron is part of the outfit of a great naval power.
....Uckle: Will publish.... W.T. D. : Not a very pro-
mising lot of suggestions. In jokes about insects tlie
open-air insect is preferred... .Palie : After many deep
considerations “Fallen Star” just fell.... Gwen lb:
Hesitated awhile over “ Funeral,” then passed it 0ut....
Le Sage : Not good enough, but not without promise....
M.T. (Tas.): Fair quality, but not quite in our line
D.H. : Nothing new or striking in it... .11. S. :In amend-
ing your syntax we should have to spoil your rhyme....
Amron : “Episode” nearly scored. The other is much
weaker.. ..A.A. : Bather feeble and flat... .M‘D.K.. A
poor piece of work... .Smig : Smart, but trifling J.D.:
Nothing in that....Parakeeia : Sorry none of them good
enough... .Sammy W. : “Kit” is strong, but objection-
able. Tlie other is unintelligible... .M.K.F.: Story weak.
Verses better, but none quite co vinciiig... .H.H. : Pitliy,
but rugged and unequal....F.C.-B. : Pretty enough
trifles, but hardly in our line M.T.C.S. : Some low-
comedy in it, but it is crude and ill-finished... .L.U.B. :
Fairly funny, hut reasonless and pointless.... Warrunoo:
(1.) Not much good. (2) Very little good. (3) Stale....
X.M. : Your writing is fair, but you seem to strike topics
which have been already dealt with Ada G. : Any
effort to get citizens on the roll is commendable....
J.E. : There must be failures until the p rfect submarine
is achieved. Every success follows in the wake of
failures.... Ande : Thanks ; have noted.... Lanibo: Chest-
nuts.... Philo : Tired of bait-poisoned dogs discussion.
The next dog with poison had better get rid of it in its
own way.. .Gih ooney : Thanks ; Tub Lone Hand will strive
to be Australian and universal; to show the best of Aus-
tralia to the world and the best of the world to Australia...
L.SI.C. : But it isn’t a fact that “ the Labor party is a
Freetrade party, and will probably continue to be so.”
The Labor party is rapidly shedding its Freetrade ideas.
... .Hamer: (1) The last of tlie slow trains lias crawled
into print.. (2) In “The Desires of Women,” as usual,
you go near the mark with a good thought not quite
well enough expressed Colonel: Glad to note
your good impressions, as an Englishman, of Syd-
ney on a first visit; but your “copy” is hardly
in our line... .E.P.: That “ Kathleen Alavourneen ” jest
was decently buried years ago. To send in a
thing like that almost amounts to body-snatching....
Cit. : Promising, but hardly sharp enough... .Bullswool:
Yes, try again.. . .Omega : A chestnut told of every rail-
way system in the world... .Judex : They mostly are too
long, but—their interest warranting it —have been con-
densed for publication... .G.U. 11. : Long, long yarn un-
fortunately only repeats what has been already said in a
paragraph... .JI.P.M. : That Maoriland writer’s verse had
no sectarian significance the moral of the verse, as
Bulletin read it, was that clerics of all sorts are best
kept out of the sphere of civil government.
Unsuitable. —P.E.S., N.G.W., G.R.W., Fred D.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Holger : Joke isn’t original. Picture is —that’s what’s
wrong with it. You have invented a new style of art
E.K. : Just moderate—painfully moderate. ..Roy: Dull
idea, and drawing of the impressionist order—so-called
because it leaves no impression worth mentioning....
Slab : Quite hopeless... Reynard: Pictures of the scratchy
order, and the humor is obscure... .0.G.: Last two don’t
strike the mark.... A.H.B. : Picture of two people
alleged to be talking about a dairy declined.. ..G E.K. :
One nogood. Theother underconsideration M.S.VV.:
Show some promise. Practise on studies from real life,
and beware of imitating other artists’ work J.Y.A. :
Not up to the mark S.T. : Same Unsuitable: Ted
T., John 11.
Says the smart girl : “I wondered what
made Gussie so bright at the races. He said the
magic fluid was D.C.L. I ceased to wonder !
D.C.L whisky—that’s the brand—and the secret.
It makes them so genial and brainy, it adds 25 per
cent, to their value ! When my Gussie has had
just his proper allowance of D.C.L. —he’s the
brightest boy in the world. It makes him happy
and me happy.”*
“ Janor” : “S.R.’s” goat par (B. 4/10/’G6)
recalls memories of Charters Towers (Q.), which
used to be the most goaty spot in Australia.
Was there when Governor Norman visited the
golden city, and the proudest part of the pro-
cession which escorted him from the railway
station was some 60 or 70 kiddies mounted on
goats, riding two abreast. They and their store-
made saddlery were the surprise and delight of
the visitor. The Towers boys were possessed of
stud, hack, racing, circus, and draught goats.
The draught teams (usually four-in-hand) hauled
in firewood, loaded on factory-built waggons
brilliant with red and blue paint. Among the
youngsters the goat was the hall-mark. A
goatless boy was not a boy to be known by his
fellows. The goat made the boy, as it were.
Overheard two nippers in Gill-street one day:
“How’s Jack Tregear gettin’ on?” said one.
“Him !” replied his cobbdr. “Oh, he’s dead to
the world. He ain’t got a goat.” And he said it
like a judder addressing the Gambling Evil.
Juvenile toilers in this great natural industry
were numerous, and comprised goat breeders,
salesmen, vets., trainers, thieves, and other
experts.


y\ eptioir
if?e|
,e v
CV'cKeir
vt” eVci-vWmfg,
T
\ / l
I He (Irvme)
preyed i
to follow
W lev*® 1 '
Who
\-forward *
1 bo) icy
Mje. lines V
pKVinc) fad
in^icajted."
,
fe 1 " 4
"Jo f our
}]oors of"
je/^OKc., laborers ,
jjr« feared -fo
-Ji<9 bMiM'VP
-fo vtV>dsti//.
P'V s )'
I%oK
'Pecoi^
costs
£3OO \
Y Ben-t- lj2\s
-forbidden Kelb
F.nr»)jloy c 5
to WorK. 7
* WecK." J
If *fte Bible literature"
'j&Ei'e 'S bundle of lelft.
Fitcfa-tf)
>s, J
c y So °f cbiol<c v »$ of- ‘■ny ow*> —-
-free j
j>.
ferfo^-A
J? Mrecd an -
«$
IV« n
*pf«l °\
Politics• . ‘/ .. %>?
(hr f?cid * r ( W
-t)fe l>'rK*r7 M 4* d < )
4Acfy»»7tf
Sl 'fsv^
j'Ce
* rs Should J
b« f°*'
'tfjSir CoyjV To
do*»)&*7d "to sfck v C
(oiAYtTvy ."
[Ar^s]
he hy
life Collingwood TOWI7
clerK "haiv<? teen come
On for 6' ye*r S ondUr
life nose oy-
AvdiT. ’
Isn't' it'^"touT
Sonje distinctive
were adopted
J or % So +|fa k t'
y oM would Kf7OW
intlje street; bey ?
f Reid:-" lf* omd Pencil
b«t 111 drop rne
VlJji/e I perform ai
doo'ly *“
' T)o y« ix Kqow .So
~bee>? saitftj U 7 o«i oP
I aj^ovt" Ho* a,j>/>e&»- oh
POLITICS, WITH A LITTLE HORSE.


N.S. Wales, according to
latest quarterly estimate,
had 810,850 males and
713,730 females. In spite
of this 100,000 surplus of
men there are many lone
and forlorn women.
Surf-bathing comes back with the Sydney
summer, and the costume-question again
becomes acute with sea-side municipal councils.
Lone female reading the paper :
“ A surplus of 100,000 men; and
1 have got a vote ; and still no good
comes.”
Saleslady : ” Now, here is a sweetly pretty costume would suit you
down to the ground— er—that Is, Iron, neck to knee. It Is of
modest design, and we call It the • Venus.’ ”
ssrrsss r.? ? w “'' Mr - wen “- >» ■■
or he'd never ’low his
wile to mix-bathe In
that outfit.” v
Sh ! Step lightly I Here
you have Attorney-
Qeneral Wade trying to
design a decorous bathing*
[ costume, which clothing he
hopes, by a “ short Act,”
to make compulsory. “ Hop.” regrets that the resources of The
Bulletin establishment afford no material for depicting' the deep
blush which mantles his cherubic face the while.
Bruce Smith told the Chinese Envoy the other day that he had
a soft spot in his heart for Asiatics.
L.8.M.: “Look here, John; take him to China with you. I’ll
make you a present of him I ’’
ON HIS HIGH HORSE.—Or tne condition of mind,
allegorically speaking, of the average Aus-
tralian youth for months before the flelbourne
Cup
7 A NEW TERROR in store for
THE READING PUBLIC.
The N.S.W. Legislature Is likely
to pass an Act to provide for the
retirement of policemen at the age
of 60.
Retired Policeman (dictating iiis
reminiscences to type-writer tor an
enterprising magazine): “ I have
had enough saveloys handed to me
over back fences by cooks 9 have
known, which, U one end were
fastened to the chlmbly of one of
my terrace o’ houses, the other
would reach to the moon."
ON HIS HIGH STOOL.-The day after. Then he
taketh up the burden of life again, sighing
only! “ It might have been.”
N.S W. POLITICS AND SOME HORSE.


r
wthe^Worlds^DentiFi'iceM
PERSPNAL
ITEMS
“According to Coghlan ” no longer—H.
C. L. Anderson’s name appears for the first time
on the title page of the N.S.W. Statistical
Register.
Mrs. Lucy Jones, who died in Melbourne
recently, aged 80, was one of Florence Nightin-
gale’s Crimean war nurses. She reached Vic-
toria in 1804.
Thomas G. Wills, of Ballarat, came into a
brief publicity the other day as prosecutor of an
ill-regulated person who had stolen a watch that
once told the time for his brother, the explorer.
If the “A.A.A.,”as it professes, knows
“ All About Australia,” why did it, in a recent
issue, call Nigel Barker the Australian swimmer /
Were the Olympian running tracks as bad as all
that?
John Plumper Hoolan, the eccentric
northerner who was a member of the Queensland
Labor party when that party seemed to be made
mostly of wire and whipcord, threatens to resur-
rect at the next State elections.
There is a pigeon-butcher in Melbourne
who murders most fowl under the gun-name of
“Judkins.” “Judkins” made £32, the other
day, out of the gamble, whereof the profits go to
the m m with most blood and feathers on his con-
science. Also, there is a racing-pony called
Judkins in Sydney, and a mighty bad pony at
that.
A. DATTILO RUBBO, a Spdnep artist, who
departs on a, visit to Rome.
[?]liotn. by the Crown Studios, Sydney.
The new Soap Trust, which started opera-
tions by wanting to sell a shortweight bar, is
bossed by “ Sunlight ” Lever, M.P. That staunch
Freetrade supporter of Private Enterprise,
Senator Gray, first boomed here as Australian
representative of Lever Bros. He will now be
known, quite unjustly, as Shortweight Gray
instead of Soapy Gray.
Harry Hill, just dead in Adelaide at the
age of 28, came next to Clem in a very big family,
three or four of whom have played cricket for
S.A., while the others (boys and girls alike) have
all been prominent in the game. Harry had just
got into the State XI. when he was promoted to a
Melbourne office, two years ago. There he de-
veloped rapid consumption, and returned home
only to die.
Tom Mann, who was a professional dis-
turber of church services a little while ago, has
now become a street brawler who plants his boot
trunk on the Melbourne highways on Saturday
night, and stands on it to deliver addresses and
get in the way of the traffic till he is r6n in under
large advertising circumstances. Then the
charge-sheet describes him as “Tom Mann, 50,
secretary, Swedenborgian, West Melbourne, ob-
structing carriage way.”
“ Cockaigne ” : The mighty luck of
Asquith, at the British Exchequer, over wind-
falls ! Utterly unprecedented ! All records
broken ! Millionaires have been dropping like
ripe peaches off the tree of life, at the rate of one
a month. Beit, £8,000.000 ; Tennant, £3,000,000 ;
Grimthorpe, £2,000.000; Steinkopff, founder of
the Apollinaris Co., £1,250,000; Sturdy, a stock-
jobber, £1,000.000; Spitzel, £2,000,000. And
where is plain English Smith? Either he is
immortal or else he leaves nothing.
Died, on Oct. 31, Peter Buchanan, for-
merly a sub-overseer in the N.S.W. Government
Printing Office, aged 83 years. PoetS. H. Banks,
who was at one time engaged in the Government
Printing Office, and who may be said to have died
at his frame, used to allege that Mr. Buchanan
was the only gentleman connected with the office.
He was the one boss who didn’t simply grunt
when a humble subordinate said “Good morn-
ing ” to him.
Rev. Carey, the shrill Yellow Baptist who
keeps Melbourne up-to-date in respect to the
nefarious intentions of the Pope, is fast under-
mining his influence with the uncommonly good
by denying the existence of a material hell. The
Rev. Carey says there is no devil and no hell,
that the idea of both is incompatible with “the
nature of God and the trend of civilisation,” and
now good people, who wouldn’t part with their
hell on any account, are writing to the papers
about Carey. It is strange, but true, that holy
people are as much shocked at being cut off from
the chance of Wheel as they are at losing the other
place. Being holy. Brown thinks not of himself
alope. His future is assured, his place is pro-
vided, but there is his neighbor. Smith. Smith
must be provided for, too. Hell is for Smith.
Come to think of it, there must be an awful
number of Smiths in hell.
According to a good authority recently
dug up, the first pawnbroker in Australia was
.Samuel Terry, of Pitt-street. Sydney, who died in
that city in 1831. leaving half a million.
Thus “L.E.”
Meyer Altson’s scholarship picture, “Circe” has
arrived, but meets with little appreciation. Meyer
worked hard in Paris under Bercinneau, at L’Ecole des
beaux Arts\ under the Society painter, Bonnat, and later
at the Academie Uumblet , under Humblet himself. Yet
Paris doesn’t make an artist, and, like his brother Abbey,
who decorates magazine covers with sweetly pretty
maidens, Meyer hasn’t discovered anything ver} 7 original.
Though brand new from Paris, “Circe” has an old-
fashioned look, with the appearance of having been kept
a long time in stock.
Died at Brisbane, the other day, R. J.
Randall, artist, aged 37. He received his early
art education in that city, and subsequently
accompanied his father, the Queensland Govern-
ment Immigration Agent, to Britain, where he
studied under Herkomer. In 1897, some of his
work was hung at the Royal Academy’s Exhibi-
tion. Later, in Queensland, he did good-class
work in oils, water-colors and black-and-white.
Last year, he exhibited several pictures at the
Sydney Art Society’s exhibition, one of his works
being purchased for the Art Gallery.
“ C.G.8.” writes :
The par (B. 4/10/’OG) complaining of lack of interest in
Seddon “Memorial” meetings, puts the harness on the
wrong horse. Seddon always acted as though the public
funds were his own personal property, and to be dis-
tributed as he thought fit. This accounts for the “ rav-
ing and cheering,” as, unless people cheered, there was
mighty little chance of much-needed roads and bridges
being attended to. The crowd that called without
cheering had no hope of getting its wants supplied,
while the crowd that cheered something tremendous got
a good deal more than its due. “ A great man’s memory
may, at the common rate, survive him half-a-vear ”;
that Seddon's has survived him less is entirely his own
fault.
“Index” : The Bulletin (11/10/’Ofi) re-
cords the death of .Joe Denison. I hope that old
Charon put his boat in dry dock, and had ready
a coach and seven (tin; dead driver’s favorite
team) in its stead. Denison was one of
the Australian natives (Frank Byrne, M.L.A.,
born on the Hunter, was, 1 think, the first) who
opened the eyes of A. W. Robertson and “ Wel-
come .lack ” Wagner to the fact that it was not
at all necessary to send to America for skilled
men to handle large teams of horses in passenger
and mail coaches. .Toe Denison was perhaps the
best driver in the huge service of Cobb and Co.
“ A juryman ” writes :
Apropos Mr. O. E. Pilcher’s fitness for the X.S. Wales
Chief Justiceship (K./11/’O6l. Mr. Pilcher will have been
40 years at the Bar next March, and is already (12. I
was in Court in the initial Willis proceedings, and noted
that the burly Pilcher of to-day is not the bloodless
Pilcher of twenty years ago. His manner has become
hesitating, and his voice is now low and indistinct, causing
much complaint not only in the press boxes, hut by the
counsel at the table with him. Pilcher has lost all his
ancient fire, and, as he is a wealthy man and a widower,
who delights in frequent voyages to Europe, he ought to
retire from the Bar into slippered ease. Anyhow, in this
writer’s opinion, a Chief Justice must be looked for
elsewhere.
Died in Sydney, last week, George W.
Nicoll, once a successful Australian ship owner.
A few years ago his trade was threatened by the
hungry North Coast S.N. Co., and almost at the
same time he was attacked by locomotor ataxia.
He went to England, with an order to build the
Noorebar, a larger vessel than any then in the
coastal trade, with which to fight the N.C. Co.,
and also to get expert advice as to his health. He
brought out his steamship and the news that there
was no hope, so he sold all his boats to the North
Coast Co., and sat down to wait for the end.
Some birthdays for November (mostly
compiled from Johns’s handy book)Prof. Skeats
(Melb.), 31 on the Ist; Simpson Newland, ex-
Treasurer of S.A., and author of “Paving the
Way,” 71 on the 2nd ; Julian Salomons, 70 on the
4th; Admiral Rawson, G 3 on the sth ; King
Edward, G 5, President Stirling (S.A.), 57, and
Colonel (Herald) Reay, 48 on the 19th; Federalist
S. Mauger, 49 on the 12th ; Prof. Andrew Harper,
G 2 on the 13th ; W. M'Millan, SG, John See, 55,
and Steele-Rudd, 38 on the 14th; Senator
Guthrie, 49 on the 17tli; Lord Northcote, GO,
and ex-Premier Daglish, 40 on the 18th ; Arch-
bishop O’Reily, GO on the 19th ; ex-Bishop Moor-
house (Melb.), 80 on the 19th ; Justice A. H.
Simpson, G 8 on the 22nd ; Senator Dobson, G 5 on
the 24th ; Rabbi Boas (S.A.), 62, and Senator
Plavford, G 9 on the 25th.
A CARE FORREFAIRS.
“Tinkering with the Constitution ” —the phrase ap-
plied to the Government proposals—conveys to the Con-
servative mind something akin to blasphemy.— AGE.
DRAKIN : “ Not tinker with it ! Of course I
will if it leaks.” (Jabs him in the nose with
soldering iron.)
A pioneer Victorian chemist died at
Auburn (Vic.) recently. Edward Wollaston was
born of English parents in Switzerland in 1835,
and learned the pestle and mortar business in
London. In 1850 became to Melbourne with the
late Dr. Hedlev, who afterwards represented
Gippsland in the Victorian Parliament. In his
druggy days he was assistant to the late George
Lewis, at the Medical Hall, Collins-street; dis-
penser at the old Colonial Hospital, which was
located in Batman’s old residence, on the present
Spencer-street Railway Station site; dispenser at
the Police Infirmary at the time when one day’s
imports included CO London constables, brought
out as models for the mere local “trap”; and
dispenser at the present Women’s Hospital. Also
he was in biz in Melbourne and Ballarat. He
first introduced chemical stage-light effects to
Melbourne theatres, and he fixed upan illuminated
fountain at the Exhibition Building so ingeniously
during the Dook of Edinburgh’s visit that his
name was mentioned quite nicely in the royal
diary.
A LOSS OF £157.
An elector at the conclusion of the speech asked, amid
laughter, if Mr. Reid was in favor of Federal members
being paid [?] . a sitting when present, and fined £3 3s.
a sitting when absent.
GEORGE : “ Good Hen renx! Do you want to
ruin me ? ”
Mr. William Kerr Thompson, an old Mel-
bourne identity, died in London recently. He
was a partner in the firm of James McEwan and
Co., in the late fifties. About 20 years ago he
became a financial ruin, and the merchants of
Melbourne subscribed a fund which enabled him
to li ye at ease as an absentee in London for the
remainder of his life.
“ Melb.” : The key to the whole difficulty
of obtaining a pastor for St. Columb’s, Haw-Haw-
thorn, is in the statement that “ We won’t have
any of Dr. Leeper’s men.” I am not aware
whether this is rightly attributed to one Brad-
shaw, who is the grand panjandrum at that church,
with Judge Molesvvorth and lawyer Henry West-
ley for humble henchmen. Canon Nash, trans-
ferred to Geelong, gave St. Columb’s a Low
Church bias, and, in any case, by the law of con-
trarieties it must needs be opposed to the Haw-
thorn Christ Church, which is High. Dr. Leeper
is head of Trinity College. He has trained 'three
bishops: Green of Ballarat, Armstrong of Wan-
garatta, and Stretch of Newcastle. But he also
turned out that High terror, the Rev. E. S.
Hughes, of St. Peter’s. Armstrong was a former
pastor of St. Columb’s, and advanced thence to be
Archdeacon of Gippsland, but the fiat goes forth
that there are to be no more of his kind.
Corm.shm«an Richard Tangye, head of the
big engineering firm, has passed out at the age of
72. Tangye. who paid various visits to Australia,
was a shining light in church circles, and a favorite
example in Sunday-school books of the “Men
Who Have Risen.” Withal he managed to see
the humorous side of things, and had a taste for
the pawky religious anecdote. He told of the
entrance of a church undergoing repairs. The
arch was inscribed “ 'This is the Gate of Heaven,”
and lower down, “Go Round the Other Way.”
In Cornwall a mine manager, who was also a local
preacher, issued a too glowing summary of a new
mining venture, and shortly afterwards gave out
the text, “Who hath believed our report?”
Another preacher on Tangye’s list found that he
had left his sermon MS. at home, and announced,
“ My dear brethren, I can only give you what
God will send me, but to-night I will come better
prepared.”
About some old sporting characters :
J. J. Miller, the sporting pamphleteer, tells a sad story
of misplaced honesty. Miller was one of the early fathers
of the Australian gambling evil, and, in the old days,
when he was a Sydney bookmaker, one of his regular
clients was Tobias Ryan, the member for Penrith. It
happened that Ryan, having to pay Miller a “ fiver,” gave
him a £5O-not.e by mistake. Two or three days later the
chuckling bookie met the honorable member for Penrith
in the street, took him to a hotel-bar, and asked him for
another fiver. “Didn’t I pay you?” roared Rvan.
Miller replied by returning him the fifty, whereupon the
astonished legislator remarked contemptuously that
Miller didn’t deserve to have another £5O in the’world.
He regarded the act of restitution as a sinful sacrifice of
money. And Toby Ryan represented the turf morality
of those good old days, one supposes, seeing that he was
a racehorse owner. It is recorded of Toby that he won a
race with a very rank outsider, to the dismay of Billy
Nicholson, father of barrister Nicholson. There were 30
starters for the race, and Billy aforesaid had bought 29 of
them in a Calcutta sweep. The winner was the rank out-
sider which he hadn’t bought.
G. D. Delprat, general manager of the
Broken Hill Prop, mine, goes to Europe shortly
for at least six months’ spell, leaving
E. J. Horwood in charge of what is just
now probably the biggest industrial con-
cern in Australia. This will be the first
time it has been, for any length of
time, in Australian-trained hands. As
a mostly-foreign concern, it has always
had mostly-foreign bosses —Patton and
Schlapp, and Howell and Kohler,
Americans; Stewart, a Scotchman
trained in Spain ; Delprat, a Dutchman.
Horwood passed through Bendigo School
of Mines and Melbourne University
Engineering School to railway work, en-
gineered the Silverton Go.’s line, and
then joined the B.H. Prop.’s service.
Wain wright, manager of the Broken
Hill South, which is challenging the
B.H. Prop, in these later days, came
out of the Adelaide School of Mines,
which has produced some remarkable
successes, considering that many of the
students pull through their whole course
without ever smelling a mine.
Bill Lyne, for all his cuteness, is now and
again a most indiscreet person, especially when
he wants to help a friend. It’s Bill’s way to be
willing to do almost anything that’s legal and
possible.to oblige a friend. The other day a con-
stituent persuaded Lyne that in certain bank-
ruptcy proceedings he was being badly treated.
Promptly Lyne wrote to the official assignee,
who, seeing a chance to score, did so and, meta-
phorically speaking, dragged the Minister all over
the premises for daring to “ interfere in a judicial
matter.” Further, the assignee, to make his
score complete, published the correspondence.
(He doesn’t seem to have been fond of Bill.) There
was no real harm m what Lyne did, but his action
was imprudent, and gave his enemies a chance to
score.
“ Melb.” writes :
J. L. Forde, of Hobart Mercgrt, contributes racy
papers to our Advocate on “ Victorian Bar History.” To
be sure, they are pretty Irish, but the old Bar was so,
though not so-so. The goldfields fetched a mighty inroad
of young talent. Australia got the cream of the Dublin
Bar, and some first-rate English talent. It is difficult to
believe that Chitty could turn out a better man, of his
peculiar stamp, than Fellows. In other qualifications, it
is safe to say that none surpassed Hi ginbotham. After
these two. but infinitely superior to them in finesse, and
the kissable qualities of the Blarney stone, was Dick
Ireland, who ranked with Aspinall’s impetuous genius,
for court power. Michie, again, had some piercing
qualities which would place him above any of the
quartette just mentioned. Dawson, J. W. Stephen
and Wood were other notable pleaders. What gorgeous
plunder there was, espemally in litigation over squatting,
banking and mining', in the early days ! Never again will
there be such a halcyon era as that in the yellow old
court, now Melbourne Police Court. There was
more garnish of literature, wit, humor and what-
not than now. The vore-time attorney, congenial
soul, has gone, too. Both classes were good on the
Falernian. They 7 had “ werrv great powers of suction.”
Crier M’Donald kept the liquor. His little wooden
luncheon-room emulated the Mermaid Tavern of Shak-
speare and Co. There was a flow of soul as music to the
popping of corks, which just came in like drum-taps.
“Stony” writes this (The Bulletin
doesn’t know whether it is principally about the
pub or about Torpv, so makes it a “ Personal” on
spec):—
Re “quaint pubs.” (8., 4/10/’0(i). The quaintest I ever
struck was Torpy’s, at Station Creek (N.Q.) Torpy is the
O.K. Torpy now, and has a pound or two in the bank.
Those times his pub. was a shack built of galvanised iron,
with 2J rooms—public bar, “private” bar, and a bed-
room. I slept in the bedroom one night, and a centipede
climbed into the bunk with me, and “dide a dredful
deth ”at my hands. The doctor slept in the same room ;
he was in the midst of a blight epidemic, and had blight
himself, but he would have been a handy room-mate if
that centipede had got in first blow. Torpy’s pub. had a
floor of ant-beds—red ant-beds pounded down to a level,
dusty surface. There wore no doors, only doorways,
and the bush stretched out clear away from the front
doorstep. Torpy employed a barmaid, too, though there
were only about six or seven women in the “ township ”
in those days. There was no “deadhouse.” The “dead”
simply vanished into the scrub until the next morning.
English beer was 2s. (id. a pint. And Torpy is O.K. now,
with a pound or two in the bank, and his quaint puh. is
long forgotten, while there are signs of civilisation arowd-
ing all up and down the main road of the township where
once we saw the bewildered kangaroo going madly by on
the jump.
A DEAF EAR.
If, as they say, Capital is exploiting Labor, I say the
State would exploit Labor, too, and with more effect.
Private enterprise pays all its own loss- [?], but th Social-
istic State would cast all losses on its tupendous under-
takings on the workers. —From Reid.
AUSTRALIA : “ What about the profits? ”
There is a rumor that N.SA ’. Chief Jus-
tice Darley will get time to publish a volume of
verse when he retires from the Cornstalk Bench.
No one. so far as The Bulletin is aware, sus-
pected Mr. Darley of concealed poetry before.
Still, it is a habit the N.S.W. Bench has. Both
of Darley’s predecessors flirted covertly with
Poesy in the shade'. Stephen flirted with a fan,
and Martin with a waddy. Barron Field was an
open, glaring and avowed poet. He, so to speak,
gave the Muse six months’ hard in open court.
A. G-. Foster writes :
Permit me to correct in regard to the late Mrs.
Elizabeth Cartwright. First, the deceased lady was a
native of Hobart, not Sydney. Second, on the ancient
stone in the Sandhills cemetery the names Hunt and
Fink do not appear. The tomb contained the remains
of Capt. Bunker’s first wife, who died in 1808; his
daughters, Isabella, wife of Capt. Thomas Laycock (died
1817); Mary Ann Campbell, wife of Capt. Arnold Fisk,
and Fisk’s eldest son. This stone and that of John
Rutland (Governor Bligh’s son-in-law) were the two
oldest stones in the cemetery, both being removals from
elsewhere. Captain Bunker was thrice married, his first
wife being a daughter of Captain Thompson, R.N., who
had married Miss Collingwood, an aunt of Lord Colling-
wood. Bunker received a grant on the Rocks, which was
known for many years as Bunker’s Hill. He received,
also, a grant of 500 acres near Liverpool, which he named
Collingwood, after his wife’s family. On this estate he
passed the later years of his life. His eldest daughter
married Captain Thomas Laycoelc, and his second
daughterbecame the wife of Capt. Arnold Fisk, son of Judge
Fisk, of Rhode Island (U.S.A.). Parson Marsden per-
formed the ceremony in old St. John’s Church, Parramatta.
The deceased lady remembered Sydney when its inhabi-
tants drew their supply of water from wells and the Tank
Stream, and, among many stirring incidents of the early
days, saw the soldiers Sudds and Thompson drummed
out of the barracks, to the tune of the “ Rogues’ March.”
As is well known, the cruel treatment meted out to these
men (one of whom died, while the other became insane)
aroused deep indignation throughout the colony, and
led to Governor Darling’s recall.
The Bulletin comes to the surface to breathe
after plunging through all this biography, and
admits that it is getting rather confused about
the Cart wright-Bunker-Laycoek-Campbell-Fisk-
Rutland - Bligh - Thompson - Collingwood family.
However, the Tank Stream seems a pretty
definite landmark.


A Present for a Gentleman
\N>> " ■ ■ =-
At ANTHONY HORDERN’S FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Pattern No. 4.
m
M
I 8!
Pattern No. 5.
Pattern No. B.
Pattern No. 10.
CENT.’S Bet. COLD ALBERTS, In large variety of designs.
Oct., £3 35., £'3 155., £4 10s., £6 ss.
15ct., £5, £5 155., £6 Os., £7 10s., £8 155. ( £lO, £l2 10s., £l3 ss.
Silver, 6s. 6d., Bs. Od., 10s., 125., 13s.
Pattern No. 930.
ENGRAVE! SILVER SOVEREIGN PURSE, Hall
marked, to hold 5 sovs. (No. 930), 7s. od.
To hold 10 sovs., 10s. 6d.
Oct. COLD SOVEREIGN PURSE, Hall marked,
Plain, to hold 5 sovs., 30s.
Engraved, to hold 5 sovs., 40s.
15ct. COLD SOVEREIGN PURSE, Hall marked,
Plain, to hold 5 sovs., 00s.
Engraved, to hold 5 sovs., 70s.
GOLD FlLLED—warranted to last 20 years.
Plain, 10s.
Engraved, 20a
ftfT
£Ti ?-=»
I
11
Pattern No. 917.
ay l
Pattern No. 910.
<kj
Pattern No. 915.
SILVER PENCILS, at Is., Is. 6d., 25., 2s. 6d., 35., 3s. 6d., 4s. 9d., ss. 6d., 7s.
Oct COLD, 55., 12s. 6d., 155., 205., 235. Gd., 305., 405., 455.
Pattern No. 10X.
Art., ? n s.
SILVER LOCKETS, 25., 35.,
3s. fid., 4s.
9ct. LOCKETS, 6s. 6d.,
Bs. Cd., 10s., 125., 148.
15ct. LOCKETS, 255.,
325. 6d., 405., 455.
Pattern No. 929.
SILVER COMBINATION MATCH BOX AND SOVEREIGN PURSE, Hall marked, to
hold 5 sovs. (No. 929), 21s.
Got. COLD COMBINATION MATCH BOX AND SOVEREIGN PURSE, Hall marked,
Plain, to hold 5 sovs., 80s.
Engraved to hold 5 sovs., 90s.
CENT.’S SILVER MATCH BOXES, ss. 6d., 6s. 6d.,
7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s.
Set. COLD, 405., 625. 6d., 705., 755. each.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
fa
i M
7).
r
<.7 •
m
sreof^
N/-v/
IBS
>2
UUi
a
SCOTCH
c Ef?M/\N
&LEND
HICHL A/Vq
Misr .
"TCh&iflcs! Boiit
liivow ikbi we need iLj
jgj
JO
lx Better 6 &Lot Older. 1
fgd


The Quest for Beauty is woman’s one eternal
pilgrimage. And if is surprising how many meet their
Mecca through the virtues Of that dainty Russian Skin
Food, Valaze. The charm of a clear, radiant complexion
comes to all with the use of this excellent preparation.
Valaze conjures away in the shortest while all such facial
blemishes as Wrinkles, Crowsfeet, Sallowness, Freckles,
Tan, and Pimples. It will not harm the most sensitive
skin, being compounded from rare balsamic herbs that
grow only on the slopes of the Carpathian Moun-
tains, and prepared under the direction of Dr.
Lykuski, one of the foremost Skin and Complexion
Specialists in Europe. Costing only 3s. 6d. and 6s.
a jar, it has the further virtue of being inexpens'ive.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. When
used in conjunction with Valaze Herbal Soap the fullest
benefits are ensured. Posted, of course 6d. must be
added. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure is another
toilet requisite that supplies a want of Australian women.
It will remove the most obstinate cases of this distressing
complaint ; 2s. 6d. tin, posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap,
compounded from almonds and rare herbs, greatly assists
the beautifying action of Valaze, feeds as well as cleanses;
2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair Killer, a sure and
speedy remover of superfluous hairs, destroys the roots ;
5s., postage 3d. “ New Guide to Beauty a little
brochure on the care of the skin and complexion, revised
to include the latest European beauty achievements.
Posted free for 3d. in stamps, or free with the purchase
of any Valaze preparation. All these Valaze toilet articles
obtainable from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne, and
158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
During our long and warm summer there is no home
comfort more necessary than a plentiful supply of good
reading, and when the best books are available to every
subscriber of our up-to-date library, what family should
be without that comfort? Our rates are reasonable, all
volumes are Clean and neatly covered in a green cloth ;
large quantities of every book of note, published in
London or America, whether it be fiction, travel, history,
biography, light science, reminiscence or belles lettres,
are added to the stock immediately upon arrival in
Sydney. Members get the books they ask for ; there is
no delay or disappointment in not being able to procure
the works that are being discussed among readers, at the
height of their popularity. For £2 2s. per annum, or 25s.
for six months, a resident in city or suburbs may change
two volumes and two of the latest magazines at a time as
often as desired ; for 21s. per annum, or 12s. 6d. for six
months, one volume and one magazine are allowed. To
residents in thecountry we send a parcel of eight volumes
at a time as often as required, for the sum of £2 12s. 6d.
per annum, or £111s. 6d. for six months. Special pro-
portionate rates are quoted for larger exchanges and for
shorter periods. Write or call for our catalogues, which
are published periodically, giving full particulars of
terms, etc., at Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating
Library, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Recommended by Users.
“I have been recommended to try your tablets for in-
digestion.” We are hearing this from customers all da}',
which shows how Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets are
becoming known and valued by thepublic. They are worthy
of recommendation, being purely vegetable, they do not
artificially digest the food, but enable the stomach to do
so, and by their use the stomach is made strong enough
to perform its functions unaided. They give immediate
relief from acidity, flatulence, heartburn, and all stomach
troubles arising from mal-assimilation of food, and cure
the worst forms of indigestion quickly and permanently.
Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets make eating a pleasure,
and give the system the full benefit it should derive from
the eating of good healthy food. Being mildly laxative,
they keep the system in perfect order, and cleanse the
blood of all impurities, take away that blotched appear-
ance from the face caused by poor digestion, and make
the complexion clear and velvety, as it should be with
perfect health. Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets are
sold at Is. and 2s. 6d. per box, or Is. Id. and 2s. 9d. post
free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
Ask f O/ .
oagei \ A
& . * Ojc
L«i
:«i
irnn^s
£ ~
'U'MMWb 1 .
sOAtfaAs-
cfftmj
it
Goutez et Comparez. ”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
4
“graVemettes"
Are. the Ideal fABRJCS
FOR
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 6, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Everyone who wasn’t Cupping or seriously ill
went to the Town Hall yesterday to say the fare-
well word to Mrs. Allen Taylor. It was a long and
numerous reeeption, and for two hours it made a
brilliant trail (to say nothing of tail) from the tram
lines to the last cushion in the deepest chair at the
end of the Mayoress’s suite of rooms. Mrs. Taylor
(who must have as many frocks as Queen Eliza-
beth, but you’d be put to death for saying/?-ocA:s to
royal Redhead’s robes) farewelled in a silken gown
suggestive of spring and early summer, and a cun-
ning little crinoline mushroom hat, exhibiting tulle
and white feathers. Mrs. Hugh Dixson—she
has a new motor, brougham build—the Margaret
Harris group, the Caros, and lots of other valuable
persons who pull in front or push behind in
charity work, came along to say, “ Sorry you’re
going.” Mrs. Matthew Henry Stephen, with her
rejuvenated mate, had a smart get-up of black and
white, and a string of half-blown roses around her
hat. Mrs. Monty Severn, a brace of Dibbs, and
certain ladies, Delohery and Cole, who have re-
turned from spine-bending at the English Court,
made adieux. One of the charming presences
present was the wife of Rabbi Cohen. This
lady and her husband must have the tem-
pers of angels and the philosophical ci\lm of
Buddh. The motor car. in which they and others
were travelling lately from the Jenolan Caves to
Medlow Hydro broke down, and for nine hours
the party camped in the open The Rabbi, after
lighting a fire, kept the spirits of the rest of the
party bubbling. Anyhow, the rest of the party
declare that the Rabbi and Rabbina were the only
non-grumblers.
Rose Musgrove was in Paris with Mrs. Jack
Scantlebury when she got a wire from theatrical
manager Courtneidge to return to play Gracie
Lee’s part in “The Dairymaids,” on tour. The
correspondent who sends on that item adds “Isn’t
Rose lucky?” Evidently Gracie Lee’s part and
“The Dairymaids” are of importance, although
we in Australia have not been introduced to them.
Same correspondent mentions that Gordon, K.C.,
and his ox-eyed Marguerite (or was she just plain
Margaret?) return by the Mongolia, leaving London
On Dec. 7. Mr. Reggie Allen and his Tasmanian
bride also return by that floating city, which is
like Babylon on the water for immensity. Emily
Soldene, too, announces her coming back to avoid
the winter cold of the Great Soak. Whether this
will interrupt the flow of those interesting but
scrappy letters, in which Emily conveys the
fashion doings of the hour in three barks and a
telegram, isn't mentioned.
Miss Maisie Kelly, sister of the Tin Kellv
Kellys, is laid up in a private hospital with
appendicitis. That complaint seems to be coming
into fashion again. I thought everyone had had
her appendix eliminated by this day and date.
Anyhow, appendicitis has lost its vogue within the
last two years, and it’s no use Miss Maisie Kelly
and Captain Robertson Clark trying to revive a
dead (medical) fashion as if it were a fichu or a
pelerine. When appendicitis was at its zenith, a
recovered patient (a woman of quality) gave an
appendicitis lunch. Her maids were dressed as
hospital nurses, the table decorations were after
the fashion of surgical instruments, and the guests
were limited to those who “had had it.”
Mrs. Burdekin and her unmarried daughter are
going Egyptward, presently, just to take bites of a
new climate and to strike a cloak-and-dagger
attitude and to re-murmur the first Napoleon’s
winged words to his troops : “ From the summit
of the Pyramids forty centuries look down on
you.”
Mr. Gordon Weston (brother of Mrs. Ernest
Watt and Mrs. Neville Dangar) goes hence by
the Orontes to begin the study of medicine in
Auld Reekie—otherwise Edinburgh. The first
thing that will probably strike him there will be
the amiizing geography of the Cowgate. Every
Australian doing a first visit to Edinburgh should
be blindfolded at the railway station, and taken
in a cab to the middle of Cowgate, and there
turned loose to investigate for himself. That way
Edinburgh occurs to the visitor in a heap.
The Orontes, which left Sydney for Melbourne
last week, was noticeably tipped' over on one side
with the weight of nearly 300 passengers and
their trunks. Astonishing how many people find,
about Cup time, they have urgent business which
can only be satisfactorily settled on the lawn at
1 lemington. It is these people, their consciences
heavy with self-reproach, who tip-tilt the coastal
steamer service.
Dolores farewelled, at Sydney Town Hall, in
pale yellow brocade, cut en'polonaise, over flounces
of lace, with diamonds twinkling about her.
Though she was suffering from a severe attack of
influenza, which robbed her voice of some of its
sweetness, the audience was enthusiastic. It
wanted its money’s worth, and more. It stood in
a stand-and-deliver attitude after the last item
and demanded further encores, and extracted
“Coming^thro’ the Rye” and “Home Sweet
’Ome.” The latter rapturously applauded.
Apropos, Dolores’ scrappy programmes were
becoming a trifle monotonous. Even she cannot
make mere threads of melody from the Middle
Ages interesting. At the final concert the pro-
gramme was got through in an in-and-out manner
owing to some of the music going astray, at 1 that
section of the audience which couldn’t follow such
lines as “ Der da wiirzt die Lenzerluft ” got hope-
lessly bunkered. “Absence” (Berlioz) and a
Brahms Serenade were given in Dolores’ best
style, but the state of her throat prevented her
doing herself justice in the fine prayer from “La
Tosca.”
Dolores left next day with her companion,
Mselle Vandour, for Maoriland, where the
geysers have got excited over the news of her
coming, and have been making remarks 300 ft
high.
A big crowd blocked Pitt-street, on Saturday
morning, while watching the working of a new
fire-escape. A girl and a man made the descent
from Stott and Hoare’s College, while the on-
lookers gasped. The apparatus worked all right,
though a trifle slowly. With fire and smoke
belching from the windows, I should want to
reach safety quicker than that. Still, it was
better than the old style, whereby the escapee
hung on as long as possible and then leaped out
and hoped for a policeman to fail upon.
My sex dearly loves to look on, from a position
of perfect safety, at dangerous deeds. “Oh ! Iknow
they are going to fall,” shrieked a girl, clutching
another, ‘,‘andj can’t see a-thing!” And at a
recent regatta, when an overturned boat precipi-
tated its crew into the water : “Oh, where are the
sharks ? ” cried a girl with the profile of a
Madonna.
A spectacled audience listened to the entertain-
ment daringly presented by a bevy of maidens,
led by Hilda Bevege, at the Y.M.C.A.
last week. This concert, sandwiched between
Dolores on Tuesday and the Philharmonic on
Thursday, attracted a mere handful, mainly
of the Chosen, without whom Art in Sydney
would languish a lot more than it does now.
Miss Bevege recited “Kitty” pathetically.
Miss Rosen wax gave an uneven performance.
The Wieniawski waltz was well played, but
Greig’s “March of the Dwarfs” sounded more
like bookies getting home after the favorite had
gone down. Herr Sehienpflug tooted agreeably,
but Miss Maud Neville would do better if she
would give her voice a chance. She may take a
small size in tooth brushes, but one must open
the mouth if the voice is to be heard.
Since Dolores set the fashion, our concert plat-
forms have been lavishly decorated with arum
lilies, with disastrous results. The strong pene-
trating perfume of these flowers has a decidedly
roughening effect on the human voice.
Friends of organist Lemare will regret to hear
of his wife’s continued ill-health. It was hoped
a sea voyage might prove beneficial, but Mrs.
Lemare has been constantly under treatment
during her visit here, and now an operation is
advised.
Paling’s forwards “Love Lilies,” words and
music by Nea Theakstone. This song has been
sung with success by Miss Nita Leete, a portrait
of whom adorns the cover. To commonplace
words the composer has linked a sweet melody
with a catchy refrain, marred, in one part, by the
use of an augmented instead of a major interval.
Accompanists should correct one or two printer’s
errors in the song. The “ Candy ” schottische is
not nearly so sweet as its name, and a song
“To Elvie,” published by Allen and Co., Mel-
bourne (words and music by Lottie Pinder, of
Bendigo), is an ambitious effort which misses the'
mark. A lover who “ dreams of her by night and
day ” might suit a girl from Bendigo, but here we
have no use for a man who sleeps in the daytime.
He’d have to hustle all day and the best part of
the night to please a Sydney girl.
Miss Rose Scott gave a dandy little evening
last week to wish Miss Spence many happy
returns of the day. Miss Spence has turned the
corner at the eighty-first milestone, but all her
faculties are unimpaired, and if she is as young as
she feels, then the lady ought to have been con-
gratulated on attaining just the summery age of
forty-one.
Mr. Maurice Toohey, whose engagement to
Miss Constance Hayes was recently announced, is
laid up with pneumonia.
Colonel and Mrs. Freehill go hence presently on
a European visit. He is a solicitor when he’s not
armying or consuling, and has a high Holy
Roman Empire title, and the pair are a popular
pair, and good to their poorer neighbors.
Sydney Jap Consul gave a garden party last
week to celebrate the 54th birthday of his Mikado,
The Darleys, Allen Taylors, Sees, Kidds, and
Agricultural Moores helped the chrysanthemum-
ming. The beauty of the gathering was Mrs.
Sun Johnson, wife of the editor of the Chinese
Herald. Mrs. S. J. was from Bathurst, and
looks the American magazine picture-girl.
Lady Mayoress Allen Taylor is jubilant
because the £lOOO required to establish the Lady
Rawson Memorial Cot has been over-subscribed.
The overflow will go to swell the funds of the
Thirlmere Consumptives’ Home.
The present Duke of Marlborough and his
American Duchess are suffering from incompati-
bility of temper. It seems domestic unpleasantness
is an old complaint in the noble Marlborough
family. One Duke of that name was
divorced by his wife after he had figured
prominently in the Court as a co-respondent, and
amidst the. mass of evidence against him was .the
story of how one of his children came into the
world marked with the evidence of His Grace’s
brutality to Her Grace the Duchess. The Duke,
on being informed of his offspring’s disfigurement,
sneeringly replied that it ought to be duly re-
corded as an “historical incident.”
It was at a bazaar, in aid of St. Sheoak’s
Church, that a stall-holder urged visitors to buy
‘ 4 charming blouses of mesmerised sateen.” After
all, mesmerised is a better-known word than mer-
cerised.
There was standing-room only at the Palace
Theatre on Saturday last, when a number of
amateurs, under the direction of Mr. Laurence
Campbell, presented H. J. Byron’s witty but
almost-forgotten comedy, “Our Boys.” The
“ Boys ” were good in spots. Talbot the “ hass ”
found his worst spot during the proposal, a scene
the amateur always shies at (on the stage). The
thought that his best girl is watching from the front
makes him afraid to let himself go. I suppose.
Miss Ida Rose, as the maiden aunt, and Miss Ruby
Allison—the typical boarding-house “slavey” to
a smudge—scored most of the honors among the
ladies. It is very long since “Our Boys” was
written, but Belinda, the slavey, still stands out
among the hash-house serfs of comedy and drama.
Miss Beatrice ITssher came round from Her
Majesty’s to have a look at the show. She is a
very busy “Bee” just now, rehearsing for “The
Virginian” and understudying Miss Humphrey.
Mrs. Ussher leaves shortly for Maoriland to join
her daughter Constance, who is touring with the
Marie Narelle company.
Marie Narelle’s auburn-haired cousin, Eva
Mylott, is keeping her end up in London, having
just given a successful concert under the patronage
of the Princess of Wales.
Governor and Miss Rawson, after another week
filled with meetings, charity bazaars, and dinners,
are off to the country. There, in the seclusion of
Sutton Forest, they may forget for a while the
pretty pin-cushion and the frugal strawberry cake
of the charity fete.
“The Golden Splendour of the Bush,” by
Lister-Lister, is now on view at the Art Society’s
rooms, 76 Pitt-street. It has been suggested that
the canvas should be purchased for the National
Gallery by public subscription. The public is
invited to walk up and see what it thinks of the
idea.
“Smike” Streeton is reported to be homeward
bound, having tired of the smoke of London and
longing for the purple and green and gold of
these parts.
Signor Lardelli has returned to our midst having
successfully placed several of his compositions
with publishers in London.
Pretty Mrs. Dan Robertson is seen occasionally
about town preparing for her trip abroad. Her
husband wishes to revisit Scotland before settling
down by the shores of Sydney Harbor.
Herr Kretchmann and a committee of ladies are
arranging a benefit concert for Aliss Linda Sheen,
who wants to study abroad. Meanwhile, Miss
Kate Rooney, interviewed recently in London,
says that Santley found nothing to teach her on
her arrival there. Miss Rooney studied here
under Madame Christian, whom she calls the
greatest teacher of singing in the world. Also
Signor Riceardi (who trained Eva Mylott) and
otlier capable teachers are still with us.
Artist A. Dattilo-Rubbo goes shortly to his
native Italy, and was recently farewelled by his
pupils and friends, and presented with etceteras.
Mr. Rubbo was born in Naples3s years ago. He
entered the Royal Academy of Naples after having
served in the army, and gained a diploma as
teacher of drawing. In 1897 he emigrated to
Sydney. Since then he has established himself
here as a favored artist. The object of his visit
to Europe is to gain fresh knowledge in art, and
to look in upon his relatives. Signor Rubbo will
give a lecture in Italy, “ Art at the Antipodes,”
and threatens to speak well of us. Anyhow, he is
booked to return to Sydney by the end of July,
1907, which would seem to show that he appreci-
ates this land.
“ Rosna ” writes me from Adelaide :
Madame Blanche Arral, her wonder-tones and wonder-
frocks, have bestowed themselves upon Adelaide, and the
population is busy going off its head about them. There
wasn’t a vacanr. seat in the circle or reserved stalls at her
first concert, despite the fact that this poverty-stricken
State has lately been inundated by songful stars, and the
cash must be getting low in the teapot that is concealed
up the chimney. The fascinating little Frenchwoman
has already secured more applause than any of her pre-
decessors, and there is still applause to come, if
Adelaide's hands and brolly hold out. Report
says that Madame changed her hotel t’other day
because of restrictions put upon her dog and cat
pets. Which reminds me of another star who made
dog-trouble in Adelaide. Nance O’Neil, when she was
here some six or seven years ago, was much offended that
the hotel authorities would not allow her animals to per-
form their morning ablutions in the bathroom attached
to her suite, and, finally, she girded up her canines and
removed herself and them to a house away on the Glenelg-
road, several miles from anywhere and the madding
crowd.
I have it on dubious, but well-meaning, authority that
that plucky Australian, Annie Mayor, built all the
gorgeous frocks which she sports in her “ Drama in
Camera ” shows herself ; a considerable undertaking, as
she gives each separate recitation in character. It is said
that Miss Mayor and her husband lost a good deal of pro-
perty through the Chowth African war, so she set to
work, made as many clothes in a short time as the
average professional dress-builder achieves in a year,
resurrected her old stage talent, and came back to Aus-
tralia to mend the family fortunes.
Stanley Newman, this Tortoise-town’s basso par excel-
lence, goes to London after fame next January, and will
probably get some of it without much trouble. Me takes
with him the best basso voice Adelaide has produced,
much temperament, and a sepulohrally humorous pre-
sence that makes him theadoredof hisaudiences. Also, he
does not suppose that the world can’t get on without him,
in which respect he differs, to some extent, from many of
those who hoist much worse voices in song, and the fact
makes his chance of success all the greater. For some
time past he has been teaching Latin roots and old Greek
stumps at Prince Alfred College, but enthusiastic friends
have put it to him so strongly that this is a shocking
waste of good voice that he has decided to go and see if
England really calls. If it does, he will stay and respond
to the call ; and if it doesn’t, he is the sort of man who
will cheerfully shake England by the hand and come away
again unruffled. Meanwhile the Adelaide demoiselle feels
the parting keenly, and is buying him a crate to bring
back his laurels in.
Governor Le Hunte has been consoling himself for his
state of grass-bachelorhood among the squattocracy. A
week or two ago he rushed away from the trammels of
office to rusticate at Anlaby, the Dutton homestead, and
later he cast himself for a day or two upon the joint and
several bosom of the moneyed Angas folk,,whose shekels
associate them a good deal with vice-royalty these days.
Then a refreshed Governor fled back to Adelaide and
revised the private entree list. Henry Dutton was at
one time a bank manager in a little country tow n, but a
series of unexpected deaths brought him the Anlaby pro-
perty. Since then he has become anglicised, and de-
mands to be known as “Squire” Dutt.on. The Angases
also have lately begun to attach much frill to their train,
and the growth of the Angas tail is quite noticeable. It
is so long now that it can be coiled up on the floor. On
the other hand, Governor Le Hunte is a sane person,
with a leaning towards unostentation and bowler hats,
and he doesn’t coil up his tail in a large heap behind his
throne when he sits down to represent Edward VII.
Therefore, he may have i.een overcome at meeting so
many squires and thin as.
Something new in local songsters promises to burst
upon this sacred city. Miss Martha Kleversahl, a mezzo,,
who has hitherto only exercised her bird-tones for a
favored and exclusive half-dozen, will barter them for
the shekels of the populace, at the Town Hall, on Nov.
10. She is a sister-in-law of Charles Rasp, the shepherd
who pegged out Broken Hill and a fortune. The popular
impression seems to be that the habit is in the family,
and that the lady is trying to peg out a larger financial
claim t an the circumstances justify. The people of this
economical village who heard Arral, Sherwin, and such
famous folk, in the best seats, for 55., won’t be inclined
to squander the same amount upon an unknown
warbler, even if she did once see Marchesi. I am told
that Miss lileversahl has a beautiful voice, and can
manipulate it with some skill, but then
Wybert Reeve, the old actor-manager of Adelaide
Royal, writes to his successor there, P. H. Pollock, that
the slump in theatrical matters in London is pitiful—far
too many houses, nearly l all doing badly, and thousands
of professionals with nothing to do. A West End man-
ager who was sending out a touring co. lately “had 670
applications from good people wishing to go, at £2 a
week.” The veteran adds that swarming motor-omni-
buses have “ ruined the streets and destroyed all com-
fort and are also playing the deuce with house pro-
perty.”
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
Lord and Lady Chelmsford, the Du Cane and long
Frank Newton graced the lawn party at Hawstead last
Friday, where Chief Justice Cooper and Miss Cooper
shook hands with a select 50 or 60. They began with the
Archbishop and ended with some very little lawyers and
their better, or other, halves. There was a distinct lack
of raison d’etre about the afternoon, but as the
sun shone and the breezes blew in a manner most plea-
santly unusual in this doubtful season, nobody minded.
Miss Cooper said “How do” in a frilly white cambric,
much Valenciennes lace, and a blue hat adorned with
pink roses. Lady Chelmsford was in a very champagney
chiffon de soie, cut on quite the right lines, and a winey
hat of velvet and roses. Miss Du Cane, in a floral delaine,
and three blue ear-drops, was all right up to her hat,
which was another relic of Victoria I. If any one is in-
terested to know; it, theC.J. was in checks and a Panama,
and his willowly Ex. in delicate gray with a similar top
hamper.
There is a little country town in this State called
Beaudesert, and this week it broke out in a most sur-
prising flow'er show. Such roses, such carnations, and
locally grown cream ! Also such a day, and the country
like emerald, with the animals up to their necks in grass.
To-night, Leinare tackled the Exhibition organ for the
first time, in the presence of vice-royalty and everyone of
moment. His best effects were a little marred by the
want of some “ile” at the joints of the instrument.
His improvisations, however, were alone more than
enough reward for the hot night’s sitting (the first this
summer). Mrs. Lemare, w'ho is very ill in Sydney, could
not accompany him, and the she-lionisers consequently
felt out in the cold.
Latest engagement has caused a young earthquake
here, and the hope of every spinster of a certain age has
risen 10 per cent. Stewart, senior (firm of S. and Sons),
is to wed the stately matron Best, of the Children’s Hos-
pital. Hospital loses a nurse, and the Clan Stewart gets
one. The wedding is promised almost immediately.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson is to have an imposing benefit con-
cert here on the 18th. The frill and fashion of Brisbane are
lending their support, and the event is to happen at Her
Majesty’s with the aid of the Liedertafel and other local
talent and—it is hoped—the blessing of Providence.
A movement —its starting point is Warwick —is
on foot in Southern Queensland to raise funds to assist
Miss Margaret Ferguson to go to Bullopolis for musical
study. Miss Ferguson is a composer, and her work so
far includes compositions for orchestra, piano, violin and
piano, and organ, as well as some small goods in the way
of hymns and anthems. By November 28 the movement
will have reached Brisbane. On that date an orchestral
promenade concert will be held in the Centennial Hall.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKNBHI.


'4.
,
Dunlop Reliability
motor Contest.
1000 Miles Around Victoria,
Nov. 12 to 17th., 1906.
Attractive and Interesting 20-page
Programme is now available, gratis.
Applications through POST to be
accompanied by Penny Stamp for
Postage.
Cbe Dunlop Rubber go.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
And All States.
am
u
There's nothing like
Dunlop
RUBBER HEELS
FOR A HARD DAY'S WALK
No Foot Weariness
Get Your BootmaKcr to Fit
• Pair, and Try for Yourself.
Only accept -DUNLOP HEELS**
THEY ARE. THE BEST
MCLBOURNt. SVONfV. aOtIAIOE. PIRTM. BRISBANE AMO
CHRISTCHURCH.
AND
10SE^
FOR. SALE
JN ALL LEADING STOF P '
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
PD
CLlu J3IAPE,
"ME
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 6, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarkie,—
The State Parliamentary session has ended in
an illuminated evening spree. President Wrixon
considered that more sparkle and sheen could be
extracted from a night corroboree. (There is yet
to come a sufficiently original President to put on
a real Parliamentary show, with songs by Pent
and curses by Gaunson, and a picturesque display
of disorder by Watt. That would be interesting
and apropos.) A Government House party sub-
mitted to the anthem at nine o’clock. The tall,
grey dame of “Stonington” had draped her
slender length in black satin, with some snowy
frills foaming at the corsage edge. Jet and
diamond jewels added their contrasting glitter to
the outfit. Lady Bedford (wife of the W.A.
Governor) trailed a velvet robe with some stateli-
ness. A velvet that serpentines oyer the floor
from the rear must make for stateliness. Gold
wings sprouted from the crimped thatch. Lady
Wrixon herself made a golden show —her sun-
flower satin having a morning mist of dew pat-
terned by some smart stitcher. Connoisseurs of
clothes specified the mist as Limerick lace. A
dazzler in the V.R. procession was Miss Veronique
Greville, in ahigh-waisted, 17th of March rig—the
brilliant Paddy line striking a bold and rollicking
note. The charmer came from Commonwealth
Government House with her aide-brother for
escort. Another vision in green was Mrs. George
Chirnside, whose social resurrection is one of the
excitements of this giddy festival time.
Mrs. Isaacs, in a pale flush of garments—the
faint pinks amounted to a dress-blush —earned
felicitations for her mate’s call to the Bench. It’s
funny how much more a wife gets out of her
mate’s promotion than he docs himself. On this
evening Mrs. Isaacs was hedged in by the felici-
tating clans sounding their fussy fanfares of
praise, while the Justice himself merely had a
few uninteresting officials to pass the word of
cheer, and then had a lot of dusty documents
handed to him. The wife-of a successful man has
a glorious time of it. Every new promotion he
earns by the labor of his brain is signalised as a
triumph for her. She immediately buys expen-
sive clothes, gets into some of them, and receives
the world’s applause. I daresay Mr. Justice
Isaacs didn’t even rush into the purchase of a fresh
pair of braces or wallow in an extra dozen of
collars to personally celebrate his success.
The Northcotes didn’t mean to waste a green
inch of standing-space for their lawn spree.
Thousands were bidden, and most of them came.
The G.-G. pair dispensed with the hand shake or
with any post of permanent stand. The guests
arrived in scattered herds, searched for a host or
a substitute aide, found none, and settled down to
a go-as-you-please time. The pasteboard, which
intimated that it should be handed over at the
gates, was for a while oarted round in case a hardy
official or a member of the Force should rush
from a green reserve and demand it, as no outpost
was on guard at the portal to take the burden.
An unholy rush for tea and ice-wafers set in early
and continued late. Powdered flunkeys, with
mysterious, inhuman countenances and unseeing
eyes, worked behind the buffets with a cold, re-
proachful zest as the multitude grabbed at every-
thing in sight. This refreshment rush • was the
fiercest spectacle that ever was. It looked like
the first leap of the Israelites on the manna, before
they were assured that Heaven would call round
with manna every morning.
As a dress show, the Northcotes’ garden browse
was more than satisfactory. Even the practised
orb grew strained ranging over the legions of the
gaily-garbed. The datne responsible for the rally
wore a smile, which danced like a summer sun-
beam, unfailingly from the start to the finish of
the party. Also she had on a new banana-colored
satin cloth, with shimmering silk additions and
iace fore and aft. A fruity gamp cast a,banana
shade on the blithe personage. The dame of
“Stonington” shone in a black satin, which opened
out into snowy white stripes sis she footed the
lawn. It was a cunning, fan-like effect that held
the glance to the figure. From the mournful
black millinery a small cluster of white lilac made
a coy bid. She was an emphatic chiffon success.
The blues carried this garden day. Miss Ethel
Guthrie, Mrs. G. Chirnside, and Mrs. Hammond
Clegg were prominent in blue. The trio all wore
ostrich boas or plumes of great magnificence in
their head-mounts. Mrs. Clegg added a golden
radiance to her outfit—the opulent ornamentation
calling strongest attention to the soft shy-blue
drapes of her rig. A Sydneyite of some weight
and importance was Miss Kelso King. Hers was
a cobweb chiffon with a floral palette design.
There was excuse in the slightly damp grass to
hoist up the skirts at the V.R. afternoon junket.
So petticoats of great price had a show on their
own. I had a fleeting peep at the prize one
flaunted by Mrs. Harry Payne, the dame who,
since her great diamond robbery, is addicted
to the wearing of an orchid as an article which
doesn’t attract burglars. The stately dame had
her skirts daintily clutched in a small right paw,
and a lovely fuss of ivory and pastel chiffons was
shown in a swirl about her ankles. The charms of
the petticoat were never better manifested.
I saw, the other day, in a French Collins-street
lingerie dep6t, a petticoat of fascinating charm.
It was in wicked mauve tones, and over the
waving lines of silken thread pink roses rioted.
They were in profusion, as though tumbling head-
long into silken dissipation. Twenty-five guineas
was the price, and a Melbourne butterfly paid the
money.
The Vice-regals from the Western State broke
bread for a week at “Stonington,” during which
period the Talbottles strove to keep the ball of
festivity on the bounce. On Derby Day the
visiting team of Bedfords went on to the North-
cotes’ establishment for some more hospitality.
This is a very Vice-regal sort of town at present
—four lots of Excellencies, with staff additions,
are gathered into an impressive phalanx,
Rupert Clarke is crowing like a gay chanticleer
over the rush for his daughter’s “Two Stories.”
At the hotel stalls, the volume sold out early last
week, and the shops report fast progress with its
demand. So the proud papa sent off a cable-
message, the other day, to the effect that the
romantic yarns were booming. The joy of the
i sporting Rupert is greater at this state of things
than if he were winning all the Cups and Plates
of the Carnival.
Mrs. Rymill (who was Miss Shylie Blue) landed
in this city for the November revelry a week or two
ago. Interest wanes in the South Australienne,
for her sartorial effects are not tricky, and she
herself has lost her taste for frisking. A leading
dame expressed her opinions on honeymooners to
one of them the other day. “You know, dear,
I’d love to have you at my Oaks dinner; but,
darling, you’re still a brand-new bride, and I
daren’t separate you from him, nor him from you,
or both would mope; and I daren’t sit you
together—l would be a laughing stock for every-
one, and you’d be absurd figures yourselves. So,
my love, you understand, don’t you ? ” And the
bride ruefully said she understood. It was true ;
but she dearly wanted to be at that Oaks dinner.
Probably now the she-honeymooner will heap her
ownest with reproaches for daring to be married
to her, when they sit down to their own Oaks
cutlet a deux.
The Derby multitude fretted and fumed up on
the stand, its spirits and its chiffons completely
crushed. The rain showers made mud of the
crisp lawn and a slippery snail track of the red
terrace tiles. The weather-proof She was a
gloomy spectacle, and the charmer with fresh-air
laces, revealing her goose flesh, was a heavier
sorrow to behold. Some desperate flutterers
trailed yards of Ninon and Sieilienne, and the
piqued stand crush looked on grimly. In the two
Y.R. pens a large assemblage of persons took
a solemn view of the cold, damp scene. The
one comfortable dress-appointment on view was a
splendid sable cape on the blue shoulders of
Dame Northcote. The warm help to the racy
sapphire outfit was becoming, likewise sensible.
The Grace of Stonington repeated her black and
white tones in long lines of graceful cut. And
the sombre rig was atmospherically in key. One’s
eye rested on it gratefully. Miss Veronique
Greville’s garb sprouted a cheerful green in
places. Mrs. Ernest Raleigh was one of the
very rare flutterers who risked rheumatic twinges
in a magenta shade of chiffons that didn’t look a
fast color. But the magenta held good. A bunch
of honey-colored curls showed at the side of the
magenta brim. The addition of granny curls is
the latest freak of the smart.
The Harbor flock made a valiant show. One of
the Kelso Kings left her plump throat bare to the
chilly breezes. A veil reaching to the slightly
retrousse nose left the talking medium and
chin out in the cold. The fashion of veiling
the top half of the countenance is a mis-
take. In most cases it leaves the worse half
exposed. Another flutterer was Mrs. Oswald
Watt, in banana-toned outfit, her thatch erected
with more artistic cunning than is her wont. Mrs.
Rymill (Miss Shylie Blue) held tip the interest of
Adelaide in a damp-day rig. Miss G. Burns was
another over-the-Murray visitor showing up fes-
tively in the wet scene. Mrs. J. C. Williamson
was a wise wearer of a French black rig But
the Derby was, on the whole, a dismal anti-climax
to the dreams of the designing sex.
All the gay gossips are agog to see if,' in the
case of several saucy tourists just back from gird-
ing the globe, any of the notable old flirtations
are renewed. But flirtations, as a rule, are not of
the serial story nature—to be continued in our
next. The brute-sex forgets all about the folly;
or, if it remembers, is disinclined to continue
cold-bloodedly where it left off. A she-philan-
derer, even when she doesn’t want the revival of
giddy nonsense, is tremendously piqued at male
indifference. It’s like the flutterer who says if
her adorer doesn’t stop talking love and sentiment
to her, she will not speak to him ever in her life
again, and is mortally offended and angered when
he takes her at her word and chats of Judkins,
Bridge, income-tax and tennis.
What attention is being lavished on the odds
and ends of the feminine outfit ! Once belts,
ties, hankies, &e., occupied a small corner of the
chiffon store. Now they are spread temptatiously
over half the shop, and depots are opened up all
round the place solely for the sale of the fancy
etceteras of the sex, whereas masculine fashions
are reversed. The mercery department is sadly
retrenched, as the needle sex devotes all its sur-
plus time to the sentimental knitting of male
socks, ties, vests and such he-wear.
Politicians loomed up in great numbers at the
starting of Dreamland, the St. Kilda Summer
Palace of Delight. The “official opening” was,
in rain and cold, rather a fiasco. The great crowd
of invited had assorted notions of their kit. Low-
necked femininity got under cover of its shawl or
scarf. The thick-coated, heavily-shod spectators
came best off, for they tramped round to the varie-
gated peep-shows (none of which appeared to be
in proper working order), indifferent to rain and
cold. The Bent Ministry was out in full force ;
it and the Opposition browsed amicably with their
feminine dependencies in the banquet depart-
ment, where one was induced to forget the exceed-
ing badness of all the other arrangements.
The whole G.-G. suite, with its brace of girl
visitors, steamed up to Ballarat for the unveiling
of some more statuary—this time an African Gore
souvenir. Commander Colquhoun and a team of
gorgeous officers went up the preceding eve to
get the city’s smile of greeting into position, and
to see that its dais was guaranteed not to collapse
under a heavy weight of pomp and dignity. The
G.-G. made a stunning speech, although the bulk
of his audience hearkened to the “Mother Coun-
try” sentiments with a cold ear. But the re-
marks as to Australia in general, and Ballarat in
particular, satisfied the townies that the Northcote
intelligence was all there.
Judge Johnston passes the grey days of his
lone widowerhood in a round of bright pink
gaieties. He is the one Solomon of the Bench
with strongly-defined tastes for skirted company.
Justice Box spends his bachelor leisure morosely
at the Club. Even the Cup junkets leave him
unmoved.
Talking of Justices, ex-Judge Casey has just
landed from another world-jaunt, wearing his
burden of seventy odd summers with buoyant
grace. “Very pleasant,” sums up the ex-
pert gadder in conclusion to a brief list
of his recent tourings. He took Goethe’s
advice and moved ever “without haste and
without rest.” So he kept up his standard
of robust health and went through the programme
(reviewed by Melbourne friends before the ex-
Judge went aboard the French liner) without a
hitch. The Casey advice to those wanting to
drift with the same buoyant health into the
eighties is to eat wisely and “ worship the breeze
in the sun and good wine in the shade.”
Mr. Alister Clarice has been earning fame among
the State’s top rose-growers. He’s so active a
prize-taker, and such a favorite, that the Rose
Society, at a recent Saturday celebration, voted
him a jolly good fellow and handed over a group
picture of all the rose-growing brotherhood. The
recipient combines many contradictory talents
and amiabilities. A Melbourne Club favorite, a
Toorak Chesterfield, a polo sport, a golf champion,
a pig-raiser, a crack shot, a rose and daffodil
enthusiast, and a cheery customer to boot. There's
a sweet paragraph for him.
Miss Morrell’s arrival on “ The Spring Chicken”
scene was a signal for glad noise. The Derby
night audience clapped long and loud. It’s a
generous, hospitable public—that of Australia.
Without knowing what the imported charmer
could do, it gave her a start of applause. The
Miss took it all calmly. It’s her style. Through-
out the Chicken’s course Miss Morrell moved
softly, smiled slyly, and floated in and out as if
she might as well float as not. It took. Mankind
likes the calm, floating water-lily sort of charmer.
Miss Florence Young had some substantial
tributes on Derby night. Gloves and handsome
gew-gaws went up over the footlights in the
disguise of floral emblems. How beautiful is the
rose basket that contains an emerald pendant, or
even a consignment of undressed kids !
That given by Mrs. Tom Smith at Coonac
was the brightest, most green-and-gold party of
daylight festivities. The Thursday sun poured
generously on emerald garden carpets. White
chiffons promenaded in safety. Mrs. Hugh Ward
was one of the singers. Mr. M. Beresford also
poured out passionate strains.
Miss Mabelle Morgan, lately transferred from
the casual concert platform to the regular stage,
is shaping with bold splendor in “ The Spring
Chicken.” Her song is good, but her magnificence
of dress and person better.
A Maorilander sends me this :
The opening of the Maoriland Exhibition was notable
thrice in one day. Firstly, it only drizzled instead of
raining its hardest, as usual. Secondly, Lord Plunket, an
elongated, melancholy, fair-haired personage, moved out
into the limelight and objected to the show being called
“ International,” when “ Imperial ” was the more correct
and high-sounding designation. Thirdly, the most awful
ode ever written by man was sung strenuously by iiOO en-
thusiastic persons. It was set to music by Alfred Hill,
and resembled a Maori haka, and hurled defiance at the
whole universe. It meant “Hail, Maoriland,” but the
visitors thought it was the preliminary to a skull hunt.
When it finished the noble Lord and the long-haired
Alfred shook each other by the two fins for five consecu-
tive moments. It was grand—it was sublime; but if they
had only rubbed noses the situation would have been
complete.
The sex even finds morality in bebe ribbons. A
lingerie expert relates that all her giddy customers
have their frilly garments threaded with pink or
mauve bebe streamers, but the goody portion
adhere unswervingly to blue. Presently the rest-
less She will find a moral pointing from a shoe-
string. With tabs it will suggest the blameless
life of severe rectitude. Without the tabs the
wearer will be branded as a lost soul. The
morality, or want of it, that takes points from
the dye of a bebe ribbon has no limit to its
aesthetic idiocy.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Pioneer squatter J. W. McComas, who
owned many Cornstalk and Bananaland flocks and
herds in the fifties and sixties, passed out in
Melbourne recently, aged 87. His best property
in the roaring days was Tingapee, on the Paroo,
reckoned to be the outpost of civilisation when
Explorer Giles struck it with great relief after
his unsuccessful expedition. McComas dabbled
in printer’s ink on the pages of many Australian
papers in his early days. He also invented a
water-lifter for stations, which became popular.
He established the business of McComas and
Heany, Melbourne, now styled Haughton and Co.
In the S. Australian general election
Alfred Catt, who had grown grey as Chairman of
Committees, but was moved out of that comfortable
billet when Price and the Liberals arrived, is at
present hanging on to the tail of things, and looks
like a beaten man. He had been elected nine
times—Catt’s nine lives, or the Cat of nine tails.
He shouldn’t have tried for a tenth. Foster, the
ex-parson and Liberal renegade, and Livingstone,
the South-Easterner who didn’t turn up in a
certain critical division, are also left shivering out-
side. Ex-Agent-General Grainger, who ran as a
Labor man, put up a good fight in the most Con-
servative district in the State, and got within about
500 votes of the winner in a poll of 3000. Every one
of the 12 metropolitan seats goes to the
Labor party ; Price himself polled 12,003 votes;
Langsford, the leading member of the Opposition
bunch, srot only 8272. And this was the district
that John Darling and Soward sat for—a highly
respectable district, with churches and chapels at
every other corner or so. After a couple of years
of Socialistic Labor rule, S. Australian churches
and chapels seem to regard the marriage tie as
safer in Tom Price’s hands than even in John
Darling’s.
The most popular building in
Sydney with spielers and confidence-men is
Vickery’s Chambers, in Pitt-street. The said
Chambers have several entrances and sundry
exits, and the interior is a maze and a rabbit
warren. The crook has only to leave his victim
on the footpath and enter the Chambers to ;ee
his uncle from Fiji, and the rest is easy. Inside
a minute he is away through another exit, leaving
the “mug ” to search the building. No city cab-
man will allow an unknown passenger to enter
Vickery’s Chambers without first collecting his
fare. The risk of being bilked is too great.
There’s at least one genuine anti-Sosh
candidate in the field—Leslie, for Wimmera(Vic.),
who would abolish old age pensions and substi-
tute workhouses. But even in the workhouse —
British as it is—there’s a trace of Socialism. True
anti-Sosh would let the aged poor starve. What
use has Private Enterprise for the worn-out person
who has no enterprise left and who wants to throw
himself on the public ?


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORSE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fdg
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 43 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, SyC. FBG St. Martin, Paris. France
fgdfd
<3-0 TO HESLXx-
IGOGAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Sought. Price Uata Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS,^
gfgd
We make them on the premises.
We mate more Mian any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of ArLi fie, I Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, 1
Surgical Instrument
Jlakers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bath urst (N. S. W.) N ation ai, A d vocate :
Mr. Reid, as we know, is getting a very old man. How
about senile decay as an explanation of the curious ob-
session, or mental confusion, he appears to be afflicted
with, and which he has christened “ anti-Socialism ” V
Despite the arrogance of the Freetrade
party and its boastfulness about its organisations,
no Freetrade or anti-Sosh candidate has yet been
found to stand for the city of Melbourne.
M'Eacharn’s defeat by Maloney is too fresh in
the memory of the city.
G. Reid’s voluntary-compulsory arbitration
policy was evidently borrowed from that ancient,
amiable Chinese philosopher who laid down the
drastic principle that all people should love their
neighbors—and if they don’t, they should be
“awed into doing so by means of punishments
and fines.”
Victoria has decided to make a heavy
reduction in railway rates for farm produce—
already far lower than the rates on manufactured
goods—so that the farmer may have more money
to give to the landlord. This will increase the
value of land, so that the State will have to pay
more for it when it resumes the property.
To fill Justice Higgins’ seat for Batman
in the Reps., the Laborites have chosen Bob. Solly,
at present M.L.A. for the railway servants. He
won from out of 13 starters. In the field for the
final, besides Solly, there are three Independent
Laborites, two Labor Protectionists, and Jabez
Coon. Reid has no representative in the race,
unless Jabez Coon is really G. Reid in disguise.
THE PRESENT OCCUPANT OF THE
LAND.
But in Maoriland, as in Australia, Trades Hall policy,
in direct contradiction of all economic science, is to keep
the land as empty as possible.— Argus.
GRANNY : “ Gam ! You nasty man. Do you
wanter see the land empty and useless ? ”
WATSON : “ No. I want to see it occupied and
prosperous. Get out !”
There’s not much that N.S.W. Local
Government Extension Bill loses sight of. Among
other things, it provides for the agistment of
camels on commons.
‘ ‘ Raspberry
Cane” writes
from Switzer-
land
Just read of tlie
proposal to bring
50 English editors
to Australia. They
brought a like
number from Ger-
many to England
a little while ago.
All they did there
was to gobble and
drink plentifully,
but with the real
business England
they did not
come into con-
tact. I have since
scanned the Ger-
man papers re-
presented, but,
for the life of
me, cannot see
anything in
them that seems
even to point
remotely at the
experience
gained in F>u»
land. Either /
editors who w A
have not e-
covered tr in
their gast' i/no-
mic troubl s, or
else they d IdVt
see anything
that would nalce
copy. During a
six-months’ stay
on the Contin-
ent, especially
In Switzerland,
where I met any
number of Bri-
tishers, whom I
buttonholed re
matters Austra-
lasian, I came to
the conclusion
that the average
Englander does-
n’t know much
about Australia,
and isn’t anxious .
to know any
more. The Aus-
tralian who goes
to England gen-
erally keeps it
dark that he
hails from this
end of the globe,
and takes fine
care not to know
any more of his
native heath
than the average
Britisher might
know. He also
puts up at tne
swell pubs, as “ Mr.
R. 0. Patterson, of London.” Thus I read in a recent
edition of the Daily Mail. iow Patterson belongs
to the Hobart Upper Davey-street push, the most
aggressive snobs in Tasmania. Pat. made his cash
out of railway contracts in level country. (The Sorell
line was one of them, about £9OOO per mile, largely
extras.) Pat. was also once leader of the Opposition and
chairman of the Metropolitan Drainage Board. He ought
to be more grateful to Tasmania than to sign himself
“of London.” London didn’t help Patterson to social
grandeur.
Federal Honorary Minister Mauger would
do well to leave sectarianism alone. A few nights
prior to his being taken into Deakin’s Ministry,
he was orating against the return to Parliament of
any Roman “Cartholic” candidates, who were
under the thumb of the Vatican
and utterly untrustworthy to legis-
late for the great Proddistant com-
munity. Whereupon some person
named O’Milligan, or something to
that effect, wrote to Melbourne
Argus, suggesting that Mr. Mauger,
as a true representative of Proddy
thought, should refuse to accept
office rather than be associated with
two priestly-domiriated Ministers
like Austin Chapman and Senator
Keating. Samuel did not deign to
reply to the suggestion, upon which
one M’Hooley wrote again demand-
ing to knovv whether he would vote
for a Deakinite Catholic or a Pro-
testant Reidite if he had to make
his choice at the polling booth.
Mauger’s reply was still unforth-
coming ; and, at latest, the local
Protestant Defence League was seri-
ously considering whether Sam
should not be called upon to ex-
plain his conduct in accepting an
honorary portfolio which led him
into close contact with contaminat-
ing influences like Chapman and
Keating. The late J. Beef Patter-
son was a big Orangeman in his early
career, but, later on, he found the
yellow pup an entangling soit of
animal, and finally cut it adrift by
opening an R.C. bazaar and extoll-
ing the virtues of the Ould Faith
in a half-hour’s speech. The L.O.L.
solemnly met to consider Patterson’s
action, and formally expelled him
by a unanimous vote, and thence-
forth nothing seemed to go wrong
with J. 8., who was tough and devil-
ish sly. Samuel Mauger may meet
with a similar fa '.e and have his hat-
shop at 66 Bourke-street defined as the veritable
home of the Beast.
If the Reid push would only give up its
interminable disquisitions about the tweedledum
and tweedledee of the circumstances which led to
the parting of Reid and Dealdn in 1905, and
attend to current business, it would be a relief.
‘‘ For the first time in the history of Queens-
land a Government has brought forward a
financial statement in which it does not include
as revenue any money received from the sale of
public lands.” —Premier Kidston of Queensland.
“L.E.” in a moment of enthusiasm :
At last a man of parts steppeth into the arena political,
and eonvinceth the multitude that brains is not neces-
sarily a drawback to a Labor man. It was a pleasing
precedent to establish. Randolph Bedford’s openin'’-
talk at Brunswick came as a surprise even to his
friends. It was as sound as a rock, interesting, informa-
tive, full of matter ; it never broke out into rhetorical
fireworks. He advocated Australia, not the parish ;
A to Z Protection, practical Socialism, economic reform
the whole gospel of the National party as it has seldom
been expounded heretofore.
REID FALLS ASLEEP—AND DREAMS
HE IS HONEST.
One of the most pertinent questions asked
in this election campaign was fired by a boy at
Knox of the wonderful hat. Knox has the yellow
pup nomination in Victoria, and one of the reasons
why he says he should be elected is his uncom-
prising opposition to “Rome.” Hence:—
A youth wearing a red tie asked: Will the candidate
do any harm to Rome ? Will he give the Scarlet Woman
seven days ? Or what will he do ? (Laughter.)
Knox didn’t explain, and Australia is still waiting
for that Orange candidate who has some definite
scheme for bashing the Scarlet Woman when he is
returned.
In this anti-Socialism campaign bobs up
already the old gag that, if it weren’t for
Socialistic legislation, “foreign capital would
pour into the country.” Apart from the fact that
foreign capital simply means foreign debt,
what’s the use of talking about importing
foreign capital when we haven’t got use for
our own capital? At the date of its last pub-
lished balance-sheet the Bank of N.S.W. alone
had £2,230,000 in London, and the Bank of
Australasia had £2,359,000. Because Aus-
tralia’ imports so much it hasn’t got industries
to employ its own capital, let alone the
foreigner’s ; and, therefore, the stupid old
wheeze is just now more stupid than usual.
The Labor party opposes to G. Reid in
East Sydney .T. E. West, who is all that G. Reid
is not —a sincere Federalist, a consistent Protec-
tionist, and a good Democrat, He should have a
show, if East Sydney is capable of understanding
what is good for it and the country.
What raw, red Socialists these anti-Social-
ists are when they strike a town where anti-
Socialism won’t get them votes! Here, for
instance, is Marshal Neild, one of the N.S.W.
Senate trio, spouting at Broken Hill on the
beauties of State accident insurance !
If the trouble between Japan and the
United States comes to war, will the British fleet
be bound, under the terms of its treaty, to bom-
bard New York in the interests of a race of brown
semi-savages? A member put that question in
the House of Commons, and the British Govern-
ment couldn’t say “No,” and it dared not say
“Yes.” So it said it had no reason to suppose
that there would be any war.
“ G.” writes :
Vic. Citizens’ League, the anti-Sosh organisation which
spends all its time denouncing “ confiscation,” has a
notice in the passage leading to its office : “ All bicycles
left here will be confiscated.” The League, by the way,
has just made itself liable to a fine of £lOO or there-
abouts, with possible gaol for everybody connected, by
issuing a leaflet, “ State Capitalism, not Socialism,”
without the imprint required by law. Some enterprising
person who cares to act as informer might pick up half
the fine by following the advice of the League regarding
individual effort, and laying an information.
The Crouch surrender case, which has
been occupying the attention of the Defence
authorities for close upon a year, has now attained
the indignity of a farce. The whole idiotic worry
arose out of the alleged surrender of Captain
Crouch at a Vic. sham fight in circumstances
which a vivid imagination might suppose to reflect
upon his courage as a warrior, and it goes on
remorselessly, piling complication on complica-
tion. Russia lost its navy, and decided to execute
some generals and admirals, and then decided not
to execute them, and made and unmade a Parlia-
ment, and had a semi-revolution in the time
which the Australian Defence Department has
spent considering Crouch.
Some people are trying to gull J. F.
Burns, one time N.S.W. Treasurer, and known
is “Cocky” long before tbe proud title w r as con-
ferred on Carruthers, with the notion that he is
needed in Australian politics. The Common-
wealth, it seems, ,is crving out for Cocky, and,
according to the good' old platitude commonly
employed on such occasions, it therefore “de-
volves” on Cocky to respond to the country’s
call, and hold up the banner, and rise to the
occasion, and fill the bill, and other things of
he kind.
Some people are never satisfied unless they
are up to their eyes in somebody else s debt.
Premier Moore, of Westralia, has just made the
startling discovery that his State is possessed of
“vast natural resources” that urgently need
developing. So, like all the other people who
have been discovering the natural resources of
Australia for the last 50 years. Premier Moore has
decided to ask Parliament, to authorise the bor-
rowing of a little wad of £2.000,000. This is to
he spent in “assisting agriculture and mining.”
Yet if there is anv country on earth in which
mining ought to be able to assist itself, without,
being propped up with borrowed money, one
would think that Westralia is that country.
Russell French, general manager of the
Bank of N.S. Wales, back from Europe, says that
J. Bull’s opinion of Australia is improving :
They all know about that money held by the Australian
banks in London, and this, together with the repayment
of several loans and the probable repayment of others,
lias led them to come to the conclusion that this is not
the pauper country they believed it was.
Which is something for the Fat person who talks
about the Hempiah and the sinfulness of the
Labor party to remember. His foolish idea was
that the more Australia, borrowed, and the bigger
inducements lie offered for “the investment of
foreign capital,” the more the Hempiah thought
of him. Now the boss hanker of Australia arrives
to say that all Australia got for crawling after
J. Bull’s capital was the name of being a pauper.
Last week the S.M. Herald announced,
with great pomp, that
it is matter for sincere congratulation (lint, without the
artificial aid of a prohibitive tarifi', demanded by Mr.
Deakin and his followers, the Mort’s Dock and Engineering
Co. has been successful in securing the order for the
new steel STEAMSHIP required by Messrs. Dalgety and
Co.
Here one pauses to picture the 7000-ton steel
vessel that Mort’s Dock is going to build, and the
consequent laying, without any aid from a prohi-
bitive tariff, of the broad and deep foundations
of a great N.S.W. shipbuilding industry. And
then—
The steamship will have a carrying capacity of 1 10 tons...
primarily used for harbor work.
Only a Puffing Bill v after all, built here because it
would be too small to sail out from England !
Away back in 1883 the N.S.W. shipyards built
52 steamers which averaged 103 tons each, to say
nothing of 50 small sailing craft. In 1884 they
did still better. Then, through too much Free-
trade, things drifted down and down till the
shipyards which sent out 70G3 tons of new vessel
in 1884, now build an annual average of about
2000 tons, all told, and the Herald shouts with
joy when they get an order for one punt or scow,
or something of that class.
THANKFUL FOR SMALL MERCIES.
Mr. Dcakin is a man of distinguished eloquence.
never knew a man who could use longer words to prevent
the people from understanding what lie means.—G. H.
RETD,
LITTLE BOY : “ Well , at any rate , it's a jolly
good job we, understand what you mean."
From S.M. Herald :
Maoriiand Government inspectors in the Taranaki dis-
trict reveal cases where parents, milking on shares, make
their children Suffer. Many of the children fall asl ep
during- school work. It is generally stated that the in-
flated values of land are responsible for this system of
child slavery.
Yet, judging by its opposition to the proposed
Federal hind-tax,.the S.M. Herald is a firm be-
liever in inflated land values—and child-slavery.
The anti-Socialistic farmer, who is fondly
referred to as the Backbone of the country, has
received a further bonus in the revised railway
rates announced by the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners. Wheat, hay, and other products of
the bucolic industry are now dragged for 250 miles
by a Socialistic locomotive for about half-a-
sovereign per ton, while manufactured goods,
even those carried at the lowest figure, can’t be
dragged the same distance for less than £4 15s. (Id.
Even then they are goods largely used by farmers,
and the rates are cut for the special benefit of the
weary old Backbone.
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business.*
THE LEAPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Retd leaped like lightning upon that statement
His. words were a dagger thrust. A lions.
A Statement, unprotected quite,
Went fortli to take the air,
And came at last, at dead of night,
(It may have been that it was right ;
But, oh ! it was a fearsome sight !)
Unto the Fat Man’s lair.
’Twas in a jungle, made of gas—
A wild, unhol3 r spot—
Where yells of “ Liar 1 ” also “ ASs ! ”
Arose! upon the air. Alas I
A hungry shriek—a flying mass—
l; A Statement that was not !
All Statements that do circulate,
All 1 heed the words I say,
The dreadful Reid, with shining pate,
He lies —he libs —he LIES in wait ;
He’ll leap upon you, sure as Fate.
It is his gruesome way !
vie.
KODAK.


POST FREE
DUTY FREE
Anywhere
in the
Common-
wealth,
including y
W.A,
In fine American
Glace Kid, to lace,
with stylish patent
leather caps, and
the fashionable Col-
larette.
Price 12/11
or
Post Free 13/6
Mi
Pi
*
fd
Full of
Wear.
Elegant in
Appearance.
Thoroughly
Comfortable.
OPINIONS.
“ Shoes received in {food condition. I
am well pleased with my purchase.
They are a pair of beauties—L. A.,
Nymag’ee, September 15, 1906.”
TRY
ORE
PAIR
NOW
“ The Shoes are very nice indeed, and
most satisfactory. When I want a new
pair, shall I only have to send the
number in the book, or will you
require other directions?—Miss ,
West Maitland, September 11, 1906.”
“ I am well pleased with the Shoes.
They are neat and strong-—very nice
—Mrs. M.M., Kalgoorlie, W.A."
“ The Boots are a perfect fit, and I am
well satisfied with them. I will recom-
mend your boots to myacquaintances
—O. D., Drinkwater, September 11,
1906.”
Send for a copy, Post Free, of the
CALLAGHAN NEW BOOT STYLE-BOO*-
Just Issued, containing: 90 illustrations, with full descriptions of over 500
different kind 3 of Boots, Shoes and Slippers.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
ALLOW US TO INTRODUCE
Mrs. BRIDGET McSWEENEY.
We have much pleasure in announcing to our friends, that Mr.
Thos. E. Spencer’s latest work is now ready.
THE SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF Mrs. BRIDGET McSWEENEY
(By THOS. E. SPENCER, author of “How McDougall Topped
the Score.”) With six full-page illustrations, by L. L. Roush.
PRICE, Is 2d; Post Free.
In this work Mr. Spencer fully maintains his reputation as a writer of first-class, fiction.
Mrs. McSweeney is a delightful lady, and her surprising adventures are told with much
dramatic power. The book will prove highly acceptable to lovers of strikingly humorous
sketches, and the breezy humor in the work is fully equal to that which has made Mr.
Spencer’s “ How McDougall Topped the Score ’’ a household word in Australia.
Another remarkable book just published—
SETTLER AND SA VAGE
IN AUSTRALIA ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
By CHARLES DE BOOS.
Cloth, 3s 6d; Paper, 2s 6d (Postage, 5d.)
This is a reprint of a book (published in 1867) entitled “Fifty Years Ago,” which for
graphic description of the relationships existing between the blacks and the whites in the early
days of Australian settlement is unrivalled. The interest starts in the first chapter with the
massacre of a white settler’s family, and never flags throughout the entire book. The terrible
oath of vengeance taken against the murderers, and the fulfilment of that oath, make up one
of the most thrilling stories ever written. Running side by side with the scheme of revenge,
and incidental to.it, are various phases of early colonial life, depicted in language that is
tense and strong in every line. Few of the books of to-day can equal this in vivid coloring,
desperate adventure, and dramatic situations. It holds the reader spellbound to the end.
Selected List of other Books, selling: rapidly—
Sandy’s Selection. By Steele Rudd. Price, 3s 6d ; post free, 3s 11.
On tlie Fringe of the Never Never. By H. K. Bloxham. Price, 2s 6d ; post free, 2s lOd
How McDougall Topped the Score. By Thos. E. Spencer. Price, 3s 6d; post
free, 3s lid
Seafarers. By Chas. D. Websdale. Price, Is; post free, Is 3d
Three Year’s with Thunderbolt. By Ambrose Pratt. Price, Is; post free, Is 2d
The Harbour Guide. Price, Gd ; post free, 8d
Guide to Sydney. Price, Is ; post free. Is 2d
River fall. By Linn Boyd Porter, Price, Is ; post free, Is 2d
The Coloured Conquest. By Rata. Price, Is ; post free, Is 2d
The Japan of To-day. By Helen Jerome. Price, Is; post free, Is 2d
Little Pitcher. By Elsie Linacre. Price, 6d; post free, Sd
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
THE UP-TO-DATE
PUBLISHERS, BOOKSELLERS,
STATIONERS, &c.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
AND ALL BRANCHES.
(JLd,
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St.. Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
M ade from a pure mineral.
A bsolutely waterproof and acidproof.
L ighter than Galvanised Iron.
T he external Roofing for utility.
H ot or cold weather won’t hurt it.
O bserve the directions for fixing.
X n any climate the absolute best.
D on’t make a mistake. Get Malthoid.
If it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Cbch., N.Z.
E.L. YENCKEN&CO. Pty., Ltd.,Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
I’ll Try It:
CAPILLARINE
A MARVELLOUS
MOUSTACHE
PRODUCER..
A WONDERFUL PREPARATION that
produces a FULL MOUSTACHE in the
quickest time on record. Thousands
sold—not a single complaint.
•Vi
The Remit.
Price IG/G, posted under cover to any address in Australasia,
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
5
%
Jk
fgd
1
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904.
F. WOLFF & 80HN,
KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers.
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents ;
LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
fgd
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
“I give you 'KOOMAH
SPA' I Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water lirm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.”
3
y-u- i
V;3(
Vq!(
riT-
't
y
V;2f<;w
ER
>QI»
>MAji
PA WATER)
FUAT 3PRW6S
> "~ L '(*
of L<tm<» t Lin*.
ELANDS
tS
CO ""


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL. OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading' Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
LADIES.
The Secret op a Good Complexion is Good
Digestion.
The story of a great deal of the unhappiness of
women is a story of lost health. Women wonder
how it is that little by Lttle their form loses
plumpness, the cheeks grow hollow and sallow,
and they feel tired and worn out all the time. In
a large proportion of cases when women are weak,
rundown, and falling off in flesh and looks, the
root of the trouble can be traced to indigestion
and other stomachic disorders which undermine
the general health. Health alone can produce a
fair skin, which is the true secret of beauty. If
your digestion is bad your complexion must
suffer. If your digestion is perfect your com-
plexion will need no artifice to hide its imper-
fections. Therefore it behoves every woman who
regards her good looks with that jealousy charac-
teristic of her sex, to study her digestion. Properly
assimilated food yields the maximum of nutriment
which goes to make new blood and replenish the
blood cells of the skin. Indigestion causes all
manner of ills that taint the blood with decayed
matter, interferes with the circulation, and con-
sequently does not impart to the complexion the
influence of pure and healthy blood. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Hoot Pills purify the blood and aid in
the digestion and assimilation of food, whereby
the system is nourished and replenished with
new blood, rich and red, which circulating through
the veins gives the complexion a fresh and pure
appearance, causing the cheeks to glow with the
ruddy tint of perfect health.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE ,
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 1G Mouatt St., Fremantl
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
,Tust as The Bulletin goes rushing down to the
inky presses, word comes that the Melbourne Cup was
won by Poseidon, with Antonious and Proceed behind
him in that order.
* * * »
The Melbourne Stakes put the Solutionites
into a state of sweet content with their Cup wagers. The
mare ran away with the 10 furlongs race as gaily as she
had won the Caulfield Stakes three weeks earlier. Of the
others in the field Dividend and Lady Wallace seemed to
be decisively beaten for stamina by Blue Spec and
Noreen, and the latter, carrying 191 b. more than her Cup
weight, promised to have a lot to do with the finish of
Tuesday’s event.
All the talk about the heavy going at Fleming-
ton, last Saturday, didn’t prevent the gees from travelling
as fast as usual. In fact, the times for four of the events
were considerably better than the times registered last
year, when the course was not soft, and there was no
rain or wind to contend with. Maltine scored a good
performance in carrying a 101 b. penalty four lengths
ahead of Scobie (the runner-up) in the Maribyrnong Plate
sprint. A daughter of Malster, who won the V.R.C.
and ran second for Melbourne Cup six years ago,
Maltine is the best offspring of her sire thus-
far, but the 101 b. penalty was subject, of course,
to a discount of 61b. for sex allowance—which in
the case of. a young 2-year-old is an absurd allow-
ance—one of those hard-shell Tory absurdities which
should have been abolished long ago. The equine filly is
almost equal to the human.girl in precocity as compared
with the male sex. She is in most cases much more
forward than a colt of the same age in November, and it
is not until the end of the season that the w.f.a. scale
should make any concession to her womanhood. Scobie,
backed down to 5 to 2, ran best of the colts in the
Maribyrnong and will probably win a race or two during
the meeting. Three “ seconds” within three weeks mark
Scobie as a trustworthy youngster anyhow.
* * * *
The merit of Poseidon’s Derby victory was a
very disputed question. Many old students of racing
thought that the sturdy colt lacked the dash which he
had shown in the Caulfield Cup, and some of them
wouldn’t give him a hope of downing Solution in Tues-
day’s big test race. On the other hand, the Derby
winner’s devoted admirers made out that he had merely
been ridden a little too easily up to the time when
Antonious unexpectedly threatened danger, and then,
under the whip, had proved his speed, as well as
his gameness, by outpacing the only one that made
a hold bid against him. Poseidon, seemingly, is
on the best of terms with jockey Clayton, and looks
for the whip when an extra effort is required.
With a horse of that temperament, a jockey may give a
great show of being hard-pressed when he is really
winning comfortably. It remained for the Cup to prove
whether Poiseidon’s detractors took the right view of the
Derby running or were misled by the circumstance of a
great improvement in Antonious’s “form’’since Rand-
wick meeting. Considering that Antonious beat Booran
by some lengths, it was not reasonable to expect Poseidon
to donkey-lick the “ runner-up.” Antonious, judged by
his easy defeat of Booran, may prove good enough on
Saturday to win any ordinary Derby.
* * * *
Another horse likely to score a win on Thursday
or Saturday is the ill-named Dyed Garments, a nice-
looking five-year-old whose manner of finishing third in
the Hotham Handicap suggested to some people a rough
outside chance for even the Melbourne Cup. “ Gar-
ments ” got a bad start, and seemed to have bad luck on
the journey until he got a fair opening for an unavailing
run at the finish. Just the sort of sticker to carry a
lightweight to the fore in the V.R.C. Handicap.
* * * *
The most touching sight seen on the course on
Cup day was a large, stout Hebrew bookie who was quite
broken up over a recent happening, and explaining his
grief to a knot of the brotherhood. “ S’elp me,” said
Mosenstein, “ I’ve been in thith game for thirty year, and
during that time I’ve vorked the umpty-do as often as
most, though I theth it as shouldn’t, but this is a
vicked vorld, and a manth got to go a bit shy to keep up
vith it. I thought I vasn’t the sort to be marked down
as a jay by the biggest chump in the schlanter bithneth,
but I vos wrong. I’ve, just been offered the greatetht
inthult of my life. Over at the bar jutht now a visperer
got on to my lug. He vanted me to trust him vitii ten
kvid to back a pretty thing he’d been told about.”
Mosenstein put up his hands in indignant expostulation.
“ And me vith a nose like that! ”he said.
* * * *
From a purely business point of view the
greatest mistake the V.R.C. management ever made was
in giving 1110,000 of added money to the Melbourne Cup.
This boom arrangement extended over three years—lB9o
to ’92 —and the club was so loth to admit the foolishness
of it that even in 1893 the amount of the stake was only
reduced by the value of owners’ forfeits and accept-
ance fees which were then included in the £lO,OOO.
Next year the Melbourne Cup money suffered a
sudden drop to £5OOO including the sweepstakes,
and subsequently it fell as low as £3524 in all. Of late
years there has been more than £6OOO to be divided,
the owners of second and third horses getting £lOOO and
£5OO out of the total. Carbine’s victory in 1890 ranks as
a treble event in the Cup records. The great horse carried
the heaviest weight (10.5) of any winner (moreover, it was
the heaviest that the handicapper had ever apportioned
to an entrant), the number of starters was the
largest on record, and the total value of the stake
was greater than in any other year. Carbine’s time for
the race was also unrivalled until 1904. Aerasia equalled
it, and Blue Spec equalled, not because Blue Spec at Bst.
was as fast as Carbine at 10.5, but because the course is a
little more level than of yore, and a little less lengthy
than of yore for a horse that gets a good position close to
the rails. In rounding off the corners, the inside distance
of the circular journey has been shortened just a trifle,
and the trifle counts in the timing.
* * * *
Although the Pitt-street (Sydney) betting-shops
are closed, the walking-tote is still conducting operations
in Market-street, and, curiously enough, doing a lucra-
tive business. The gullibility of the man who joins the
new religion, and the crass imbecility of the other fool who
always rushes the latest patent medicine, are as nothing
compared to the sweet trustfulness of the fly asses who
back horses with any waster who touts round the old
stand.
* « * *
Turf gossip has shown a tendency
to censure the officials of the course for failing to do the
usual “something” (unspecified) when the wretched
brute, Royal Standard, was seen to be plainly out of the
race. Regan should have been ordered to pull up. Is it
so very sure that he would have obeyed? The poor
fellow’s mount has the worst reputation among jockeys,
and deservedly so. Regan naturally wanted to show
that he was “ game,” and tried to finish the
race even though it was hopelessly lost. The real
lesson to be learned from the affair is that
steeplechasing is an utterly senseless sport. The
fences are such as no horse is ever likely to be called
on to clear in the course of his ordinary work. The heavy
post-and-rail fences are so solidly put up that a clumsy
horse, or one whose limbs fail him, or who has miscalcu-
lated the effort required, must come to grief, and that
may mean the death or crippling for life of the rider.
It was a heavy solid log fence that brought Koval
Standard down.
» * * *
The Canterbury J.C.’s meeting at Kiccarton
(M.L.), on Saturday last, showed something phenomenal
in the shape of odds offered by the totalisator. Both the
Stewards’ Handicap and the Maoriland Cup were won by
rank outsiders, and one man who had taken a ticket on
the pair on the double tote drew £2061 for his single
sovereign. Now where is the bookmaker who will offer
odds of £2061 to £1 against any double on the day of the
race?
* * * *
Parson Woodfull has been enlightening a Mel-
bourne audience of Methodist teetotallers re the rapacity
of the Collingwood Tote. “It is not only the 10 per cent,
of the receipts which goes into the pockets of the Tote
proprietor, but all the broken money. For instance, if a
man wins 2s. lOd. he only gets 2s. 6d., and the broken
money goes to the proprietor.” The Anti-Gamblers were
a long time in getting wind of this extra tax on the petty
winnings of Tote punters. Fourpence on 2s. lOd. is nearly
12 per cent., which is a sinful impost.
-W * * *
Sydney first grade cricket saw nothing con-
siderable in the way of scoring on Saturday, with the
exception of the Waverley and Burwood performances.
They were certainly phenomenal, and included the two
centuries of the afternoon. Waverley smote 436 for nine
wickets against Redfern, and of the total 182 were made
by Sydney Gregory. Burwood did much better, running
up 446 for the loss of eight wickets. Johnston, who
seems to have taken “ Sunny Jim ” Mackay’s
place, made 184 off his own bat. The rest of
the scoring was very mediocre. Best bowling figures
were : Buckle (Glebe) took one Balmain wicket for five
runs; Cotter, in the same innings, took six for 39;
Middleton (Sydney) got away with three of Middle Har-
bor’s for 20; Whiddon (Middle Harbor) retaliated by
taking six for 43 ; Allen (University) brought down six of
Paddington for 46 ; and Norris (Sydney) gathered two of
Middle Harbor’s for 17.
Last week the selectors of the N.S.W. elevens
dropped Sydney Gregory with a considerable bump. On
Saturday last Sydney went to the Cricket Ground with
Waverley, and for 2J hours he bashed Redfern’s bowler*,
making 182 before Baines managed to stump him with one
from Wordsworth. Sydney Gregory dates back to 1890,
when he played against both Victoria and S. Australia.
In 48 innings against Victoria he has carried his bat out
twice, and made 1393 runs, with an average of 30"28.
Against S. Australia he has played in 36 innings, carried
out his bat twice, and made 1456 runs, with an average of
42'82. In addition to this very creditable record, he is a
magnificent fielder. He seems to have the power of
diagnosing the batsman’s strokes, and knowing by intui-
tion where the ball is going to fall, and he starts for the
spot before the stroke is delivered. The man who says
Sydney Gregory, at 36 years of age, is a has-been doesn’t
know cricket.
* » * *
Australia holds many records at cricket, and on
Saturday last another—which will probably stand for a
long while to come—was put up at Sydney Sports
Ground. In the match between Fort-street and Surry
Hills South a youthful trundler named Duffy delivered a
ball which pitched short and struck a swallow on the
wing, killing it instantly, and then spun dead. Birds
have been killed before, but so far there has been no
case of both bird and ball being dead as the result of the
impact.
* * * *
The inclusion in the S.A. XI. of O’Connor and
Macbeth, only just imported from Sydney as coaches,
raises again the whole question of inter-State qualifica-
tion, which at present is a chaotic affair. There is really
nothing to prevent, for instance, Victoria, which has, at
the moment, much more money than cricket talent, from
making a generous offer to all the recently rebellious
players in Sydney (N.S.W. could probably fill'their places
without great difficulty, but that is not the question).
A good many prominent men have in the past
played for both N.S.W. and Victoria, but a
genuine change of residence for business reasons was
generally the cause. A bad precedent was admitted
when Ferris, of Sydney', returning from England after
some .years’ absence, landed at Adelaide, looking for em-
ployment, and was promptly included in the S.A. team.
As it happened, he neither made a run nor took a wicket,
but the precedent was established. In England there is
a strict residence-qualification of two years, and so
poaching is almost unknown, except for a little occa-
sional finessing, when a good man, born in one county,
lives in another, and so is eligible for either. W. G. Grace
once carried off Midwinter out of an Australian team at
a day’s notice, to play for Gloucestershire, where he
happened to be born, but among themselves Englishmen
don’t do that kind of thing.
* * • «
Mr. Peacock, of the Carrington Hotel, has given
to the Katoomba Rifle Club a cup of great historic in-
terest—the Wimbledon Cup of 1868, won by Daniel F.
Thornbury, who married into Captain Cook’s family. The
Katoomba Rifle Club has decided to offer it as a prize for
competition on the local range, among Commonwealth
and Maoriland teams.
* * » *
With the strictly business purpose of calling
attention to their new stock of bowls, Alcock and Co.
have issued another edition of the cunning little booklet,
“ Hints on Bowls.” The first Hint is a rather forcible
appeal to the possible bowler who hasn’t quite made up
his mind to plunge into this ancient and respectable dis-
sipation : “Don’t hold off for fear of being chaffed by
your friends for turning to an old man’s game.” Then
the writer goes on to shatter the insinuation that bowls
must have been invented for stout and elderly persons,
because some of them play' at it a little, and many
others of them look on at it with tremendous enthusiasm.
He might have proceeded to nominate bowls as the
national pastime of the coming Australian Navy, on the
strength of the historic allegation that Francis Drake and
other immortal mariners were playing the fine young
warlike game aforesaid, when the Armada was sighted
in the offing.
* # * *
Although Annette Kellermann was anything
but a success in England, she threatens to boom tremen-
dously in the States, which she is to visit next June. Her
appropriation of the Austrian record for the long dis-
tance swim down the Danube, in which she covered 23
miles in 3hr. 11 min. 20sec., has made her famous in
the States, and the illustrated sporting papers are
publishing full-page portraits of her as supplements. It
seems that in the Danube swim the Australian girl was
carried into shoal rapids, and for ten minutes put up a
sensational struggle for her life in full view of enormous
crowds. That’s the sort of thing that makes for adver-
tisement.
* » * *
Passed out of bounds on Friday last, Jack
Trait, the “ prince of football umpires,” who put through
all the best Victorian games for the ten years following
1886, when football was greatest in the land. Trait was
the ideal umpire. The Victorian barracker never looked
on his like before or after. Speedy, tactful, decisive, and
scrupulously fair, he was a man u ho seemed to have eyes
in the back of his head, and he did more to rid the game
of the barbarities that once marred it than any number
of new rules. He was originally a first-flight player with
the Geelong team, but soon discovered umpiring more
lucrative. Of recent years Trait had prospered finan-
cially, filling in his spare time as church organist and
municipal c-ouucillor. A year or two back there was a
movement to put him into Parliament. An experienced
umpire like him might have prevented Bent’s Assembly
becoming the weak imitation of a larrikin hop it is to-day.
* * * •
Another Terrible Turk—the Horrible Turk
would sound much more original—has appeared in the
wrestling arena of London. Hussein Manmoud is an
Albanian, and is now inquiring anxiously hew much goes
with the scalp of George Hackenschmidt. He is only 24
years of age, and is said to combine tremendous strength
with unusual agility. Till Hackenschmidt comes along
he will make money offering any man £lOO to throw him.
After Hacky eventuates, the Terrific Turkey will probably 7
go back to Albania to get himself unravelled from the
knot in which the great Russian will have tied him.
* * *
Sydney Motor Boat Club opened its own season
on Saturday. Having led a double line of launches from
Lavender Bay 7 to Ball’s Head Bay, Viking F. J. Empson
boarded the flagship and saw to it that a signal flag was
run up on the forward pole of the ship. It was
answered by a cheer, and a crowd of dinghies immediately
made for the flagship, where the glasses were loaded to
the muzzle. Vice-Commodore Reeks, of the Royals,
made a speech, Viking Empsom replied, and the glasses
were fired simultaneously 7, splendid practice being made,
and not one shot missing. There were only two races, a
lap dash of 2 - 78 miles for motor-boats and a sailing race
for 10ft. dinghies of the Lane Cove Amateur Sailing Club.
Five started in the Lap Dash, and one after the other
vanished round the end of Cockatoo Island. When they
reappeared they- were mere dots in the haze, and Baby
de Dion was seen to be leading, the Invincible being
third. As the boats grew larger the Invincible had
drawn up second, but Whatmore, who was the centre of
a cloud of spray, was too near home, and his Baby de Dion
won by a margin of five seconds. With speed boats five
seconds represent a fair gap, and make the handicapping
look much worse than it really is. The handicappers
job is a fearful thing to contemplate.
* * * *
Long races for motor boats are a mistake from
a spectacular point of view, as the excitement is all in the
finish. The contests should be fixed over the shortest
possible distances in which the boats can get going full
speed. This would give the public the advantage of seeing
the race from start to finish. Another thing : The races
should always be run in a heat and a final. The handi-
capper would allocate his starts for the preliminary
heat, and when the boats finished, the discrepancies
could be rectified. Against this, it might be urged that
the boats would all run dead slow in the preliminaries ;
but writer doesn’t think so. Anyhow, this could be
(and is) provided for by 7 a rule that disqualifies any boat
that exceeds its registered speed by more than 10 per
cent., and this rule, applied to heat speeds in a mile dash,
would leave a very narrow margin in which to run
crooked. But the membership of Sydney Motor Boat
Club will have to change a lot before that sort of trickery
will be resorted to. The men who are competing are most
anxious to have some system designed by 7 which the diffi-
culties of proper handicapping can be overcome. They
are in the sport for the excitement, and not the prize
money, which barely pays for oil in a small launch, let
alone a big flyer.
A few weeks back the Automobile Club of
France received an invitation to attend a demonstration
of the “ Aero-propeller as applied to the motor-cycle.”
The Club didn’t know what it meant exactly, but it came
along with its judges, time-keepers, and all the rest —and
got a considerable surprise. The experimenter had with
him an ordinary motor-cycle. It was fitted with a 4-h.p.
double-cylindered motor, but the club noticed with some
amazement that there was no driving gear attached to
the wheels of the machine. Instead there projected from
the top of it, parallel to and over-reaching the
top bar, a long shaft, on one end of .which was a twin-
bladed aluminium propeller (with one of its blades
twisted) and at the other, above and in front of the
driver’s seat, a controlling wheel. It was found
upon examination that the propeller was so made that
the shaft could run free or fixed, as desired. Anzani, the
Italian crack (some people say he is a crank), mounted
this curious contraption and started his engine with the
propeller detached. The engine was going very slowly,
when Anzani let the clutch slip down into the propeller,
and then rushed his engine to full speed. In a few
minutes he was, according to the official timekeepers,
travelling at 49-2 miles per hour. The connection
between the motor and the shaft was an ordinary belt.
Of course, the speed attained has been beaten by the
ordinary motor-cycle, but the significance of this
new development applies more directly to the
aero and hydroplane than to the motor-car or cycle.
Long ago, before mOtor-boats were dreamed of, some
Canadians, who had occasion to make quick time across
some of the lakes, constructed a curious style of boat, the
bottom of which was an inclined plane about one-third
the width of the boat. As the speed increased the craft
rose out of the water till, in a strong wind, it skimmed
over the surface instead of cutting through it. The
resistance was reduced to a minimum, and against this
class of “skate,” as it was called, the ordinary boat had
no hope, no matter how fine its lines. But they were
peculiarly liable to capsize, and theirregularity of the wind
supply made them dangerous to all but experts. Later on,
steamboat men took up the idea, but were discouraged by
the fact that when the speed began to get really interesting
the boat would rise to a height which caused the pro-
peller to drag. This aero-propeller does away with the
necessity of a screw in the water at all, and the hydro-
plane will probably show some startling developments
before long. The engine Anzani drove made 49 - 2 miles
on a racing track with 1160 revolutions i o the minute.
What sort of speed could be got out of a hydroplane
driven by an engine doing 2500 revolutions per minute?
Anything up to 50 or 60 miles an hour is not only feasible
but easy 7. This should supply a fascinating sport in the
near future, and supply a new form of coast defence.
Imagine the thrills of ironclad hunting on one of these
ocean racehorses.
* * •» *
Saturday saw the sixth and last race of the
Pioneer Motor Oy'cle Club’s competition for the Chamber-
lain Cup. As usual, the tussle was over five miles of the
Western Road. Saturday’s race ended in favor of F.
Daniels, with J. D. Elliot and F. Finlay second and third
respectively. This victory gave the cup (on points) to
Daniels, who scored best on his3-h.p. Buchet. The second
man in the whole competition was M. G. Witham, who
rode on a 6-h.p. twin cylinder Rex. Third place was
occupied by Forrest Finlay 7, who rode a machine driven
by 7 an engine which w 7 as made entirely in Australia, and
in his own workshop. It was only 2|-h.p., but through
the long struggle held its place very well, although
opposed to some of the best engines of Europe.
The above-mentioned club will hold a Reli-
ability Race, on November 12, over 84 miles of country
roads. Entries are coming in fast at time of writing, and
the field promises to. be an unusually good one. An
interesting feature of the contest will be that section
which wall take a passenger in the side car or trailer.
The classes have been worked out with careful attention
to detail, and the following speeds laid dowm :—Cars
from to 2J h.p. must make an average speed of 16
miles per hour ; from 21 to 3 h.p., 17 miles ; from ?>\
to 4 h.p., 19 miles ; and any thing above 4J h.p., to maintain
no less than 21 miles per hour. Which means that the
high-geared man will get a most fearsome shaking. The
Reliability prize is a gold medal given by the Dunlop
Rubber Co., and second and third .medals from the Club.
In addition there will be first and second prizes for each
class, and altogether the chance of an excellent contest
is decidedly good. Later on, in December, the Strelein
Cup will be competed for in a succession of 20-mile road
races, the conditions being practically 7 the same as
those governing the Chamberlain Cup contest.
* * * *
The Vic. Motor Cycle Club holds its first
annual championship meeting next Saturday at the
Friendly 7 Society’s Ground, Melbourne. This is the long-
time neglected and forgotten reserve which was going
to be converted by the paternal Bent into a play'ground
for State school children. If the kiddies have already 7
entered into possession of the property, they will pre-
sumably be kept off the track when the motors are in full
snort. Three fast races and one slow race will constitute
the racing- programme ; also a speed test is to be given
by the highest-powered motor cycle in Australia.
* * *
The man who cannot enjoy himself unless
the sheen of the Pearly Gates is casting an opalescent
glow over the scene of his sport had a rare time in Port
Jackson on Sunday last. A fifty-miles-an-hour gale was
sweeping over the • water, and occasional squalls of
unknown speed came shrieking through the gale, and
beat it as badly as if it were a breeze running stiff, and
laid the boats flat on the water. Most of the sailing
craft in Sydney Harbor are over-canvassed, and the
blunder found them out on Sunday. The water was
dotted over with swamps, capsizes, and wrecks. Even
highly powered motor boats clawed through the gale
with difficulty, and had to dig their feet in to get hold.
One big launch was struggling against the howling atmos-
phere when suddenly a great white-winged boat came
racing along with 15 men hanging out to wind-
ward to balance it. As it swept round towards
Watson’s a white horse rolled over the 15, and
the men suddenly sat up, and the boat lost its balance
and dipped, filled, and toppled over, the mast narrowly
missing the motor-boat. The 15 fools on board had bags
of sand under the thwarts for ballast, and as their vessel
filled it sank like a stone. The struggling crew were all
picked up. Out between the Heads another boat, with
the unlucky 13 aboard, was laid flat and then turned
turtle, the crew' clinging to the rudder till a Manly boat
took them off. The boat drifted on to North Head, and
soon looked like an egg struck by Thor’s hammer.
Another launch took a party of two men and three
women off a sailing-boat, which was left to its fate, and
was last seen bolting out through the Heads. Altogether,
it was a great day for such as love excitement.
* * » *
Eight sailing clubs were holding races on Port
Jackson on Saturday afternoon, and at one time, from a
spot near the Lightship, no less than 34 craft of various
sorts could be seen running before the westerly with
spinnakers, ballooners and ringtails set—a beautiful
spectacle. The important event of the day was the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club’s race for the Raw-son Cup, a trophy
which has to be won three times to secure possession.
Previous to Saturday’s race it had been won once by
Messrs. Cutler, Marks, Muston and Brockhoff. Saturday’s
race saw it go a second time to A. E. Cutler, whose yacht,
Kukuburra, the limit boat, led from start to finish.
An additional interest was lent to the contest
by the presence of the Maoriland-built boat
Rawhiti, which was sailed by Mr. Brockhoff. It
started from scratch, and by the time it got going most
of the fleet had vanished round Bradley’s Head. Unfor-
tu ately for the interests of exciting sport, Mr. Brock-
hoff kept his craft too close inshore, and thereby lost the
wind, in which the big boat would have revelled. It was
not till they w'ere beating for Fort Denison that Rawdiiti
got another chance to show its heels, and then, in some
sudden gusts from the south, it moved along in a most
significant manner and eventually finished fifth. This
fine boat will be seen to better advantage in the future
when the conditions are anything like gusty.
* * * m
In the open boat section the Sydney Sailing
Club had no less than 21 craft careering before the wind
under every stitch of canvas that could be carried.
Crescent and Australian were the scratch boats, and at
the signal to go Webb caught the breeze and went up to
the fleet with a rush. One after another he cut his rivals
down, and took a final farewell of the fleet at the third
jibe. This is Australian’s second consecutive victory, and
apparently Christian is now about due for a little more
attention from the handieapper. Saturday’s race was a
revelation.
* * ft *
The much-boomed pedestrian carnival, a four
nights affair, promoted by John Wren, Esq., made a
damp commencement at the Exhibition Oval (Melb.).
The wind howled around the big building, giving the
scattered public that hugged the walls and fences a cool
time, but such public as came were evidently satisfied, fbr
it held out till the bitter end. The bookies called the
odds in hushed and solemn tones that failed to reach
further than the outskirts of the betting brigade, and
to the casual onlooker they made no odds at all.
“John” had everything up-to-date, a hitherto un-
obtainable 120yds. running* track across the ground being
secured by the aid of banks of earth built up to bring the
track out to the cycle path. A padded barrier with a
heavy sand pull-up stopped the runner a few yards past
the tape. Electric-light creepers festooned the sprint
track, a patent starting barrier got the men away, and,
t’other end, a judging machine gave the winner. The
star attraction was the ±5OO sprint of 120yds.,
the first seven heats being carded. Cricketer
“Jack” Marsh made t’other winners look slow
by covering the distance, less 6Jyds., in 11 2-ssec.,
equal to a jot under evens. The favorite, McGrory (off
B£yds.), backed to win a big lump, just got there by
inches from limit-man F. J. Jolly (12vds.)., in 12sec.
Westralian Elliot put up a healthy run. The alleged
Yankee champion, “ Max ” Whittingham, failed to put in
an appearance, and Victorian crack, Flanagan, quitted
30yds. from home. The sprint running failed to rouse
much interest, the half-miles and walk holding up the
end of the show. Walker A. E. Brisbane made an im-
pression by covering two miles off 60yds. start in
13min. 41sec. Dave Smith, of Bundaberg, went under in
the mile championship to J. McNeil, by inches, in smin.
10 3-ssec. Queenslander H. Kiley won the half-mile final
in good style on a heavy track in 2min. 4sec. Back-
marker McFarlane, after a fine win in his heat, failed to
get nearer than fourth. E. Arnfield, a very ancient ped.,
tried off 15yd., in the 100 yd. sprint, but was still going
when the next heat toed the mark. The management
did not programme the draw for the sprint events, as is
usual, but put the numbers up before the start.
“Poleaxe”: Apropos Tattersall, it would be
rather interesting to learn how the blackmailing owner
gets news as to the drawer’s name and address. A friend
of mine drew a hot favorite in the Caulfield Cup. His
wire from Tattersall was followed, some minutes after,
by a wire from the horse-owner, modestly stating that
£4OOO would make that animal a trier. It is a wonder it
was not a collect wire. Only £4OOO out of £6OOO !


RUGELMANN’iS
? ' -..if*
y/i
m
m,
m
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
soap.;
“Beauty's
Aid/'
STR.EE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Amusements.
y OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, NOV. 10th,
AT 8 P.M.
Under the Distinguished Patronage of His Excellency
the GOVERNOR and Miss RAWSON.
AMY SHERWIN.
AMY SHERWIN.
AMY SHERWIN.
Supported by Mr. ARNOLD GANGE, Mr. CLEMENT
HARVEY.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
L Y CEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
The Greatest Array of “Living Pictures" ever
seen in Sydney.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales, “ The White Rose.”
C R,T **. RIO N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. CLYDE MEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
PRONOUNCED POPULARITY of Haidee Wright’s and
Ernest Leicester’s Musical Drama Success,
THE RAKE’S WIFE,
or the QUEEN OF THE NIGHT, including
CHILDHOOD’S HOMELAND DREAM by the HOST
OF TINY FAVORITES.
PRICES-POPULAR. Plan Elvy’s.
CHEAP MUSIC.— AN
EXCEPTIONAL
OFFER.
Send 28. 3d. postal note for 1 dozen music—usual size,
well printed ; post free anywhere. Vocal, Pianoforte, or
Dance, as desired. Music Catalogue Free. Address—
STAR NOVELTY CO., Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
CHARLES WALDRON and OLA HUMPHREY in
Hall Caine’s Famous Emotional Drama,
THE CHRISTIAN.
Supported b.v Mr. Williamson’s New Dramatic Company.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 10, THE VIRBINIAN.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Up-to-Date Melodramatic Attraction,
THE BETTING BOOK ,
OR,
THE GAMBLING EVIL.
Interpreted by Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Organisation
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
SYDNEY.
THEATRE,
Libretto and Lyrics by
W. J. Curtis.
pALACE
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
A Gorgeous Spectacular Operatic Production,
THE EMPEROR.
Music by
W. Arundel Orchard.
A Gorgeous Spectacular Operatic Production.
First Time on Any Stage.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. t£3T Plan Now Open at Paling’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Mr. ALF. CHESTER, the Popular London Comedian.
LAST WEEK of HARRY TATE’S COMPANY.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, the Talking, Singing
and Musical Moving Picture Machine.
DUNCAN and GODFREY, in their New and Original
Sketch, “A SCENE SHIFTER’S LAMENT.”
AGUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumners.
Miss CASSIE WALMER.
CASSELLI and JAMES, England's leading Banjoists.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harrv Rickards.
STEWART & LORRAINE, Artistic Musical Act.
LA MOTO GIRL, a Mystifying Novelty, a World’s Wonder.
MISS MAUD FANING in New and Novel Specialtv,
“ JACKSONVILLE.”
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
THE AUASKAS, Comedy Acrobatic Artists.
LES CABIACS, French Acrobats.
FLORRIE HENDERSON—Performing Dogs <fc Monkeys.
Plan at Allan’s. itStT PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
hi
EVERY EVENING, PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Latest London Gaiety Success,
THE SPRINC CHICKEN.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as UsusS. Matinee, Wednesdays
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming,
MRS. GORRINCE’S NECKLACE.
MRS. CORRINCE’S NECKLACE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Direction of ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING.
Return to Melbourne, for a Short Farewell Season, of
LESLIE HARRIS,
The BRILLIANT ENGLISH SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
in an Entirely New Repertoire of Musical
Sketches and Stories.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
N
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY GREET
the Return of Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatio
Co., including Miss Eugenie Duggan, in a revival of
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
E. T. WALSH,
/ pay special attention to Country Orders, and to show
that distance is no object, / have sent suits out of
N. S. W., per post, recently to
Mr. A. E. PEARCE, 1049 Noe Street, San Francisco.
~ E. UNTHANK, c/o. Burns, Philp & Co., Port Moresby, British New Guinea.
„ A. GORDON, Zeehan, Tasmania.
~ T. BEACHAM, King William Street, Adelaide.
~ C. HADLEY, Subiaco, Western Australia.
„ B. McKEOWN, Mount Morgans, Western Australia.
~ J. McLAREN, Royal Mail Golf Club, Sandringham, Victoria.
Dr. CLAUDE SMITH, Melbourne.
Samples and Measure Forms sent to any address.
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fgd
'mm
w
i
w
fY/AA
KEEP TOl|
THE RIGHT „
0
i
Z/f
w
f
i /
/ (
i*
a
CM
sJ
ia
Cpca - Q
MMrM«
w
R
Amusements.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
COMMANDERS SUPREME OF CIRCUSDOM.
NEW PROGRAMME.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, KING’S BIRTHDAY, First
Appearance of
HUGH PATRICK LLOYD,
The World’s Greatest Exponent of the Corde Elastique.
New People, New Acts, New Animals, New Tents,
DOWN ALEXANDRA AVENUE.
MATINEES—SATURDAY, NOV. 10, MONDAY, NOV. 12,
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14, and
GRAND FAREWELL, SATURDAY, NOV. 17.
BOSTOCK & WOMRWELL’S
NOVEL CIRCUS & HENAGERIE
... AT . . .
FITZGERALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF THIS GREAT ENTERPRISE IN
AUSTRALIA.
The Pick of the World’s Specialty Artists, and the
Greatest Menagerie Travelling.
MATINEES, SATURDAY and MONDAY, NOV. 10 & 12.
MONDAY, NOV. 12—LAST NIGHT of the SEASON.
Prices—3s, 2s, and Is. Reserves at Allan’s, 4s.
Proprietor, MR. E. H. BOSTOOK. Under the direction
of DOUGLAS BOSTOCK. *
ALEC, VERNE, Agent.
FIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAND,”
ST. HILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to 11 p.m. tS&~ ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
YOUR FORTUNE FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/-
for postage, etc., and X will mail you, sealed and confi-
dential, a document of great value to you in the
pursuits of your future happiness in love, business and
other fields of life’s activities. Thousands are this day
blessing the hour they first wrote me ..Addres#
Prof. Henri de Astro, 366 Bourke-st. Melbourne
£BOO
FOR NOTHING.
I am continually paying
sums from £1 to £so(some-
times as much as £800) for
lots of OLD POSTACE
STAMPS on letters put away
years afro and forgotten.
Surely YOU know some old families who may have some ?
Hunt them up at once— they are worth money. Send
for my “ Illustrated List ” containing pictures and prices
of the valuable ones. (Estb. 1890).
T. H. NICOLLE, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Norwood Road Race
(ADELAIDE, S.A.)
The winner—L. Eliott —first man in and fastest
time, used Miraculum in his tubes. The 25 miles of
road were in bad condition. Several placed men
also used
MIRACULUM
MIRACULUM instantly and effectively seals
punctures in motor and cycle tyres.
MIRACULUM does not effect the resiliency of the
tyre.
MIRACULUM is economical and easily used.
MIRACULUM does NOT perish the rubber, and
WE GUARANTEE
all tubes purchased from us against perishing, if
charged with Miraculum.
Charging Denot: 256 Latrobe Street (2 Doors
from Elizabeth Street), Melbourne.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
All dealers, or write for Booklet.
Miraculum Corporation Ltd.,
395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
©K§m
It is a wise policy when buying a
bicycle to make the question of price
subservient to the question of quality.
Your comfort a-wheel will never be
complete if you have not absolute
confidence in the bicycle you ride. If
you specify
Ehdie Fittings
you can rely on possessing a machine
which will yield you a maximum of
comfort and satisfaction. These com-
ponents are designed by men who
have spent a life-time in the study of
the cyclist’s needs —men who are
practical cyclists themselves and
have a life-long experience in cycle
construction. Ask your dealer, and
also tell him you would like a
Hyde Free WhejEL,
the wheel that “toils not though it
spins.’*
The EADIE MFG. CO. Ld. t
ENGLAND.
D
V. J. Daleys “At Dawn and Dusic," a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait ; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss. _ ”
Dear Bulletin.—l must put it on to the
comps, I suppose—or the editor, or the devil—
hut in those verses of mine, “Above Crow’s
Nest,” the line, “ Verandahed windows tower,”
should read, “Verandahed windows (/tower.” I
wish you’ll make a note of this, as the thing is
interfering with my earohly happiness.■—Yours
truly, Henry Lawson.
When Bruce Smith throws himself about
recklessly he is a wonderfully reckless man. At
Redfern, the other night, he denounced
this so-called Labor party, which had succeeded during
the past few years in purloining all the good things for
its class.
It had purloined all the good things—the great
estates, the gorgeous mansions, the bank and in-
surance shares, the tall hats and frock coats,
the Colonial Sugar Co., the big cigars, the
jewellery and carriages, and cash, and the front
seats in the dress circle—the Labor men have got
them all! I Oh, Smith, Smith ! do not be an
ass!
S.M. Herald, trying to make out that
N.S.W. Anti-Sosh reps, didn’t shirk their graft
during last Parliament, recently had the gall to
print this:—
The absence of Sydney Smith during part of last
session was due to the fact that he was engaged in
organising work on behalf of his party.
The brief and simple answer to that is a question :
Was Pumpkin Smith, who was absent from
62 out of 70 sittings, paid £4OO a year to
organise his party or to help to represent N.S.W.
in Parliament? If he was paid to “organise,”
where is the organisation vote to be found on the
Estimates ? If he was paid to sit in Parliament,
then he didn’t do it, and got his payment under
false pretences.


CAN WE HELP YOU TO
SELECT A SUITABLE GIFT ?
WEDDING GIFTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, pure silver-
plated nickel silver, real Carlton
china dish, 15s 6d. Other styles,
10s 6d. 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated, A 1 qua-
lity, satin finished, fitted with patent glass
drainer, 30s. Other styles, 15s Od, 20s, 255,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-plated,
hand-engraved, pierced and embossed, size
Uin x 7Jin, 355. Other styles, 20s, 255,
30s, 40s, 50s.
EVER BUY
BY MAIL?
For over 20 years
we have been filling orders
to the entire
satisfaction of thousands
of customers
in all parts of Australia.
You are assured of
good treatment,
unlimited stock to
choose from, and
prompt delivery.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET PIN TRAY, Match Tray, and Ring
Holder, pure silver-plated satin finish, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 7s Gd, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
WRITE FOR BOOK,
IF THESE SUGGESTIONS DO
NOT SUIT YOUR PURPOSE.
_OL!3
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG FRAME, 2 Cups and Spoons, pure
silver-plated nickel silver, hand-fluted,
255. Other styles, 21s, 255, 30s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, white
china, pure silver-mounted
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d
Coalport
, os od.
, 20s.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
We send
to any address
in Australasia
our
Illustrated Catalogue,
post free.
Write to-day,
A postcard will bring
you a copy
by return mail.
All goods securely
packed and delivered,
carriage free,
to any address
in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, pure silver-plated, richly engraved,
Butterfly design, highly burnished, 17s_ Gd.
Other styles, 20s, 21s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDEIIS.
CUTLERY SET, comprising: Carving Set, J-doz. Table
and Dessert Knives, finest Sheffield Steel, xylonite
handles, 455. Extra mounted, 50s.
LAUNDERS.
BACK COMBS, 8-ct. gold-mounted, in various
designs, 15s; larger, 20s. Other styles, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. Silver-mounted, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d.
6
fir*
m
i. SAUNDERS.
SALT or PEPPER
CASTOR, solid silver
top. hobnail cut-glass,
3s Gd. Larger, 4s Gd,
5s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Breakfast CRUET, pure
silver-plated nickel silver,
cut-glass bottles, 20s.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s.
Eight-day Mantel CLOCK, strikes hours and halves,
loud gong, first-class timekeeper, richly carved case,
22in high, 12s 6d, post free. Other styles, 10s (id,
15s 9d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 42s 6d, 455, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE and SERVER,
pure silver-plated, hand-engraved,
20s. Other styles, 16s 6d, 21s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Field or Marine GLASS;
lenses, high magnifying
Other styles, 12s Gd, 15s,
, achromatic
power, 30s.
17s Gd, 20s.
,r
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S TRAVELLING SET, Brush,
Comb, and Mirror, black morocco
case, 10s 6d. Other styles, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s LETTER CASE,
green Russian leather,
calf lining, pure silver
mounts, 12s 6d. Without
shield, 10s 6d.
KMHfSP
esslc
7--^
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, seal leather, pure silver corners,
nickel lock, 13s 6d.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, pure silver-plated on white metal, A 1 quality, comprising 4 pieces, gilt
lined, richly hand-engraved, £5; 4 o’clock size, £3.
Other styles, £4 4s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL and TONGS,
pure silver-plated, blue glass lin-
ing 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SQUATTERS’ POCKET KNIFE, 4 blades, finest Sheffield steel, buck horn handle, extra strong, suitable for
all purposes, 5s 6d.
Other styles, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s fid, 5s 6u, 7s fid, Ss 6d.
CIGAR CASE, black morocco
leather pure silver-mounts, Ss 6d.
Other styles, Cs 6d, Ss Od, 10s 6d.
12s Cd.
‘.'Sr-
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, pure silver-
plated, pierced base, 9s 6d.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
FLOWER VASE, pure
silver-plated base, en-
graved, glass tube, 7s 9d.
Other styles, 4s 3d, 5s 3d,
8s 9<L
SHAVING SET, polished nickel, comprising Hot
Water Mug, Shaving- Brush, and Soap Bowl, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 11s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
Vi
l
m
m
mm-
A
-v
m
B>
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-bottle,
pure silver-plated nickel silver,
A 1 quality, 255. Other styles,
UOs, 355, 40s.
Lady’s Fitted DRESSING BAG, best quality flttiug,
morocco leather case, leather lining, 12in long, £2 15s.
Other styles. 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco Leather CHAIN PURSE, calf-
lined, pare silver mounts, lock, and chain,
12s 6d. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
9
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


3
3
t 6
Westward Ho!
S>s>
dJ
u When all things were made, none was mere better than Tobacco ; to be a Lone Man's Companion, a
Bachelor's Friend, a Hungry Man's Food, a Sad Man's Cordial, a Wakeful Man's Sleep, and a Chilly
Man's Fire* There's no Herb like it under the canopy of Heaven*" — Kingsley's “ Westward Ho !”
o' .
f’-'A '
• ‘_j*.Vr
• '% v'+s »■
'A '. * .-S* 4 Vit -’
:4 1'-'&eA'i
J&tt
> <£?£Hror f ~.- rv -v •• - .#« .
•.<■•;** <v-irv ■ Tj&’p-’-v'
>■• i '.;;£tt,sT'•»; **•
••-* •-\}> • Pfkfr '■
. ; ;ht
- *&
1' to ',l A' : ' : *.A ''"sjil&lk
£?< #l® V* '£r 1
:• A c.rlSljßpPma?-'/ j.V -y >.*'•* . \<s?
<'s'? '.'A's •' v
v .•*••» if r*S t! * %.• • *
‘/w,? ,;*- $I??. ‘
.V; ,*V '4,-C V?
■ : v ';s/ & ’.- 1 - :■«• - .••••*•
•■' ’ - vf
-
• vi' •••
. ..• awiSu*
r^fSP##
>■■ v- :*•
* s r■'••-.r-r-TJy.\v .' : •’..S’*.:/Kfi.Mawfor/.r ■■ ■ ■
*
BK
aSkbS^
&
£ tf
;-v
v i
M
aiwK
» E
vim
afe*
?
*JV '«
sa?
.
11
fej
S*»
BS»
*;■
-* r ,-
*S»i
•:.v
:-<•
‘<>•l' ' > %-V "■
*
v*“u'
ffl
y~'t
im
r
m
\: •
- ' .V-
-jps^^sr.
sSaac*
Sii^S6C?
:
X,
85
i®
it 1
m
>* i
ii
f’fV;-h- ._ ~ - - joh
'C 2 '^4
gfifKSf
ar«
a 1
V 4 * ;
rr>
sss
I
m^m
wmm&m
Vfe? WW
t «v
ai
« s ip
m
%
I
< <■'
as
M
t--'
i
- ' J
saw
»K
**•*=--*
nra
lIS
xflfc'j -/‘M
oiESiLSi • •A'CSi
m |h
mmmGm
’H-r *i’* * . 1 < ,r V f fij.
■ ■
IMn:
‘"•SS'i
iff*
a@i
w;
'
H
Ss«o<?
Si
.
/. ■ -x
m
■■.' •?'
m.
-
m
l»Si


tttUtg
I&ak in Australia.
BEALE PIANOS
Are built specially to withstand sudden and extreme climatic changes. The
timber used is seasoned here in Australia, in the very climate and under the
very conditions that are to be found throughout the year. As former
importers, we know the value of this, for our experience has taught us that
imported Pianos which are built during the European summer stand this
climate better than those which are prepared during the winter. Further,
our method of seasoning, by combined open-air and kiln process, has been
pronounced by experts to be one of the best and most up-to-date systems. In
addition, every stick of timber, before being used in a Beale Australian
Piano, is carefully tested in a special apparatus, which at once reveals
whether it is fit for use. Then our patented system of building the cabinet
work in cross-plies ; our patented iron wrest-plank, eliminating the wooden
wrest-plank, still used in all other pianos (iron and steel will stand climatic
change better than wood), and our special sounding-board, which is con-
structed to resist the most trying heat—all these combine to make the Beale
Australian Piano proof against the severe and sudden changes of weather
which make such havoc of the majority of imported Pianos. And this is why,
wherever the Beale Piano goes, it gives the most lasting satisfaction ; this is
why, wherever a piano is needed for a home in a district where the climate
is most trying, the Beale Australian Piano is the best obtainable ; and it
naturally follows that we have thousands of testimonials from all classes of the
community confirming and corroborating our claims and speaking in the most
glowing terms of the
BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
Catalogue and Circulars FREE. Cash or Easy Terms Anywhere.
BEALE <& CO., LIMITED,
474 Georg'e St., Sydney.
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
10l Brisbane St., Launceston
207 King St., Newtown.
127 Rundle St., Adelaide.
015 Hay St., Perth.


COME TO
LILAC
LAND!
n ■
m
fl
wmsmm
<srfwssmffla BfE3» w ocrbaW/rsimw
fgd
ND throw the windows of your soul wide open to the sun and to the scent of the#
lilacs. Come to the land where the sun distils tonic odors from the gum forests,
the tree fern belts and the sassafras and sarsaparilla gullies. Why go to foreign
lands to gaze on a Meeting-of-the-Waters when you may see a score of bright
waters meeting in as many green-bosomed valleys ? Come and dwell for a space
in absolutely untainted skies, amid trees and flowers and forget the gritty city,
crowned with factory chimneys. Bring your wife and let her have respite from the nerve-
wearing morning question :
“PLEASE, MUM, WHAT’S FOB THE BUTCHER?
In short, come to Medlow Bath Hydro for health, rest and recreation. The Hydro is a
maomfi/ent edifice, built in two wings, joined by a corridor picture gallery, 000
<a
V.
S*
*srM #
•>*
3T " <-4^
*rtj
<snvß
~V- v'
f’A
*u\-
!.■■„'■
igwl
Cj6
ST
&
*
MEAN
TEMPERATURE
Day. Night.
SPRING 53*3; 49*3
SUMMER, 61*9; 52*4
AUTUMN. 53* J ? 39*4
WINTER, 42*2; 37*5
ALTITUDE
3500 feet high in the
Blue Mountains.
View m the Gardens, showing tea kiosk and hammocks swung between trees.
long. It accommodates some two hundred guests, and
contains a theatre, billiard rooms, baths (electric,
douche, spray, and vapour), library, a “ sundries ” shop,
and a telephone in every bedroom. Golf-links, a bowling-
green, a tennis-court, and cricket grounds are in connection
with the Hydro. Motor-cars and coaches are on hire, and
the famous Jenolan Caves are within a few hours journey. Medlow is within three hours rai
from Sydney. The Hydro is connected by telephone with the City. Mountain scenery,
sublime heights, profound depths, and limitless distances are among the charms
of Medlow On the western side, the long, classically-built Hydro looks out ovei
the Kanimbla Valley-one of the finest and most inspiring views in the world
Seventeen hundred feet below the gigantic Hydro, and planted on the floor <>
CHARGES
For the Hydro, charges
per room range from
£3 3s. to £4 4s.
a week, no extras. If
two occupy a room a
reduction is made.
RAILWAY FARES
(From Sydney, 70 miles, 21-
hours train).
Excursion Fares. Ist class
Return, 11/6. 2nd, 5/9
Ordinary trains, Ist class
Return, 15/-. 2nd, 10/3
Excursion trains run Wednes-
days and Saturdays at 8.25
a.ii)., return tickets being
available by any train.
m
saw®
•i'v'i
*•
saro<«
.
as
•■ >*
,
Kw*
gPP®
m***<s£
liimfltt
trouzuu
„ vV ’
V ' \
' ■ .- . vM : -•-, . '• ■;. *■:*+*»*■#
-O
< \V>.J, ■
The Hydro, from the main road.
11, i!
itJUMSi
WW3B
i ea s
W
W H B v A J R H op
fl-S-W-AUSTRAL! AV
Belgravia Wing of the Hydro.
the Valley, is a Shooting-Box for sportsmen or others who are not lo g
for the blood of rabbits and birds. On . the floor of the Valley lies
farm, dairy and vegetable, that supplies the Hydro with its produce, and on a day
-any day-you may see the RAT SQUEALING SUCKING PIG
intended for your table coming up from the Valley on an endless wire valley
thrilling depths. The valley sides are at thrs season aglow t swarde cl with a strip
had better nudge themselves to remember the Sun Bath and the Coliseum, r nsr is a g
of pure white sand, and the second a nature-built duplicate of its Roman name-giver.
IN A COLD SNAP
The Hydro is heated by electric heaters and steam pipes,
also take the eye. THE BARS?
Spirituous, alcoholic, and temperance are little in evidence, but they arc at Medlow-to the number of h ‘" o -
Nicotine too, may be adored with sacrificial fumes in the cosiest of smokrng-rooms. AsTo^^' o^ Opr “‘ Or
asserts that it is unsurpassed in any hotel in Australia, and, as everyone knows, the chef who has masked y
SITS ON THE APEX OF CIVILISATION !
Great open fireplaces, that will burn six feet tree-trunks,


fgd
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Dang'er to
Human Life.
/
N
■■ -y
(§)
JEvferyHyisa.
Mwv Killer
at He.\rt. ”
IT’S Hairy body carries botH disease
and death. Having' its origin in
filth, it brings with it the bacteria
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling' over refuse, now
r.ir 0 f r;K of ‘ h v: We ’ flying from the ° f **• to
he l.ps of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
districts m °^ tality children in the congested
Where / a ci y, where families are closely crowded together,
** accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
the fly r ° lnf S> ? *° & large deBree > so scientists now say, to
flies abound CMefly PreVail in . when the
INSKTI DANE
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES <& other Insetfts.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug' Coy,
SYDNEY.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
JL Will otic w.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
r ondon .. •• to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 Williaat-street. «ttt t q (r pa
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
At raw amiNTS * HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1535.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
THE
fluMnslsind Ijsstlonsl §|3ok,
** limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1868,
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital 2 n
Capital Paid Up .. o c
Reserve(inGovt.Stock,£43.43s) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queen,,
land. Agents throughout Australasia Scotland Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. , Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. arprnvr
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liabilitj r .
Head Office : ilplill _
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148— Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.U.
The Hon. Bruck. Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of j)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ..
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
CRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The
D 5 * 15 ! *a
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. •• ••
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director: .
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Quf.ensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Borth Queensland
..... # iMiTFn.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund
.£4,000,000
.£1,000,000.
£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
•QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, >
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Fr
-all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, S PP £>
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
•business.
snipping.
IST. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
SANDAKAN 22nd NOVEMBER.
MANILA 20th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 15th JANUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
L I MIT ei>.
Capital Paid-up .. 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 u
Reserve Fond (Invested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.. W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E C.
10 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING at DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
*MILTIADES .. IT. F. Spalding
MORAVIAN . A. Sinipson
NINEVEH.. ..1 A. Robb ..
Noon, Nov. 9
Noon, Nov. 23
Noon, Dec. 15
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
«« «S Of.
Cape°r Durban " CL \OsV- »»
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia. __ ,
WHITE STAR LINE.
fgdfgd
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 30th NOVEMBER,
AERIC SUEVIC, PERSIC and
RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £H H 0 to £23 2 Q
New York, 2S 2 6 t 0 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Co. A.. & A-.
AJXTIO
FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME JO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. CANADA. GREAT BRITAIN
IjURLEJ (m SAN FRANCISCO).
luxuriously Equipped Trains
AND EUROPE.
UNITED l 5 IAI ur •»
R.M.S SONOMA, 6200 Tans, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, NOVEMBER , a p.m.
•■■cDirA’i ic nn exoensivc
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. R Ltd.,na„a|mg Agents,
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.Gr.)»
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fgd
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. -
FAIR INTEREST.
RASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
JKT.S.'W.
(|)ontdepieteO.#S.C»->[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9 ° 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : K. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon J M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
_ Co. Ltd. of London.
The premier""Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Dire Bright & Co.)!Sir John See, K.C.M.G J. J. Allen,
Esq. J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide. L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
Generamanager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN AXA.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
TO
AMERICA and EUROPE.
An Unrivalled Route
for
Interesting & Comfortable
Travel.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Nov. 26, Dec. 24, Jan. 21.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
\ PACKKT of Eight Different Articles, comprising
A Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter).
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard I ish (gives
the definition of your character — very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Jokers Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizards Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the h amous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Ca,rds (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet P an y
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT .
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor ana
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
WIT SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL— £I,9OO,OOO.
12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
George H. Moore, Manager.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOUBNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 16.
S.S. Yongala, Nov. 28.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Harloo, Nov. 10.
.S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 17.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 24.
Rest and Cheapest Route to tfold/ields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
A /i.OOXKi.T'JriUJ.VO uooncu UV/ uuim/wj,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Principal Agent.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
WI find every omior and convenience at —
MRV^TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 6 Beacon3field Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
r |!HE Largest and best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Kailway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes walk
from GP 0. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lilt.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club,
$
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS MODERATE.
Henry Skinner,
CJlarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephont No. 10/tS. R R •
Mr Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in tne
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY,


Ss Britisb=J*ustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1
in advance, all over
per year,
the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British- Australasian during tho first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, FINSBURY
CIRCUS, LONDON, E.C.
One minute’s walk from Liverpool Street Railway
Stations.
Managing- Dfreotor
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Phonograph Song BooL
OMiniHS 3KIO
lento
□D
THIS
IS
abso-
lutely
the
Best
BooK
ever
issued.
It contains the complete words of over 70 of the
very latest and most popular songs sung into the
phonograph by leading artists. This is the book
which gives all Harry Lauder’s famed humorous
specialities; new ami popular ballads by Irving
Gillette ; the wonderful coon successes of Arthur
Collins; also the favourite items of Miss Marie
Narelle, Byron G. Harlan, Harry McDonough, and a
host of others. A giant collection of coon songs,
march songs, comic songs, pathetic, &c., &c. This
is the biggest value that has ever been offered to von.
We will forward it, post free, upon receipt of fourteen
penny stanv's. Don’t forg-et the name “ The Phono-
graph Song Book.” Send for it at once.
ALLAN & CO.
276-278 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PRICE 10/6 POST FREE,
A Champion Razor—THE PLUM l
YV/URTH its weight in gold to the man who wants
a clean, easy shave in quick time. Never puils
or drags—requires no grinding—gives no trouble.
Made of specially tempered steel—hollow ground—
the finest Razor ever sold at or near the price, and
guaranteed for two years. Money back to any dis-
satisfied customer.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6. Razoleo Lightning Sharpener,
6d. Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d. Single Razor in
Leather Case, 10/6. Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-. Single
Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-. Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
A New Novelty. Useful and Amusing.
The " MOKO ” Combined Match Box & Race Game
COMBINE BUSINESS WITH PLEASURE.
If you would like a really good novelty—something
which will afford you and your friends endless amuse-
ment, whilst at the same time having a practical article
—write for one of our “ Moko ” Combined Match
Boxes and Race Carnes which we have just received.
In appearance they are precisely identical to an ordinary
Watch, but in place of the Watch dial and hands there
is a pretty spinning wheel, on which five numbered
horses are painted. By pressing the little lever at the
side, this spinning wheel is set in motion at a high rate
of speed. Endless excitement and speculation is
afforded by guessing which horse will be at the winning
post when the spinning wheel ceases revolving, the
winner being as uncertain as the winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup. It is impossible to tell which horse will
win the race. The receptacle for the matches is on
the reverse side of the illustration. It is beautifully
finished in nickel, with the front protected by glass ;
very strongly made and entirely new to Australia.
You can attach it to your watch chain, and we guaran-
tee you will get more fun and entertainment and use
out of it than anything else on the market.
Price 1s 6d, post free to any address.
FREE.—Anyone ordering three of the above will re-
ceive, free, our wonderful Wizard Paok of Trick Cards,
which you can make change completely no less than
ďfg
five times, to the amazement
of everyone. Ordered separ-
ately the price is 7d per pack,
post free, or the Match Box
and Cards for 2s, post free
anywhere.
A. J. SMITH & GO.,
14 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
FASCINATING
/
CO
Rk O'
fgd
fgd
The rapid growth of Messrs. A. J. SHITH & COY.'S business—former address, 6 Moore Street,
Sydney—has necessitated their seeking larger premises. Present address of the Ooy. is 1 4 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY. Their latest. Catalogue is worth seeing. Novelties of all kinds, Puzzles, Musical
Curiosities, Conjuring Tricks, Rubber Stamps, etc., are well illustrated.
Government Notice.
Assisted IMMIGRATION
Bring Out Your People from the Old Country.
Assisted Passages
from the
United Kingdom
From £8 to £l2.
Full Details and Nomination Forms supplied by . . .
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT, PHILLIP and BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
2 i 65. H. C. L. ANDERSON. Director. Intelligence Department.
A RECORD.
w
AULDANA WINES
In competition
against all . . .
Australia at . .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP-SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH: ANGEL PLACE, PITT ST.
REUBEN BRASCH
Hyde ParK
Corner . . .
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Direct from
Maker to
Wearer.
GARMENT
SPECIALIST .
fdg
New Illustrated
Catalogue is
now ready, and
will be posted
on application.
No. 23 —Elegant fluslin Gown.
Trimmed Valenciennes and Embroidery.
Special Price, 22s 9d.
Belt included. Assorted Sizes in Stock.
No. 39.
Our Leading Line in a Smart Walking Skirt.
Seven-gored, 12 rows stitching, the hern faced self material,
well flared.
In Check and Pastel Tweeds, 5s lid, 6s lid, 8s lid.
In White Linen, 8s lid.
In Black and Navy Panama Cloth, 8s lid.
In Navy, Black, and Cream Alpaca, 9s lid.
In Cream Hopsac Serge, 11s 9d.
In Navy Coating Serge, 12s 3d.
In Best Sicilian, 13s 6d, 15s 3d.
Quotations are for Stock Sizes. • Belt Extra.
Lengths—36 to 43. Waists—22 to 27.
OUT-SIZES.
No. 39 —Out-Sizes, 28 to 32 waists. Inverted Pleated Back.
7s lid to 13s fid
No. 22—Charming and Inexpensive Muslin Gown.
Trimmed effective Broderie Anglaise Insertion.
■ In India Linen, 18s 6d. In Fancy Muslin, 21s.
Belt included. Assorted Sizes in Stock.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS will please
add Postage when Remitting.
fgd
Unmade
Robes
In Bishop’s Lawn, Skirt trimmed Embroidery and Insertion, with material for Blouse
and trimmings. Price 17s 6d.
Flemish Linen Robes, in Pale Cream. The Skirt is Hand-Embroidered, in a very
Elegant Design, with a Hand-Embroidered Length of Linen for the Blouse.
Price very moderate, 32s 6d.
Real Value in iribh Linen Hand-Embroidered Robes, in Pink, Sky, Helio.,
and Champagne. The Skirt is made exceedingly pretty. The Blouse
EmbroidUrtwr by hand, 21s.
Just across the Vic. border at Tocumwal
the roads are so fearful, because the local land-
owners won’t pay enough rates to keep them in
repair, that a young lady had recently to go to
her father’s funeral barefooted, with her skirts
tucked up, and carrying her boots and stockings.
Even then she nearly had to swim. The Govern-
ment hastily granted £5OO for repairs (about half
of which will come out of the pockets of the city
workers) instead of passing a law to imprison shire
councillors who don’t do their duty.
Thornhill Weedon, Queensland’s Statis-
tician, has produced, by direction of the Home
Secretary, “The ABC of Queensland’s Statis-
tics”—44 pages of handy figures well arranged ;
20 of these pages are given to Australasia and the
rest to the State that pays the printer’s bill. It
has been mentioned, by the way, that, last year,
Queensland lost 40,424 people by emigration and
gained 40,232. Quite true that there was a loss ;
but of white people there was a gain; and in
future issues it would be as well to show whites
and others separately.
Mr. Wang Hon Chen, London Chinese
Legation Prefect, happened into Brisbane, the
other day, on some sort of look-around-and-find-
out-all-I-can-business, and blandly informed a
press interviewer: —
He scoffed at the idea of China and Japan ever again
being at war with each other. Japanese officers were
training Chinese troops, and Chinese scholars were learn-
ing in Japanese colleges.
It can t be driven into the Australian skull too
deep that “ Japanese officers are training Chinese
troops,” &e. And when the training is finished—
then? “Then” is a word of big possibilities for
this lone white outpost.
For the Federal elections, read “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price (id., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.


Consumption
Can Be Cured.
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, whose
discovery of a Cure for
Consumption has startled
the World.
Marvellous as it may seem after the centuries
of failure, a cure for consumption has at last
been found. After twenty years of almost
ceaseless research and experiment in his
laboratory, the now renowned specialist, Derk
P. Yonkerman, has discovered a specific which
has cured the deadly Consumption even in its
far advanced stages. In many cases, though
all other remedies tried had failed and changes
of climate were unable to check the progress of
the disease, this wonderful specific has conclu-
sively proved its power to cure.
Whatever your position in life may be
if you are in consumption, or suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, catarrh, or any throat or
lung trouble, this cure is within your reach,
for it is a home treatment and need not
interfere in any way with your daily occupa-
tion. Prove for yourself its healing power
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Simply send your name and address
to the Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd..
693 Dixson Buildings, Sydney, and they will
post to you a free trial treatment of this
remarkable remedy.
/ Don’t hesitate or delay if you have any of
the symptoms of consumption. If you have
chronic catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, pains in
your chest, a cold on your lungs, or any throat
or lung trouble, write to-day for the free trial
treatment and full instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
THE MAGIC FLUTE
HUMANATONE
Wonderfully Sweet-Toned and Musical.
tsfiS?
1/6
each
ANYONE CAN PLAY IT
No Knowledge of Music
Needed
SMALL ENOUGH TO CARRY IN
THE POCKET
Loud Enough to Lead
the Band
Only 1/6 each,
Carriage Paid
'T'HE Magic Flute is an absolutely new style of musical m-
strument; nothing 1 like it has ever been seen. It is made
entirely of nickel-plated metal, and it is strong and durable.
It will never wear out or get out of order. The most ex-
traordinary imitations of bird-calls and warblmps can be
’ itcannot be excelled for teaching a parrot to
whistle. You can play any tune you know after a little
practice, and the tone is very musical and flute-like. It is cap-
abie of the most charming modulations, more close!v re-
sembling the legato of a violin than is possible on any key* d
instrument, and the most popu ar melody or the most elabo-
rate operatic air can be played, either as a solo or accompanied,
m a manner that would be enthusiastically applauded even
on a concert platform. Anyone can play the M gic Flute
and the performer with the true 4l gift of music ” will find it,
with a very little practice, the most easily controlled sound
producer it is possible to imagine. Each Magic Flute is
packed m a box with full instructions, and the price is only
SJa inc tii car riage to any address. We will send
our J4O-page Illustrated Catalogue with each order, and, if you
mention this paner when ordering, you may have a Clever
Puzzle without charge, with the offer of anoiher Puzzle if you
can solve ihe first one. Obtainable only from
The Union Itflfg. & Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
i sWls>s>mi<l unD
«a
Price 35s
Post
Free.
DESCRIPTIVE BOOKLET POST FREE.
HAVE you ever obtained
more than temporary relief
from the pains of Rheuma-
tism and Sciatica by
swallowing Drugs ?
Haven’t you found— when the
effects of the drugging has worn
off—that the pain was more
agonising than ever ?
Stop it!
Use this wonderful Electric
Battery—it will cure the worst
case of Rheumatism—is good for
nearly all aches and pains and
nervous diseases.
Osboro flc Jcrdai}
New Electric Battery
will send its nerve-restoring—
pain-relieving currents right to
the affected parts. It doesn’t
hesitate—it doesn’t stop to argue
on its errand—it gives you a
PRACTICAL proof of its won-
derful curative powers. Order
one to-day by mail—money back
if it is not all we claim.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
‘MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 'GEORGE STREET ( facing lioyal Hotel), SYDNEY.
£7>c BANK of AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Boyal Charter, 1835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ' ... . tS(J
(Of which £500,000 is invested m 2J- per cent. Consols at 85,
the remainder being used in the business.) _
RESERVE LIABILITY OE PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER
£1,600,000
1,280,000
1,600,000
£4,480,000
Half-Yearly Report of the Directors of the Bank of Australasia, with
the Accounts for the Half-Year to 16th April, 19C6,
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-Yearly General Meeting held on Thursday, 4th October, 1906.
REl*©s^.T»
The directors submit to the proprietors the balance sheet as at 16th April last with.the profit accountfor the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current for British and l co omal rates and taxes, and for
all had and doubtful debts, the net protit for the half-year amounted to £137, /94 IJs. lia. , , ,
To this sum must be added £17.555 ss. 7d. brought forward from the previous half-year making a total of
£1 ss. (id., out of which the directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent, per
a "' 11 The °lividend'will”*absorb £96,000, and the directors have further appropriated £30,000 to the reserve fund
and £12,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There then remains £17,350 ss. 6d. to be carried forward to
the next account. , . , , ,
Thp dividend will be payable, in London and in the colonies, on sth October next. , ~ ,
?he directors have with sincere regret, the death on Ist July last of Mr. John Sawers, who retired
at Orookwell and Kyog.e, in New South
Wales, and at Beaudeseit, in Queensland, and has closed its branch at
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 24th September, 1906.
PROFIT ACCOUNT FROM 16th OCTOBER, 1905, to 16th APRIL, 1906.
Undivided profit, Kith October, 1905 ' 0 0
Less : Dividend, 30th Match, 1906 9b ’ 00U 0 0
£17,555 5 7
Profit for the half-year to 16th April, 1906, after deducting- rebate on bills cur-
rent at balance date (£13,286 19s. 9d.), and making provision for all bad and
doubtful debts £- ess . -290,129 2 1
I. Charge of Management —
Colonial — . . ,
Salaries and allowances to the colonial stall, includ-
ing the Superintendent’s Department, and 170 _ _ _
branches and agencies .. .. .. • • .• • £94,167 17 8
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, &c 26.469 12 5
London— _ .. 9,995 10 0
General expenses'' .. - - - 3,249 18 0
£133,882 18 1
11. Rates-and Taxes— n(l Q „
Colonial ••
T nrwinn .. •• .. 8,456 14
London .. i 5,451 i 1
152,334 2 2
137,794 19 11
155 350 5 6
Total amount of unappropriated profit " " ’
From which deduct — <>,, 0
For transfer to reserve fund 10’nnn n n
For reduction in cost of bank premises ... •• iz.uuu u Q Q
£113,350 5 6
Leaving available for dividend
BALANCE SHEET, 16tH APRIL, 1906.
LIABILITIES:
Circulation
Deposits .. .. . ••
Bills payable and other liabilities..
.. £543,748 0 0
.. 16,964,250 14 2
.. 2,924,502 13 II
Capital .. .. ..£1,000,000
Reserve fund .. .. 1,280,000
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in2^percent.
Consols at 85, the re-
mainder being- used
in the business.)
Profit account ; undivi-
ded balance .. .. 113,350
£20,432,531
0 0
0 0
5 6
£2,993,350
8
1
6
£23,425,881 13 7
. ASSETS.
. Specie, bullion, and cash balances ..£3,489,964 1 5
Loans at call and at short notice.. .. 3,028,343 15 0
British Government securities .. ... 967,140 12 2
' India and Colonial Governments’
securities .. .. .. .. ... 175,678 12 5
£7,661,127 1 0
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets .. ... .. ..15,484,095 2 3
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand,
and London .. .. .. .. .. 280,659 10 4
£23,425,881 13 7
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the Cash and Securities in London, and the London Books, and have verified the Transfers
from the several Branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we bear to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair Balance Sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. _
London, 19th September, 1906. WELTON, JONES AND CO., Auditors.
I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY.
Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
“Paddy” Lane, the best-known of N.S.W.
Rugby footballers, was tackled by pneumonia last
week with fatal results, and has gone finally out
of bounds. Paddy learned the game at the old
King’s School, and was a famous wing forward for
Wallaroo, in the days of club football. He led
the State team to victory more than once as cap-
tain, and ever since his jersey days has occupied
responsible positions in the councils of the game.
Bill-Marion Edwards, the man-woman, or
he-lady, seems very undecided as to which sex she
will finally take up. When Bill was committed
for trial at Collingwood (Vic.) on a charge of
burglary the Age says :
She wore a torchon lace hat trimmed with crimson and
red berries, and had a heavy, dark-colored wig (for her
hair had been kept close cropped). She had a silk blouse
of a light blue, with insertion yoke ; a white ribbon
around the neck, fixed in front with a gold brooch. The
skirt was of dark tartan. She carried a reticule.
And a few days later, at the higher court, Marion
was acquitted in pants and a boxer hat.
The Tory Register is rapidly becoming
S. A.’s leading humorous paper. It raves with a
total absence of logic that is most valuable to its
opponents. The Assembly franchise reformers
were assailed viciously because they would not
concede a twopenny point upon which the Coun-
cil would not give way, either, but the latter body
was praised for its firm attitude. Tory poli-
ticians, when stumping the country, asserted that
the dissolution would cost £20,000 to £30,000, and
when it was pointed out that the cost could not
possibly reach £4OOO, the Register came to their
rescue to prove their case. It said that this elec-
tion, the double dissolution that would follow if
the Council did not give way, the appeal to the
King that might ensue if the Council still
remained wooden-headed and obdurate, the wear
and tear of candidates, also the amount of drink
consumed, if all added up, would certainly come
to tens of thousands. And not a penny did it
knock off for the saving in the hinder parts of
members’ pants through not sitting in Parliament
while there was no Parliament to sit in.
This is the season when Giovanni Icea-
creami comes out of his dirty little slum with his
barrow ; wherefore this is the season also to dig
up the report of the Director of the Bacterio-
logical Laboratory at the Melbourne University
on samples of ice-cream tested there last year.
Fresh milk should not contain more than 50,000
to 100,000 bacteria per cubic centimetre ; and,
though scalding will remove practically all these
micro-organisms, the explorer into Melbourne’s
ice-cream found in five samples out of 19 no less
than from 10,000,000 to 40,000,000 of the beasties.
“Dirty, damp, and dusty rooms, and unclean
utensils invariably leave their impress on the
manufactured article, especially where the article
is unduly exposed to contamination from the air,”
adds the microbe-hunter. Also—
Colon bacilli, probably derived from excrement of cows
at time of milking, were numerous in several samples.
Altogether, there seem to be a pretty large number
of reasons why Australia should pick its ice-
cream carefully this summer, and say a prayer or
two before and after cream, in case it hasn’t
picked right.
“•Strong-kneed Protestant” writes from
Melbourne :
Knox, M.H.R., president of the Victorian Protestant
Defence Association, has written a paper on State debts.
The pernicious doctrine of Papal infallibility is thoroughly
riddled in a chapter dealing with three per cent,
securities. With some prescience, Knox elaborates the
necessity for the suppression of convents, and his tables
showing how this could be done by a series of short-
dated loans of the electors without any sinking fund are
masterpieces of lucidity. As he justly observes, no one
tmt a linotype man would take incense for interest, and
the efforts of the Romish party in this respect must be
strenuously fought against by all supporters of sound
finance. No one not completely under the heel of Rome
could study Mr. Knox’s comparative statistics on the
debt per head and remain under any misconception
as to the real significance of the eastward position.
Under Knox’s scheme there is to be a council of theology,
with power to audit the errors of Rome and bring out a
balance-sheet on yellow paper. All money required for
the erection of an Australian capital is to he raised by a
diversion of the Christmas dues of the priests, who are to
receive in substitution debentures redeemable on the Day
of judgment. A weak point in the argument appears to
he that the bookkeeping method of distribution is incon-
sistent with the repudiation of the Real Presence.
There are few but will bow to the dictum that special
duties for old age pensions cannot be imposed as long as
Cardinal Moran persists in wearing a red hat.
Melbourne has temporarily dropped Albert
Park Lakes, where the police are still dragging
for remains, and is taking four penn’orth on the
new electric trams out Flemington way. They
start at the Octopus’ cable-tram terminus at
North Melbourne and run out in two branches,
N.W. 'and W., 3£ miles each way. The seven
miles of track with 15 cars and as many trailers
cost about £130,000 of English money. That and
the fact that the cars and generators, etc., were
imported from highly-protected America, instead
of being made in Australia, are the most re-
grettable circumstances about the undertaking.
The trailers, however, were built in Adelaide, and
the construction and erection work was all done
by Australian mechanics—so well done, in fact,
that two of these men were telegraphed for from
Bombay to go and do similar work there. In
speed, comfort, convenience and ease of handling
the system is miles ahead of the cable system
which will belong to Melbourne citizens 10 years
hence, when it will be almost as out-of-date as the
horse ’buses are.
The Victorian councils begin to reap the
harvest of their sweating. Within the last few
weeks four of their clerks and engineers have got
into “trouble.” One secretary is “out’’several
hundreds, and awaits sentence ; a rate-collector
had a shortage and suicided ; a town-clerk is
under arrest; while another shire’s secretary
has resigned because the books are ‘ lost.
For no other reason than that he has
made thousands out of it, Victorian Assembly has
become so mealy-mouthed on the subject that it
positively gasped when George Graham referred
to “ a professional gambler named Wren.” If he
had been just a two-up gambler worth 505., the
Assembly wouldn’t even have left off chattering
to hear the remark. There is still a lot of that
spirit which made heroes of the Emks and
Jameses of the land-boom days, and lifted
Matthew Davies into the Assembly’s chair.


There’s
Comfort
Grape-Nuts
‘‘THERE’S A REASON.”
Brand
Your
SHEEP
with.
KEMP’S
PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING
LIQUID.
Black, Red and Blue
(In 8-Gallon Gases)
4s. Per Gallon
1-Gallon Tins, 4d. 6d. each.
Kempton, Tasmania,
sth September, 1905.
Dear Sirs, —It is preferable to any I have ever
used ; the longer it stands on the sheep, the more
plainly it shows.
(Signed) JAMES HADDON, Senr.
“ Ooorawong,” via Coonamble, N.S.W.,
16th May, 1905.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using “ Kemp’s Sheep
Branding Liquid ” for a number of years. I find
“ Kemp’s ”is the best. I will continue using it.
(Signed) A. J. HOWARD.
Agents in
MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.).
ADELAIDE (D. & J. Fowler Ltd.).
KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.).
ROCKHAMPTON (New Zealand Loan
& Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.).
TOWNSVILLE (Australian Estates &
Mortgage Co. Ltd.).
FREMANTLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.).
LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.).
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
uutt
; V ' ' V
Mi!
iilii!
re
Eoglisb & An>€i-icao
Talbot oi)
EPISQH RECORDS.
THE best of the world’s talent in all classes of
musical work is heard on EDISON Records
—English, American and Continental.
From every standpoint they are the finest
Records in the World—were the first and are
still the first in the hearts of the multitudes of
people who buy them all over the civilised world.
Write for Lists of New Records and
Catalog of Instruments —FREE by Mail.
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS are
obtainable at all Talking Machine Dealers.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The truth of the matter is -TrtlS!
The reason that most Paints crack and peel off is simply because
they are not ELASTIC.
When the Oil, which is the LIFE of a Paint, evaporates, it leaves
a CRUSTY SURFACE of pigment, and as the changes in the atmos-
phere takes place, expanding and contracting the surface —OFF comes
the paint.
Now, Arco Elastic Carbon Paint is, as its name implies,
ELASTIC. That is, it contracts and expands with the climatic
changes, and thus, under ALL circumstances and conditions, it STICKS.
Under ordinary conditions Arco Elastic Carbon Paint will last
INDEFINITELY, but under SEVERE conditions it’s Guaranteed
for FIVE YEARS.
Manufactured in RED, BLUE, BROWN, GREEN
and BLACK, by . . .
JShe ATLANTIC REFINING CO.,
Equitable Buildings, Cleveland, Ohio,
Melbourne. XJ.S. A.
Wholesale Agents—
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Launceston, Tasmania.
W. D. Moore & Co. and Harris, Scarfe & Co., Fremantle.
J. S. Hunro & Co., Zeehan, Tasmania.
Thomas Brown & Sons, Townsville.
Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton.
fIPRIAH & CO. BOOKS,
Stationery, Conjuring Apparatus, Tricks,
FRENCH’S PLAYS, RECITATIONS, JOKE BOOKS, MINSTREL SHOW
WIGS, GREASE PAINTS, &c.
AND ANY OTHER ARTICLE YOU MAY REQUIRE (at Cheapest Rates).
Send to us, whom you may rely on for promptness and attention.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is.; post, Is.
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and I illustrated Marriage
Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art StUDiES, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
And any book you want, at regular rates.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
NOTE.—A SPLENDID LINE OF 6 POSTCARDS for 6d., posted Bd, depicting all
Towns in Great Britain (something special and British Make). We won’t
disappoint you. Send for a set. And all other qualities kept in stock. The Finest
Selection of Favourite English Actress Cards, spangled and plain finish. Kindly inspect.
ONLY
ADDRESS,
508 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A CERTAIN WAY
TO IMPROVE
YOUR MEMORY.
'T'HE PELMAN-FOSTER Memory System
# means to the brain what modern business
methods mean to commercial life. We show
you how to train the brain to think and
remember—we help you to make the brain a
well-ordered house of mental treasures, where
every fact is accessible—where every scrap of
knowledge comes readily to mind when you
require it.
There is no mystery about Memory training-.
Write to-day for our free booklet, “ Memory,
and How to Improve It.” and learn what a
simple thing it is to train your memory to serve
you faithfully.
Address the Secretary:
The Pelman School of Memory,
Q.P.O. BOX, 402, MELBOURNE.
London : 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.O.
America: 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany : Braunerstr, 13 Munich.
Learn to Swim
BY ONE
TRIAL.
Ayvadsj£|jj£Water JvVjngs
Price, 1/6 & 2/6. Creat Sport in the Water.
A person weighing from 60 to 2601 b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayvad’s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, Ayvad’s Aoknoy, 82a Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. 00., Hoboken, N.J.
Note— Educational Dept., London County Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary school
supply.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
fgdfdg
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammatk- i ot
ttie lining membrane oi the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down' the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
til eges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o» charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Letter from a Little Girl—
FATHER
GOMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Remedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Rather is now cured, and the child is happy.
A Home Cure which Never Fails. May be
Given Secretly. Write for Treatise No. 5.
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
FITS CURED
From the first dose ot Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc -
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. VV. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
fgd
fg
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can leam
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marveHous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE) sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
An interesting figure at this year’s Mel-
bourne “Racing Campaign” is John Cleeland,
who is jusfc turned 80. He came from the North
of Ireland to Victoria in ’4O, and in the sixties
became well-known to every horsey man in the
country as landlord of the Albion Hotel, in
Bourke-street. From the Albion started Cobb’s
coaches to all parts of the State, and thither came
every man who loved a horse. There also stopped
the Shenandoah’s officers in ’65, which visit after-
wards helped to cost the British Government
some £600,000, the Confederate vessel having
played up with the Federal marine after coaling
and re-fitting in these parts. Cleeland was so
enamored of the Confederates that he took their
uniform—grey and gold—as his racing colors, and
named his grey mare Shenandoah (the Austra-
lian Cup winner of ’6B) after their vessel. For the
last 25 years he has dropped racing and lived
?uietly on his farm at Cape Wollomai, Phillip
sland.
“Adelaide” writes :
S.A. (which considers it can get more sport out
of pigeons by racing them than murdering them in an
enclosure) lately held its annual flutter —the longest
Australia knows—from Oodnadatta to Adelaide, 547
miles. The birds did not have quite the soft thing of one
former occasion, when a northerly gale swept them along,
ana all they had to do was to sit on the atmosphere and
avoid being blown right past their homes into the
Southern Ocean. But several of them this time averaged
over 770yd8. a minute for the whole journey. There is
a good deal of risk to owners in a sporting event of this
size. Of 129 birds sent up to Oodnadatta, only the odd
nine had come home within two days, and even those
that have straggled in since are few in proportion to
total losses.


The Best
Summer Prink
or\ Earth
ummi
fgd
fgd
It looks better
And lasts longer;
Softens the leather;
Preserves the shoes.
It is not so sticky, or dirty, does not run, and
will not smut when moistened. Its increasing use
the world around is due to its great superiority,
anditcan be applied more easily and quickly than
any other kind of boot polish. Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
John S. Deed & Sons, Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
fgd
-
EERIE
53*
BAD ONE
fgdfgd
IP
in
snz
(Lraphophones
Make Happy Homes*
GENUINE
COLUMBIA
MAKE
Price, 15- Complete.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co.
GEN’L.,
25 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dorvt wait for
IMat Bald Spot
s
f
Baldness
is Curable.
VERY few people believe it
possible to get their hair
back when once it is lost.
Let me assure these that
where a “down” exists on the
scalp nothing is more certain than
that this down can be made to grow
into strong healthy hair with the
aid of “Capilla. ”
Not one case, but thousands, have
come under my notice, and I have
yet to meet with a failure ; in fact,
I am now so confident of the hair-
growing possibilities of “ Capilla ”
that I will forfeit £lOOO to any per-
son with a down on that bald spot
if the proper use of “ Capilla” will
not make his hair grow. “ Capilla ”
is designed both for the prevention
and cure of baldness. It keeps the
scalp healthy and clean, prevents
dandruff and premature greyness,
and stops the hair from falling out.
Sold everywhere at 1/6 and 2/6 a
bottle, full course posted direct for
17/6 from the Inventor,
W. O. Richards,
160 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Advice personally or by letter
cheerfully given free of charge.
OR the Federal elections, read “A POLICY
James Edmond, price 6d., post free ; and “ON THE TRAIL OF THE TRUST,
by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated, price Is., post free.
F
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS* BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting- of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR—
Three divisions, 57 x 28ft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
¥TT irT.OOR
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft..
THIRD FLOOR-
TWO divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A Veky Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICHOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
fgd
A TRIAL OUTFIT.
AERTEX CELLULAR DAY SHIRT,
Soft Neckband and Ouffs.
AERTEX CELLULAR SINCLET,
Half-sleeves.
AERTEX CELLULAR TRUNK
DRAWERS.
AERTEX CELLULAR HALF-HOSE.
FOR
12/6
Postage extra: N.S. W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.
All Orders over £2 Post Free in N.S.W..
State Sizes Required.
Try one of these Outfits for Summer wear.
Recommended by doctors, a.nd an absolute safe-
guard against colds and chills.
Sole Agents—
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
Price Lists and. Patterns Post Free.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Dlfflcnlty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Conghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists.
ďg
cV
& C s‘
4>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as 44 run-down 15 or 44 out of sorts. Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
A v> -
ST
fgd
THERE IS NO FINANCIAL RISK NOR PHYSICAL RISK IN
RISK'S 3 star Scotch Whisky
ASK FOR IT AND TRY.
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER is the Brand now in demand.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
#
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the ABED,
BENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
A Melbourne pressman’s theory :
The last days of the Vic. session are being worked into
a little mild excitement over the endeavors of a few mal-
contents in the Ministerial corner to oust Premier Bent
from office, and substitute a Government with late
Minister of Lands Jack Murray at the head. The proposi-
tion originated with Watt, the office-hungry young man,
who acts as interjector-in-chief for the Assembly , and,
had he only been a little more orderly in his behavior, he
might have been the leader of the faction. Associated
with Murray and Watt are Gray, Graham, Cullen,
Mcßride, Boyd, and Downward; in fact, with
the exception of McCutcheon and the beauti-
ful Bayles, all the arch-Tories m the House are
thick in the scheme. Overtures have been made
to the Peacock-M'Kinnon party, and, wondrous to
remark the Labor party itself has been approached to
ascertain whether it will support the conspirators.
Prenderoast is understood to be disinclined, knowing
that while Bent holds office, he will gain more advanced
legislation than he is likely to get from the other lot.
The dissatisfaction has arisen from the anarchical manner
in which Bent has been conducting business this session.
He introduced a Small Holdings Bill, half finished it and
then postponed it to deal with the Licensing Bill. He
aroused the ire of nine-tenths of his own supporters by
sticking out for the ten years time limit in lieu of com-
pensation in the Licensing Bill, and, having completed the
second reading of this measure, he shoved it in a pigeon
hole to deal with the Gambling Bill. In this, he intensified
the feeling of bitterness by including in the draft
a host of comic opera clauses which have taken
weeks to knock into decent shape, and, incidentally,
he committed a tactical blunder in allotting to Mackey
the Lands portfolio. Devoting himself to the Gambling
Bill Mackey is letting his Lands work fall hopelessly into
arrears, with the result that country electors, who are
suffering from this neglect, are stirring up their members
every week end. It is unlikely that, without the assist-
ance of the Laborites, the cabal will make a definite
jump; though two of its members—Gray and
Cullen—ostentatiously sat in the Opposition corner
throughout last Friday's sitting, and Bent himself was so
Beared that he adjourned the House before its usual time,
when a contentious clause in the Gambling Bill was
reached. Old Tom is wily enough, if the worst comes to
the worst, to bid for the Labor vote himself, and stay on
in office with Prendergast behind the Government
benches. The upshot will probably be a rearrangement
of portfolios, with Mackey shoved into some place where
he can pose to his heart’s content without doing any
harm, and Jack Murray taken back as a sort of prodigal
son.
Queensland, whose butter exporters howled
like bereaved dingoes when the Commerce Act
was suggested, goes about in the London butter
market with a patch of disgrace over one eye.
Dealers there forced the Queensland Agent-
General to officially test the weights of boxes of
butter received from the Darling Downs, and
investigation proved the first lot averaged lilb.
short, the second short, and the third 21b.
short. The Agent-General reckons he would
rather have a Commerce Act than be rushed by
indignant buyers, who call his State a thief and a
swindler, and heap on him the humiliation of
personally weighing cow-grease.


YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
-V\
-
o
Engine
i r
%ler
SvOS
joes
BA<S
ftote
Join/5
Rubb<?
Ms l
7
HOSE
a
tor
m
BaHi
Cap
ims
P'-Is
»e
sheet-
m
SVater
JA6
270
e
St
&
e
WEAREVER
ALUMINUM
Cooking Utensils*
The Celebrated
WEAR-EVER Brand.
Silvery, Bright, Clean. Do
not Rust nor Chip. Not
liable to burn the food.
Practically Everlasting.
NEW I vn R V?MDn e Dx i U ro,n Sole Australian Agents,
Ki»£ R wi.!” PORT C0 > B,ock F,ace - Melbourne;
MUL eI wn'lnV, and 150 Ru "dle-st., Adelaide;
MUL c E 2 & « 98 E| izabeth-st., Brisbane,
Sydney, Perth, &c., and Leading 1 Stores.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price £tf.
Sale Price £3 16 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel '
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 llamnierless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fastcross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified,and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, top action, choke bore, walnut stock.
Usual Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds.. Usual Price, 17s. fid. Sale. Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game .
at-100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, with cartridge machineahd cleaners
complete. Usual price, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester ' pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Plice.. .. £0 13 u
0 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. .Sale
Price .. ; £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. i d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
fgd
Read this Convincing Testimony:—
REV. F. L. BULLEN writes:
Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, Southampton,
“ October 22nd, 1905. •
“.Dear Sirs,—l have no objection to your publishing
my testimony concerning the excellent properties of
Kutnow.’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it years ago.
In my case it has proved to be an agreeable and gentle
aperient, cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort, and regu-
lating generally'the whole organic system. I shall have
much confidence in recommending its use to my friends.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“.(Rev.) P. L. BULLEN.”
|wpF
KUTNOW’S i
IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
Hiischenspruna or Deer Leap
1 .Tl — i.CI'ION
, 41 FARRISCOOM ROAD. I
f . REGISTERED trade mark
The Advantages of Kutnow's are: —
FirstBy. —The power of expelling the excess of bile
and acids which accumulate in the system together with
putrefying deposits which occur in the bowels and kidneys.
Secondly.—The power of stimulating a sluggish
liver, and of eliminating all the excessive uric acid.
Thirdly. —The virtue of not only cleansing the
bowels and diluting the urine, but at the same time of
exercising a soothing influence on the system generally.
Fourthly. —The freedom it induces in the flow of
the gastric juices, thereby removing all the terrors of
indigestion.
Fifthly. —The utility of combining remedial proper-
ties with strengthening and invigorating virtues ; it thus
purities the blood, refreshes the brain, and revitalises the
whole system.
HOW TO DETECT FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently
cause irreparable injury. The genuine and original
Kutnow’s Powder is strongly recommended by all leading-
physicians for the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels.
Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which you can obtain at all
conscientious chemists throughout the world. Examine the
package and see that it bears the fac-simile signature “ S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” which are also on the
bottle, as shown in the reduced illustration. You will
then avoid imitations, and know
HOW TO SECURE GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
The
Edinburgh
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“ Kutnow’s Powder
is an excellent pre-
paration, and one
we can highly re-
commend.’,
NURSE CROSS
WRITES :
“2, Percy-road, Wrexham.
“ Sirs, —Some five years ago I had an acute attack
of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney), and my doctor
advised Harrogate waters. After trying them for some
time with very little result, the doctor suggested giving
Kutnow’s Powder a trial, with such excellent result that
in a short time I felt very much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other day for two years, and
consider it worked an entire cure.
“ MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).
KUTNOW’S PO
GULATES THE BOWELS
SOLE PROPRIETORS: S. KUTNOW A CO., LTD.,
41, FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
A bit of old Sydney was lately exposed
through building alterations. At the corner of
Liverpool and Castlereagh streets, stands the'Dun-
gate Inn. When the western eu'd was demolished
recently, there became exposed , the back wall of
the original house, and painted on it, 'almost as
fresh as the daynt was inscribed,', is the legend,
The
' Builders Arms
by • v ■
Robert Johnston
In the forties (from 1843 to ’47) fbe house was
kept by Charles Doyle, In 1850, as'; the Dungate
Castle Inn, beer was sold there by Thomas Spencer,
possibly the same who kept the Shakspearle,
opposite the old Victoria Theatre, and afterwards
had a mechanical and wax works exhibition, near
Market-street or Pitt-street. The old inn has
changed hands many times', and now the new Act
decrees that it must change itself.
“ Gr. Elburg ” on the S. Aus. State election
and The Bulletin’s remarks :
It is all very well to urge the'Reform party to strike a
noble attitude and yell for the abolition of the Uppish
House, and nothing else ; but that would postpone the
desired consummation fot a longer period than the more
gradual method will Cake to achieve the same result. The
House of Fat cannot be abolished until' the necessary
majority exists within the sacred chamber itself, and this
happy state Of affairs can pnly be achieved by first re-
ducing tjie qualification. , There is no doubt that a refer-
endum of the general electors Would give an overwhelm-
ing majority in faVor of total abolition ; but the rufal
population is still Somewhat Oohservative,band would tint
elect anyone to the Legislative Council who'opened his
mouth to cry “Abolition.’.’ A. substantial; reduction [of
the franchise will let i,n .numbers, of lpore; enlightenjed
voters, and the new leaven would fsoom mak'e itself fult.
It seems to rue that 1 you urge S'. Aus: to-adopt a 1 similar
attitude to that for Which you very properly belabor the
“ Socialism-in-Our-Time ” party of Queensland., ' i i
The Bulletin still believes-that-if some. South
Australian statesman would go, the whole hog ho
would arouse some etltluisiftsrh, land get things
done. Ten years ago the Labori ties and Radicals
had an actual majority in the ,S. Aus. Leg.
Council, and let their .chance slide; to-day they
have about three members all told. 1 This charac-
teristic S. Aus. policy of going an eighth of the
Animal, at a time doesn’t seem to be doing the
Democratic cause much good after all. It seems
tube a too “ grad pal' method ” altogether. And
it must be remembered that no one has yet fought
the Upper House with the-most j reliable weapon
—a stoppage of Supply.
The election expenses of the late, Premier
Seddon when he last contested.Westland have
just been returned at £2 13s. sd. His opponent
spent 2s. 10d., bu.t then the opponent was only
put up to secure a poll on the liquor question.
The election and the vote .for. the’, abolition -of
drinkables go together, and it' tHei'ei is, no contest
there is no'vote on the abolition of drinkables. !


BOY’S HEAD
ONE U SORE
Hair All Came Out and He Suffered
Very Much—Under Doctor Three
Months and No Better-Perma-
nently Cured at Small Expense.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
WORK WONDERS
Mr. A. C. Barnett, proprietor of a
general store in Avard, Oklahoma,
tells in the following grateful letter
how Cuticura cured him and his son
of terrible eczemas:
“My little boy had eczema. His
head was one solid sore, all over his
scalp; his hair all came out, and he
suffered very much. I had a physician
treat him, but at the end of three
months he was no better.. I remem-
bered that the Cuticura Remedies
had cured me, and after giving him
two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent,
according to directions, and using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment on him
daily, his eczema left him, his hair
grew again, and neither he nor myself
have had any eczema since.”
As to his own case, Mr. Barnett says:
“ I suffered with eczema, a burning,
itching, breaking out on my face for
more than a year. I took treatment
from physicians for several months,
which did no good. I was then
advised to try Cuticura. I took
six bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, and
used Cuticura Soap and Ointment
freely every day. I began to improve
soon after starting to use them, and
when I had taken the six bottles of
the Resolvent my face had become
clear, and all eruptions had left me.
“We use the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment in our family now for
general use, and it keeps our skin
soft and healthy. I cheerfully recom-
mend the Cuticura Remedies for all
cases of eczema. A. C. Barnett,
Avard, Oklahoma, Mar. 30,1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. b. W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills f Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
o®— Mailed Free, “All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair.
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Slaves
TO
fgd
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT.
Permanently cured at their own homes with the
“ANALEPTIC” Home P.emedy. Endorsed by the
Highest Medical Authorities, Clergy and all Temper-
ance Societies. Can lie given secretly if necessary.
Full particulars absolutely FREE and confidential in
p.ain, sealed envelopes. Call or write at once.
The “ANALEPTIC” Co., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
.
tSES.
ts.is.tsi
Lsisisna
i
L_i
yjSENSLAND BRAN-3H
Colonial Mutual Building 1 ,
next, G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas. —
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
tly-Lo-uulc office Systems Ui course you have System
make Methodical Clerks, in your office BUT IS IX
out of uiU'cie.'-d ones.
Ur Correspond-
ence.
St ai’r.MS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Looks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS tor Indexing.
SYSTEMS for allltecords.
SYsTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
PERFECT?
Lias it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
SILLIN3 typewriter.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
boi/K Ai'sthawan Aoisnt Wabash Systems.
Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
RODS
Cdw. NORTON.
For Locating MINESi—
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps.
64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
100,000
“THE WAY BACK SERIES,
NO C, RSD HAP.SY, 1/-
MOTHER
S EIG E L’S
SYRUP
Indigestion means
torturing pain, intense
weariness, wretched days
and wakeful nights. It
means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved
body and a starved brain;
inshort.it means shattered
health and a broken con-
stitution unless you root
it out without delay.
Mother Scigel’s Syrup has
no rival as a remedy for
indigestion. Its reputation
is based on thirty-five
years’ success in curing
Indigestion, Biliousness,
and all disorders of the
stomach,liver and kidneys
GIVES
STRENGTH
TO THE
WEAK,
ENERGY
TO THE
LANGUID,
COMFORT
TO THE
DYSPEPTIC,
AND
“For five years I suffer-
ed from Indigestion, which
weakened my whole system.
I could not eat pain,
and I endured agonies
from heacachealmost daily.
Ihere was a strange numb-
ness in my left side, and
my eyesight became so dim
that I thought I was going
blind. Nothing relieved
me, and I had almost lost
hope; but MotherSeigel’s
Syrup cured me complete-
ly.’’— From Mrs. Jessie
Newman, 62, Gore Street,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic-
toria. April 13,1906.
GOOD DIGESTION
TAKE IT! —Though
everything else has failed.
TO ALL
TAKE ITI
It WILL Cute You.
CURABLE DISORDERS.
There «,a .0,0. dise.se, which are i.ountbl. .but
other hand, two groups of disorders wfneh afHict g ffej . y^ ar after year when their cases
Souldr'eadUy'ySwiOhe root of thl Isorder were atteeked The two groups referred to
Tre uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common compla
Ur. xo
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Scia tL’ca
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
Biliary
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Ancemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
poisons which produce the disease. . , ,
The Kidnevs of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
■MMHR
Rheumat.sm, * > w A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urinei passedAhethmg jn the. ofTi’i unnatural
stand until next morning. If are weak or diseased, and steps must mime-
£iy°k h “r»^lCa^ b vtr” « BrighttßiU'i Diabetes, or scats of tbs ataay manifest
tions of uric poisoning will result. ,
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
Zket su gar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
snnnlv bto the blood as the latter may require enrichment. Ihe liver changes uric acid, which is
fHible into urea which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
msqiuble, into urea, wnicn £ „Zi no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
polrißiliousness, Anismia, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Lisorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there Isany failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and rice
versa It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
wh'ch would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
Tor such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by them success in compounding a
medicine Xch possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chrqmc disease of the kidneys and liver, and
them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures atfectqj
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. L*J
fdg
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
" post free.
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Tipped with
While.
WRITE NOW.
mmWM),
MILLERS
IM
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
5/-
Length, 12 inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Money Order payable to
John Miller. Illustrated Price List rap,
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street , Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d> from “Thi
Bulletin'* Office.
The State Manufacture of Smugglers.
“ Caber,” on the land question :
Re Cripps Clark and his idea that in the apportionment
of the public domain there should be differentiation in
favor of the wealthy classes. Why should the land go to
men of brains and capital, and how define the term
brains? A man may be a B.A. and yet splinter a dozen
axe-handles in clearing the way to the tap-root of the
first red-gum he tries to grub. He may be an LL.D. and
adze half his foot off the first rail he tries to shoulder.
He may be able to refute Darwin and smash up Herbert
Spencer, and yet fall his first tree across the hut
he put up. Aptitude for the work and a big de-
sire to get on are what are wanted in pioneer
farming, from the stripping of the first sheet of
bark for the humpy to the careful bluestomng of
the seed wheat —“brains” come second in the struggle.
It is the strugglers who now possess comfortable homes,
and stout bank balances. Just one case. A young
shearer took 640 acres of land on the Darling Downs—
put up a humpy, got a half-dozen cows, and a couple of
score fowls. He went off shearing while his young wife
stayed at the farm, and kept matters right-side up, selling
butter and esgs. Shearing over, he bought horses,
plough, and harrow with his cheque, fenced in 20 acres,
and put it under wheat. Next season’s shed cut-out, he
bought more cows, and sowed more wheat. Kept that
pace up for 10 years, at the end of which he had increased
his holding to 800 acres. Writer had a chat with him
three years ago, just 20 years after he started to farm, and
he remarked that he might sell out if offered £lO,OOO. And
this was one of the “strugglers” that Cripps advises us
to bar. And that case could be multiplied by thousands,
including the well-to-do Danes, who took up their little
blocks of 80 acres on the scrubby hills along Swan Creek.
Ciupps’ appeal on behalf of wealth is a bit out of date.
Democracy is awakening to the fact that wealth is able
to purchase too much already, and the time has about
arrived for humanity to get a few of those rights to
which it is justly entitled. What is wanted is to settle
upon the lands men who will force them to their full
producing power—we have had a bad spell of the brainy
capitalists whose use of money has jewed honest, earnest
men out of their inherent right.
It seems to The Bulletin that “Caber” and
Cripps Clark are in the same boat, but “Caber”
hasn’t noticed it. Anyhow, “ Caber’s ” instance
of the young shearer who had, apparently, money
enough to take up 640 acres of land, build a
house (and presumably put some little furniture
in it—it would be sad if the young wife slept on
the bare ground) and get six cows and 40 fowls,
and who had brains enough to turn this into a
£lO,OOO property, seems to represent just what
Cripps Clark was talking about. When C.C.
spoke of a settler with brains, he said nothing to
indicate that he meant a settler crammed with
dead languages or the like. Neither, if he had
spoken of a sea-captain with brains, would he
necessarily have meant a captain who knew
nothing of navigation, but was a whale at church
architecture and geology. And there was no
special mention of giving the preference as State
tenants to the “wealthy classes’’—only to men
who seemed good for the rent, which is hardly the
same thing.
»
A.S.
The Foreign-trade press labors desperately to
keep up the fiction that “Sosh” and “Anti-
Sosh ” are live questions, and that the coming
Australian elections will be fought out on these
issues. In its excitement it has even taken to
labelling candidates “A.S.” and “M.S.” and
“L. 5.,” which initials represent Anti-Sosh,
Ministerial Socialist, and Labor Socialist respec-
tively. It is a great effort, but the result doesn’t
amount to a row of beans. No community can be
roused to frenzy over abstract moans about the
“marriage tie,” and the “purity of the home,”
and the necessity of combating some alleged poli-
tical or social monster, vaguely supposed to pre-
sent some resemblance to a slug or an octopus,
which is stated by unreliable persons to be crawl-
ing over something or other. The public wants to
deal with things that are tangible, not alleged
boneless excrescences ; and the tangible things
boil down in the end to two—plenty of employ-
ment and good pay for it. Protection and the
graduated land-tax will be the great issues, and
the footless spectre of Anti-Sosh may wander
around till the Day of Judgment without making
any difference. It has no beef to offer in one hand
and no money in the other. All it does is to
open a toothless head at intervals, and let off a
vapor of remarks about the necessity for preserving
the liberty achieved by our forefathers, and keep-
ing the big estates together, and resisting
“encroachments,” and things like that, and these
things are neither food, clothes, nor good plug
tobacco. Protection means work for the artisan
and employment for capital now lying idle. The
graduated land-tax means land for the small,
independent farmer. But A.S. doesn’t seem to
mean anything in particular.
• ♦
The daily papers have, almost every issue, been
warning farmers off present purchases of corn-
sacks. There is a “bull” in the market, they
say, and they warn their friends, the primary
producers, against falling into the hands of a
gang of commercial conspirators. As a matter
of fact, there appears to be a “ bear ” in the Aus-
tralian market as well as the alleged horned
animal. It takes years to understand the jute
trade ; but careful inquiry shows that, if there is
a bull conspiracy, it is in India, where the stuff
comes from, and there is very little, if any, hope
of breaking it before the Australian wheat crop
will have to be harvested. Farmers who will
need cornsacks have been induced- to hold off
buying, and they will presently be forced into the
market pell-mell; and when that happens it
looks as though they will have to pay any price
that is asked, and it is likely to be a
stiff one. Certainly there has lately been
no unusual margin between Calcutta prices
and Australian quotations; and before the end
of the year the farmers are likely to curse the
papers that have frightened them out of the
market, only to force them into it later on with a
rush. The whole trouble seems to lie in the Aus-
tralian folly of relying on a foreign market for
such an absolute necessity as cornsacks and other
jute goods, especially such a tricky foreign market
as the Indian one; and if the Australian papers
kicked their Freetrade joss instead of an alleged
Australian bull, there would be more sense in it.
*
Thus Acton, Anti-Socialist candidate for the
Darling (N.S.W.), orating at Gilgandra :
I do not think the Socialists of Australia are in favor of
abolishing the marriage tie, as asserted. I think Messrs.
Watson and Spence as moral as I am. But think, ladies
and gentlemen, before you give these people power to
abolish the beautiful privileges you enjoy.
I am in favor of a White Australia, but surely we can
allow the black man to sail the ocean. I think it mon-
strous that shipwrecked mariners should be cast into
prison like felons.
So the first item amounts to this: Acton doesn’t
believe the Labor party dreams of abolishing
marriage, but how dreadful it would be to give
it the power to do it! In other words, Reid
and Acton don’t believe in abolishing marriage,
but how terrible it would be to give them the
chance to do it. Also, it is certainly, as Acton
says, a monstrous thing that shipwrecked mariners
should be cast into prison like felons. But where
did it happen? If Acton says it happened in
Australia, he is a liar and a disgraceful slanderer
of his country.


VICTORIA C
Collins SeSwansfonS 1 ? Melbourne;
WEST.AUSTRALIA
3955397 Hay SJf Perm
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward St? Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
B6SMB Queen St. Auckland
13*3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 5238 HighS* Christehurdi.C
Princes 5 DowlingSt? Dunedin.
t
fdgd
If its from
Stewart Dawson’s
its good.
Write the
store nee rest
you.
K6e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
048 e containing two Pearl Hatldle, Silvet-Plated
Butter Forks, 149 6d;
fgd
Solid Silver and Cut Glass 'toilet Set, cotnptising Pilff Bo*, Ilair till Bo*,
Salts Bottle, and Pomade Jar, £2 ss;
fgdfg
Solid Silver Manicure Set in Case, £2 6s
Others from the 2 piece set at 11s 6d,
up to 12 piece set, £6 68.
Child’s Silver-Plated Spoofi and Fork in
Case, 7s 6d, others 6s (id, 8s 6d, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 22s 6d.
Solid Silver Pencil, Pocket Knife and Cigar Cutter in Case,
12s Cd ; others at 16s fid and 255.
Very Handsome Design Afternoon Tea Spoons
and Tongs, in Morocco Case, Best Plate, 27s 6d ;
Solid Silver, £3.
Solid Silver, Hand Engraved Salt Bottle, in Morocco
Case, 14s 6d ; larger sizes, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s.
Two Best Quality Silver-Plated Jam Spoons, in
16s 6d ; others 10s (id ; Solid Silver, 27s 6d.
Two Butter Knives, in Case, same Prices.
Case,
|raiji
-y. 's;-
No. GloB.—Solid Silver Manicure Set,
£2 15s.
A 1 Quality Silver-Plated Table Set. A very
useful Wedding Gift £2 7s 6d.
£
Child’s Solid Silver Cup and Spoon in
Morocco Case. Price, £2 15s.
No. 299 A .—Solid Sterling Silver Afternoon Tea Service, in Case,
£l2 10s.
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Communion
Set in Case, for the Pocket, £2 10g.
Two Solid Silver Salt Cellars with Two Salt Spoons
in Case, £2 12s 6d ; other styles, 18s 6d, 80s, 40s.
No. G66ll.—Presentation Set of 12 Pairs Dessert Knives and
Forks. Absolutely the Finest Quality of Silver-Plate,
with Pearl Handles, £8 Bs.
m
yevJXbt
DAWs
LONDON
Fine Quality Silver-Plated Pie Servers in Case, 30s ;
others at 3os and 50s.
No. 328—Child’s Spoon. Fork and Serviette
Rinjr, best Silver-Plate, in Morocco Case, 21s
Best Silver-Plated Butter Knife and Jam Spoon in Case,
15s 6d ; others 10s 6d ; in Solid Siver, 21s and 27s 6d.
.t^SXST'*
Six Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons
in Case, 27s 6d ; others with the
Tong’s, 40s, 455, 60s, 555.
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Set in Case, £7 10s
others at £lO 10s, £lllos, £l2 10s.
No. G 4873. —Pine Sheffield Shear Steel Carvers, with Tusk Handles, 87s 6d.
No. G 8998.— Case of Six Afternoon Oaks
Forks, Silver-Plated, 9s 6d.


Perfect
Heal
HOW TO PERMANENTLY ENJOY IT.
When we eat what disagrees with us we have indigestion. The same principal that applies to the
stomach applies with equal force to the skin.
A skin 1 affliction with itching eczema or disfiguring pimples is evidence of disobedience
to some specific law of health. It may be on our part, and through some cause external to
ourselves.
The skin is a delicate and complex organ best likened to a huge lung covering the
whole human frame. By means of tiny holes or pores it throws off every day at least two
pounds of water and impurity which, if retained in the body, would do infinite harm. In
addition, it secretes an oily fluid to which the skin in health owes its softness and flexibility.
Cold wet days are plainly associated with chaps, chilblains, sore lips, blotches, chafing
and general rawness of the skin. A disordered system or neglected toilet will explain many
an attack of eczema, pimples, blackheads, scurf in the hair, scalp disease, ulcers, bad legs,
excessive perspiration, and fetor of the feet. Infectious germs are the cause of ringworm,
while there are many troubles which absolutely and entirely owe their origin to the use of
cheap toilet soaps, containing complexion-stealing alkalies and other harmful matter.
The most certain cure is to wash the affected parts with warm water aud ZAIVUBUK
fIEDICINAL SOAP, which is fitted for the purpose by its beautiful purity and great
healing quality. After drying very gently, smear a little of the Zam-Buk Balm, when the
pain will be allayed, and the inflammation subdued.
The Zam-Buk treatment is most soothing, healing, and antiseptic, and will combat the
worst case of eczema, ulcer or inflammation.
ZAIT=BIJK SOAP penetrates the skin and uproots disease. It revives, re-invigorates
the skin’s important functions, and by daily use, after bringing the skin back to health
will impart to the tissues a softness and flexibility which no mere toilet soap could ever do. It
is a skin-tonic and a skin-food of novel and incomparable power. It creates perfect skin-health
and keeps disease distant.
Put a tablet on your washstand to-day. Use it solely, and good skin health results.
§ £k P]'
Don't Neglect Skin Troubles*
ZAM-BUK SOAP prevents Eczema,
Pimples, Blackheads, Chaps, Chafings, Itch,
Ulcers, Sores, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Ring-
worms, Scalp Diseases, Rose Rash, Milk Crust,
Thrush, and other childish skin ailments.
Have ZAM-BUK SOAP on every washstand. A
tablet costs 1/-, or a dainty box of three tablets may
be bad for 2/10, of all Chemists or Stores, or for same
price, direct from the Zam-Buk Mfg. Co. 39 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W. Try it alongside the soap
you have been using.
m
&
sk
M
For All Scalp Troubles.
ZAM-BUK SOAP is especially useful in the scalp diseases of
young children. Many of these are as obstinate as they are
alarming. Crop short the hair, dress freely with Zam-Buk night
and morning, and, when sufficient time has gone for the healing
essences of the Balm to be absorbed in the scalp, wipe away, and
rinse the scalp, and lather with Zam-Buk Soap. This treatment
regularly persevered in will combat the worst case of scalp disease.
ZAM-BUK SOAP is really two soaps in one—a pure soap
that cleanses like no ordinary cheap toilet soap, and an antiseptio
and healing soap that eradicates skin disease, and soothes and
sweetens the whole tissue. It makes baby’s skin as soft as silk.
CUT .
OUT .
THIS .
COUPON
To obtain a FREE SAMPLE TABLET
CUT OUT THIS COUPON and post it
with Id. stamp for return postage,
and name and address, to the ZAM-
BUK MFG. CO., 39 Pitt St., Sydney.
Send to-day.
Bulletin, Nov., Bth, 1900.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Sydney meat combine is worth studying.
First of all, there is a central means of preventing the
influx of stock to the sale-yards, from the country, by
the process of an intelligent regulation of the sources of
supply. Should, however, a big influx of stock come
along on sale day, a fund is provided and used, to buy in
the surplus and thus keep the price up. Surplus sheep
purchased in the interests of a high local market, are
frozen for the English market. Meanwhile, the first
robbers having been appeased, the second robber, the
carcase butcher, takes a hand. He is the buyer in large,
and he kills and sells the carcase to the retail butcher,
who sells it to the consumers. He not only gets his
profit from the sale of the carcase, but he has the “by-
products”—horns, hoofs, blood, bones, &c. —to swell his
profits. Meanwhile the small man has to run the gauntlet
of competition ; he has to tal e the risk of bad debts,
high rents, taxes, &c., and, in some cases, of lines for
diseased meat, which was sold him by the middleman.
If the city had a decent central municipal body, it would
be its own abattoirs owner, as it is its own sale yard
owner; it would be the carcase butcher, and would have
municipal works to treat the by-products. Then the
retailer and the consumer would have only one combine
to beat, viz., the cattle raiser, and there are ways—
legislative and other —which might be used with him.
Maoriland’s Parliament is investigating Private
Enterprise in the grocery trade. In spite of inspectors,
it is discovered that in many shops 16oz. don’t go to the
pound by a long way. An M.H.R., who saw potatoes
marked 101 b. for Is., bought a bob’s worth, weighed
them, and found he had only 7Mb. Then he bought a
pound packet of butter, and discovered that he had
received only 14oz. When he called round and said
“How?” the retailers explained that they had really
nothing to do with it. The potatoes were weighed into
101 b. bags and the butter packed into pound tins, but
“ evaporation ” between the time of weighing and buying
accounted for the difference. Now Parliament is con-
sidering if anything can bo done to prevent evaporation.
When the Fatman’s cashier evaporates, and a hurried
audit shows that the cash has also evaporated, the police
are called in. The evaporation of potatoes and butter
might be checked in the same way.
* # *. *
“Ken R.” : The need of adequate Protection
for the iron trade is obvious enough when the number of
imported engines in use in Australia is taken into con-
sideration. And there is an enormous amount of work
awaiting our own engineers when the section known as
“engineers’ furnishings” is Australian-made. A meat
factory, fitted up to kill 100 head of cattle per day, is not
a large concern, as such things go in this continent ; yet
here (Ramornie Meat Co.) the work of repairs and re-
newals to the plant would go a long way toward sustain-
ing a small foundry. But in ordering stores, such
as iron and brass piping, steam stop valves, lubri-
cators, pipe fitting tools, lifting tackle, engineers’ ham-
mers, chisels, and a hundred other things, you get
from the “engineers’ furnishers” foreign stuff always.
The Dunlop Co. has made a bid for the supply of
engine-packing and gaskets, belting, rubber valves, and
so forth, and it puts up goods that are as serviceable as
any imported ; but it is apparently impossible to order
from stock any Australian brass work in the high
grades. Small cocks (and even these must compete
against cheap-labor goods) for plumbers’ work are
obtainable, but such is the hold that the Yankee
firms have on our market that a good Aus-
tralian-made brass steam valve must be ordered
direct from a foundry. It is not always convenient
fo delay a job while someone turns to and makes
what is required ; so the necessary article is supplied
from the engineers’ furnishers, and then it’s an American
article that ornaments the Australian job. Look through
a list from any of these stores. The manufacturers are
English, Yankee and German —any, in fact, but Aus-
tralian makers. The ability to make engines, pumps,
motor-cars, or any machinery, is in Australia in plenty.
And it is because of a rotten tariff that a heavy per-
centage of that ability is roaming about looking for toil.
American tin-making machinery in this mill is being
replaced by Australian when the occasion offers, and it
does the duty demanded of it satisfactorily. As an
engineer’s reputation depends upon the trim he keeps his
gear in, and the work he gets out of it, it is not likely
that his choice would lie with inferior tools.
« * *
“ Talk about your Chicago meat,” said the
butcher boy, “we can match it here any day. When I
used to drive for Tubercle, there was a little, thin rat of
a cove in the bank next door that had a sick kid.
Tubercle had a sick cow in the back-yard. One
day little Brown, the cove in the bank, called Tubercle
over the fence, and asked if he would sell him fresh milk
every day, as he was a bit afraid of the preservatives in
the milkman’s stuff, and the doctor had told him to be
careful what milk they gave the kid. So a bargain was
struck, and every morning and evening the poor little
chap used to hang his can on a nail on the fence and get
a supply of pure milk fresh from the cow. One evening,
when I went to milk the cow, I found her lying down in
the yard groaning, so I called Tubercle, and he told me
to drive her out on to the common. We never got there;
she laid down and died on the way. The boss helped me
to load her into the cart, and we took her out to the
slaughter-yard and skinned her. We managed to cut a
couple of fair-sized rounds to corn for the hain-shop, and
the rest we had to give to the pigs. And the kid ? Oh 1
he died, of course, but I expect he would have died any-
how.”
* • • *
“San”: “Yes,” said the brown-paper mer-
chant, “we are getting on all right; moving into larger
premises next week, and we need them. Well, we’ve
done it this way, although you may be incredulous—we’ve
got on, here in Sydney mind, by booming our Aus-
tralian-made goods. See all that string? That is all
made in Australia except the pink lot, and we’ll soon
make it, too. You never saw a better lot of twine than
that—did you? Import some things, of course—fancy
goods. My word, how did fancy goods pay at one time 1
Why, I’ve known the profits to be 1000 per cent,
in the old days. Now most of them are down
to 50 per cent. Still, it’s not a bad profit.
No wonder the importers and their newspaper backers
fight like devils to keep our industries down.
When they do keep a small line of Australian-made
goods, they lie like Sodom and Gomorrah to push off
imported stuff, and only turn out the Australian goods
at the last moment. One day I went into a big draper’s
shop to get some flannel. They showed me Welsh flannel
at two bob a yard, full of lime, and close-textured stuff.
I told the Johnny that it wasn’t good enough and was
too dear. After a lot of trouble I got the dancing clothes-
horse behind the counter to hand out an Australian
flannel at one-and-a-penny a yard—pure, soft wool, open-
meshed stuff that would let the air in and moisture out —
just the thing for this climate of ours. It was all I could
do to prevent myself bashing the ape with a roll of it for
not showing it to me at first. I don’t believe there’s any
prejudice against Australian-made goods among the
public. The trouble is with the dashed lying importers
and their minions, the daily press.”
* * <* *
The day-book of a vegetable John figured
lately in some N.S.W. bankruptcy proce. dings, and, so
far as the picture-entries indicated, John held unflatter-
ing opinions of most of his female customers. When
unable to spell a customer’s name, which happened often,
he entered, along with his attempt at the name, a hasty
sketch of what he considered the lady’s most prominent
characteristic. Sometimes it was a face with a wart, or
a fleshy bust. Other times it was a dishevelled head of
hair, or simply a pair of feet in draggled boots. An open
mouth indicated that the lady talked too much, and a
clenched fist implied that she was coarse and fightable.
It wo ild be well for women who deal with Chinaman to
re ; ember that Johns are not quite so unobservant as
they look.
* * * *
A paragraph, the other day, gave some tall
fig. ret as to sue earnings of an Americah firrii which
manufactures cement for sidewalks and other purposes.
The g: owth of the company discounted Jonah’s gourd
past all reckoning. But nothing was said as to how this
had been accomplished, and, as it is an excellent example
of “American enterprise,” it’s worth telling. The com-
pany employs an army of agents whom it sends out in
every direction. They get audiences with town and city
councils, and talk up the excellent and lasting quality of
their cement. If mere talk is not enough, there are Other
ways of moving the susceptible municipal heart—
which can be surmised. The consequence has Wen
that, in thousands of towns and villages, good, dur-
able sidewalks of brick and stone were torn up
and the cement article put down. The cement held
water, it cracked with the frost, and, in a few seasons,
it crumbled to pieces. Property owners have to foot the
bill—sometimes to the tune of £lOO or more per citizen—
but petitions, remonstrances, are of no avail. The com-
bination of municipal council and Cement Trust is one
against which no mere citizen can contend. On the far
outskirts of Chicago, and the suburban towns about it,
are hundreds of miles of these cement walks ; they spread
out into the peaceful haunts of cow and grass in regions
where there will not be a house for years to come. In
addition to this, the Trust has enormous contracts in con-
nection with the great reservoirs to be constructed in the
arid lands of the Far West. llow it got them is a matter
not worth inquiring into. How long the blessed tanks
will last isn’t worth inquiring into either.
* * » *
“ T.D.” : The Saturday night Dutch auction at
many of the London butchers’ shops is a pathetic bit of
the seamy side. Round some of the places in poor dis-
tricts clusters of ill-clad citizens arrive somewhere in the
neighborhood of midnight, and wait patiently until the
more affluent purchasers havC made their selections of
the Sunday sirloin and tlie Sabbath spare-rib. Close on
12 the butcher-man commences his Dutch auction, or
else he seizes on large pieces of meat and brandishes
them in the air at ridiculous prices, which amounts to
much the same thing. Thin, pale women in shawls, and
thin, pale men in reach-me-downs made for somebody
else, wait wolfishly until a bit Of meat happens along
which won’t cost more than sevehpen.ee or. so. And,
having secured this from the scramble, the victor stows
it in a bag along with two pounds of potatoes, and a loaf
of bread, and a possible penn’orth of watercress, and
ducks homeward with an air of veritable triumph.
Butchers do this to prevent stock going “ off ” on their
hands.
« • • *
“T.C.M.S.”: What a highly-colored aesthetic
section of the public auctioneers must be. They roam
about in search of the picturesque and the beautiful, and
from time to time they deem it their duty to give the
results of their research to the world in the form of
sprightly, pithy essays, descriptive of the loveliness of
“that piece or parcel of land, the property of So-and-So,
Esq., adjoining the domain of Someone-else, Esq., con-
sisting of acres roods, be the same a little more
or less.” Then we are informed as to the number of
charming dells, creeks, bays, and islands on the property.
Have learned a good deal lately concerning (say) Mud-
been. Iliad never visited the locality, but had a vague
notion that it was rather a likely sort of watering-place.
I was agreeably surprised, however, to find that my in-
formation on the subject was of the most meagre descrip-
tion. For example, the locality commands a supeib
view, which embraces the Pacific Ocean, and a hest of
minor geographical items. As for fish, the water is simply
“ alive ” with them, and they are such guileless creatures
and “ so unacquainted with man” that they put them-
selves to considerable inconvenience to get hooked on to
bent pins. Only aged and infirm mosquitoes visit Mud-
been. Sport abounds, and no place to equal it has been
heard of since the time when our ancestor Adam loafed
in Paradise. On a hot day, when the city staggers with
lassitude, there is nothing more refreshing than the
auctioneer’s advertisement, with its flowers and dells, its
shady foliage, its rippling streams, its birds, grass, hills
and sea-outlook, and the long, cool, shady, verdure-lined
road leading to it, and the sunset that reddens it at eve,
and the sunrise that gilds it at dawn, and the kookaburra
that laughs over it all day long.
AMONG THE THTEYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a section of the city which has barred its doors to
pity—
Which exists by rule of Chitty and by Act of Parliament;
There the lawyer and the agent hold their revel and their
pageant,
And conspire to rob the lay gent and to owe the office
rent 1
There the dens are all of plaster, and are cold as ala-
baster—
There the walls foretell disaster with their atmosphere of
fraud ;
Aye, the air is sour with malice, and no flower lifts up its
chalice
In that region chill and callous, where the shark has his
abode.
Iron doors creak on their hinges ; clerks deplore their
empty bingies,
And the humble pauper cringes unregarded in the
street;
Men with sharp and hawk-like faces haste with swift and
cat-like paces,
Even as the vulture traces from afar its smellful meat!
One inhales the breath of doom there—evil deeds for ever
loom there,
Rotting down among the gloom there where the lawyers
cogitate:
Steps of stone lead up to lairs, where they heed no
anguished prayers—
Where the very.stools and chairs seem instinct with greed
and hate 1
Harsh typewriters sharply clicking, with a grim persis-
tent ticking,
Indicate where crows are picking luscious bones of
pleasant Law ;
Scraps o i ancient litigation rot in view' of all the nation,
And provoke the approbation of the yawning legal maw.
Anxious clients state their cases, and anon with pallid
faces
Scan the bill of costs that chases every shilling to its lair ;
Friendless women seeking Justice—in the law their hope
and trust is—
Find the same as bitter dust is, and go home and tear
their hair.
Lo ! the night-wind howls about them, and the breezes
spurn and flout them—
Secrets stalk within, without them ; Costs arise at dead
of night ;
And the ghosts of guilt and plunder perch upon the stools
when thunder
Splits the weeping skies asunder with a flash of scornful
light.
Every deed-box opens dimly, documents step from them
grimly,
And with tape-tied briefs they primly dance the Devil’s
dance of theft;
Wills and probates all dishevel—law-books leave their
shelves and revel—
O! they prance around the Devil, romping gaily right
and left 1
Oft the souls of dead attorneys make their stealthy mid-
night journeys
To their lair and hold wild tourneys round the Leader of
the Bar;
Lo, th"y clutch their hands together in a merry Devil’s
tet icr, ' ’* '
And the law-books bound in leather think what jolly
chaj i they are !
While the weary world is sleeping, Coke and Littleton
are leaping—
Sober Chitty time is keeping for the jubilating Law ;
Aye, the lawyer’s soul makes merry in that hybrid ceme-
tery—
Most obsequious equerry clasping Satan’s master claw !
When the dawn creeps greyly over—when the lass turn
to her lover —
Lo, the caveats cease to hover round the great K.C. in
black;
Then the riot breaks asunder, and the souls go ’way down
under,
With a muffled sound like thunder, leaving sulphur in
their track.
Vic.
GRANT HERVEY.


TATTERSALL'S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
SANDHURST CUP, Bendigo, Victoria, November 21
NEWCASTLE TATTER SALE’S CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., December 8
SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., December 26
PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A., December 29
100,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each-
-50,000 at 5 2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
(Booking Fee,
j 3d.
I per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
fdg
dfg
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
KfDisinfectingl
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRA? RANT,
NON-POIB3NOUB.
1/“
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
lndispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/-Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemisli and Storekeeper*.
The “ SANITAS ’
bk Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
rt’/tedpavj.
Co., A
"A
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
Tli.© Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Suflerers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; an- to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where "Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book, ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria. Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
m
m
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IPT" Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
*
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1*
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. ’Vest Pocket Dictionary, Sd
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. IV.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyanck,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAV.


-•• . .
•i *
fa
*
•<>
m
&
m
m
§M
?ii
■ ■
m
q h
m
Vy
m
Pi
D S
Co
Ns
ujv,
7*
m
°N
S*
■Vfr
a-v • •*S£\ ■x-;-i£y&fir* t ‘;. v‘ -,‘ >?••■■:.' /' .
*.,. . \*>3«r ... -i, -
■ - ■ •*
•■• ■■• - ' ; ''* ' . '■ ' ' : V
ZIB ZAG.SLUE MOUNTAINS N.S.W. * ; v i f- : ;-'
r.o? H
Honestly worth a Guinea I
Pears’ Annual
XMAS, 1906. Ready Nov. 26th.
Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75, New Oxford Street,
London, W.C.
CONTAINS —
Two New & Original Xmas Tales
viz. :
* Joyce Pleasantry, 9
By GEORGE R. SIMS.
(Illustrated by Hugh Thomson, R. 1.), and
‘Captain Silver, 9 1
By MAX PEMBERTON.
(Illustrated by Frank Dadd, R. 1.),
In HANDSOME COLOURED COVER, and accompanied by
PT THREE LARGE '«!
Presentation Plates
Printed in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art,
viz. :
‘The Snowball,’
By H. PIFFARD.
"Size 28 Jx 19 inches. Printed in 13 Colours.
Sweet Idleness,’
By J. W. GODWARD.
Size 23 x inches. Printed in 16 Colours.
‘The Cause of Many Troubles/
By E. G. HANDEL LUCAS. Size 15 xl2 inches. Printed in 12 Colours.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia, Messrs. GORDON & GOTCH.
By the Lagoon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY dust-white banks, cracked, creased, and
dry,
Under a silent, sun-lit sky,
Stagnant and stale the waters lie,
Stirred by no bird or breeze.
The rotting timbers, half-hid, half-seen,
’Neath the bronze-brown scum that, with scaly
sheen,
IBreaks the reflections of tassels green
Bent from the sluggard trees.
No sound save when, to the earth below,
There falls the cry of a lonely crow,
As he drifts athwart the sunlit glow
Over the still lagoon ;
Or, through the tangle of yellow grass,
A fly goes buzzing, above the mass
Of burrs, where shimmers, like molten glass,
The heat of the silent noon.
Lethargy’s realm, where long, long days
Slip by in a sluggish, leaden haze,
Steeped in the empty, dreamless maze,
Dulled to all care or thought—
Where long, long nights, when stars loom wan
And pale, go gliding slowly on
To merge in silence with a Dawn
Whose listless hands hold naught.
Too weak for Praise, too dull for Blame,
Dead to all Hope or Fear or Shame
My life, that once leaped like a flame,
Drowns in a stagnant mere.
No voices pierce the wrapping gloom,
The mist of Death, Decay and Doom,
The shrouding veil, the living tomb
That holds the senses here.
Nor friend, nor foe, nor Love, nor Hate
Can stir my soul; but enervate,
Impervious to the jests of Fate,
It lies in leaden drowse ;
And hours, like years, unnoticed go,
While years, like hours, with level flow
Slip by in shade and sunlight glow,
Beneath the drooping boughs.
Then at the end of all the years
No hopes fulfilled, no banished fears,
No day, no night, no smiles, no tears,
No Heaven and no Hell—
But slowly-waning strength and power ;
Dim eyes, dead heart, then sunset’s hour
No muttered mass, no mocking flower,
No strident passing bell.
And then no Dawn in land unknown,
No psalm of Saints, no Sinners’ moan,
But Death’s cold, clinging hands alone,
To clutch and catch and keep.
Free from all dread of aught to break
The silence, or my slumber wake.
Death’s only change can be to make
My dream a sounder sleep.
And still the stagnant waters lie
Scum-covered ’neath the sunlit sky ;
Again the crow’s half-mocking cry,
The flies still buzz and croon.
Onward, with sluggard step and slow,
The torpid hours like shadows go
Across the shimmering sunlight glow
Over the still lagoon.
QUEENSLAND.
CHAS. E. HOWELL.
The Sky Pilot
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpHE township was very young, and, like
the very young, had hardly as yet felt its
feet. The only building of any size was
Hepburn’s “ Temperance ” Hotel, Coffee Palace,
Miner’s Rest, shanty, or hash-house, and the
•dining-room of this palatial bark establishment
was the only room large enough to swing a cat
in—assuming you had a cat that needed swinging
and wouldn’t be happy till it got that treatment.
Thus was the rendezvous of the township spirits
for dancing, card-playing, gambling, and drinking.
It was Sunday night— not that Sunday night at
Hepburn’s differed much from any other night;
but this night was more Sunday than usual on
account of being the night on which the Sky
Pilot of the neighboring town would endeavor to
reclaim for his fold the erring sheep of Blatber-
•skite Silver Field.
He arrived to find his prospective church very
much occupied by four or five parties of card-
players, and a small crowd of lookers-on enveloped
in a gloom and odor not at all that of sanctity.
The Pilot looked disconcerted, and said “Ahem !”
softly. He also looked at Hepburn, who turned
a color and looked at the cow-dung floor. The
Pilot coughed ‘ ‘ Ahem ! ” more loudly, then looked
at Hepburn some more. Hepburn was one of
those easy-going individuals who contribute so
largely to the paving of the Other Place. He
had made one little, still-born protest at the
beginning of the evening. He now referred—oh !
so gently—to the obvious presence of the Pilot.
Plugger O’Hara desired to know, with somewhat
unnecessary fury, if the Pilot wanted all the room,
and the subject dropped. The players went on
playing.
The Pilot looked more disconcerted than ever
and also a little annoyed, while Hepburn dis-
•covered he had an appointment with a man about
a dog in the back premises, and left.
The regular congregation, consisting of Mrs.
Hepburn, two youngsters, the lady who kept the
shop up the road, and a religiously-inclined miner
known to his mates as “ The Mug,” and popularlv
.supposed to be mad, had now arrived and were
watching the card-partie3 at the table—
Jimmy Smith’s last boiled shirt being at stake.
The Pilot saw something must be done, and that
s ° he took his stand behind the sewing-
machinp he used as a desk, and announced the
Ola Hundredth.” The players kept on playing.
I lie hymn much resembled suburban milk in its
iquahty, and the words had an unfamiliar sound :
“ Praise God from Whom all blessings flow—Ten,
nineteen, twenty-nine’s a go.” At the close of
the hymn the Pilot paused a long pause, and
looked hard at the card-table end of the room.
He then asked them to cease sinning and come
to the Lord. Plugger O’Hara said something
about a bower and two aces. The next party
muttered “forty-five,” and Jimmy Smith saved
his shirt with a whoop that included a reference
to two threes, two pairs, and one for his blanky
heels ! The players kept on playing.
The Pilot started a prayer, and Jimmy’s party
went to the kitchen for a “ wet.” Another hymn
followed, and more prayer (the prayer getting
very personal by this time) while two or three
filed in—to the card-table end. Jimmy’s party
started another game. The Pilot had now reached
the sermon, and again appealed to the players to
come to his end of the room and be saved. Plug-
ger was heard to say that “spuds were trumps,”
and one of Jimmy’s party said a pair made six.
The players went on playing, and two or three
more came in—to the card-table end.
The Pilot was now thoroughly roused; he
abandoned books, texts, and parables. He
leaned over the sewing-machine, and let himself
go in a wild denunciation of cards, card-players,
gambling, drink and Sabbath-breakers. He
preached extempore, and he preached the sermon
of his life. _ His congregation even became inter-
ested, and listened. He held forth without pause
or break, without notes or reference, a sermon
that, had it been heard by competent judges,
would have secured him a place among the great
preachers, and a seat among the mighty in some
large town. He paused at last for sheer want of
breath. “ Plugger’s ” voice, remarking, in a dis-
passionate tone, that the bloke was in good form,
and that the cards weren’t shuffled, broke the
silence, while another voice said it would go alone.
The players were still playing.
The Pilot closed his discourse with a few tremen-
dous sentences, and knelt behind the sewing-ma-
chine. “The Mug,” obeying his religious instincts,
reached down a butter-dish from Mrs. Hepburn’s
shelves, and started to take up a collection. There
was no lack of pluck about “The Mug,” and
when he had finished with his legitimate prey
(the congregation), he walked over to the card-
table and laid the butter-dish in front of O’Hara.
“The Plugger” finished dealing, spat, expressed
admiration of “The Mug’s ” cheek—and then his
eyes fell on the pathetic contents of the butter-
dish, its poor little trio of “ thrummers” and its
solitary “bob.” He seemed to think quickly.
Again he condemned “The Mug’s” extra-
ordinary impudence—and finally he put two
half-crowns into the dish. “Here, you blanks,
give the bloke a show,” he said. And the
blanks did. , The players went on playing, and
“ The Mug ” returned to the sewing-machine.
The Pilot seemed exhausted, sat during the last
hymn, and closed his service with a short prayer,
still vibrantly personal to the card-players. He
then said a kindly word or two to his congrega-
tion, and went out to his horse, “The Mug”
following with the contents of the butter-dish.
The Pilot listlessly held out his hand and took the
little, heavy pile. He almost gasped, looked at
“The Mug,” and then at the money. “The
Mug ” grinned and nodded. A flush crept over
the Pilot’s thin face, and he made as though he
would return to the card-players. Then his
glance seemed to go far away to his thirty-mile-
distant home, with its dowdy mistress and its
cotton-clad youngsters. It wandered over his
threadbare parson’s dress, and, last of all, it
lighted on the bony frame of his had-been of a
horse. He slipped the silver into his pocket,
shook hands with “The Mug,” and mounted the
framework.
Inside, Hepburn, who had seen the man about
the dog, was mildly, very mildly, calling the
card-players a collective very mild blank. “ The
Plugger ” returned the compliment in his private
capacity, in the form of a very robust blank, and
opined the bloke had had the best night for many’s
the day, and that it was a decided mistake not to
leave the. “joker” in the pack. Jimmy Smith
had by this time lost his shirt, and said succinctly
that the bloke had a very “good cop,” and that he
wished he had it, also that his crib counted 14,
and would Hepburn bring him in a long shandy!
The players went on playing.
VABCHOEL.
William’s Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dave was outside trying to get a shine
on his bluchers with a rag, preparatory
to going to see the girl.
“ Wonnerful what fools young fellers is,” said
old William, nodding in Dave’s direction. “A
man wants ter be married fer a bit ter ’ave ’is
eyes peeled.”
These words from William astonished us. Peter
left his bunk, and looked closely at him to ascer-
tain if he had met anyone with a bottle that
evening. Whenever the question of women came
up in the hut, William always declined to express
an opinion, and usually turned in. To-night he
seemed inclined to be communicative, so Peter
said :
“Thought y’ didn’t know nothin’ about
wimmin?”
William turned on him and said aggressively,
“ Know nothin’ about ’em ? Know too bloomin’
much ! P’rhaps yer wouldn’t think Pm a married
man ? ”
We didn’t think so. Peter was so astonished
that he offered to make William drunk in return
for full details. After some debate as to how
drunk he was to become at Peter’s expense,
William closed with the offer.
“Yes; it was a funny affair. Me an’ Sam
Wall was doin’ a clearin’ contrac’. ’Bout half a
mile off lived a widow, Mrs. Meek, with on’y one
daughter, an’ a lovely ’ome, an’ a nice bit o’
country worth about £3OOO, so they all said.
“One day in town Bollus, a sort o’ land an’
general agent, ses t’ me, ‘ William, I can put y’
on t’ a good thing. Mrs. Meek was askin’ me
wot sort o’ a man y’ was—seems she’s took a kind
o’likin’ t’y’. I told’er y’was a friend o’ mine,
an’ a stiddy man wot could lay ’is ’ands on a few
’undreds’ (an’ ’e winked at me eunnin’ like).
* She arst me if I could interduce y’, an’ thinkin"’
it’d be a good thing fer y\ I sed Fd see. Now ’er
proputty is worth some thousands, William, and
she ’as a nice little ’ome, an’ jist think ’ow com-
fortable y’d be there fer the rest o’ yer days.
’Sides,”e said, ‘she’s younger’n she looks.’ And
puttin’ ’is ’ands in ’is pockets an’ spreadin’ ’imself
in front o’ me like a large carcase of meat, he said,
‘ She’s not a bad style o’ a woman, either.’
X thought a bit, an’ seein’ as ’ow I like easy
times, an’ was approaehin’ 50, I reckoned I’d hev a
go fer the good ’ome an’ the widow.
“‘William,’ ’e says, ‘it’s worth somethin’ t’
get a wife an’ a ’ome like that fer a man—worth
five-an-twenty quid. Are y’ agreeable, William ?”
“I was agreeable. Bollus brought me up one
night an’ interduced me an’ left. The daughter
[ardly looked at me, but swept off with ’er nose
in the air. I was too much excited at fust ter
notice the old lady, but after a bit I ’ad a good
quiz at ’er. She muster bin nigh sixty, big an’
bony an’ wrinkled. She gave me’and a lingerin’
squeeze when I left, and sed she’d be glad t’ see
me often. She uster see me ’bout three times a
week.
“ Bollus advised me to draw the money that
was cornin’ t’ me out o’ the contrae’—’bout £4o—
put some o’ it in the Savings Bank. I put in
£lO, an’ ’e asked me for the pass-book. After
scribblin’ on it fer a bit, ’e showed it ter me, an’
I saw I ’ad £498 17s. 4d. in the bank.
“ ‘ She wants t’ know fer certain, William,’ ses
’e, ‘ what y’re worth. When I show ’er this pass-
book and these minin' 4 scrip t’ prove that y’ ’old
600 fully paid-up shares in the Endless Wealth
Gold Mine, y’ll find it as easy t’ get on with ’er as
failin’ out o’ a cart.’
“ Next night I saw ’er. She met me at the gate,
an’ linked ’er arm inter mine, and led me inside
with much squeezin’ an’ gigglin’. She proposed
to me that night, an’ I fell in. An’ she gave me
a squeeze that shot me tongue out six inches, an’
tole me to call ’er Ettie. Three days after, we
was married. Blowed if Bollus didn’t up an’
marry the daughter.
“Fer about a week after our marriage things
was right enough, though Ettie ’ad a shockin’
temper. She knocked off callin’ me William, an’
useter allude t’ me as Bill. Before the ’oneymoon
was over, so t’ speak, she knocked off alludin' t’
me as Bill, an’ useter address me as Smith, an’
wanted t’ know when I intended t’ look fer some
work. When I told ’er I was done with work,
she got vi’lent an’ abusive.
“ One mornin’, I was sittin’ on the verandah, in
nie slippers an’ smokin’-cap, when a feller, dressed
in very light clothes, came in, ’anded me a docu-
ment, an’ walked inside an’ started t’ take a list
o’ the things; I put down me cigar an’ was about
t’ eject the intruder, when ’e said :
‘“I belong to Quick an’ Co., who are t’ sell this
proputty on Thursday.’
“ ‘ What ? ’ I ses, thinkin’ a lunatic ’ad invaded
me ’appy ’ome.
“ ‘I presoom, Mr. Smith,’ ’e went on, ‘you are
cognisant of the fact that, accordin’ t’ the pro-
visions o’ the will o’ the late Moses Meek, this
valuable proputty was to be retained by ’is widow
for ’er sole use while she remained a widow. In
the event o’ ’er marryin’ (which she ’as done), the
whole proputty was t’ be ’anded to ’is daughter,
Clarabel, now the wife of our esteemed townsman,
Mr. Bollus; the daughter t’ provide an annuity
of £5O for her mother. I feel ’
“Just then Ettie rushed in with a bucket o’ hot
water, and flung it in an alarmin’ promiscuous
way over the man an’ me, me gettin’ more’n him.
The stranger sprang up to the ceiling and tore
outside, flinging off ’is things as ’e went.
“Ettie put ’er arms round me neck an’ sed,
‘ Never mind, Bill. We knew it ’ad t’ come.
Bollus told me he explained it all t’ you, but y’
sed y’ didn’t care. With yer minin’ shares an’
yer bit o’ cash we’ll get along all right. ’Sides,
yer a strong man, an’ it’s ’ealthier fer y’t’ bo at
work than loafin’ about.’
“ When I told ’er I never ’ad no minin’ shares,
an’ the bit o’ cash I ’ad I wanted fer meself, ’er
langwidge an’ general behavior was somethin’
astonishm’. She grabbed the bucket, an’ was off
after more bilin’ water, so I spread meself out over
the landscape, and never seen ’er since.”
PAUL CUPID.


DONT NEGLECT THAT ACHING BACK.
Backache is Really
Kidney Ache.
Backache is really kidney ache :
the ache comes from the kidneys,
which lie just beneath the small of
the back. When the back is weak
and lame—when it “ cricks ” if you
turn sharply or stoop—when it
burns with a burning ache, and
keeps you awake half the night—
when you cannot bend without a
stab-like pain taking you —when it
makes hard work of the least task
—give your kidneys help at once in
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Doan’s Pills are a Special Kidney
and bladder medicine ; they give
strength and tone to the kidneys
themselves, and so cure the cause
of backache, gravel, rheumatic
pains, watery swellings in the
ankles and beneath the eyes, urin-
ary troubles, dizzy spells, pains in
the limbs, spots before the eyes,
sallow complexion, etc.
I
V
1
y/
“Every Picture Tells
a Story.”
When the Kidneys are ill,
the whole body is ill.
A SYDNEY MAN’S LASTING CUBE
BY DOAN’S PILLS.
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal Merchant, 18
Albion-street, Surry Hills, states : —“For the past five
or six years I have suffered from kidney disorder, which
caused me constant pain. The symptoms of this ter-
rible complaint were severe backache and irregularity
of the secretions. The pain had such complete mastery
over me that at times I could not rise from my bed. I
went to doctors to see what their skill could do for me,
but gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines, with
no better results. One day I saw an advertisement
regarding a remedy for kidney trouble, and, as it was
not a nostrum said to cure everything under the sun, I
procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I
felt a sense of relief right from the first dose. My pain
gradually grew less, and finally disappeared, as did the
other symptoms of kidney disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony, given twelve months
after :—“ Twelve months ago I was cured by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. lam still a believer in these
Pills, having never had a return of my complaint since,
except on one occasion, when I got wet; but a few
doses of these Pills quickly set me right again. Nothing
ever gave me relief but Doan’s Backache Pills, and
they cured me.”
Mr. Grieve makes a third statement (11/2/’O5), fully
six years after he made his first statement. He says :
“I am still well. I always keep a box of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills in the house. I know of no other
medicine so excellent for curing disordered kidneys.
Many call at my yard to ask me about my cure, and I
never fail to recommend the medicine which cured me.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are soid by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.) or direct
from Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mr DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PHIS
To Maoriland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLONG white cloud upon the Deep,
Our Maoriland, dear Maoriland !
Against whose headlands stern and
steep
The long Pacific surges weep;
Our love and longings are to thee,
And thy wild hills and stormy sea.
O Maoriland, our Maoriland !
For ever, Kai Ora !
Land of the Rata and the Fern,
Our Maoriland, dear Maoriland !
To thee and thine thy children turn ;
For thee, in hope, thine exiles yearn.
To all thou givest, everywhere,
A freer life, a fresher air ;
O Maoriland, our Motherland !
For ever, Kai Ora!
And in the years that are to be,
Our Maoriland, dear Maoriland,
Still be thy daughters pure and free,
Thy sons be true to them and thee,
And proud of thee with lofty pride,
Who art our Hope personified.
0 Maoriland, our Motherland !
For ever, Kai Ora /
Choose thou the nations’ better part,
O Maoriland, dear Maoriland !
Not thine, not thine the sordid heart
That knows no stars above the mart,
Nor lust of land, nor greed of gold,
Nor pride of empire uncontrolled.
O Maoriland, our Motherland !
For ever, Kai Ora !
Land of the Rata and the Fern !
O Maoriland, dear Maoriland !
Thou art the home for which we yearn,
To thee and thine thy children turn.
Praying the God of Righteousness
The land we love to guide and bless.
O Maoriland, our Motherland !
For ever, Kai Ora!
LONDON.
DORA WILCOX.
The M.L.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE stout gentleman with the gold-
rimmed spectacles reeled softly from the
shadow, swayed on the edge of the kerb,
and flung himself into the arms of the big police-
man standing at the corner.
“George!” he sobbed. “George, I’ve come
home 1 ”
Constable James Murphy, under the electric
light, blushed to the tips of his ears, and made a
vain attempt to loosen the stout gentleman’s
arms, which were clasped tightly round his neck.
The silk hat rolled into the middle of the road,
and a thoughtful cab-horse trod on it.
“ Kiss me, George ! ” wailed the stout gentle-
man, tightening his grip and nestling on Murphy’s
shoulder.
Murphy, recognising the stout one as a person
of the first importance, saw at once that it was a
case for diplomacy, so, instead of being rough,
he gently disengaged himself and tried to lead
him to a cab.
“ Hoi’ up ! ” he whispered fiercely. “ Hoi’ up,
for Hivin’s sake ! Pull v’rsilf togither like a good
mahn ! ”
The prominent citizen sniffled like a leading
lady. “ Oh-h, George, I’m sho happy sho
happy ! ”
The big constable wriggled like a fat eel, but
the other clung to him fiercely, tenderly, and
murmured —
“George, I’m never, never goin’t’ be bad any
more. I’ve led a rotten life, George, but I’m
finished with it! I’m goin’ to be good !”
By this time a crowd had collected.
Murphy, in a desperate effort to make the
citizen walk, swung him off his feet and made him
stagger. From the outside edge of the mob it
lpoked as if the constable had lost his temper and
was giving his charge a rough time.
A voice said : “ Leave th’ man alone ! ”
Murphy made another effort, and the same
voice asked him not to “ kill th’ pore devil.”
The cab drove up to the edge of the kerb.
Murphy, half-lifting and half-pushing the citi-
zen, got him as far as the step.
The crowd swirled round them both.
Then the citizen started to take a tearful fare-
well, and begged Murphy to “come down some
ni’ an’ shee Em’ly.”
Somebody behind sniggered and told Murphy
he ought to be ashamed of himself.
Murphy evidently was, but he didn’t thank the
gentleman who had given him the advice. In-
stead, he told him to “look out f’r yersilf, me
frind ! ” Then, in a final effort to save the citi-
zen’s reputation, he scrambled into the cab, took
a firm grip of the citizen’s collar, and pulled him
in backwards.
A well-meaning woman called shrilly: “What
a brutal thing to do ! ”
Fragments of conversation floated out of the
cab.
“ Hoi’ up, now—hoi’ up ! ”
“ Wairrer minit, George, ol’ chap.”
“ Hoi’ up, I tell y*! ”
“ Lemme out, George, f’r a drink I ”
“ Where d’ ye live ? ”
“ Eh, George ? ”
“ Where d’ ye live? ”
“ Oh-h, George, I’m not goin’ home!”
The cabman pulled back the window and said,
very emphatically, “ ’Sorrght ! I know it ! ”
Murphy muttered “Thank Hivin ! ” and held
the citizen down with one hand, while he got out.
“ Now lie down, will y’!”
“ Well, don’ ferget come down—shee Em’ly ! ”
“ Dhrive on ! ” shouted Murphy.
The cab jolted forward, and the crowd watched
it rattle away down the street until the red discs
were lost in the lights of the traffic.
KODAK.
The Lion’s Eyeball.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE retreated from the back of the ring-
cage as the tamer leaped out, slamming
the iron gate in the face of the black-
maned lion.
She breathed softly, and followed him stealthily
to his canvas dressing-room at the back of the
pony-stalls. His spangled coat scintillated under
the flare lamps. She pursued him past the
sleeping pumas, where a drowsy, bald eagle
rattled its foot-chain in the circus dust.
Hanging his heavy, thonged whip from the
tent post, the young tamer lit a cigarette, and
stretched himself for a few moments on a hard
couch in the far corner.
The woman paused in the shadow of a cage and
measured him with her eye. He was a muscular
young German, big-chested, short-legged, but
with the face of a child. A pair of sleek Indian
wolves padded uneasily up and down their narrow
house. Something in their movements made the
tamer look up suddenly. The woman was peeping
shyly into his tent.
“Eh, what you wantdere?” H*e was at the
door in a flash, watching her curiously. She was
a narrow-hipped larrikiness with a hacking cough.
Her clothes were ugly, her skin dry and white.
He noticed that she was carrying a small black
bag.
“You haf no business in dis part ob der show,”
he said, quickly, “ Vy you coom here?”
“Dicken, yer make mo feel shy. You are Per-
fesser Max, the li’ine tamer, ain’t yer ? I mistook
yer fer a sojer at first till yer started ter uppercut
the li’ine with the whip.”
“ I vas Professor Max. Vat do you want, any-
way ? ”
The larrikiness frowned and shifted uneasily;
the rapid movements of the wolves in the cage
beside her hurt her temper and half-frightened
her.
“A girl from the Music Hall sent me to see
yer—Lotti Spangani—yer know who I mean.”
“Veil?” The young tamer glanced at his
watch sharply. “Vat does Mademoiselle Lotti
want, eh ? ”
“Blime, yer a nark, Perfesser. I ought to
’ave measured yer ten minutes ago, when yer
stuck yer ’ead in the li’ine’s mouth.”
“ Vat you talk about, goot woman ? ” The tamer
eyed her with sudden suspicion. “ Tell me your
business. I vas in a hurry.” He beckoned her
inside the tent hastily and placed a chair beside
her. “I tink you haf someting to say. Vy did
Mademoiselle Lotti send you ?”
Her narrow face and big, tight mouth impressed
him. Reaching a bottle of wine from a near shelf
he filled a glass and handed it to her politely.
She drank, and her tight, hard mouth grew
slack. “My word, that’s bonsor stuff. You
Germans ”
“ Your business, goot woman ? I shall be called
into der ring in a minute,” he said hastily.
“I’ve’ad me nerves shook, Perfesser. Don’t
hurry me. Wait till the wine warms me.”
He regarded her curiously, then filled another
glass and pressed it upon her. “Did Mademoi-
selle Lotti send you here to interfere mit me ven
I vas in der cage ?” he asked softly.
The woman drained the glass. Her lustreless
eyes glowed suddenly. “ Lotti knows me. She
sent one of the girls for me lars’ night. She was
sittin’ in her bedroom at the hotel, with a load of
brushes and scent bottles around her when I
called. Your photo was on the mantelshelf,
Perfesser. Blime, you look a ’ard case with the
li’ines sittin’ at yer feet.”
“Go on.” The tamer eyed her shrewdly. The
voice of the ringmaster broke upon them from
the crowded circus.
“ Soon as I takes a seat, Lotti broke the news
about yer, Perfesser; how you’d broke ’er ’eart
an’ picked up with another girl. She did a little
weep for two minutes before I chipped in.”
“‘Well, Lotti,’l sez, ‘I s’pose yer want me
ter deal it out to the other piece what’s hooked
yer li’ine tamer. Make it three quid,’ I sez, ‘ an’
I’ll break a winder with her ’ead first night she
comes down Engine-street.’
“‘No, no,’ sez Lotti, ‘don’t hurt the girl.
Deal with the Perfesser. Go round to the show
to-morrer night, an’ when he’s puttin’ the li’ine
through its paces get close to the cage, you under-
stand ? ’
“ ‘ Rumbo,’ I sez.
“‘Well,’ she sez, ‘he’ll make the big li’ine
lie on its side, an’ after it has lain quiet, he’ll
open its jaws and put his head inside. Well, ’ she
sez, ‘as soon as the Perfesser’s head is well in, I
want you to squirt a little of this stuff into the
cage.’
“ ‘ On the li’ine ?’ I sez. }
“‘Yes,’ she sez, sitting up in the bed, ‘on its
eyeball.’ ”
The larrikiness paused and breathed hard.
Then fumbling inside the black bag, she drew out
a glass syringe, and held it before the tamer.
“See how it works, Perfesser!” She pressed
the syringe suddenly. A jet of colorless fluid
spat across the tent towards a piece of paper on
the floor. In a flash the paper began to steam
and grow black.
“Vitriol! By Gott!” He sprang back, a
luminous ferocity in his eyes.
The woman closed the bag with a snap. “ Burns
yer fingers like ’ell. An’ Lotti offers me three
quid ter wet the li’ine’s eyeball with it. The price
isn’t big enough, Perfesser.”
The tamer leant against the tent-pole, and for
a moment his teeth chattered.
The woman wiped her face carefully, “I’ve
done the straight thing, Perfesser. I’m a ’ard-
workin’ woman, an’ me bloke’s out o’ work.
Make it four quid, an’ I’ll keep the acid off the
li’ine, s’welp me Gawd ! ”
The tamer’s hand went up and the heavv-
thonged whip flew down from the nail. “ Out! ”
he thundered. “Out, you hell-beast!”
She ran from the tent as the whip cracked about
her ears, past the wolf-house into the open. Then
she paused, and stooped to pick up a block of
wood.
“Yer dawg ! yer don’t know what gratitood
means.” The wood whipped over the wolf-house
and fell into the circus ring.
A boy approached the tamer’s tent hurriedly
and requested him to be ready for his turn.
The tamer sat on the couch and drank a glass
of brandy nervously. “ Tell de boss I vas not feel
well to-nide, Johnny, I tink de big lion can do
mit a spell.”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
'JS
Ya
“I used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver—
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DS. J. O. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
There are many imitation “ Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glass bottles.
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, eaoh
containing 6 of our colored and high art Po*t Cards to sell for us at 6d
per packet. When you have sold the cards return us our 6<., and we will
you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale of our cards you can
earn a Ladies or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain; a
FREE
R
p.noto Camera loaded for use; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes.
Kememlter we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
with any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
Jeweller,,or we could not make you this liberal offer. Bethe first in your district. Ourposteards sell at
once, wherever seen. Every month we are changing and improving them. We defy contradiction when
we assert that we send our agents only the best and most artistic penny post cards in Australasia, and
that our views of Australian scenery are unique, and unequalled by any others.
Xmas is coming, your friends will want nice cards, and you will like the nice Xmas present we
shall send you for selling them. Our prizes delight our agents, and are positively as represented
m our illustrations. We refer you to any trade agency, or to any of our agents. We have thousands of
testimonials, having built up our large business by giving honest value to all.
REGAL POST CARD CO., Dept— BK Head Office: 17 Bond St., Sydney, N.S.W.
M
X/i
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat-sr improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney. Live , and St tnach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free srSkK
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Ffee. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
OURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYIDIETIE-V-.
DEAF
The New Fatent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Dbafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
f how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wonn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Aidtna-A. M. NAST, 145 Collin* St,, Malbounu,
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks fay the use of
in
O* rx co rim
t SS£H cE of ut p fc-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’a Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
_ all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36a ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
w * lo * lac * * oBt ' hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney!
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address •
Arthur Hale, Indent Agents, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address I HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
Handy to have in the House.
A box of BEECHAM'S PILLS is a handy thing to have in
the house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need much
illness will be saved.
Any trouble arising- from derang-ement of the digestive
organs Is quickly set right by
This unrivalled medicine will do more to build up robust
health and maintain it than any other remedy.
They are unequalled tor
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
I'ti'!
►VV
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR FEMALES OF ALL AGES.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price lllh (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
WOOL.
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
GOOD PRICE unless handled
by GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK &
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
QHLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COQGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, <kc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Liven tor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNS
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine Ishould
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
SolcP
by
all first-
cla ,s stores
in Australasia.
N0.*8176.V 2-BLADE
‘ “PA MPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 2j-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
fdg
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of alt Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
dfg
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 4.S
hours without
incon- _
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name tm~
fgd
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
SSF=
men
w 0 MEN
Over 20,000 CASES Successfully
Treated during the last 25 years.
SUCCESS UNPARALLELED IN AUSTRALIA.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
The only Legally Qualified Author and Specialist Advertising and
Holding his Qualifications.
Specialist in Nervous, Skin Troubles, Rupture, Varicoeele, etc.
Consulting Physician in Men’s Special Disorders.
DISEASES OF WOMEN A SPECIALITY. Moderate Charges.
Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Acute Disorders Cured in 4S hours. Chronic Oases. 5 to 70
SPECIAL NOTICE. —DR. MARTIN’S Five Lectures may be had for 2s. 6d., post free. y
PRESS EXTRACTS.—The Australian Press on Dr. Martin’s publications. Post Free.
“SPECIMEN PAGES.”—A glimpse of what “The Diseases of Men and Women” is like. Thirtv-two
pages, fully illustrated. Posted Free for two stamps. ’ u
Consultation Free (personally, or by letter). Hours, 10 to 4 ; 7 to 9 daily
Dr. Martin receives a Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients at “ELMLEY HOUSE.”
CALL OR WRITE. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-street,
Please mention this paper when writing. " YI>E PARK '


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Y’S
fgd
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
fgd
AUSTIN CRUSHER.
FORCED LUBRICATION.
RIGID ECCENTRIC BEARING.
DOUBLE COUNTERSHAFT BEARINGS.
THOROUGHLY DUST PROOF.
Sole Agents—
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
MELBOURNE; SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
!l
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept In Stock*
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles.”
L.
Ltd.
i
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings,
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE. IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Piates
Mining Steel.
ARDEN HOSE
AND ALL ACCESSORIES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST to
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER COY.,
273 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
Baa
WATER BAG.
SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRIES-
The “ABBOTT” FILTER
IS AUSTRALIAN, and has withstood the severest Bacteriological tests.
Ml Sizes, Fountain or Pressure, from 20s.
If you want to drink absolutely Pure Water buy an “ ABBOTT.” A Post Card will get you full particulars.
THRIDGE, LTD.,
263 GEORGE ST.,
486 Collins St., Melbourne
SYDNEY
