

sdf
STIMULANT.
Jb&*
Milling'
G. WATKINS SZ, CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS
AND PARTICULARS.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
Hold
Stocks
of . .
riXED ENGINES—4 £100;
6 £125; 8 8.H.P., £155.
PORTABLE ENGINES—4 8.H.P.,
£ 140; 6 8.H.P., £165; 8 B.H P,, £2OO
The Most Convenient Power for Chaff Cutting, Driving Separators, Grinding Peed, Pumping W»ter, Sawing Wood,
Driving Sheep Shearing Machines and for General Purposes.
ECOJBA.RX.
jjadlegs Orient jjote].
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludewici & Soa, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydaey
sfd
back,
I must have
PincApplc Brand
fd
CHUBB’S
DOORS
LOCKS
7laficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
S ° Clety) ‘ W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “Wg
u
, . - ,f y ; -> yf
YOUR GROCER FOR
I
.
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
4®
■m
;
TEA!
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
dsdfs
sd
sdf
df
ads
sad
**
FERRIER’S ” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
ENGINEERS,
Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making' Machinery.
H ELI DON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GrOLLllxr 00., Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 27.—N0. 1377. j
17002
[Thursday, July 5, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pest as a Newspaper.


NOW READY^
THE JUNGLE,
SPECIAL AUSTRALASIAN EDITION.
By UPTON SINCLAIR.
Cloth 3s. 6d.; mailed to any part of the
wealth, New Zealand, or Fiji 6d. extra.
By cabled permission of the publisher in America of this unique work we have prepared and printed locally a
special edition for Australasia. Almost the whole of this large edition was taken up before publication
and a second edition is now in active preparation. The book is as far as possible uniform with the
Amer can edition which sold there at One dollar fifty cents.
At dll Bookseller*, or direct from —
J -J
Geo. Robertson & Co- Prop. Ltd.,
71 GASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
fs
Kept stgreoC '//C/
for Influenza , Bronchitis, Asthma,sail affections of
the throat & lungs, s, for prevention of Consumption
Sold in Tins 1/6 or Post Free on receipt of scamps from the Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDBON, Chemist,lpswich,
Queensland’ SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—YV. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W
THE RED PAGE.
POEMS BY W. B. YEATS
THE ROSE OF THE WORLD.
Who dreamed that beauty passes,like a dream ?
For these red lips, with all their mournful pride,
Mournful that no new wonder may betide,
Troy passed away in one high funeral gleam,
And Usna’s children died.
We and the labouring world are passing by :
Amid men’s souls, that waver and give place,
Like the pale waters in their wintriy race,
Under the passing stars, foam of the sky,
Lives on this lonely face.
Bow down, archangels, in your dim abode :
Before you were, or any hearts to beat,
Weary and kind one lingered by His seat;
He made the world to be a grassy road
Before her w andering feet.
\v
FOR A BOOK OF IRISH STORIES.
There was a green branch hung with many a bell
When her own people ruled in wave-worn Eire ;
And from its murmuring greenness, calm of faery,
A Druid kindness, on all hearers fell.
It charmed away the merchant from his guile,
And turned the farmer’s memory from his cattle,
And hushed in sleep the roaring ranks of battle,
For all who heard it dreamed a little while.
Ah, Exiles wandering over many seas,
Spinning at all times Eire’s good to-morrow !
Ah, world-wide Nation, always growing Sorrow !
I also hear a bell branch full of ease.
I tore it from green boughs winds tossed and
hurled,
Green boughs of tossing always weary, weary !
I tore it from the green boughs of old Eire,
The willow of the many-sorrowed world.
Ah, Exiles, wandering over many lands !
My bell branch murmurs : the gay bells bring
laughter,,
Leaping to shake a cobweb from the rafter;
The sad bells bow the forehead on the hands.
A honeyed ringing : under the new skies
They bring you memories of old village faces ;
Cabins gone now, old well-sides, old dear places ;
And men who loved the cause that never dies.
FAERY SONG.
The wind blows out of the gates of the day,
The wind blows over the lonely of heart
And the lonely of heart is withered away,
While the faeries dance in a place apart,
Shaking their milk-white feet in a ring.
Tossing their milk-white arms in the air ;
For they hear the wind laugh, and murmur and
sing
Of a land where even the old are fair,
And even the wise are merry of tongue ;
But I heard a reed of Coolaney say,
“ When the wind has laughed and murmured and
sung.
The lonely of heart must wither away.”
THE SONG OF THE HAPPY SHEPHERD.
The woods of Arcady are dead,
And over is their antique joy ;
Of old the world on dreaming fed ;
Gray Truth is now her painted toy ;
Yet still she turns her restless head :
But O, sick children of the world,
Of all the many changing things
In dreary dancing past us whirled.
To the cracked tune that Chronos sings,
Words alone are certain good.
Where are now the warring kings,
Word be-mockers?—By the Rood,
Where are now the warring Icings ?
An idle wofß is now their glory,
By the stammering schoolboy said,
Reading some entangled story :
The kings of the old time are fled.
The wandering earth herself may be
Only a sudden flaming word,
In clanging space a moment heard,
Troubling the endless reverie.
Then no wise worship dusty deeds,
Nor seek ; for this is also sooth ;
To hunger fiercely after truth,
Lest all thy toiling only breeds
New dreams, new dreams ; there is no truth
Saving in thine own heart. Seek, then,
No learning from the starry men,
Who follow with the optic glass
The whirling ways of stars that pass—
Seek, then, for this is also sooth,
No word of theirs —the cold star-bane
Has cloven and rent their hearts in twain,
And dead is all their human truth.
Go gather by the humming sea
Some tyvisted, echo-harbouring shell,
And to. its lips thy story tell,
And they thy comforters will be,
Rewording in melodious guile.
Thy fretful words a little while,
Till they shall singing fade in ruth,
And die a pearly brotherhood ;
For words alone are certain good :
Sing, then, for this is also south.
I must be gone : there is a grave
Where daffodil and lily wave,
And I would please the hapless faun,
Buried under the sleepy ground,
With mirthful songs before the dawn.
His shouting days with mirth were crowned ;
And still f dream he treads the lawn,
Walking ghostly in the dew,
Pierced by my glad singing through,
Mv songs or old earth’s dreamy youth :
But ah ! she dreams not now ; dream thou !
For fair are poppies on the brow :
Dream, dream, for this is also sooth.
SOME LOST HEADERS
THERE were three men m the early days
who attempted and did more for the
establishment of this Commonwealth than
° ~® r time. Of no one of the
nnhbo r\i We dlscover a statue or a bust in any
fnvwfi”’ nor yet such a literary portrait in
tinna tr. i/ y as enab l o this or future genera-
knOW v e n ) en as they were. Prejudice
wtffiT 1 ne hlstor ians right along the track of
thrlaL^ ISr 1 presentafclon ’ and on to the actual
°J Perjury. Others, though they may
lacked utterly the power
to cast themselves backward, to grasp the
t< Vi ealls ® the Personalities of the bygone
, have seen as in a glass darkly ;
consequently they have written confusedly or
erroneously ; and unhappily their books have been
given as history to the youth of the present and
wq generation The ‘‘Official Records of
JN.S.W are.the only guide. If a study of them
is supplemented with some research in the vault
• .Y~' ® Colomal-Secretary’s office, and intercourse
with of old families still re-
maimng, the necessary knowledge may beacquired,
t W u a understanding arrived at, of such men as
Bligh Macarthur * Roberfc Campbell, and William
I- John Macarthur.
What was he : conspirator or patriot? land-
grabber or nation-maker ? ah incarnation of
seltishness or a pioneer in the interests of others?
hirst of all, he was a Scotchman, though born and
bred m the West of England. His father had
Ought for Charlie” at Culloden, escaped
Butcher Cumberland, and got down to Plymouth,
where he became, according to one authority,
, it'nerant in the stay line,” a pedlar of corsets,
but, by Sir Joseph Banks’ account, a tailor and
mercer. Under such influences as these facts
indicate, was our John Macarthur reared,
righting blood filled all his veins, trading
desire dominated all his instincts. The fighting
idea seems to have been first in the family
notions. You can hear that a commission was
obtained for him in the British army; but then,
as later, he would always be fighting, in season
and out of season. Very early in his lifiilitary
career he was “placed on half pay,” and, in-
dustrious always, took to the study of agriculture
™ a 7Y st countr y- The formation of the
W. Corps, the old convict guard, disclosed
new opportunities in the military life. He bought
a commission, and came out: quarrelling, as usual,
on the voyage, and changing ships on the line.
da * ;e hi B arrival the thorny ways of
JN.o. W. Governors began.
I have called him a lost leader, and for the
reason that in the fogs which history, so-called, has
bruited up the man himself is wholly lost. One
historian calls him the “Father of Australia.”
That he was not. He sought for nothing else
than to father his own interests and to found his
own fortunes. Miniatures still existent enable
us to picture him on his arrival, a man just turned
30, a black Macarthur, swarthy of complexion,
nose with a bit of an upward hook, lips com-
pressed, jaw square, and the chin of the man
who does. He left the corps in early
days, and led the most rapacious gang of
traders this land has ever seen—-which is
saying a good deal. He set himself to fight all
local ordinances which were against him, and
under weak governors he generally won. He led
that gang of thieves or worse, who secured con-
tracts for the King’s stores, regulated prices with
a rum or fictitious paper currency, and were a
more grievous burden to the rapidly increasing
free settlers than locust, caterpillar, cankerworm,
and blight. To the free settlers a step-father and
of a brutal sort was John Macarthur in those
days.
How then a leader ? Tradition answers, he
gave us our Golden Fleece. That also he did not.
His claim to have influenced the man who brought
the first merinos to Australia' is absolutely un-
corroborated, and is straightly denied by Captain
Waterhouse, to whom all credit is due. Captain
Waterhouse tells in a letter to Sir Joseph Banks
how he, of his own motion, uninfluenced and un-
controlled by any other, bought at the Cape and
sold at Fort Jackson the first merino sheep ever
seen in the continent. He took the risk, he made
his own small share of profit, he distributed the
sheep as he deemed best, and refused absolutely
Macarthur’s offer to buy the lot. How then shall
we approach or justify the claim of leadership in
this way ?
It is very clear. That little flock of merinoes—
-13 out of the parent sheep were landed—went to
various settlers, and, save Macarthur’s, all were
lost in the fight of mutton against wool. In the
foresight, in the long look-out, in the wide Horizon
which included all the elements of the pastoral
Australia of to-day, John Macarthur showed
himself a leader whose memory should never be
allowed to die. His faith was as the faith of the
Argonauts: his methods, also, at times. He
cherished the little flock through all the changes
of fortune. In fight at home, in exile abroad, all
his working mind was with them, all his dreams
were of their possibilities. He watched them grow
into hundreds, he had records of them during his
second exile as they increased to thousands.
During his first compulsory sojourn in England he
purchased sheep at King George’s annual sale at
Kew, and brought them out in the “Argo.” They
were of Spanish Eseurial breed, akin to his own.
No other importations were used. He produced
the first bale of wool; he sold it also with
abundant care and skill, thus founding our wool
trade. He did actually lay the foundations of all
that gigantic business which makes most of the
busy life around the quays of all Australian
ports, and yet one stone has never been laid
on another to commemorate that work, albeit
two painted windows in St. Andrew’s cathedral,
Sydney, proclaim that such a man lived and died*,
and lead the uninformed to most erroneous ideas
as to what manner of man be. was. For his con-
duct in connection with other organised robbers
and spoilers of his time, he merited condign pun-
ishment ; and offences far less than his act of
rebellion have brought many noble heads to the
block. Rapacity was his sin. The pollution of
the shop had got into his blood, and that blood
was of the Highland strain, predatory, unscrupul-
ous, reiving, truculently masterful; and yet,
withal, he foresaw and accomplished in such
fashion as to justify commemoration of a
noble and enduring sort. I doubt not his
domestic virtues will be paraded by In's friends.
Like the Black Douglas, in his family relations
he was “tendir and trew.” He was beloved.
also, by the blackfellows who roamed about his
homestead; and was no savage master of convicts.
But in statue-raising those things are not taken
into consideration. Action is the thing required
—masterful, enduring accomplishment. And for
that he did abcomplish, and that his accomplish-,
ments endure, it is meet that his'statue should be
raised. But when this thing is done, let it be the
man himself who is presented to, us. A cateran
in blood, and with instincts fashioned in the
shop if you will—but still a founder and
fosterer of those things on which nations are
established and by which peoples are maintained.
When that work is taken seriously ifi hand a
proper site appears in that paved quadrangle
fronting the Sydney Post-office, and Australia’s
main ocean gate. Then also, forever opposed to
John Macarthur, should appear the statue of
11. Robert Campbell.
“Who is Mr. Robert Campbell? Oh! who’s
Mr. Robert Campbell, quoth he?” Truly, the
average citizen of the Commonwealth is ignorant of
this man as was Mr. Francis Osbaldistone of that
ilk ; and little is there in the books to enlighten
him. Robert Campbell, merchant, who came first
to Port Jackson in the year 1796, is the one man
whose bust should be in the vestibule of the Royal
Exchange and whose full presentment in bronze
should face John Macarthur on that quadrangle
aforementioned. He was as far removed from
the old convict - guard gang of trucklers,
pedlars, swindlers, debauehers and oppres-
sors, with Macarthur (who' only masked him-
self with his wool) at their head, as is the most
reputable merchant of to-day from the lowest
publican or pawnbroker of the Sydney Rocks.
And yet you may look in half-a-dozen books of
“ Eminent Men,” “ Men of the Time,” and what
not, and find no mention of his name. Heaton
clips him up in a twelve-line paragraph ; Lang
has loose but big notions of him; Rusden prods
at him, as at everything else worthy of honorable
mention, like one of the devils at the ancient
Mysteries of the damned souls; and the others
do not count for much beyond dates and guberna-
torial periods.
But behold now amongst all the meanness and
wickedness of that time (the last decade of the
seventies) a man arrives, and Robert Campbell
is despatched by his brother, an independent
merchant of Calcutta, to inquire into the wreck of
a ship in the southern seas, and he looks on at
Port Jackson, and—looks about. Neither filling
the King’s stores. nor exploiting the King’s
treasury concerns him one jot. He sees first the
wants of the people and his fair opportunity in
their legitimate supply. He returns to Calcutta,
and comes back again with a ship full-laden. He
fights and beats down the opposition of the
soldier trucklers who fear his goods will glut their
market; and then sets himself to initiate
and develop trade in whale-oil, sealskins, tall
spars suitable for frigate masts, sandalwood
brought down from the isles. He sees his way to
purchase a cargo with his own money, to despatch
it to England, and thus knock away the pins of
the shackles which attached this continent to the
United Kingdom as a common gaol. There is
the style, the dignity of the merchant prince
about him. “If your Excellency desires her (the
ship in which he had arrived) as a cartel to convey
despatches, she is very much at your service.” A
new language this from any citizen of Botany Bay.
Then he loads up the little Lady Barlow, and
in all confidence consigns the cargo to his
agent, Mr. Wilson, and so unwittingly fires the
first shot in a big battle. For no sooner is the
Lady Barlow in the channel than out against her
comes all the pomp and power of the Honourable
East India Company. Theirs is the sole right of
trade in all southern seas, and that any man of
Botany Bay should presume to collect a cargo
and despatch it to England is a trespass on their
charter and an outrage on their dignity. “If the
thing is permitted,” says one of their advocates,
“what may we expect but that these people will
build to themselves navies, and, naturally becom-
ing pirates, sally forth against the commerce of
the world.” The blind leaders of the, blind had
much to say in those times. They demanded
confiscation of cargo and ship, and Campbell was
not on the spot to fight for his own.
He saved ship and cargo,, though sale had to be
made in a foreign port. Robert Campbell married
a wife and gave himself wholly to Australia. We
find him in 1805 in,England. Macarthur was
about returning then in the Argo. He had forced
the fact into the dull minds of the manufacturers
and politicians that Australia might do more for
the kingdom in the supply of wool than in
the absorption of undesirables. Then came
Campbell to insist on the right of Australia
to trade with the kingdom, to tell strange
tales to the governor of the H.E.1.C., to be
guilty of “unheard of impertinences” to the
Governor of that august body (for so they con-
strued him) ; but in the end to win the first great
Kittle in that long campaign which ended when
thelast convictship spread her wings like some foul
carrion bird and took the last of the seed of our
disgrace and damnation to other shores. He won
for us the first instalment of freemen’s right.
Was it not noble work, worthy leadership? Is he
who wrought it to rot for ever in, the chill
Shades of dead and forgotten things? The gods
send us a better mind in this’matter ; and yet as
I deal briefly with another, worse than lost, it
may become understandable how Robert Campbell
did little more that is notable. That other is
111. William Bligh.
For ever inseparable these three —clashing against
each other in an evil time, arid yet planting deep
the, seeds whose fruits appear in our present.
William Bligh, of Bounty Farm, striding into
New South Wales with beaver cocked and hand
on his sword-hilt, as a poor, worried, heart-broken
king, goes in melancholy fashion down to his
boat. Never was man more grossly misrepre-
sented and vilified than Bligh. All the fool
yarns about the injured Christian and his mates
are read out against him to-day, regularly as the
records of convicted criminals in the dock, and
generally are received with as much credence.
The Pandora’s box, with which he had nought to
do, is hung about h s neck. (•“ Instead of the cross
the albatross.”) How much of all that calumny is
due to the fact that the chief of the mutineers
bore the name of Christian? The plain truth is
that Bligh, ceaselessly busy with his bread-fruit
trees, lpft charge of ship, gear and stores to
Christian and others; that they, fulfilling; the
lusts cf the flesh in evil concupiscence with the
islanders, grossly neglected their duty ; that Bligh
with anchors up, found sails rotten, rigging out of
repair,' the whole enterprise imperilled, and
tightened up the bonds of discipline after the
fashion of the time. Admit that it was a
bad fashion and a bad time. Then the gentle
Christian and the reSt set adrift their captain in
mid-ocean, and hastened back to the island de-
lights. Bligh took his boat and crew through
to Timor, and subsequently returned, accomplish-
ing his bread-fruit mission ; and he rose through
repeated acts of masterful seamanship and match-
less courage to be thanked by Nelson on the
quarterdeck of the flagship (or such service as
helped much towards a great naval victory. Then
he was sent as Governor to New South Wales in
a time when others had failed. Then —and this is
the one thing to be taken hold of—he grasped in-
stantly those facts which, if acted on in the way
he proposed, would have made N.S.W. a free
State, with free institutions, ere yet the first
quarter of the last century had closed. He saw
that in the free settlers was the hope of the
State, and the free settlers Saw that in him was
thfeir only hope. He saw in the old convict guard
and their mercantile associates the leeches and
the debaucliers of the State. They recognised in
him their implacable foe.
Bligh was neither wise nor conciliatory. Hfe
dashed into the very citadel of his enemies, call-
ing this one and that a “ tremendous ” unprint-
able thing. He swore, by God and by Devil, that
robbery and debauchery should cease. He was
blind as a mole to the great idea which stamped
Macarthur as a possible leader fully equal with him-
self, but was wide-eyed to all his iniquities. And he
had no loyal military or marine force behind him.
If Bligh could but have seen the prospect which
Macarthur realised, if Macarthur could but have
recognised the supreme importance of establishing
those free settlers in justice, security, and with
full opportunity, and if Robert Campbell could
have been placed as absolute controller-general of
the commerce of the time, what might not even
the grandfathers of the present generation have
seen in this unhappy land ? Darling’s collars of iron
would never have been forged ; dull tyrannic
military pedants, and subsequent descendants
of king’s Dastards, with no other qualification,
would never have come amongst us as rulers.
I verily believe that the convict curse might have
been shaken off within ten years of Bligh’s
arrival, and Australia have divided with the
United States the marvellous development of a
full three-quarters of the last century. Poor
right, thorough, but rash and unreasoning Bligh !
He, and not John Robertson, is the pioneer of
free settlement on the land. Let him who doubts
look up the records and therein read how, in the
year eighteen hundred and six, 244 settlers wel-
comed Bligh and repudiated Macarthur and all
his clan ; how a year later 546 settlers testified
that now they had, for the first time, begun to
live in security and with hopes of progress ; how,
after the rebellion, 833 free men, Robert Campbell.
William Suttor, G. M. Pitt, Palmer and Gore
amongst them, signed, at their own great peril, an
address of sympathy ; and how, later in the same
year, the same body addressed Paterson deploring
the act of rebellion and telling how their hopes,
which had begun to revive under Bligh, seemed
now to be quashed for ever. These were the men
who could have made our state a free state in their
own time, who would have kept back that black
deluge which Macquarie with Biggs, and after
them Darling and Brisbane, welcomed in. What
were the whole of the convict guard and their mer-
eantilefriends in comparison with them ? Why could
not Macarthur see that their best interests and his
own were naturally allied, that the land was wide
enough for them all ? It is hard to answer such
questioning. Why do people to-day believe that
Bligh, a conspicuous hero of his time, distin-
guished by unchanging courage under terrific cir-
cumstances, crept under a bed to escape arrest at
the hands of a sergeant's guard? \\ emust fall
back with John Ruskin in the supposition that
the Devil would have it so. But although that
personage, and mainly through the suppressionPf
Bligh, who was no saint, he did get and Keep the
ordering of most things Australian for many
years, and let ns not abide still under the delusions
which were effective enough in their time. A
good honest grip of the actual facts of our begin-
nings is useful both in the ordering of the present,
and the shaping of the future. I have sought
here to grasp just a few of the rough ends of those
facts, and to group them rather in suggestive
than explanatory style.
K.M.
Maine’s Ancient Law is a book which the
author’s knowledge, power of generalisation,
talent in condensation and lucid expression, have
made classic. The latest edition (Lend., Murray ;
ss. net) is annotated by Sir Frederick. Pollock and
indexed with grateful skill. So equipped, it is a
book belonging no less to a layman’s library
than to a. lawyer’s. Maine had so rare a
command of his material that often one
is reminded of the enchanter under whose
magic wand the dead breathed again and
dry bones took on new flesh. He connects
ancient with modern in such fashion that we may
watch the growth of law as if it were alive—as
indeed by some definitions it may be, —so close is
its relationship with its makers, so spontaneously
does it seem to flourish with their strength long
after they have perished. Much an organising and
binding quality is shown in institutions
that if one were asked to qualify the book in a
single epithet one could find no better word than
(in its fullest significance) religions.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to : —
Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports Depot.
L F
GOLF.
(Postage on one Golf Iron, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Drivers and Brassies cannot be Posted (too long).
Auchterlonie’s international Clubs
s. d.
Bulger Drivers .. „ .. ... ® ?
Cleeks, Mid Irons .. „ .. « “
Driving Irons, Mashies o *■
Bulger Brassies .. .. .. ‘j?
Straight or Bent Neck Patent Putters 80
“8.C.1.” Celebrated Clubs.
“ 8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD " Drivers and Brassies .. ..
“8.G.1.” “FAIRFIELD” Oleeks, Jiggers, Mashies, Mid
Irons, Putters..
'8.G.1.” Drivers and Brassies
‘8.G.1.” Irons (all styles)
Spalding’s Golf Clubs.
“•MORRISTOWN,” Cleeks, Mid Irons, Mashies, Putters,
Niblicks
‘MORRISTOWN,” Drivers and Brassies .. •• ••
‘CRESCENT,” Oleeks, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons, Lofters,
Drivers •»
4 6
4 6
8 0
5 0
4 6
4 6
0 9
GOLF BALLS.
"BRAMBLE” Floaters
HENLEY’S “Ocobo”
HENLEY’S “ Melford "
fd
Mick
Simmons
(Postage on 1 dozen, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Interstate).
CADDY BAGS.
Postage on Bag, N.S.W. 9d., Interstate Is. 2d.
Oaddv Bacs Canvas, outside Pocket, leather bottom and sling *•
Brown Waterproof Canvas, outside pocket, leather bottom and sling
Same as above, better quality
Same as No. 2, superior quality
Sarfle as No. 2, extra special quality .. • •
Solid Hide Caddy Bags, best quality, outside pocket
Same as above, extra quality
Young: America Revolvers, 22 R.F.,
7 chambered, double action, niclcel,
2in. barrel, BJoz., 10s 6d (Postage 6d)
Young: America Revolvers, 32 u.K,
safety hammer, 5 chambered, 2m.
barrel, Bioz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Post-
8. &W 6d pattern Revolvers, 3200. F.,
nickel or blued, automatic ejector,
3Jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, 13Joz. .
I Post 9d N S.W.; Is. 2d. Inter-State.), l»s oa
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 O F.,
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter State),
Hopkins?“ Forehand "S.& W. Pattern Automatioßevob
vers, 82 caL 0.F., 3in. barrel, weight 11K, »
quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-State), 17s oa
fd
Young:
America.
LAWN TENNIS.
C=s _
bF&KV hANbICAP STANbAftb
3/6 5/- 7/3 2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
. Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’B RACQUETS.
.. 13s 6d
18s
Renshaw ..
Demon
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doZ-
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s fid
Ayres’ Cyprus . .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK BIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set ,
Men’s Special Value “ O.B.B.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., lv)s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
The Great
Monte Carlo
Came.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality Gun
Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert). Price—
-10/6
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
\ '
L
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
28 6d, 3s 6d each
sfd
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3|lb ..
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacca Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing Post Free.
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
The Celebrated
THE MAINE
Pifle
Pifle A par'
sb
fitted with Sporting Hear Sights
Action, iSin. Blued Steel Barrel,
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra
Weight, 2|lb.
to 800yds., Bolt
Walnut Stock.
Long Cartridges.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONB.
sdf
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
2* eal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about SJlb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lb.
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3jll). Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d; Interstate, 2s 8d .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
Postage—2s 6d N.S.YV. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
£3
Harrington & Richardson’s 5.8.8.1 j Uun,
12-gauge, top action, automatic self-ejecting de-
carbonised steel barrel 30in., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding locks, pistol
(Crip, walnut stock, weight
about 6|lb.
£1 7s 6d
MICK
SIMMONS
dfg
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebouiKlnig locks.len ohoke patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 , Inter-State, / .
40s
£3
Postage on X Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen'a
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
*p.-
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
DBBL Gan, 12Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
śfd
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
sfd
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Sienien’s ” steel barrels,
both ’choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Dpplev-Fdce' oatent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
Hin cartridges GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
tinest-ciuality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State
£l2 12s
A.Jvt3Nfl:xjKrxTio3\r,
Gun Cartridges.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB
“ E. 8.” smokeless
amberite
ELEY’S “ E.C.”
BALLISTITE
12g.
l«g-
-12 g.
12g.
12g.
12g.
12u'.
12g.
per 100
6s (Hi
6s 6d
6s 6d
6s 6d
Ss 6d
10s 6d
11s 9d
Us Od
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges .
BI LLETED No. 1, 6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; N*o. 3, 2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges .
\Vl\< HESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle ..
„ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is 0d 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s 0d
2s Od 18s Od
remittance and freight must accompany order,
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


BLINDFOLDED MEN AND WOMEN
fj confidence in themselves. They are unable to discern where their feet may tread. THETR
often like a oerson hlinrHVtU i rp, Lieir hands are raised to ward off imaginary blows which threaten them. Sick men or women are
Of doubt. They know they are ill, and that robe Z/moftheTooTa'le 6110 '’' tUrn n ° W t 0 *“* ° n<l “ o '' *° ** other “ unoertaint J' ° f
r.i m l th c IS , COndl r who are tired of spending money in a vatn endeavor
Uds adit 'it , , ?■ w™ NG DISEASES, should, after reading
to P f treat “ e “ t - Wo could not convert our fellow men were w?
man f,O “ a P*‘‘ont whom we did not benefit or cure. No medical
man should take a fee from a sick person unless he is able to benefit. When you
31!: yOU k “ow °ur proposition beforehand-if we do not produce results,
WicKm^«£SS h 3h“ are £our le «^ly-qualified
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institutes,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE .
Each Specialist may be consulted personally. Their opinions will be given FREE.
a
5>
m
j
&
«
v
X
c
0
m
&
V"
£
i
n
l
ll
m
k
1
Remarks on Men’s Diseases
And Operations by the Freeman and Wallaoe
Staff of Physicians and Surgeons.
There is no branch of medicine in which abso-
lute keenness of diagnosis and a thorough under-
standing of every detail of a case is so essential as
in the treatmentof diseases of theGenito-Urinary
Organs.
* * «
It is now over 25 years since the Specialists of
the FREEMAN AND WALLACE INSTITUTE
initiated their particular speciality—Diseases in
Men and in that time they have operated in
Australia alone on over 8000 cases of Varicocele
and Rupture. Many other operations they enu-
inerate, those for Stone in the Bladder, with or
without crushing, operations for Cancerous and
other diseases of the Organs, removal of Stone in
the Kidneys, Abscess with one or both Organs,
removal of the Nerve for persistent and incurable
Neuralgia, and many other difficult and danger-
ous feats of Genito-Urinary Surgery.
Their treatment as regards Varicocele by Pain-
less, Non-cutting, Non-contracting, and Bloodless
operation is generally approved of, and with that
f n , d view they have carefully collected and
tabulated statistics of operations of a large num-
ber of operations of this nature.
They have been operating successfully for
Double and Single, simple and extremely com-
plicated cases of Varicocele, and can say with
truth they have seldom failed to cure a case
however bad or for how long a time it had existed,
ihey have operated on patients from the age
Bl x 1 10 !* le age of 84 years, in some cases where
the disease had existed for 40 years.
As a Medical Institute, they challenge any
* lrm in the world to show so large a number of
cases or such an unbroken list of successes.
* • * •
SOME QUESTIONS ASKED.-For the benefit
of some patients who keep asking questions, the
Specialists wish to say that there is no cutting or
Blood Poisoning, and absolutely no pain
The operation for Stricture or Varicocele never
injures the vital power; on the contrary that
power is improved, wasting of parts stopped,
blood circulated through healthy channels no
confinement in house or bed, and patient’ can
return home, even if distant one thousand miles
on the following day. The result of the opera-
tion as performed by the Specialists is that the
moment the pressure of coagulated blood is
taken off the organs the small veins enlarge
regain their circulatory power, and healthv
circulation is doubled.
Hence new life, vigor and strength in the
after the operation for Varicocele, results.
Eight Prostatlc & Bladder Facts
From Tabulated RccordsZof
the Institute’s Stairs.
WHERE THE MEDICAL IPROFESSION ERR.
1. Eighty per cent, of all cases of Enlargement
of the Prostate Gland ARE NOT DUE
TO FIBROUS ENLARGEMENT, BUT
TO CONGESTIVE SWELLING.
2. EVERY CASE OF CONGESTIVE ENLARGE-
MENT IS CURABLE if properly treated
by Specialists in the disease.
3. —Cutting operations on the Prostate are
never called for in CONGESTIVE EN-
LARGEMENT, BUT ARE ALWAYS
DANGEROUS IN OLD MEN.
4. In Chronic Hypertrophy, Urinary, and Bladder
Disorders, symptoms are unchanged.
The symptoms increase and decrease
according to causes.
6. In SIXTY-EIGHT PER CENT, of all cases of
CONGESTIVE ENLARGEMENT, and of
Chronic Inflammation of the Bladder
(Cystitis), THERE EXISTS A STRIC-
TURE OF LARGE CALIBRE, causing
reflex irritation and continuous trouble.
—A stricture of large calibre is one that causes
many bad reflex systems, and is one that
is professionally known as “ not tight,’’
as shown in the small stricture.
7. —A patient with an enlarged Prostate or Stric-
ture of large calibre may medicate him-
self, BUT WILL NEVER BE CURED.
8. —Nine doctors out of ten with little experience
CLASS ALL ENLARGEMENTS OF THE
PROSTATE AS CHRONIC HYPER-
TROPHY, AND INCURABLE WITHOUT
OPERATION. Thousands of patients,
who might have been cured, have thus
been sacrificed.
TERMS. —The Specialists’terms for consultation
by mail or in person are FREE, and con-
fidential. This does not include an
examination by the Physician-in-Chief
with the Urethroscope, Endescope, or
Cystoscope (or Illumination of the Blad-
der) when necessary. After a thorough
examination, they know exactly what the
trouble is, and can tell exactly what is
necessary to effect a permanent and last-
ing cure. The Specialists know the
diseases of men like a child knows its
alphabet or the pages of an open book.
PAINLESS.—AII examinations of any kind of a
minor degree are rendered bloodless,
painless, and free from complications by
ihe use of soothing medications known te
The Specialists.
Condensed Report of Operation
for Ulcer in Bladder.
Performed by Or. R. WALLACE and his Btaff
upon Mr. H. C.
(Surname furnished privately, if necessary.)
This patient was a terrible sufferer, experienc-
ing’ all the inconveniences Inflammation of the
Bladder in its worst fornrwould cause. Had been
to several doctors, receiving no relief.
Here is Dr. WALLACE’S own extract:—
“ I placed the patient on examination-table,
noted the following facts :
“ Bladder distended by urine, but no Stric-
ture. Prostate gland enlarged. Urine showed
Inflammation of Bladder and Congestion of
Kidneys, caused through stoppage, accom-
panied by agonising pain. Result of examina-
tion, after searching for stone with electric
Endescope. No stone and no gravel.
Lit up Urethral Canal, found it congested,
not diseased. Examined electrically after
washing out with clear salt solution. Every
fraction of the Mucus Membrane reflected in
mirror as plainly as if Bladder had been cut
open to the eye. Found on inner side of main
curve of Bladder Canal A SMALL BUT DEEP
ULCER. This was the seat of trouble. Pa-
tient under treatment seven weeks. Medi-
cated application to ulcer until it healed per-
fectly. Bladder and Prostate Medicated.
Later internal remedies to regulate Kidney
action and sterilise urine. Five years after
an additional testimonial to one presented on
patient’s recovery to health."
Etract from same :
“ Dear Dr. Wallace, —Enclosed you will find
my photograph. I think that is sufficient
testimony as to your skill and ability. lam
well and happy.
“Yours faithfully,
“ H. O."
Any man suffering from any form of disease of
~™ rpanB Bhould write personally to
Dr. WALLACE and his Medical Staff. All parti-
cuiars free by post. Associated with him are
f our Skilled Experts in the treatment and opera-
tion of such forms of Deadly Diseases of Men.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treat-
ment will not cure you, write to the references we publish.
Ask any of the attestants. We court the closest investiga-
tion. Our Parcel Post System is a blessing, to all sick men
living in centres far from medical men and aid. Our
Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Wallace, M.D., is registered by
Australasian, English, and American Medical Boards. All
letters are directly supervised by him, and medicines for-
warded to all parts of Australasia.
The Cure for Rheumatism.
sfd
sfd
sfd
Rheumatism is due to an excess of acid in the
blood.- when this escapes through the pores of
the skin, as it often does, it produces some form of
nDSS&nc 901 ? 6 itching disease like ECZEMA
OR TETTERS—but when these little tubes or
sweat glands are suddenly closed by exposure to
cold, then the poisons very often, by the blood
finding no outlet, settle in the Membranes,
Muscles, I issues, and Nerves. These parts
become greatly inflamed, feverish, and hot; dagger-
like, maddening' pains following quickly in succes-
SS?J,£2S« muscles beca me extremely tender, THE
NERVES BREAK DOWN, and the sufferer is
£K>on reduced to a state of helplessness and misery
This acid poison penetrates the joints, and seems
to dry up the natural oils, and the legs, arms, and
lingers become so stiff and sore that every movement is attended with excruciating pain.
A MARVELLOUS CURE.
Mr. J. BOULDEN, of Camberwell, Victoria, who
suffered from rheumatism for years, after a three
months’ course, writes :
“ For years I suffered from Rheumatism, and
failed to obtain relief. I tried the Specialists of
your Staff, and am now, through their Electro-
Medical methods, entirely cured. You are at
liberty to publish the testimony, also my portrait,
in the interest of the public."
All our Testimonials are given by men whose
names are beyond reproach. Anyone suffering
should adopt this treatment. It will cure when
all other means fail. This fact is supported by
thousands of testimonials.
Electricity in the shape of Electro-
Medicated Baths GIVES ABSO-
LUTE RELIEF, especially when
the disease is brought on by the ex-
cessive use of Mercury. Anyone
interested in a cure should write to
the Specialists of the Institute, Syd-
ney and Melbourne, WHO MAKE
A SPECIALITY of the treatment
and cure of this disease through the
agency of Electric Baths.
* * * *
RHEUMATISM CAN BE
CURED only by working complete
change in the blood. The acids are
neutralised, circulation purified,
richer, healthier blood carried to the
aching muscles and joints, which
soothes and heals them.
Our Correspondence and
Our Advice by Letter.
What to do in Serious Cases .
Ever* day we are receiving letters which are written to our Specialists from all Darts of the
Co Bom “of asms ter- ,rom Kii - New Caiedo ” i '*’ «* d
“ Dear f f irs T ’^!, r i ally beli TJ seriousl y in - 1 can not eat; lam weak and uninterested in life I feel
oh«d„„ wt l .£ r^", Tdo h „r.^ t t°o ss. " e - ti *
SaKlTtely eLi e ntti?_ Writt “ “ *“■ “™”' *“ d " ,raoh “““P^P*“ d treatment
We send him remedies, for it is probably a case of Life and Death. We earn this man’s
gratitude. He becomes a living advertisement for us. CC 8
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF KIDNEY DISORDERS.
checked it will turn to Diabetes, Dropsy, or Bright’s Disease. The Kidneys drain the blood of
thesTdiseases.' Whe " Kldneys are slck > these Poiaonjthe tissues and nerves, and create
TAKE OUR ADVICE.
SPECIALLY TREATED. „ iDUIVIIIco wuu „ Ul
MUST BE A SPECIAL FORM of treatment and remedy.
If you suffer from any of the above symptoms or
diseases, write to us. We have special remedies
for Kidney disease, and THEY MUST BE
medicines won’t do. For every DISEASE THERE
* vY® W wu 6ply t 0 yOUr letter ,' or postcard at once, and tell you how to tell if you have kidnev
trouble. When we cure a man he is cured to stay cured. y
, For a Quarter of a Century the Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute has been a fixed
fact, and will remain so. It is as standard as Australian gold. Send for a pamphlet dealing
principally with testimonies. You will be surprised to know how many thousands we have
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth (Q, Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes.
r - Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Ohief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
And at MELBOURNE
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute with the Federal Postal authorities having been amicably settled, Patients
may diredt their letters to the above address without fear of delay.


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a Sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
lifer's
Mair Vigor,
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. |
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not bo deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Mass., U. S. A.
For Sunburn
o'* Sore Eyes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
"*'-'** won ftuuwi! remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
Musbands /
Make it your business to
see that a bottle of
SCOTT’S EMUL-
SION of cod liver
oil and hypophos-
sfd
is always in the house, and see that
the wife takes it the moment she
feels a chill, or a cold or cough coming
on, or is over-tired, out of sorts, a bit
| low,” sleepless, or has lost her appe-
tite, or in maternity or nursing, or after
exhausting illness. Her health and
spirits will return as if by magic.
Wives! ave
SCOTT S to your husbands
to stop chest, throat, skin or blood
troubles. €J Town Hall Buildings,
Payneham Road, St. Peters, South
Australia, 28th July, 1904. “ I con-
tracted a heavy cold, which settled on
my chest and lungs, causing a continuous
hacking cough both day and night. My
chest was inflamed and very sore, my
rest broken and appetite gone. The
first few doses of Scott’s Emulsion gave
relief, and my cough disappeared,
my chest and lungs were soothed and
healed, my appetite and rest began to
return, and I improved in health and
strength. I found Scott’s palatable
and easy to retain.” H. E. Wood.
Mothers I
Give Scott’s to your babies
to stop whooping cough,teething troubles,
bronchitis, colds, weakness or wasting
While you think of it,
write to us for a free trial bottle of the
original emulsion of 30 years ago, since
constantly improved and still far the best
for its results. Enclose 4d. for postage
and mention this paper. Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483, Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
fds
•OAING7V?
(o\l
kfl)
fd
IRISH
dfs
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
sd
d
Waltham
Watches\
The
THE IVEL TUG of- WAR.
IVEL” AGRICULTURAL
MOTUR
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
12,000,000 of these
watches now m use.
All Waltham
watches are guaran-
teed by American
Waltham Watch
Co., the largest
watch movement
manufacturing
concern in the world.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sfd
His Majesty
The King: and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIB> AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
the high-class Washing material
‘Viyella’
(Regd. )
/W77W>,
cf
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
eE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“39.”
I only woke this morning
To find the world is fair—
I’m going on for forty,
With scarcely one grey hair;
I’m going on for forty,
Where man’s strong life begins,
W ith scarce a sign of crows’ feet,
In spite of all my sins.
Then here’s the living Forties 1
The Forties !—the Forties 1
Then here’s the living Forties !
We’re good for ten years more.
The teens were black and bitter,
A smothered boyhood’s grave—
A farm-drudge in the drought-time,
A weary workshop slave.
But twenty years have laid them,
And all the world is fair—
We’ll find time in the Forties,
To have some boyhood there.
Then here’s the wide, free Forties—
The Forties ! The Forties !
Then here’s the wide, free Forties !
We’re good for ten years more !
The twenties they were noble,
The gladdest years, I think ;
’Twas man to man in trouble.
In working and in drink ;
’Twas man to man in fighting,
For money or for praise.
And we’ll find in the Forties
Some more Bohemian days.
Then here’s the wiser Forties !
The Forties ! The Forties !
Then here’s the wiser Forties !
We’re good for ten years more.
The thirties were the fate years ;
I fought behind the scenes.
The thirties were more cruel,
And blacker than the teens,
I held them not but bore them—
I hey were no years of mine,
But they are going from me,
For I am thirty-nine.
So here’s the stronger Forties !
The Forties ! The Forties !
And here’s the good old Forties !
We re good for ten years more.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Market.
The mantle of night is cast
O’er Rome and Athens and Tyre,
And all their glory is one
With the flame of a vanished fire.
For all that is left of the grace
And the splendor that made them rich,
Is writ in a schoolboy’s book,
Or stands in a darkened niche.
The ships from a thousand towns
That plied to their thousand quays,
Were long since food of the waves
And the eating things of the seas.
They furrow the waves no more
Rich-laden with gold and pearls,
And silks and red-jawed beasts.
And shy, sweet stolen girls.
No more their mantled lords
Buy blushing flesh for gold ;
For the market-place is dumb
Where the captive maids were sold.
No longer the captive maid,
Fiower-crowned, sings melodies
To soothe her splendid lord
Upon his couch of ease.
For the Pagan times are done j
Their temples and their thrones
Are names upon the mind
And heaps of fallen stones.
And yet, in spite of time,
One ancient trade still thrives ;
And though the Forum fell
The market-place survives.
In church and street and square
The market-places lie,
And every vendor spreads
Her goods to catch the eye.
Red lips are here for sale,
And here are dainty charms j
And all the stalls are bright
With shapely throats and arms.
The sellers speed their sales
With shy or forward airs ;
And through the golden day
They cry their pretty wares.
And some are crazed to sell,
And raise their voices high,
And catch the buyer’s sleeve
And bid him taste and try.
For charms are quick to spoil,
And crowded are the shelves
Of that long market-place
Where maidens sell themselves.
They serve their end, and so
Are petted, praised and kissed j
And when they fall asleep
Are neither mourned nor missed.
In spite of vaunt and boast
And all our doctrines fine,
The Huckster still is lord,
The market is our shrine.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Moocher ” : It is said that we got
the coo-ee ’ from the blacks, and the word
coo-ee ’ is said to be formed onomatopceically
from the sound itself. This has never satisfied
me. Have heard dozens of niggers and old-hand
whites coo-ee ; but have never heard them make
a noise anything like our coo-ee. The required
volume and intensity of sound cannot be pro-
duced by the turtle-dove “coo-ee”—the hard “ c ”
and the double “e” throw the sound from the
mouth alone. The black opens his throat and
hurls from his chest a sound which is spelt “how-
woo ”or “ how-wow.” By the “w” he flings the
latter part of the sound with great force. At
National Park, on a Punday, have known girlies
look very pretty and “coo-ee” with amazing
sweetness to other girlies just over the creek, and
that s about all it s good for. No, I reckon “ coo-
ee should be spelt “how-woo,” if it’s meant to
represent the sound.
“Nulla”: The wombat, looking as he
does like a cross between a pig and a bear, is not
a handsome animal, and his habit of digging
cavernous pitfalls for unwary bushman is! at
times, provocative of scandalous remarks but at
least it can be said of him that he is the strongest
and hardest grafter in the bush. Generally he is
a nocturnal rambler, but sometimes, when the
snow is on the mountains, he has to put in over-
time looking for a crust, and by following his
broad tracks one may come across him indus-
triously grubbing amongst the undergrowth. As
though conscious of his strength he is slow to
an £f ’° nce ’ 111 my experience, when two
cattle-dogs fastened to an “old man” he didn’t
even swear, but walked into the handiest hollow
log, brushing the dogs off against its sides like two
Hies, irained wombats would make ideal miners
for the Rand. 1 hey wouldn’t want a vote, could
be depended on not to loot stores or fry the boss
and as for work-well, place our National Debt
and George Reid m front of one, and I’ll back
him to pay off the debt with one paw and try to
drag a policy from George with the other.
The Australian bush boy is notoriously a
good, dealer. One section of him lives “wav
back in the hills of N.E. Victoria, and he can
give points to a butter or land agent. Only new-
chum Hindu hawkers go there ; they do one trio
and never go back. One Hindu with a fat smile
drove up to the skin store, t’other day “How
much you buy rabbit-skin, boss ? ” he asked. “Ud
to a bob, ” was the answer. “ All right, I sell you
I plenty possum, plenty beeswax. You buy?”’
Let s have a look at ’em,” said the boss. The
Hindu lugged in four tightly-filled bags, and the
boss started sorting them. As he went through
them the Hindu’s fat smile vanished. Out of the
first bag were taken old rags, lumps of wood, about
a dozen mouth-organ plates, and a large quantity
of sundries. Where’s the ’possums ?” asked the
boss. The Hindu dragged in a bundle-twenty
dozen he said. They comprised sixteen good
skins around a miscellaneous collection of rags
lumps of calf skin, and an old coat. The Hindu
began to say prayers. “ You’ve been in the hills
haven t you?” asked the boss. “Yes nlullv
rogues. “Where’s the beeswax?” It was
brought. It looked a lovely golden color and was
nicely moulded in squares. “Fifty-two pounds’
weight, said the Hindu. The boss stuck his
pocket-knife into it. The blade entered a quarter
of an inch and stopped. Investigation showed a
tlun coating of wax plastered on a red-gum block.


Australian Mutual Provident Society-
For Lils Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
has money to i^md
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
of e GovJrnttTi l n + < Co ™* >med ) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
?r»Ti«.fT*T£T Jdebentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
; O' 11 ' n f | 'y Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to -0 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
_ General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I. A. F.F.A. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO GO MF'ETITtOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
“REPEATER”
SMOKELESS POWDER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Carefully inspected shells, the best com-
binations of powder, shot and wadding,
loaded by machines which give invariable
results are responsible for the superiority of
Winchester “Repeater” Factory Loaded
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cartridges.
There is no guesswork in loading them.
Reliability, velocity, pattern and penetra-
tion are determined by scientific apparatus
and practical experiments. Do you shoot
them ? If not, why not ? They are
THE ONLY CARTRIDGES TO SHOOT
&
£
!T=sr« ~
I
The Real Thing
At Last JT
|f V j
FUSSELI&
PURE RICH
CREAM
k GOLDEN A
k BUTTERFLY M
Tgjb. BRAND. J&
FUSSELL’S
CREAM
Is NOT a Makeshift NOR a Substi-
i tute but PURE Mountain Pasture
CREAM. Guaranteed free from Pre-
servative &nd put up in Sterilized
Tins. Keeps good IN ANY CLIMATE
FOR MANY MONTHS. On sale
almost everywhere, but if any difficulty
in procuring it, apply to special repre-
sentative for the district—
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
George Street, Sydney.
Cures While
You Skep
sfd
sfd
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
ID DISTRESSING GOUGHS IN YOUNG UO OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Vapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, !60z., 7-6; 4 oz., 2-3; 2 oz., 1-3.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A,
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Consult KERR RASSMUSSENfSpeciaiist
I n all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
ol Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
|g. ■ -- TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
nreUJleß ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cuue the Nerves, Dehility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthfiil Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DespaiF.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOfIO £ o 11 R 5“ PIS B Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blooci
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special PowePful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
lilfgssalr IRf Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6,
HlfsSrilfo lie UllltfaS Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Brandies : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
<Bl HAY ST„ PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST., KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z
NERVOUS PROSTRATION
A Remarkable Cure in Redfern.
THE CASE OF MRS. M. J. BUDD.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
The time has arrived when it is imperative that the afflicted members of the community should
take steps to protect themselves against the evils which tend to render their lives unhappy ; and, as
so many go on suffering year after year through lack of serviceable information, it is deemed
advisable to place before the public the story of Mrs. Mary Jane Budd, of 36 Young-street, Redfern
so that a salutory lesson may be learned. What Mrs. Budd said to our special was this
“It is now eight years since my husband died. I was born in Bourke-street, and have lived in
this locality all my life. It was not long after my great bereavement that I became a total wreck.
The blow nearly killed me, and for a good while I was really stupified with grief. For some con-
siderable time my memory was completely lost, and it was impossible for me to concentrate my mind
for a few minutes upon any subject. When my dazed condition passed away it was then that I
realised how terribly my whole system had suffered.”
“ What did your medical attendant say was wrong with you ? ”
“ He told me I had taken my afflictions inwardly, and that my nervous system was in a very
weak state. I knew that well enough, unfortunately, for I could not even bear to hear the children
talking, their voices got on my nerves so, and if a tap came to the door, I nearly fainted with fright.
I hadn’t the least desire for food, and I think one of my greatest afflictions was my inability to get to
sleep. For four years I did not know, what it was to sleep properly for one night. It was usual
for me to remain awake till about three or four o’clock in the morning, and then doze off till
about half-past five, when I always awoke with a start, and would get no more sleep till next,
morning.”
“You must have lost weight during your illness? ”
“0,1 was ghastly. My bones were almost protruding through my skin, and anybody seeing
me could not have thought otherwise than that I would never get better again. I really thought
I was doomed to die, and feel sure I would have been dead long ago only for Clements’ Tonic,
which was the last medicine of all that I took. A friend often used to say ‘ Why don’t you try
some Clements’ Tonic?’ but I always postponed doing so; but at last I thought that as I had
heard so much about it, and nothing else could do me any good, I would give Clements’ Tonic
a trial. You must understand that I was quite incapable of doing any work, and that it was
a common thing for me to be in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly unable to
attend to anything that requires seeing to, so when Clements’ Tonic began to put a little life and
strength into me you can imagine how thankful I was for it. And weren’t my neighbors surprised to
hear that I had taken a turn for the better ? My word, it was a matter that astonished the whole of
Redfern. But what a relief it was to have my headaches ease off after suffering so long with them.
And wasn’t I glad to feel that Clements’ Tonic was also doing good to my nervous system ? Why, I
had only been taking that remedy a few weeks when I could stand noises of any kind without
wincing, and already I was getting more sleep than I had for years. Oh, I have thanked Gfod
thousands of times that I was guided to take that remedy, and I am so anxious that other sufferers
may regain hope by hearing of my cure. But Clements’ Tonic served me well in other ways. It put
an end to the giddy feeling I used to have, removed the swollen feeling from my eyes and the suffo-
cating sensations from my chest; then, finally, built up my strength so perfectly that everyone could
see my health was thoroughly regained.”
“May I publish your remarks ?”
“ I gladly give you permission to'publish them in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MARY JANE BUDD, of No. 3S Young-street, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth o
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains,
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements —which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing- the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act
1900. (Sgd.) MARY JANE BUDD.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four
before me, THOS. CADDY,~J.P. ’
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
salt;
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-’Sm Capsule marked ENQ’S FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION. v .
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
I
C, There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
ITTLE
I¥ER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's


• LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy'
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c..
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTE ART [CUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
6 LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essehee of Linseed, for Goughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdsf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It wilt cure alt cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will give fret
to each per
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
817 C0LLIN8 8TREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN, .and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may OUR 1C
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SY'JD UNTIE Y-
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
/ YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
Aiinpii by Dr Langston’s Perfect
UUtfCU Combined Tbeatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
W ork. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book— if
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4 CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE lanoston institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
A POLICY i'ok tuk . C.OMM.ON.WEALTH-
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERHANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
sfd
Slw
o c:
■re
C/5
It is the purest ai\d n\ost ecoiYonvical
cocoa iivuse. It’s aicest too.
E/if LANCET sa/s-"Cadbur/s /s highest purity.
sfd
GOOD HAIR FOR AI.L !
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PA RASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making 1 hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND Tor ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
1
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA
|| ■ 1 fj
sfd
h
w
GET STRONG
If you don’t know how,
ask your friends ; read
the papers ; note the
men who have been ill,
and got well again ; in-
vestigate for yourself,
and you will find the
reply from all genuine
sources is CONSULT THE
PHYSICIANS OF THE
M LANGSTON INSTITUTE
Their experience ex
tends over many years
of phenomenally suc-
cessful practice, a'nd
THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE
Weak, Ailing, and Despondent Men, start the right
way about it to get Cured—go to the Fountain Head
and either write to, or consult personally, the
Greatest Living Authorities on
NERVE, BLOOD, AID SUN DISEASES.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS
THE LATEST DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL
SCIENCE— IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITE at once for Dr. Langston’s
Latest Medical Wort,
“MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.”
The Book is written for sufferers to
understand, and points out the way
to a permanent cure. It tells you
what you want to know, and what you
ought to know.
POSTED FREE TO ALL.
THIS MAN KNEW WHAT TO DO.
" Read his experience :
Bessiebelle, Broadwater.
Dear Doctor, —I have to state that
I feel splendid. Your treatment has
done me a world of good. There is no
further weakness, and I have no ner-
vous symptoms. lam sending you the
balance of your fee with this report,
and I hereby express my sincere thanks
for the great good you have done me.
Yours truly, ROBT. THOMSON.
THE
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS SUET, MELBOURNE.
CONSULTATION FREE. ESTABLISHED 1837.
When writing, mention this paper.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body
AERTEX^~m I
CELLULAR . .
UNDERWEAR
Ail garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Gentlemen —SHIRTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sole Agents in N.S.W. :
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King Street, Sydney.
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST —Post Free.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ung Tonic
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
V'ASK FO*
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL?
and REFUSE
I SUBSTITUTES &
dfg
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of ub. ' Your
Money in full refunded without qii< Btion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.. _
LATEST
MODELS
£2:tO to £6
Eaclie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyres. Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc. \
ached and Delivered Free
o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-hand Cycles
iHJy all makes, £2.10
good as new, • • .
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily n ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our specil using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c..hal f prices.
MEAD CYCLE GO . Deo . esa.
LIVERPOOL, CONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet, pursue
your ordinary avocatipn. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars iree. Address —
JA S. GRA K5-&r 60,j
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


SKINS &HIDES
f
J. Rennont Sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria £?
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
0
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sa/es sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Rennon & Sons
TANNERS (Si EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
< “" oAt> chi'ef'office Vor h.s.w.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. __V£_jL_BAXTER 2 _Res._Sec^
THE
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
r H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-oyl. Touring Oar. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich*
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd*, 253 Elizabeth St*, Sydney.
ILLi
intff 1
3"
•!; iii ill It! •
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests..
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges,loadedwithblack
!|ji‘ ■" or smokeless powder, i
are accurate, sure of fife, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
hinimM.'imihi.'. BRIDGEp o RT » conn., u. s.
«£
>
"III!
%l
11 ,r
0
'ii’jrjli
tr/ti
‘inujJiif
•7M
M!
<wm
n>7
•*/
i'fit
m
r*.*'
■/A
VA
M
v
*^B
the
RUBEROID
RED
ROOFING.
A permanent roofing with a permanent
color. Needs no painting or coating. The
color develops more folly with exposure to
tlie weather, deepening into a terra-cotta
or bricK-red which will last indefinitely.
ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Agents x E. RICH CO., Ltd ~ Sydney (Sb Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Oitice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1377.
THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1906.
Pbiob 6d.
NOW SHOWING IN QUEENSLAND.
THE GREAT ANTI-SOSH TEAM OF JUGGLERS AND COMEDIANS.
N.B.—THIS IS NOT AN ADVT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A ustralh, /or the A ast rattans.”
Pnnted and Published by William Macleod, of
TKn a ' K M w LeodStree t 8 ’ Mosman, for
OffioAfT N n Ne W Co ” Ltd ” at the
North,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Rev Annum " jm r r>
Half-yearly ./. - - £1 Q f. I
Quarterly ... Q 7 o
SmlLvilq 1 i't 'l-i d,recf ' t° Tub Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
regulariu tlmZ 9 V ° U ca V hnm Tm! Bulletin vested
e rratai ly to you every week for a year.
to 'tffiv 10 '’ and .? ll Business Communications
e add) essed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
lloiv to Address T*etters .
fnoTt.fP° nde,ds t 0 : r " K Bulletin would oblige the paper
methods by taUng SOme mre as t 0
mfntTlff letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
but to fly*r loUld m U !» case he to the Editor,
«:!>£<Z,Ss er - 10 md *• m ™»- <• »
f , not a 9°°d thing to address editorial letters to
s e tiame. 7he Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
VZZ* Cnptlon fo r ;‘ CO PV” Relay, and even loss, is
o mlinlT 68 ,ff USGd lj d addressing to persons instead of
always is/ 16 may Hot he there; the ojJleial
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
r;Jhtt Co ”n? ntS -°S this pnper are copyright by the pub-
Vll'■ to re Produce or translate any part of
the ‘publishers nHV,l>eris hereby expressly reserved by
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in. the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
( loose dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns m length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
deiitial VIUUniCa^OnS re 9 arded as strictly confi-
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
ji/.b. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
lor return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu to urn in nlach and white.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
wilt be paid for same 011 acceptance. ' Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
or as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
off ter the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
fotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street. Place.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown ■
Messrs. R. A. Thompson At Co., 28 Biebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ■
and others.
Vancouver. — 'Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size fi§iu. x thin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can lie
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1906.
EDWARD BRADDON (DECEASED) AND
HIS BLOT.
A disquieting feature in regard to finance in the near
future arises from the uncertainty as to the amount to be
returned to the State by the Commonwealth from the
revenues collected from duties of Customs and Excise.
My Ministers, in conjunction with those of other States,
have already discussed this matter with the Common-
wealth Government, and it is hoped that a satisfactory
solution of the question may be arrived at in the near
future.— Extract from the Governor’s speech at the ovenina
of N.S.W. Parliament.
There was one matter of overshadowing importance to
the country, and one which, if not carefully watched,
would prove of great embarrassment to those Ministers
conducting its affairs. He alluded to the fact that in 10
years from 1900 what was known as the Braddon clause
in the Constitution Act would expire. If it had not been
for that clause, the Treasurers and people of the various
States would have been placed in a very bad position i ndeed
for carrying on the duties of. government. There was a
disposition on the part of the Federal Government and
Parliament—he had found it himself in Mr. George
Turner and his colleagues—to alter that clause, so as
not to be compelled to return three-fourths of the Cus-
toms and Excise duties to the States. The Commonwealth
Government and Parliament wanted to shake off this
binding clause, and if that were done no greater calamity
could happen from a financial point of view. If it was
altered the State would be absolutely at the power of the
Commonwealth Parliament, and how would any Trea-
surer know how he was to pay his way ? Waddell,
M.L.A., on the same occasion.
Thebe is nothing on earth which should more
effectually wreck George Reid’s prestige as a poli-
tician than the steadily-increasing State popularity
of the Braddon clause of the Australian Consti-
tution. That Constitution, as originally drafted,
made no definite provision for the taking over
by the Commonwealth of the State debts,
and it was equally void of any arrangement
whereby provision was made for the payment of
interest on those debts. Until the Braddon
amendment appeared, it was quite a happy-go-
lucky Constitution as regards over £200,000,000
of liabilities, and professed to regard that
£200,000,000 as of no importance whatever. It
was set forth that the Customs and Excise, which,
as regards practically all the States, were then-
chief reliance for meeting the interest bill, were
to cease to be State property. It was also set
forth, as baldly as possible, that the Common-
wealth might cut down Customs and Excise
taxation till the whole proceeds of the tariff were
hb,ra.‘i,:
,1 -alec! to the Commonwealth for assistance
SdSbS- W “lf • could te » themcSrE
situationnnrilrt. th n F ° Wn funeraL That was the
to the T)rs ft P he^ RA - DDON clause was added on
c-iS Sd off hTnTstaaL“ d “ WaS ” d “ ided *
r * * * *
in amendment—commonly called
v"ded th»t y tn he ® lot T altered all this.* It pro-
tfc of the Customs and
fhe Stateft enUe h ° U v ld either be returned to
bills nr f i na , ) i the , m t 0 meet th eir interest
to meet inbPo r* 1 - b , y - t le r Commonwealth itself
This was the S fi s ' nc ’ n h r funds and repayments,
abont £7 non nno St attem Pt made to provide for
about £7,000,000 a year of liabilities. It is a
South n wS Ct that ’ at that time ’ so far as New
bouth Wales was concerned, The Bulletin was
practical y the oniy friend the poor old Blot
theTTeelfn B^ll67 , Tele «RAPH denounced it;
T .m tM ieaped / ontu ''' ely on it; ; the Aus-
tl n iit n ■ an , ned at lt ’ m a milder way,
fc, t reC i C Iv Clod of derision. Also George
Unstamped the country in a fury of wrath, and
se™t h f tL e °T?w t0 T re -i?ct the Constitution on
tn fc the Bl °, t - T n those days it was alluded
„“ a dev ’ ce wh ereby the poorer communities
were to feed on poor old Ma State, and, with a
magnificent insolence of patronage, Reid told one
"2% I would rather finance the poorer States
myseit. ihe Braddon clause was not described
as a device whereby the Commonwealth was
bound to give to the States, or set aside as a
provision for the State debts, £3 out of every £4
collected in the way of Customs and Excise, and
thus provide the States with funds which they
badly wanted ; it was invariably mentioned as a
method whereby the Common wealth would be com-
pelled to raise from the people £4 for every £1 it
required itself, and thus tear from them money
which it didn’t require. The Blot loomed
up in lo,)8 as a huge, vague object that
was going to eat the substance of the
people, and this aspect of it was largely
responsible for the failure of the first Federal
Referendum in N.S.W.— not, as falsely alleged
hy th « Joseph Carruthers party now, the
I ederal Capital question. The capital hardly
came into the controversy in those days. Of
"' ere otller causes for the failure of
the 1898 Referendum. The disgraceful N.S.W.
Bari,ament, when it broke its agreement with the
other States re the 50,000 minimum affirmative
vote required to insure acceptance, and raised
the figure to 80,000, intended the Constitution
Bdl to be lost. It had arrived at that intention
before there was any Braddon clause. But the
reason why the 80,000 affirmative votes weren’t
secured was almost certainly the violent explana-
tions of George Reid, and the Telegraph and
Herald, that a strange Blot had been put into
the Constitution whereby, every time the Aus-
tralian Parliament required £l, it must collect
£4, and that the other £3 would necessarily be
spent in riot and debauchery, or something of
the kind.
* * * ♦
Then George Reid submitted to the N.S.W.
Assembly a list of proposed amendments on the
Constitution—amendments which were supposed
to remedy the alleged grievances of N.S.W.
aad to make the Constitution a document which
JN.S.W. could accept. The first amendment
related to a slight variation in the scheme for
dealing with deadlocks. The second read :
The 87t.h Clause, known as the Braddon Clause.—Con-
cerning which this House desires to submit for the con-
sideration of the other colonies, that this clause should be
removed from the Bill.
This and some other resolutions—one of them
condemning the bookkeeping system which pre-
vents the surplus of the oppressed Ma State being
diverted to the use and benefit of its neighbors—
"’ere passed;enthusiastically. On the strength of
them George Reid invited the other Brenners
to meet him at Melbourne, and he went
away to that partially-drained city with the
above resolution in his hand. As regards the
Braddon Blot there was nothing equivocal about
Reid’s position. He demanded that it should be
wholly and immediately abolished; that the
Commonwealth should collect the tariff revenue
and have power to spend the whole of it, if so
inclined ; that the Australian Government need
not take over the State debts unless it felt that
way; and that the States might find the money
to meet their interest bills in any way they could.
He did not quite succeed, but he secured an
arrangement whereby the objectionable Blot was
fixed for ten years only, and with that and one or
two other amendments—including Sydney’s dis-
qualification as a Federal capital—he came back a
satisfied man, bloated with pride and circum-
ference. Again he stumped the country, but
this time it was to inform the people that the
Bdl might now be accepted with safety. And
when it was accepted George Reid rose oil various
platforms, ancj rested his lower waistcoat on the
table along with the water-bottle, and congratu-
lated the public.-on the result of his endeavors.
**. * *
That was about seven years ago. No Foreign-
trade paper in New South Wales calls the
Braddon clause a Blot now, and if poor old
Edward Nicholas Coventry Braddon could
hear in his grave what a great statesman he was
for inventing the Blot—he died when George
Reid and the S. M. Herald and Telegraph had
just about finished calling him a lunatic—he
would indeed be a proud corpse. Joseph
Carruthers was Reid’s colleague and jackal in
the days when that bodily-great man secured the
amendment whereby the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment may cut off all refunds to the States after
1911, and may, at the same time, refuse to take the
responsibility of their debts. And the anxious
and worried paragraph quoted at the head of this
article is Joseph’s oblique way of saying that,
owing to his old leader being an unspeakable dolt
and clown and incapable, he doesn’t know what
on earth may happen to the State’s finances in the
near future. But he disguises his repentance
rather under the form of a new anti-Federal woe
and complaint. Seven or eight years ago N.S.W.,
under the Reid-Carruthers leadership, was the
angry, spoiled infant of Australia, declaring that
it wouldn’t join the Federation unless the Braddon
clause was either eliminated or made a mere tem-
porary evil. To-day, under Carruthers’ leader-
ship, it is a scared and soured infant saying that
the evil has only five more years to run, and after
that something very like ruin may come to N.S.
Wales. Seven or eight years ago'the presence of
the Braddon clause was the incurable grievance
of Reid and Carruthers against the unborn
Commonwealth; to-day Carruthers finds an
equally bitter grievance against the Common-
wealth in the prospective disappearance in 1911
of the thing that be and his former leader wanted
abolished in 1901. All through his allusions
to the disquieting outlook in the “ near future”
there is a remarkable absence of any direct men-
tion of the persons who brought about that dis-
quieting outlook, and who stuck out their chests
late last century, and said, “ Alone we did it."
* * * *
The case is one in which good may come out of
toolishness. It was a foolish thing to omit from
the f ederal Constitution any proviso making the
transfer of the State debts to the Commonwealth
compulsory. Having left the States at liberty to
ret use to transfer their debts, and the Common-
wealth equally at liberty to refuse to assume the
debts, it was an act of which only such a political
lout as George Reid would have been capable, to
deliberately seek to cut off from the States the
means wherewith the interest was paid. But
having got into that position—or rather being due
to get into it in 1911—there are two ways
by which the Commonwealth can get out of it
ar } . honest—that is to say, there is one way
which is honest and foolish, and another which is
honest and wise. The first is by renewing the
agreement to finance the States ; the second, by
stopping all payments to the States, and taking
over their debts by way of compensation. (If they
refuse to hand over the debts, this second method
would, of course, imply that the States would be
left to find the interest for themselves by direct
taxation until they came to their senses.) There
a l re I 1 score of reasons why the second method
®. ho “ ld Re adopted. One, which is sufficient in
itself, is that it is to the national interest to
increase the power, influence and dignity of the
Australian Parliament as much as possible, and
to diminish that of the States till they get to the
vanishing point of obliteration, which means
unification ; and one great means of enhancing
the power of the Commonwealth is to give it
control of all dealings with the public creditor.
And, especially, in fixing up this matter, the
Australian Government should listen to no repre-
sentations whatever from Joe Carruthers.
Other State Premiers may have some claim to a
hearing; Joe has none. About seven years ago
the other States, for the sake of peace, allowed
themselves to be bull-dozed by a Ricid-Carru-
THERS Ministry into changing the Braddon
clause from a permanent to a temporary affair,
and it was to prevent Carruthers and co. de-
stroying all prospect of union that they consented
th *P ievaMe that Carruthers now complains
of. therefore, when the same old Joe comes
round not apologetically as one who has been
a fool, and the colleague of another fool who
truculently forced their joint folly on to wiser
men, but bumptiously as one who is injured— to
demand the undoing of his own work, he should
be told to go away and learn to know his own
mind.
And in view of their present attitude, it is up to
Carruthers and his principal press barrackers,
notably the Sydney Telegraph, to make pil-
grimage to the grave of Edward Nicholas
Coventry Braddon, and apologise respectfully
to the dust of that departed warrior for the things
they said about his Blot.
AGAIN—AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE.
Mr. Arnold White is a publicist of importance.
His views, on naval matters especially, carry
weight in Great Britain. A recent attempt oil his
part to traverse, in London Sun, The Bulletin’s
arguments for an Australian navy calls for some
answer. Whatever an “expert” of Arnold
White S'standing may say deserves notice even
when, as in this case, it is mostly pathetic non-
sense. Mr. White’s first contention is this
, The Australian contribution for the Imperial navv
should he stopped. It is too small to be of any effective
value, and its moral effect is bad for England So
long- as the Australians find even £200,000 towards
the upneep of the Navy an essentially erroneous principle
is perpetuated and crystallised there in the form of a
detached squadron assigned to a station for political not
strategic, reasons. Rich as this country may he’ we
have no money to squander on a squadron or even a gun-
boat that would be “ mopped up ” or useless at the very
moment that it was required. J
With this conclusion The Bulletin agrees but
for different reasons. The sum is too large for
the small Australian population to waste;—as it is
now wasted—and the moral effect on Australia of
hiring somebody else to do, or pretend to do
what we should do for ourselves, is disastrous Mr’
White’s second point is that, the naval contribu-
tion to Britain being withdrawn, Australia would
be left absolutely helpless
. What about Australian defence if the British squadron
is withdrawn ? The answer is simple. So far from Aus-
tralian defence being possible by means of a few dozen
torpedo-boats or by the organisation of militia, the Oom-
™>mvealth of Australia, with or without contributions to
the Fleet, with or without her local warships, stands or
falls with Britain and her Fleet. If British sea power
goes down, Australia, with her scanty population and
enormous distances, is as defenceless as an over-ripe pear
against the ambitions of a wasp. 1 1
When Australia has discontinued the dole of £2OO 000 a
year and amuses herself by wasting money on the toy
purchase of a few local torpedo boats, the truth will
gradually dawn upon Australian statesmen, and the Aus-
tralian public, that the infant is not more dependent on
its mother for milk than the Commonw'ealth on England
for safety. Together we stand or fall. Of all the organs
of opinion by which the Australian mind is expressed the
witty and audaciously Republican Bulletin is ’ the
cleverest, and, from some aspects, the most informative.
Every Australian reads it, and a large number take their
opinions from it. Occasionally The Bulletin is very
much on the spot,” but on this naval question it
exhibits a childlike innocence which would be pathetic if
its teachings were not fraught with the tragedy of a
Nemesis to our Australian brothers and sisters. There
are two lions, either of which would enjoy a meal on Aus-
tralia, and but for the Mother Country either of them
might be seen after its repast with a bulge in its flanks
about the size of the Commonwealth. That is the plain
situation, and the investment by Australia of a few
hundied thousand pounds on local sea defence will not
alter it, because nothing that Australia can buy, borrow
or steal in the way of naval defence can raise her from the
category of impotence to which all island powers on this
planet are assigned unless they possess a first-class navy.
I his is simply the blind arrogance of Goliath
—the unconscious insolence of a big Power with
big money resources towards a smaller popula-
tion with a smaller money backing. If
it had been the view of Englishmen in the days
of Drake, Frobisher, Raleigh and Howard,
then no fleet would have put out against the
mighty Armada of Spain, but a “bulge” in
Spain’s flank would have marked the end of
England’s independence. If it were the view of
Europeans now, the tiny population of Switzer-
land would disband the citizen army which has
kept its boundaries inviolate for a century.
Roumania, Portugal, Spain, Belgium, Holland’
pcandinavia, even Italy, would give up as
hopeless the problem of defence, and await
in lamb-like meekness their acquisition by
one of the Grreat -Powers. 3VdEr. Whites view, if
he holds it seriously, comes ultimately to the
logical conclusion that only the greatest Power on
earth, in population and in money, should dream
of defence, and the world must wipe out of its
mind all the stirring tales of small, heroic peoples,
struggling against great odds, by sea or land, and
finally coming to victory, or, at least, winning im-
munity from persecution, by sheer stubborness of
heart and height of courage.
Australia, in any great war of powers, would,
of course, expect England to be fighting its
battles. In spite of the Japanese alliance, which
brough t the only real peril this continenthas to face
so much nearer, Australia expects that still; just
as, doubtless, England expects what help Australia
can give it when Armageddon comes. But that
Australia must fall with England, if England
falls, is no more true than that America must
so fall. And conceivably—if the policy which
inspired the Japanese alliance is allowed to further
dominate British councils, and they become
Asiatic rather than European in their aims—
Australia may have to stand apart from England,
and still there would be no reason to wholly
despair. Australia with its 4,000,000 of people(who
will have 4,000,000 more to keep them company
within a decade, if the Australian Parliament
adopts a vigorous national policy), has all the
capacities for defence against any possible enemy.
No one who does not believe that—who has not
the faith that Australia can, and will one day,
organise its national life to make for full security—
should remain in the country, and build up a
family and a home where he is at the mercy of some
outsider’s whim as to whether he will one day
be a slave to the Asiatic.
* * * *
ihe position as regards Australian defence is in
effect this : The continent can, with the help of an
effective Protectionist policy, be made to produce
everything necessary for maintaining civilised
life, and could therefore survive a lengthy inter-
ruption of all trade. The great ports are few in
number and easily capable of effective defence.
An Australian navy—a torpedo and submarine
fleet for coastal defence, a flock of fast converted
cruisers (doing business as merchantmen in times
of peace), and a small group of real warships—is
quite within the means of the Commonwealth,
and would be able, in even the most serious war,
to give a naval enemy some trouble and keep
running a certain amount of coastal trade. An
army of 250,000 citizen soldiers of a type finer
than could be raised anywhere else in the world,
except in the North American back country, could
be organised on this continent, allowing, with the
necessary strategic railways, of the mobilisation
at any point of an army sufficient to cope with
any possible in vading force. That is the position
without boasting. Any Australian who, under
those circumstances, takes the attitude of despair
should emigrate. All that is lacking for complete
Australian defence is Australian resolution to
organise. It is the absence of that resolution that
The Bulletin deplores and constantly fights
against; and it is mainly because such arrange-
ments as that for the subsidy of the British navy
help to perpetuate Australian apathy on the sub-
ject of defence that this paper opposes them.
* * * »
Mr. White’s gloomy fears as to the hunger of
other Powers for Australia have no real founda-
tion. Excepting the threat from Asia, which
English policy has brought so much nearer, Aus-
tralia has little to fear. Britain’s experience in the
Boer war against a people with not one-eighth
the strength of Australia—shows the difficulty of a
war of extermination against a white people. As to
the singularly “insular” position of Australia that
is more true from a geographic than from a military
standpoint. I here are scores of countries more
insular in the sense of having a greater proportion
of coast line to defend as compared with the size
of the interior—Chili, Peru, Ecuador, Holland,
Turkey, Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Norway,
Sweden are a few ; and yet they do not give up the
problem of naval defence as hopeless because they
cannot build first-class navies. Australia, to con-
clude, has nothing to fear except Australia sloth—
the sloth which is so well typified in the Naval
Subsidy agreement.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Railways.
Joseph has to do something about the N.S.W.
railway management. He wants to do the wrong
thing, naturally (Joseph’s capacity for doing the
wrong thing is the only large and generous part of
him). But to do the wrong thing is becoming in-
creasingly difficult with each development. And
Joseph hasn’t been helped at all by the conduct
of Kirkcaldie, one of the quarrelling Commis-
sioners, in suggesting interested motives against
Knox, the member of the inquiring committee
who was most strenuous in denouncing the Wes-
tern coal contract, by which Commissioners
Kirkcaldie and Fehon, in defiance of Chief
Commissioner Oliver, insisting on fastening
upon the railways the obligation of paying a far
higher rate for coal than that charged at the same
collieries to the public. A full disclosure of the
facts shows that Knox is interested to the extent
of about £lOO in a western colliery, which didn’t
come into this contract in any fashion and could
derive no benefit from it one way or the other;
and the most evil-minded of public critics will pro-
bably agree that even had the chance of making 8
or 10 per cent, on £l6O come to him by breaking
his judicial oath and betraying a sacred trust
confided in him by his country, Knox is
hardly fche sort of man to have been
tempted. But Kirkcaldie, with strange folly,
drops into a blunder only equalled by Holman
with his first hints about Commissioner Fehon
on the other sidei And Joseph who wants
to do the wrong thing, and to exalt Kirkcaldie
and degrade Oliver, must gnash his teeth at this
folly. For if the public, which is prone to sus-
picion, is put on the game of looking for “ mo-
tives”, and seeking occult reasons for things, it
can find many more plausible yarns to believe
than this one of Kirkcaldie’s about Knox. Con-
sider the main facts of this railways scandal.
Commissioners Kirkcaldie and Fehon, in spite
of the protests of Chief Commissioner Oliver,
concluded a contract with the Western Coal com-
bine, engaging to pay, as a wholesale cus-
tomer, far more than the public pays as a
retail customer. Kirkcaldie and Fehon, in
spite of the opposition of Oliver, but with the
warm approval of Joseph, insisted on concluding a
contract with the Clyde Engineering Co. for loco-
motives at a price far higher than they could be
made for in the Victorian State workshops, and
much higher, too, than they could be made for in
the Eveleigh (N.S.W.) State workshops. All the
while, on account of these incidents, the three
Commissioners led a cat-and-doglife ; and Joseph
now proposes that Oliver, the sturdy friend of
the public, should be punished for that
quarrelling, and his two colleagues, who
sacrificed the public interests, should be rewarded.
If suspicious noses are set sniffing over those
facts it will not be Knox’s name which will be
smirched. The Bulletin does not want to allege
corruption, or even hint that in boodle is to be
found the explanation of the incidents. It prefers
to believe that Kirkcaldie and Fehon and their
friend, Premier Carruthers. are guilty of nothing
worse than bad judgment and great cantankerous-
ness. But there are censorious people in this
world, and they couldn’t have a more hearty invi-
tation to be base and suspicious and evil-minded
than Kirkcaldie’s contemptible attack on Knox.


John Wren, Law-breaker.
The Victorian Labor party has fallen. of Mj® “
the wav of many curses, misfortunes and disaste -•
Harry Foran is one. Tom Mann, the big lazy
individual who tried in England to make a living
at about the laziest job in the country- the keep
ing of a beer-shop—is another Wren is a third.
Wren was once a worker at an honest and pr
ductive, though not very remunerative, calling, he
made boots. He gave that up to become a
gambling parasite, a middleman, aiid a non-pro-
fhiopr He and long has been, a law-breaker
running an illegal tote. He planted himself down
in a working men’s suburb so that he might live on
the working men, and he has grown noh onthm.
In return for their money he doesn t give them
clothes, boots, food, house-room, literature, educa-
tion or intelligent amusement; he only gives them a
gamble. He is the most popular visible embodi-
ment of the art of living without doing any useful
work. He is as much a parasite as any landlord
or capitalist whom the Labor party denounces.
Yet Wren has become, so to speak, an Institu-
tion. He has risen to the dignity of a Bloated
Circumstance. The Victorian Law has ceased to
raid his illegal tote ; apparently he owns the Vic-
torian Law now—or as much of it as the Bluenose
captain of the Melville Island didnt take away
with him. He keeps his own tame benator. Me
is alluded to respectfully at public meetings, and
poses as the owner of Victorian sport generally
not that it is a very beautiful thing to own. Eub-
lic deputations wait on Wren, and the other day
he found a little temporary work in a large sell-
advertising way for 30 unemployed, not on any-
thing that would make the country richer or better,
but at pottering round one of his gambling
machines—a racecourse to wit—and getting it in
better condition to help Wren to live without
being a useful or productive citizen. Also, he
gave the unemployed £lOO of the easily-won
money that he had made out of them, or out of
people like them; and the money served as another
glorious advt. for his illegal tote. It is an advt.
which will probably bring him in many hundreds
from these same men, or from others like them.
A man who lives on the poor is wise when he
poses as being good to the poor, so that he may go
on living upon the poor. If the workers could
show that for a single penny of Wren s wealth
he has given them any real value in return, their
admiration for him might be justified—but they
can’t. The only difference between Wren and
George Chirnside is that W ren speaks
familiarly to the poor, and Chirnside doesn t,
but then the nature of Wren’s business
calls for a sort of friendliness and familiarity.
It is good for trade. Yet the ineffably foolish
Victorian Labor Leagues talk of running Wren
for Parliament, and the unemployed cheer lnm,
and under the regime of the weixk-kneed Gillot
this tote-man has become something that is above
the Law, just as Gillot has become something
that is beneath contempt. Wren is a notorious
law-breaker who is the friend of the police, and the
associate of noliticians, all because of the money
he has made out of his law-breaking. He gets
applause for giving the poor a mere fraction of
what he took from them, knowing that this
traction will also come back a hundredfold, while
men who can’t give £lOO to the poor, because
they would have scorned to make thousands out
of the poor by Wren’s methods, sink into insig-
nificance beside him. And it is said proudly by
his hangers-on that Wren is “honest” ; in other
words, he agrees to do an illegal act for a certain
percentage ; and he doesn’t take more than his
percentage ; and he makes his honesty so good an
advertisement that he realises far more out of
being honest than lie would do otherwise. He
doesn’t require credit for his honesty; he gets
cash. If the Labor party associates itself de-
finitely with Wren, it will be a worse disaster
than its association with Tom Mann. Mann is
more lamentable than actively disastrous.
-V
The Pacific Cable.
The opening in Sydney of central offices for the
Pacific cable marks a new phase in the struggle of
the Gable Trust—represented in Australia by the
Eastern Extension Co.—to preserve its monopoly.
The Bulletin hopes that it is the beginning of a
resolute effort on the part of the Australian
Government to cut through the tangle into which
cable affairs have drifted. The facts as to the
Eastern Extension Co. and its rival have been
already frequently published, but not recently,
and it may be a fair thing to recapitulate them
for the benefit of the short-lived public memory.
The E.E. Co. represents an organisation which,
through its various ramifications, controls a
huge proportion of the world’s cables. For
many years it held a monopoly of the under-
sea communication between Australia and the
old world, and used that monopoly to exact
most oppressive rates. So grasping were its
demands that, finally, several of the States joined
together with Canada and Britain to lay down
another line, the Pacific, of which the Common-
wealth is the largest shareholder. When the
Pacific line was on the point of opening, but not
before, the Eastern Extension reduced its rates
and began to talk competition. It captured
S. Australia because its messages fed the trans-
continental line of that State. ’Westralia it
gathered in by the promise of a direct cable
from S’Africa. N.S. Wales, Queensland and
Victoria represented a tougher task, because all
their interests, sentimental and monetary, were
bound up with the Pacific cable. If Queensland
was approached, nothing came of the negotiations.
But in New South Wales Postmaster-General
Crick, and in Victoria Postmaster-General Gurr,
were induced to come to extraordinary agree-
ments, by which the Eastern Extension Co. was
put in a favorable position to compete with the
Pacific line, and those agreements were to LAST
forever. The 'Victorian Government— George
Turner was then Premier—promptly repudiated
the action of its Postmaster-General; the N.b. W.
Cabinet allowed Mr. Crick to have his way. I hat
was on the eve of Federation, and the Australian
Government, when it came to deal with the rival
cables, found itself hampered by this curious
perpetual agreement. The then Prime Minis-
ter, Mr. Barton, acting rather _ wealdy,
arranged with the Eastern Extension Co.
to secure an abandonment of its perpetual agree-
ment with N.S.W. in return for a lengthy
but terminable agreement giving it generous
advantages throughout the Commonwealth.
Obviously the E.E. Co. got far more than it gave
away. It secured its position as a competitor
against the Pacific cable for a long term of years,
during which it, no doubt, hoped to crush the
new concern. But Parliament, acting wisely,
refused to ratify the agreement. The E.E. Co.
then calmly, and with a brazen assurance which
almost calls for admiration, so brazen was it,
proceeded as if the agreement were ratified,
taking full advantage of its concessions. From
that calm assumption the monopoly has only
been disturbed within the past few weeks by
Prime Minister Deakin, who forgot Ins affability
so far as to fall suddenly on the brassy monopoly.
The act showed courage on his part, for the
•pi? Pn lias by its “progressive business
methods ’’ got’ most of the newspapers on its
“de, and finds friends in the most unexpected
miarters. If Mr. Deakin’s courage holds out
the E.E. Co. can very soon be checked in i
plans against the Pacific cab!e m sprte of th
perpetual agreement with JN.S.VV. in ® Jal
tralian Government has the power in some of the
States to secure for the Pacific an absolute mon -
poly of business, and the threat of using that
power would probably bring the E.E. Co. into a
strictly reasonable frame of mind. That threat
should be made and, if necessary, enforced. The
E.E. Co. has no claim on Australia s gratitude , it
bled this country mercilessly whilst it had the
power, and if it were bled now in return itwould
be but strict justice. The Pacific cable has the
best of reasons for claiming favor. Australia is
the largest holder of its stock, and m helping the
Pacific concern is helping its own pocket.
♦
More Railway Fetish.
Grant Hervet speaks vehemently
Sundry vociferous persons are whooping for the cori-
<druction of a railway line from Portland, in the Western
District of Victoria, to Mt. Gambier, a tired sort of village
on the S.-E. edge of S. Australia. If Bent is wise, he will
iump upon the proposal with a pale green roar. What
good' 'purpose P t his 60-mile line would serve under
present conditions, is beyond any. comprehension The
Western District, as a whole, is very thinly popu
lated, but the coastal belt of scrub and strmg.i
bark country through which the line l
is as empty as a human stomach before breaKiast.
Two miserable villages, Nelson and Port
the only places that the hne would touch. A large bridge
would have to be built across theGlenelg, nea^ h h e fo ™?e
hamlet; and many cuttings would have to be made
between Port Macdonnell and the town where poet A. n.
Gordon used to prance upon precipices and so.forth. 11
the line goes straight from Nelson to Mt. Gambier, and
leaves Port Macdonnell out in the wet the Crow-eaters
will want to know where their share of the profits will
come in. But, as far as I can see, there will be no profits
for anyone—except the land-owners.
Thirty vears ago, before there was a railway in tne
Western District, the said district was six times more
prosperous than it is to-day. At piesent the .
District is the deadest portion of this State. There is
through line from Melbourne to Portland, with branches
from Hamilton to Coleraine, and from Branxholme to
Casterton. Also, 116 squatters hold 4284 square miles of
the soil, or an average of 28,636 acres apiece. The result
Well four davs ago I was upon the Branxholme platform
when the Casterton train came in. The engine dragged
six trucks behind it, not one of them containing an
ounce of produce of any description. The one carriage
attached held one Yankee agricultural implement agent
and four Calico Jimmy drummers. Had a yarn with the
station-master, and asked him if the traffic was always in
that uproarious condition. “ It’s a bit hus'erinthe
wool season,” he said, with a wear}', desolated
in his eye. Then he went away and wept upon the office
llt Conditffin of the district as a whole may be gauged
from the fact that 93 out of every 100 acres have never
been cultivated in any manner whatsoever. Of the seven
acres that have been cultivated in each hundred, about
half have been under cereals. Consequently onl.> about
four acres in the hundred can be reckoned upon as wheat-
producing. Yet the soil is the very best in Australia I
tell vou it makes me sick to travel this district and see
how empty it is. Between Hamilton and Branxholme-a
distance of 16 miles-one passes through an absolute wil-
derness. Not a farm-house, not a cabbage-patch—nothing
but dead trees and sheep. On the other branch the land-
scape is even more ghastly. Prom Branxholme to Merino
—about 18 miles—one scarcely sees a living thing. On
both sides of the line the squatters; acres roll away to the
horizon : dead, dreary, and criminally void. . Between
Merino and Casterton—l4 miles—the outlook is just about
as depressing as a worked-out section of hell. Merino is
falling to pieces. The village of Henty is quietly rotting.
Sandford is decaying. Casterton is like a sprawling
corpse. Had Wando Vale not been subdivided, this last-
named township would have gone generally bankrupt.
Travelling southward, from Branxholme to Portland, is
like passing through a sort of open-air catacomb. Port-
land is a crazy liaffilet that looks as if it were waiting to
be blown into the sea ; £23,000 was recently spent in pro-
viding it with an up-to-date pier and breakwater, but
Ta.it and Fitzpatrick’s preferential railway rates have
killed it as dead as Hamilcar, Esq. A few miserable
fishing boats lie behind the breakwater, and that is about
all The big tramp steamers call there in the wool
season, of course, to take away the wool that ought to
feed Australian mills. Otherwise it is farcical speak of
Portland as a seaport. It is a Tomb, with a loud T.
And the idea that another railway will save the district
would be almost humorous, if it did not predicate a poli-
tical ignorance too sad to be joked over. The district
doesn’t want railways yet—it wants, first of all, a gradu-
ated land-tax that will make those nOsquattersdetgo
their 2 741.815 acres of arable soil. Next time Dear in
wants’to meditate, he < ught to go to this District.
There’s food for meditation here—millions of acres of it.
Is Alfred listening, or is he only Affable .
The Butter Agent.
For the first time since the awful exposures of their
villainies before the Royal Cmnmission, the Vic-
torian butter agents are lifting up their heads,
and are making their presence felt in the land. A
few weeks ago, Minister Swinburne, who had just
seen how admirably the Maoriland system of
compulsory grading of export butter worked,
announced that he intended to introduce the idea
to Victoria. In this he was supported by Export-
Superintendent Crowe, and by all those interested
who had any intellect. But, instantly, a loud wail
went up from the agents, and from a section of
the dairymen and butter-factory directors who let
the agents do their thinking for them. I hat good
but sadly overworked bogey, “ Interference with
Private Enterprise,’’ was trotted out, and the air
around the butter agents’ offices was blue with
curses. The position is a simple one. At present,
fortunately, the great bulk of Victorian export
butter, which is made in the country is of first-
class quality, and has a good pamemi England, it
therefore brings top prices. But a large and in-
creasing proportion of the butter exported is made
in Melbourne, by the butter-agents, from cream
gathered from the highways and hedges all over
the State. Sometimes this cream is so old and
bad that it bursts the lids off the cans at the
railway stations. But the agent rigs it up m new
boxes, brands it “Wattle Blossom ’ or “Mountain
Snow.” labels it “ Choice Factory, and sells it in
London on the reputation of the hrst-class
factories. This is the butter which will be hit,
deservedly hard, by the grading system. Ihe
State expert will inspect it at Melbourne, and will
stamp it 2nd, 3rd, or 4th grade, or reject it
altogether for export. It is no wonder, therefore,
that the agent is in tears; but why any of the
legitimate factories should oppose such a scheme
is one of those things that are past human under-
standing. That it is high time that the export
butter should be properly inspected is well shown
bv Superintendent Crowe’s last report. lor the
export season just closed, the Departments
private inspection of the butter shipped showed
that while one-third of the butter was from
“ Proprietary and Private ” factories, none of it
got 98 points, and only 394 cases got 97 points (out
of 1001 • while 52,644 cases of co-operative factory
butter got 98 points, and 42,543 cases were given 97
points. The whole system of making butter in
city slums should be suppressed, partly because
the slum doesn’t improve the butter, ana partly
because the cream gets aged and battered before
it reaches the slum. And when other dodges,
mixtures, fakes, adulterations, chemical treat-
ments and ill-usages are allowed for, the Jess said
about city butter the better. Also the butter
agent should be suppressed. He is quite super-
fluous except to himself, and any necessity he
may have for himself doesn t concern the public.
Jones.
Theke has been a faint impression abroad that
Premier Hall-Jones might not be wildly anxious
to hand over the reins of power when Joseph
Ward returned to Maoriland, and that Ward
might return to find Parliament in recess, and
likely to stay there for some time. With Parlia-
ment in recess there would be no way in which
Ward could argue with Jones. Apparently,
however, Premier Jones intends to hand over his
unsteady crown as soon as Ward comes to claim
it despite the advice of a number of members
who have so long been driven by a strong
Premier that they would like to enjoy the
new experience of driving a weak one. Put
even with the endorsement of Temporary
Premier Jones, Ward will not have the easy
time he had when he temporarily assumed
the Giant’s robe, while the Giant travelled to
England. Then the unruly spirits were kept
down by the sure and certain knowledge that the
Giant would return, and things went smoothly.
Moreover, Ward tickled the vanity of the House
by his suave manner. His attitude was, * a 4
we oroceed with so-and-so, gentlemen? And
the House, which had been accustomed to being
told by the Giant that on a certain day it
would transact such and such business, purred
acquiescence. But the Giant has gone now,
and when Joseph gets back, and succeeds
in getting the vast robe wrapped round
him he will find conditions sadly changed.
There will be an Independent Labor party, and
there is always the chance that High Commis-
sioner W. P. Reeves may throw up his London
billet and come scurrying back to lead that party.
If he does Ward will find himself up against a
keen blade, for Reeves has brains and energy,
and is sufficiently well off to devote himself en-
tirely to the job of becoming Premier. He is the
last—-except Ward— of that band of grim fighters
who climbed over the wreck and corpse of the
Continuous Ministry in 1890, and many of the Labor
statutes passed by the Ballanck and Seddon
Ministries are reputed to have emanated from his
brain. Among the people who.work.with hand and
brain for wages all through Maoriland the name
of William Pember Reeves is one to conjure,
with—this despite ten years of absence m London.
If Reeves and Ward both reach out for the
crown of Jones, things will happen. Meanwhile
the new Premier, futile as he is, has failed a huge
void. He has supplied Australasia for the first time
with a Premier named Jones. There was once a
Premier Smith in Tasmania, also a Dobson.
There was Jenkins and there is Price in ».A.
There was a Dawson in Queensland, and if a
good man hadn’t died too soon there would have
been a Premier Browne. There has been no
Robinson. But there is now a Premier Jones.
+ ——
M'Lean and. the Over-taxed Farmer.
The somewhat amusing ex-half-Premier Allan
M‘Lean tried to work the town r. country racket
in the House of Representatives lately, when
barracking for an extra-early general election.
According to M'Lean, if one of two brothers in
vXiabought 10,000 acres of land at £1 an acre
and got a net return of £5OO a year therefrom,
he would pay £93 15s. in iand-taxfiAjmmuni-
cipal rates, and £lO income-tax-£l2B 15s alto-
gether. And if the other brother put £lO 000
into a city business which returned him £5OO a
year he would pay, said M’Lean, only a P alt *T
income-tax -M‘Lean having evidently never
heard that there are any rates and taxes in
the city. Heaven only knows where the
amazing cattle-dealer got his figures from, ±o
begin with, the first brother wouldn t put all his
money into land ; he would want some for stock
buildings and implements. And you can t buy
land in Victoria at £1 an acre. That amazing
brother would probably buy 600 acres at £lO
an acre, and then he would be whoUy
exempt from lana-tax, which, in , *
touches nothing under 640 acres. As for the
income-tax, if the country brother worked his
land as the city brother worked his business,
he would pay the same as the other. And
as for the amazing £25 of municipal rates,
the city man would pay—at a 2s. or 2s. 3d. rate on
a high valuation—some £3O or per annum,
while his country brother—at a rate' on a dis-
gracefully low valuation—would pay £8 or £lO per
annum. The absurd M’Lean further animad-
verted on the weariful old yarn about the roads
the farmer builds “for the use of the general
public. Is the city man eternally driving over
the muddy lanes of the backblocks? If the
farmer doesn’t want those roads built and doesn t
use them, who, in Heaven’s name does . And are
not the city streets and asphalt footpaths used by
the general public? Doesn’t the farmer spread
himself all over them when he comes to the city
to visit the show, to see the Cup, or to cadge from
the Treasury ? And do the cities and boroughs,
which pay the highest rates, get any of the muni-
cipal subsidy? Doesn’t that go to the miserly shires
that tax themselves at the lowest rate possible l Ihe
precious farmer pays the same penny to have his
letters carried hundreds of miles that the city man
pays tohaveanote carried a hundred yards. It costs
four or five times as much to educate the farmer s
children as it does the city dweller’s because schools
have to be maintained for mere handfuls of kids ,
vet the city man pays the same as the farmer, and
makes no moan. Furthermore many of the country
railway lines are run on an unprofitable system
purely in the interests of the farmer, while the
city man-whose lines yield a handsome return—
has to pay to make good the other’s loss. And on
top of all this the blessed farmer has better
representation in both State and Federal Parlia-
merits—where 4000 country electors return one
representative, about 5000 city electors have to be
satisfied with one. And still— according to
McLean—the farmer is not satisfied. But it ne
is hard to please in some respects he is not m the
matter of choosing his representatives—he has
steadily returned stock-agent McLean to Parlia-
ment for years, notwithstanding the fact that,
though elected as a Protectionist, he first turned
dog” on George Turner and afterwards sold him-
self to Foreign-trader Reid. The farmer is easy
to please in some things.
«
The precious Freetrade Association of Victoria
has now got down to thirteen men, three women,
and a boy, or thereabouts, and by next year only
Max Hirsch, Hickford and Murray Smith \yill
be left. Even these three antediluvian monu-
ments don’t really believe in their fetish, judging
bv a statement in their last annual report, which
says that “ Australian industries are increasing in
consequence of inter-State Freetrade and because
of the protective nature of the tariff. Of course,
the Foreign-trader doesn’t like to see Australian
industries increasing; but it is pleasing to note
that even his treachery to Australia doesn t
prevent candid admissions like that slipping out
accidentally now and then.
—♦
“ T.F.M.” writes :
After mature reflection, I am convinced that two of the
most disastrous Anti-Socialists in Victoria at the present
moment are Andy Dawson and Tom Mann. .
If Dawson ever had a head on his shoulders (which
seems to me doubtful) he has assuredly lost it now, other-
wise he would realise that the capers he has been cutting
of late are doing incalculable harm to the cause he osten-
sibly espouses. To pay a man £4OO a year merely to act
as a friendly advertisement for a tote shop that keeps its
doors open in brazen defiance of the law, is far more than
the magnificent natural resources of this great country
are likely to put up with. Dawson apparently considers
that an essential part of the great gospel of humanity he
is licensed to preach consists in pelting Wren s enemies
with angry epithets, and he seems unable to conceive of
anybody being a friend to Labor who won t howl foi
As regards Mann, what benefit does he think lie isAoing
the unemployed by his Church parades? No doubt the
parsons, being mostly Supply and Demafod doctrinaires,
are badly in need of conversion as regards their Economics.
But in that respect, Tom Mann is as big a heathen as
Bevan or any other parson. If there are, as he says, 5000
men now unemployed in Melbourne, I take it that they
want something more than the sympathy of the parsons
and their flocks-or even the sympathy of Tom Mann.
Thev want work, and if they are content to follow at the
heel's of a man who hollers for the free imports which
shut up factories and make work scarce, then there is a
little to be said for their common-sense. Mann the
alleged anti-sweater, wants to admi, the sweated goods
of all the world so that Australians must either be unem-
ployed or roust compete on sweating terms. Between
MaWn who does the work of the rich Tory importer, and
Dawson who does that of that blatant non-producer and
law-breaker Wren, I don’t know which I like the less.
The Farmers’ and Producers’ Union of Mount
Gambier (S.A.), has been foolish enough to
demand a public apology from Premier Price for
his statement that the high-toned and arrogant
Tory ladies of that town admit men of dubious
moral character to local “ society ’’—what society
there is at a place like Mount Gambier. It is a
grievous pity that the sleepy little place hasn t
more sense. First of all, the Mount Gambier
ladies irritated Price by supercilious repetition of
the foolish old lie about the alleged designs of the
Labor party on the “marriage tie and the
“ sanctity of the home ” and similar trash, and the
hot-blooded Welshman retaliated. vV hat he said
was only what any man might safely say about
“ society ” in almost any town or city all over the
world even if he didn’t know the town and talked
at random. If the Tory ladies of any place
required the men of their acquaintance to live up
to the stupendous standard of purity that they
profess to expect from the Labor party there
would be no “ society ” at all. Any one could
point out eminent Tory politicians, knights,
The Wrath of the World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the heart of the world the red blood runs
through the channels of lusty war,
In the vault of the gods the molten suns are
scorching each peace-born star,
They weep and they fall and they fade away at
dawn o’er the distant rim
Of the earth, and the sun-god sweeps through day
to the roar of a battle hymn !
They’re spreading their ships o’er the sullen seas
that whimper and fume and shriek,
They gather their guns on the batteries and the
burdened axles creak,
They watch thro’ the day and they dream thro’
the night of fields that are red with gore,
They gather their ranks for the greatest fight in
the wan world’s tale of war.
You sleep on the hills where the big gums grow
and the bloodwood banners wave ;
You sing on the plains where the hot winds blow
over many a quick-found grave ;
You are singing the songs of love and wine-
sweet songs for an idle day,
And reading with blinded eyes the sign that tells
of the coming fray.
You revel and dance in the city home, hold feast
round a funeral pyre !
As Nero laughed at the wrack of Home and
fiddled to flame and fire.
The talk of the tavern is wondrous fine ; you are
drunken with empty brag,
For naked of ball and naked of gun you cower
’neath a sheltering flag !
You will sleep too long, you will sing too long,
you will dance to the arms of death ;
You will blanch so white who are bronzed and
strong; you will tremble and hold your
breath.
And the face of the land will know no smile—will
be reddened with strife and hate,
When the heathen throws off his mask of guile,
and you wake when it is too late.
Ye will see strange sights on the Southern Seas,
strange prows shall sever the mist.
Ye will know the strength of your enemies by
many a steel-clad fist.
By the screeching shell ye will know of hell— one
lesson of hell full true.
You will know the grin of the Prince of Sin on
the face of a colored crew 1
The pensioned ships that swagger in state in the
calm of your inw'ard bays
Are frail as the boats in the washing-tubs of our
careless childhood days.
They will reel and quake, and their backs will
break in the throes of a world-wide war,
Though the crews be brave they will find a grave
on a sea that is streaked with gore.
When the wrack and the dead on your beaches
white half cover the spreading sands,
When the call of a closer, more urgent fight has
shackled proud Albion’s hands,
With a swag for a shield will you take the field,
a ragged and hungry clan—
Will the tale go down through the centuries how
Australians fought and ran ?
Ye must win rich yields from your wanton fields ;
ye must weave of your wealth to wear ;
Ye must grow great guns on your locked-up runs ,
ripe fruit where your plains are hare;
Ye must hammer your metals to steeds of steel , and
drive them with iron whips
That will bite and sting when the big shells sing
from the flanks of your battleships!
Tasmania.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.


Hm
J
k
tft, ' ~s
Beware of other brands
said to be “ just as
good.” There is no
brand like GALLAHER'S
GOLD PLATE TOBACCO
and CIGARETTES.
ARTISTS, Photographers, &c., are
invited to submit DESIGNS OR
IDEAS SUITABLE FOR REPRODUC-
TION AS POST CARDS to
HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
capitalists, judges, governors
&c., whom the ladies of Mount Gam bier, or any
other place, ought to “cut,” and whom they
certainly wouldnt “out.” The shocked Tory
female who bellows about Labor and the
marriage tie ” gets over the difficulty by being
conveniently oblivious to the morals of men of her
own circle, and so long as she is decentlv civil to
other people no one complains of her obliviousness.
Jiut the lory female mostly forgets to be decently
civil, and for once she has struck a man whose for-
bearance under insult is strictly limited. Now
she hasn t sense enough to drop the matter before
worse things happen, which shows that Mount
Uambier is an unwise hamlet.
The Bent Ministry has decided, according to
reports, to treat the Victorian Beer industry in a
most liberal fashion. The system pf paying com-
pensation to abolished pubs, has broken down
because one lamentable experiment in a Melbourne
suburb wrecked the compensation fund. So it is
proposed to give Mr. Publichouse 10 years notice.
Uuring that 10 years any pubs that are closed up
will receive compensation; after 10 years they
won t. It is, in a sense, a sizeable fraud on the
community, for the community only issues to Mr.
Publichouse a document authorising him to sell
liquor for one year, and he pays for that and no
more. There is no promise of renewal, only the
Beer industry has assumed a right of renewal
which doesn’t exist. So a fancy value is put on
the pub not the value which would be given it
i • right to sell liquor for one year,
which is all the publican pays for, but
the value which would be attached to it
by the right to sell liquor permanently, which
right is only taken for granted as a piece of brassy
impudence. After the imaginary right to sell
liquor permanently has been transferred for a
while from one man to another there comes a
tune when Mr. Publichouse, if his annual license
isn’t renewed, demands compensation for the loss
of an alleged permanent license which he never
had. He demands that the Treasury should com-
pensate him because he was fool enough to buy a
sham asset from a party that the Treasury, it may
be, never even saw. An allowance of ten years
in which to get rid of this delusion, and to write
off the bogus values based on it, is certainly
liberal. New South Wales, which is much wiser
in this matter, allowed only three years under its
recent Act.
S.M. Herald’s “ On the Land” page (25/6/’OG)
Those opposed to the State establishing the wheat ele-
vator system urge that in some other countries it is
controlled by private companies, and that the same
scheme should prevail here. In America this has led to
tlie Elevator Trust, and farmers are badly squeezed in
consequence. The Trust works in with the railway com-
panies, and has its elevators all along the lines. Farmers
who wish to ship direct can compel the railways to
take their wheat, but such obstacles are placed in their
way that it is better to be bled at once by the
Trust. When a man tries to get past the Combine
he is kept waiting for cars, supplied with the poorest on
the road, humbugged for a site for his elevator, and
charged more freight than the Trust. YVliat with Beef
Trusts and Wheat Trusts and scores of other combines,
residents of the States can seldom be free from the
thought that they are doing a lot of work for many of the
participants in the extravagantly-luxurious American
society.
All of which is good Socialistic talk, and pointed
argument why the Australian Parliament should
hurry along with the Anti-Trust Bill.
It appears that the torpedo boats of the Victorian
“navy” have for the past many years been the
vainest things that plough the water—not bad
craft of their kind, but quite lacking in the
means to perpetrate the destruction they were
thought to be capable of. The awful truth was
discovered only a few months ago, when an
enterprising lieutenant, or somebody, got per-
mission to explode an obsolete torpedo at an old
hulk in Hobson’s Bay. The torpedo, fitted in the
first place with the usual dummy head, was
sent for several trial trips, to make sure that its
internal works were in good going order. Then
the dummy head was replaced by a war head from
the Williainstown arsenal. The boat made its
run, and the torpedo was launched with a view to
smiting the target in its submarine bowels. But
nothing happened save a dim mysterious noise in
the waters under the torpedo boat, whereat the
crew turned pale. After allowing an interval for
further developments they grappled for the lost
missile and brought it to light. With the dummy
head it had been an active and intelligent torpedo,
whereas with the war head it sank like a stone,
and should, in a proper way of business, have gone
off immediately under the firing boat. In fact, it
was eminently well calculated to amuse a hostile
fleet. The priming charge only had exploded, the
deadly portion of the torpedo remaining intact.
Then the naval authorities thought it was time
to have a careful inspection of all the war heads
in stock, and they were found as worth-
less as the one that had been experimented
with. The explosive is wet— i.e., damp—gun-
cotton. Once upon a time in Victorian naval his-
tory a zealous gunner filled up the heads with
water to ensure the wetness of the gun-cotton. He
gave them a gallon or two instead of an ounce or
two, and rendered them utterly unfit for a career
of usefulness. During all the years that this
fact lay hidden from official ken the torpedo boats
represented a sinful waste of money.
*.
The decision of Iceberg Irvine to retire from
Victorian State politics and try again for a
Federal job is the culminating point of an
elaborate piece of treachery. When the Assembly
was reduced three years ago, the electorate for
which Stanley, M.L.A., sat was merged into
iihat of Irvine. Stanley, faithful old Conser-
vative that he was, stood down on the under-
standing that he was to have first chance for any
other seat in the district. The opportunity has
come now, but Irvine’s resignation, consequent
upon his determination to enter Federal polities,
was held back until Foreign-trade apostle
Max xiiRSCH came back from Europe and got in
an announcement that he would contest the
vacant seat when Irvine retired. Now that
Maximilian, the good Australian from Poland,
nas got his leg in, a pretty powerful section of the
tat crowd is trying to oust Stanley from the
place which morally belongs to him. Stanley is
a dull, plain farmer, who desires to enter Parlia-
ment to push the barrow of plain Conservatism.
UiRSCH, on the other hand, is a sturdy producer
from Gollins-street, a reliable Conservative who
said such vyild tilings a few years ago that he was
accused of Socialism, a single-taxer who has pretty
well given up talking single-tax, a man of amazing
shoddy statistics that no one else can find, a person
of incredible alleged facts that are not in books, a
violent opponent of Australian industry and a
hard-working Stinking Fish with variations. It
is thought that so versatile a gentleman will cap-
ture votes where plain old Stanley, shoving his
honest but foolish old political truck along the
old ruts, will miss them. But possibly it will be
rather the other way about. Maximilian is a
dancing dervish, a will-of-the wisp, a comet, and
a political flickergraph ; and now you see him and
now you don’t. The quickness of his coat-tail
deceives the eye_; and no one ever knows which
thimble his pea is under. Something more stable
and less fliekery might answer better.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., writes:—
Re “ Our Undefended Land.” Even ten million strong
white citizens aren't going to defend a continent if they
are mostly congregated in the south-eastern corner of
Australia. The north is our Achilles heel ;it is against
the north that aggression will be directed. Why doesn’t
the Federal Government tackle the Northern Territory
question this session? Think of it—B37 white settlers
there, in 527,000 square miles! If that is effective occu-
pation, what on earth is ineffective? Let the Common-
wealth agree quickly with the S. A. Government.
There is no time for petty haggling. Then put
in hand at once the Port Darwin railway, and import
5000 Southern Italians (750,000 of them left Italy last year)
or Spaniards to construct the northern end of it. Pay
them with land grants on the fertile river banks of one of
the Northern Rivers—perpetual lease if you will—at the
end of their term of service. Let their wonienkind join
them there, and in a few years we will have solved the
problem whether Europeans can thrive and breed in the
Far North.
Again, fortify Port Darwin. Make it a second Port
Arthur, and headquarters of the coming Australian fleet.
The ships could at least patrol the coast, and prevent
junks from unloading cargoes of Mongolians.
Eleven years ago Kenneth Mace ay, M.L.0., wrote
“ The Yeilow Wave, a romance of the Asiatic Invasion of
Australia.” It has gone into undeserved oblivion,
and is worthy of a new edition. In it he points
the moral that danger cometh out of the North, and that
is what has to be hammered incessantly into the careless
brain of the Australian public. To arm our present gar-
rison is good, but the garrison of Australia must be
increased at any cost, and placed at the strategic points.
7 ♦
The Welsh tin-plate manufacturers are beginning
to feel the stress of Japanese competition. Ac-
cording to a Fall Mall Gazette special
Mills are closing down, shipments are falling off, and
manufacturers assure me that the outlook is as bad as it
can be. Never in the memory of man was the position
so rotten. The first cause assigned for the weakness is
over-production. This is an old enemy. But also, the
demand has fallen off. Canada is said to be determined
to make her own plates, as she can very easily do.
The increased German tariff, against which we are
powerless, is causing a lessened demand from that
country.
The indian trade, which should be ours, and that of
Australia and South Africa will find its way to the nearest
and cheapest source of supply, and this before long. will
be Japan. Indeed, it would not surprise me to find be-
fore Very many years are over (unless we change our
methods) Japan supplying this country with tin-plates.
What The Bulletin notes mournfully m the
Pall Mall is the confident assurance that if
Wales loses the Australian market for tin-plates,
Japan will naturally pick it up. There is no sug-
gestion that Australia, like Canada, may make its
own tin-plates. Yet, unlike Canada, we have
our own supply _ of tin, as well as the necessary
iron and coal. What we lack is the Protection
and the destruction of the Stinking Fish idea.
“ Huffin Guffin ” from Victoria :
If my house rent were less I would have more money to
spend on food and clothes for my family. That would
give the workers who make clothes and manufacture
foodstuffs more employment. But, as it is, all my house-
hold expenditure is curtailed. The rent must be paid.
If my children desire more butter on their bread they
can’t have it—we must make 21b. a week do ; and so farm
labor in the Western district is restricted. Do they want
new boots? The old ones must be made to last another
week or two ; and the boot operatives of Collingwood
are on short time in consequence. And so on ad infini-
tum,. Were my rented cottage and pocket-handkerchief
of land in Croajingolong, it would perhaps he worth
twelvepence a week. Here the owner can demand 12s. 6d.
The difference is the result of myself and my fellows
finding it necessary to crowd together here. As that is
so, why should we not benefit, instead of a landlord who
won’t even provide a new latch-key for our front door
without a wry face and shrugged shoulders ? Paying
rent in a populous Melbourne suburb has caused me to
yearn more than once for a land-tax. I believe that a
stiff tax on the value of the land would reduce my rent,
and some of the money I now pay the landlord would be
available to pay for more boots, more butter, more
clothes. So the land-tax isn’t a mere matter of interest
to the farmer and would-be farmer ; it lies near to the
factory worker too.
The report that Stephen Barker, J.P., of
Melbourne, gets his hinder name through being a
descendant of Hamilcar Barca, the Carthaginian,
is probably quite groundless.
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal.. ......“ In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Criterion' Czerny.
Her Majesty’s.... “On the Quiet."’
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Centenary Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers.
Palace Theat,rescope Co.
Lyceum Macdermott’s Biograph and Pro-
fessor Scott.
Prince Alfred Park.. Bostock and Wombwell’s Ciicus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Man from Mexico.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaw Man.”
Theatre Royal “ The Assassin.”
Oi'F.ra House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athen.eum Hall West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
(last week).
♦
William Collier, American comedian, opens
his Sydney season at Her Majesty’s, on Saturday,
with “ On the Quiet,” a farce comedy that is said
to much belie its name and to be really uproarious
in character. “The Little Michus” hold the
fort until then.
** * #
Czerny has been drawing increasingly good
houses at Sydney Criterion during the week ; and
his attractions have now been added to by a bio-
graph series illustrating the ’Frisco ’quake and
fire. The pictures show what Nature can do when
she takes a turn at legerdemain.
4t * * *
The Fisk Jubilee Singers commenced a
Sydney season in the Centenary Hall last Satur-
day. A new feature this time is their Thauma-
turgic Tableaux, a bio. through which some
amusing films are run, one of the great Montreal
fire being particularly interesting. Otherwise
they are the same old entertaining Fisks with
much melody about “ massa,” and “ cotton
fields,” and “dem golden gates.”
#* * «
Two thousand five hundred feet of photo-
graphic films are now flickering at the Sydney
Palace under the manipulation of the Spencer
Theatrescope. One half of the lot dealing with
San Francisco might be labelled “Glory,” and
the other half “Desolation.” A ’quaked city is
a fearsome sight, but after the first views of
mountains of wrecked bricks and twisted steel
girders and smoking woodwork, it becomes mono-
tonous. A little Desolation goes a long way.
** * *
“ In Sight of St. Paul’s ” still throws a
ruddy glow of sin and conflagration on the
stage of Sydney l!oyal. The fire which closes
the third act is one of the most effective bits of
stage realism that Australia has seen; and it
strengthens considerably a yarn which has a lot of
other merits.
** * *
Sydney hasn’t had a circus for a long
while, and Bostock and Wombwell, who bring
the odor of sawdust and lion, the spangles and the
pantalooned clown, back to the harbor-side city
on Saturday will probably have a warm welcome.
There are to be tigers, and horses, and reptiles,
and Japanese, and cake-walking tramps, and a
boxing kangaroo, and so long as the horse element
is all right in addition, things will be well. The
postal address of the new enterprise will be at
Prince Alfred Park.
■;{s ■?{£
Latest attraction at Sydney Tivoli is
Brinn, strong man and juggler, who gives a naval
setting to his feats and balances shells, cannon,
and so on. Brinn is, without doubt, a very strong
man, and has brought to a high pitch of perfec-
tion one of Cinquevalli’s feats—catching a heavy
weight by the muscles at the back of the shoul-
ders ; but his turn would be more convincing if
it were a little less worked up. When five
men with a pulley have the greatest ap-
parent difficulty in raising an, apparently, steel
field cannon so that it can be balanced on Brinn’s
chin, it is obvious that either Brinn’s strength
stretches beyond the limits of credulity, or that a
lot of the effort isn’t genuine. Cliff continues to
be the star attraction at this house. A very
bright “ first part,” to which Miss Maud Faning
is the chief contributor, calls for mention in a
casual sort of way.
** * *
In the words of the advt., “there is no
denying the popularity of ‘ The Man from
Mexico,”’ just now- located at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s. The rival farcical comedy (it was Called
“rural” in last week’s “ Sundry Shows”) will be
off the market when these remarks are published,
and for the people who want frivolity in three
acts the simjfie joys of “Mexico” must suffice.
Melbourne is already on such terms of familiarity
with the piece that its title has been reduced to
one word. Any common or hardened criminal
who gets 30 days with hard labor is said
to go to “Mexico,” where the wicked cease
from troubling and the weary are oppressed.
Also the fashionable term for a pretty woman is
“a Palotta,’ whilst “a regular Palotta” means a
vision of especial sweetness in a “confection ” to
match. At the same time it may be remarked
that if Ward could only mix his vocal tones
with Miss Palotta’s sharper accents, and share
the result equally with her, both parties would
be improved. On the other hand, Ward has
acquired something of geniality in his manner
during his absence from Australia, and Willoughby
is distinctly of the gladsome order of brethren,
and the smile of the lady aforesaid makes sun-
shine in her audience’s heart, so, take it alto-
gether, “Mexico” will do very nicely.
** * *
The ordinary run of Andersonian drama
at Melbourne Royal is only a sprint these times.
Every alternate Sunday is a dividing line between
first nights and last nights. “ Hands Across the
Sea” will retire from the track on Friday in favor
of “The Assassin,” understood to be a tale of
Russian life and death. Assassins are plentiful
enough in Anderson’s melodramas, so there is
reason to hope that the miscreant is an excep-
tionally appalling person in the wholesale line of
business.
*& * *
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) is closed for
the moment, but the place where Collier cap-
tured the millionairess is to re-open on Saturday
with “The Squaw Man,” a play from America,
differing considerably from all previous plays
imported to this continent. A company mostly
new. and. headed by Robert Waldron and Miss
Ola Humphrey, will present “ The Squaw Man ”
to Melbourne notice, and on the word of manager
Williamson, which is a good, solid word to follow,
the presentation will be forcible. It is explained
in a footnote to the ad. that “The Squaw Man ”
is a name which prevails in the Wild West for the
white man who marries an Indian woman.
The last and some of the brightest of
West’s Pictures are being sheeted at the Athen-
aeum Hall this week. On Saturday the season
closes, and although Melbourne has been overfed
with animated photographic views, some of which
flickered abominably, a lot of people will be sorry
to lose West's admirable show. The Pictures are
carefully worked. The mere reproduction of
filmed photos, on a white sheet is a simple matter,
but the man at the wheel and the captain who
watches the operations with an educated eye are
very important considerations. What West
doesn’t know about the cinematograph business
isn’t worth learning.
* -* * *
Madame Agnes Janson’s concert at the
Masonic Hall on the 24th, will introduce a girl
harpist to the Melbourne public. Miss Violet
Barclay is the damsel who twangs the large, up-
standing lyre, and she is said to have a decided
talent in that direction.
** * *
At the Opera House the new people who
were to have arrived on Saturday did not appear
until Monday, or later. The Bulletin is not
speaking from personal observation of them, and
will not swear that they didn’t get lost in transit.
Homer B. Mason and the golden-haired Mar-
guerite can be vouched for at time of writing,
also Bluett, Vasco, Kelly-cuwi-Agnes, and tlie
graceful trapezians are there, with others too
numerous to mention. It is the fate of numerous-
ness to live and die unmentioned.
#* # *
“ Dr. Wake’s Patient,” at Adelaide Royal,
provided a triumphant reappearance for Herbert
Flemming. He is now doing another finely-
contrasted piece of work in “The Walls of
Jericho” (Brough played his part of Frobisher
when the drama was first given here last year).
Miss Beatrice Day scored heavily in both pieces,
and Carter Bickford has had a chance of doing
some emotional work. It must be wearisome to a
competent actor to have to play the conventional
society Johnnie everlastingly when he knows him-
self capable of better things. The fine, all-round
acting of this co. is a notable fact. San-
ford’s American Players have left the Tivoli
after a season of close on 14 weeks —a “record”
for Adelaide. They can say with truth that this
city wept at parting with them, for they fare-
welled with “East Lynne.” They are a capable
crowd, and deserve better plays than they mostly
handle. Two biographs, which were suicidally
going to show Earthquake films against each
other, wisely joined forces at the last moment,
and are destroying San Francisco nightly at the
Town Hall. Also, “The Light of the World”
has again starred for a short season at the Art
Gallery, and had crowded houses all the time—
people being turned away on the Sunday.
The night watchman of the Melbourne
Lands Department was picked up last Saturday
morning with a bullet in his head and a piet b of
paper at his side bearing the words “A good ad vt.
for Judkins.” Inquiries indicated that the man
had been a consistent punter and—what is the
same thing—an unsuccessful one. A man with a
sense of humor like that should have looked for
something better than a subordinate job under the
Government.
THE ONLY WAY.
It has been suggested that we sink the fiscal issue.
We’ll sink it with a weight round its neck spelt Protec-
tion.—ISAACS.
The Lancashire men’s wreath at Seddon’s
funeral bore for inscription the first words uttered
by Lick when he stepped off the train at St.
Helen’s in 1902: “’Ave coom vvhoam.” When
Seddon made that memorable visit to his native
county he furbished up his long-disused Lanca-
shire accent for the occasion, and Lancashire
thought he really talked like that in the Maoriland
Parliament.
Little drops of Peppermint
Made by Mr. Wood,
Don’t they do a body
Such a world of good.
Little drops of Peppermint Cure
Make you well again,
Drive away that hacking cough,
And every ache and pain.*
Colonel Hoad, who is to be the new In-
spector-General of the Commonwealth military
forces, was born at Beech worth (Vic.) 48 years
ago. He was a schoolfellow of Steve Hart, who
afterwards came into prominence as a member of
the Kelly Gang, and was killed at the age of 20
when the gang put up its last fight in the pub. at
Glenrowan. Hoad speaks in the highest terms of
Steve as a youngster, and says that he was a
decent, quiet’ad, who occupied the proud .position
of being the protector of all the small of the
school against the bullying of their elders. At
that time Steve showed none of the attributes of
the ideal cohentingenter which he displayed
towards the close of his career. Hoad —to return
to the real subject of this par—was originally a
State school teacher.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
i
r KOLAI KOLAI KOLAI KOLAI KOLA
CUP CUP CUP CUPICUP
kolal kolal kolal kola! kolalkolal
cuplcup cuplcuplcuplcup)
f kolal kolal kolal kolal kola kol/
Icuplcupicuplcup)cupicupl
Ikola| kolaTkola KOLA
\r Ir-iiP r.up rnt>
FISH ERA COMPANY!^
*
m
A GREAT BUSINESS. KOLA-CUP going to the Railway Station.
INFLUENZA.
Great
WINTER.
TONIC.
KOLA-CUP warms up the whole system, repelling INFLUENZA, COLDS, and
COUGHS.
Unlike strong spirits, KOLA CUP nourishes, and the effects are lasting.
An excellent DRINK for Dyspeptics and Invalids.
All Hotels, Gel. per glass. All Chemists, 3s. and 4s. 6d. per bottle.
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George St., SYDNEY (opp. G.P. Office).
AT POVERTY POINT.
One of the attractions of the musical season in Sydney
will be the concert, announced for July 12, in the
Y.M.O.A. hall, by Mr. F. Movvat Carter (violinist) and
Mr. Boyce Carter (violoncellist). Both these young artists
have good names in Sydney. They will be assisted by
Misses Edith Bunting, and Annie Perry, and Mr. W.
Beattie,
Robert Brough left £2700 only—a poor reward for so
hard and gifted a worker. His widow, on his death, was
offered by the theatrical managers a benefit performance
in each of the capitals. Probably £lOOO would have been
realised. But she refused, though she must have known
the slenderness of the legacy left to her.
The granting of probate reveals “ Robert ” Brough as
Lionel Barnabas Brough. Lionel, Barnabas and Robert
were all duplicated or triplicated names in the Brough
family. Evidently Australia’s Robert assumed his de-
ceased father’s front name to prevent playgoersconfusing
him with his uncle Lionel, the English comedian.
Not generally known that there is a Chinese theatre in
Sydney. The fact was revealed, the other day, through the
death of Yip Foon, who had formed one of an audience
at the playhouse, in Elizabeth-street, on Thursday night,
when an opera was in progress. Yip Foon seemed to be
much affected by the piece, and suddenly collapsed
through emotion. When the Sydney Hospital was
reached, it was found that Yip Foon had crossed the bar,
and was happy in the bosom of Joss.
The Gadfly (Adelaide), reckons that the value of the
cash, notes, bills, wills, jewellery, etc., which the villain
tried to get hold of in Sanford’s melodramas during that
gentleman’s three months’ season in the Holy City, was a
little over five hundred million pounds. At least these
were the amounts mentioned in the various dramas, and
presumably the villain was after the lot. The villain is
generally after everything in sight.
“N.” : The mutual millionaire shooting case in a New
York theatre recalls the affair in the dress circle of Mel-
bourne Opera House in 1880, when Greer fired at his wife
andSoudry. The opera, “Les Huguenots,” went on all
the same, ending with the scene where Valentine, Raoul,
and Marcel are shot down.
Roxy Barton’s husband—Henry Garraway—is presum-
ably related to “ Garraway’s coffee-house,” an ancient
Cockney institution (in the neighborhood of the Royal
Exchange), which retained its name long after other
coffee-houses, of the Johnson-Addison period, had passed
out of London life. The uncommon name of Garraway
has a moneyed sound.
Herbert Flemming, at the end of a happy little “ fare-
well” speech from the stage at the Princess’s, t’other
week, stated that he would be back in Melbourne with
the same co., and some new pieces, in November next.
Flemming was in bad health during the Melbourne
season, and he had to retire from the cast of “ Little
Mary,” previous to the postponed production of “The
Village Priest.”
Speaking of “ Hands Across the Sea,” at the Royal, the
Melbourne critics overlooked the fact that Pettitt’s old
drama had a very respectable revival at the Alexandra
by the Woods-Williamson co., some six years ago. It was
one of the last pieces played at the “Aleck” before
J.C.W. took possession of the theatre and converted it
into Her Majesty’s.
John Wren’s reason for holding the Squires-O’Brien
fight at Ascot on Cup Day morning is not that he hopes
to thereby secure a bigger house. He would much
rather run the show on Cup night, but there would be
less money in it. He has theatrical views later on.
Wren proposes to have photographs taken of the fight.
Indeed, O’Brien would not sign articles unless such were
to be taken, and unless he himself received a good share
of the proceeds. Said that Philadelphia John thought to
catch Collingwood John on the hop. He merely men-
tioned casually that, of course, the fight would be by day-
light, so that his cinematographer could get to work, and
Collingwood John replied that of course it would be by
daylight, for his cinematographer would certainly be at
work. Then Philadelphia and Collingwood came to terms,
and O’Brien, Wren, and Squires, it is understood, will
divide the film proceeds.
Melbourne Herald interviews Hugh Ward. He has
acted 387 parts, amid them such as Rip Van Winkle,
Mathias in “The Bells,” Caleb Plummer, the Private
Secretary, Sir Toby Belch, and Jaikes. As a child, in
Philadelphia, he was a good dancer. He engaged in a
minstrel troupe, then advanced to Hoyt’s Comedy Co.
His experience includes farce, light comedy, legitimate
comedy, pantomimic silence, melodrama, tragedy,
Shakspeare, comic opera and musical comedy. After his
big hit with the Scarecrow, in the Drury Lane panto., he
had a year there. Next ten months he was at the
Empire. Back in panto, he succeeded with his
“ Evolution of Man.” Went to Paris as a pantoinimist.
Then the “ Evolution of Man ” collared New York. There
he met Willoughby, with “The Man from Mexico.” In
Paris, Ward lodged at the same house as Amy Castles.
;He advised her to go to London. In Dublin the orchestra
got up and gave her three cheers. Ward says his wife is
bringing their two little boys with her. Both born in
Melbourne. “ They insist that they are Australians, and
don’t let us forget it-”
RELEASE OF MISS RI LUNG TOE. —THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT IS SAVED.
A committee has been formed, With the Countess oi
Limerick as president, to present Maud McCarthy With a
violin worthy of her taleUts. Melba sent 50 gUirteaS.
t'he Countess of Limerick owes something: to Australia.
A former Earl of Limerick Was born On Norfolk Island,
and had some trouble before taking his seat irt the House
of Lords. He succeeded eveUtually {ier medium Of Mr.
Kerrison James, a diocesali registrar of Sydney, who
possessed an authenticated certificate of his lordship S
important and dignified birth.
“Squidge”: I saw the Hackenschniidt-Madrali_ wrest-
ling picture three times last week, and examined it care-
fully. lam quite certain that in the second bout with
Madrali, the Russian is playing ’possum. For ever so
long Ahmed is on top, and Hack is underneath, ana
Ahmed is trying to punch the wind out of the big fellow,
and Hack is just spread on the mat waiting—waiting and
giving the public its money’s worth. It is plain that
Hack could arm-roll Madrali a dozen times during that
struggle on the mat; but he doesn’t attempt it until he
reckons the audience is satisfied. Then —well, it all
happens like a flash as it generally does when Hack means
business. So far there is no one that can come within
measurable distance of the burly Russian as a wrestler.
The marvellously strong gentleman the Olympian Gamists
discovered may do something ; but the world has only
seen three or four Hackenschmidts, and never two Hacks
at a time.
The innumerable brothers Tait and the one and only
Edwin Geach had a wild race in Melbourne, last week, to
see who would be first to stage the cinematographic pic-
ture of San Francisco after the earthquake. The Taits
won by 24 hours. Their film was forwarded by letter
post. Geach’s came by parcel post. The pictures were
exactly the same. Both started with flame and smoke,
and firemen and streams of water, which . didnt come
from ’Frisco at all, but were part of a picture of the
Brooklyn Theatre fire. On to this was tagged a con-
tinuous picture of ruined ’Frisco, which deserves more
praise than it got in the press. The best part of the film
was the sight of colossal walls suddenly toppling into
heaps of bricks and clouds of dust at the bidding of a few
charges of dynamite.
“Skull”: On several occasions I have discovered pars
telling of the wild, heartfelt cry of the youthful party in
the gallery who warns the hero of the stealthy approach
of the villain with the sand-bag, or who puts the old
father right when he accuses the virtuous hero of the
heinous crime the villain has just committed. But
these cries are not always the spontaneous yelp of true
emotion. Sometime back, when I was a small official on
a small Melbourne weekly, I was sent to call on the
manager of a dramatic company then showing at the old
Opera House. While I waited in the office a dirty boy
entered, cap in hand. “What do you want?” growled
the manager. “ Please, mister, me wages.” “ Wages,
retorted the entrepreneur , “ why, what are you ? ” “ I’m
the boy who cries out in the gallery,” replied the kid.
The police proceedings against showman Erskine Scott,
as manager of the Sunday concerts at Fitzgeralds circus
building (Melb.), revealed the solemn secret of Scott’s
front name. He was christened Ebenezer Erskine, in
memory of his very-great-uncle, founder of the Secession
Church of Scotland, which afterwards seceshed to
some extent from itself and divided into Burghers
and Anti-Burghers (Erskine was a Burgher). The
particular doctrines of old Eb. Erskine, who died
in 1754, are set forth in five volumes of dreary
sermons, published after his decease, _ and they
seem to have left a diminishing influence behind them in
Britain. Erskine Chapels and Ebenezer Chapels are still
to be found. The outside world speaks of them as places
where the pastor rolls his eyes heavenwards, whilst the
congregation groans dismally. Wasn’t the Rev. Mr.
Stiggins, in “ Pickwick Papers,” a priest of Ebenezer?
“ T.D.” : Congratulations were showered by the London
press on clever Alice Crawford for her work in “Shore
Acres,” the ’Murkan success now produced by Cyril
Maude in London. Miss Crawford now takes a definite
place among London’s “ leading ladies.” Maude’s own
part is th# ; engrossing one of the play, and the Bendi-
gonienne’s is subsidiary, but Alice has never yet missed
her opportunities, and she makes all that can possibly be
made out of every line and every incident. Her thorough-
ness is the characteristic that has brought her to the
front so quickly in Fogtown, where most of the
actors and actresses are copybook persons who have to be
told everything they must do, and are frightened to do
anything'off their own bat lest the tremendous actor-
manager should feel slighted.
“ T.D.” ; It doesn’t take a score of blacksmiths to make
one horse-shoe, but within one or two of that number have
found it necessary to collaborate in creating the newest
“ Girl” musical comedy in London. To begin with, there
are six authenticated fathers—Greenbank and Tanner,
and four others whose names are equally noteworthy and
even more so in some cases, including composers of such
outstanding merit as Andre Messager and Liza Lehmann.
I forget the precise name of this “ Girl ” for the moment,
but presumably she’s the same old bit of skirt. There
are five putative fathers for “ The Dairymaids,” the new
piece in which Carrie Moore takes part, and Lord knows
how many unacknowledged parents. It takes a bigger
staff to write a present day musical piece than to run a
great daily.
“ Melb.” : There is A Charles Dillon reciting in the
sdburbs. Ahy descendant of thb Charley ? COlemah
gives a funny sketch of that great man's father. A more
eccentric character was never krtoWhiii the profession.
Which he oddly combined With preaching, lie is supposed
to hAve beeh the Original of Dickens s Job Trotter. What
A metebric career C. Dillon had at the London Lyceum 1
Whb cart forget his Belphegor ? In natural acting he led
the way for Fechter and Irving, while such as I helps,
Brooke, Anderson, and Creswick growled over the
Macready bones. Dillon’s success in Australia paved the
way for his son, William Dillon, who starred a bit, but
had to descend to supporting Creswick.
“Kaban”: Ran up against John Scott, the ‘‘Austra-
lian Lightning Calculator,” in a Melbourne suburb the
other night. Scott, who was born in the bootmaking
suburb of Colli ngwood, well over 40 years ago, brought
out his first pamphlet on “figgers” in M.L. in the
eighties. Returning to Victoria, he was engaged m pre-
parin'’- a more pretentious work for the press in ISVIZ,
when” Howard, who “came aout hyar to teach
Australians how to do ’rithmetic,” started lecturing and
selling his “Art of Reckoning” in Melbourne. Result
was that Scott had to skip over to Sydney to get ahead
of the ’Murrican, and was soon drawing big audiences
there. Since that time he has been a prominent figure in
many country towns in the three eastern States, with his
portable rostrum and blackboard, which recall memoiies
of the old Punch and Judy show. He hardly looks a day
older than when he left Melbourne 14 years back.
Once more Australian papers are Serving lip weary old
stories about J. L. Toole’s practical jokes-the same jOkeS
that have been attributed to nearly evety old-titob
English comedian, from Tarletoti to Sothern. Cehtunes
before those persons were heard Of, the White-haired
witticisms were vainly trotted out in An endeavor to taise
a smile from Rameses XXIII., or Thothmes V., of old
Egypt. still, they are described as “ delicious humor
by the ponderous dailies, which eagerly print any
mummified yarn as “ A New Toole Story.”
It was bad luck for the crew of the Melville Island that
they were not police-courted and otherwise ill-treated At
the time of Frank Bullen’s visit to Melbourne, instead of
a month later. Bullen could have given a lecture for
their benefit at the Town Hall. ,As it happens, the
notorious Melville Island case is a fine advt. for Bullen s
“ Lil ” : I have always had an intense curiosity as to
whether the Christian Israelite uses hairpins to fasten
his long back hair on top. Once I came near finding out.
At a suburban amateur operatic show I sat behind a
middle-aged member of the hairy sect. His broad-
brimmed hat was steadily kept on, in spite of pro-
tests. From his heated remarks to persons around,
it appeared that his presence at such a function
arose from the fact that he was the uncle of one
of the performers. This damsel had started on the
broad path that leadeth to destruction, by singing
in the chorus. In the end the hirsute person gathered up
his hair, and climbed on to the stage, and attempted to
drao- his prodigal niece out of the atmosphere of sin. ine
excited female members of the cast buzzed about him and
hid what was happening from my view, though 1 could
hear some of the gods offering “Five to one against
Whiskers ” However, when the hairy one reappeared
he was hatless and almost coatless, his rich tresses were
hanging down below his shoulders, and his beard was dis-
arranged. He did not trouble about fixing up his mane
as he was being escorted from the hall, and I have never
forgiven myself for failing to follow him and see him do
up his back wool outside.
“Hamer”: I once knew a man with a wonderful
faculty for dialect. He was an Irishman, and an actor,
and a usually drunken one. He seemed to know all the
minutest dialect peculiarities of Ireland, and used them
to great effect to work up the fraternal spirit of his
countrymen. In most towns he stayed at the Shamrock
Hotel, and if there wasn’t a Shamrock he stayed at the
Harp of Erin, or any other Irish name in the vicinity.
Then he would adjourn to the bar, plank down a shilling,
ask the landlord to have a drink, and suddenly tell him
the county he came from. He would fellow it jfog
?Sf4«“hiSwl? a«'A rt b.“
find in was a “Shamrock” kept by a Jew, who bore the
name of 6’Brien for business purposes. ,
A biographer, stages, that airs. If ngtry took tp the
stae-e on the advice of draughtsman
Keehe. Ohe, h-i hot,/told whether Keene s humor was
temporarily'h abeyance. , , , ,iy.
“ Hamer” : The number of people yvdiq. makej, di|-
honest penny by forcing doubtful l nus t° q °'‘./‘" g^nt
gsgrs ?. ssbssjs sjr&s^k
attend Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday; adoleM
boy. wails, oh Monday nights i; and on Tuesday, nights a
broken organ and a cracked voice unite,to muider,,a
dream, of marble balls. On. Wednesday .afternoons an
eccentric person scrapes a violin*, while.he hops about
and shouts. On Thursday morning three Italians, Lying
some guitars into, play; a concertina Jhmd sings love
hallads on Saturday moruihg; and on Sattarda.y " 1 - 1 fc
man with a Weepy whistle does shrill violence to
Patience ” and other comic operas. There are numerous
casuals, who make a poor pretence with anything from a
piano in a cart to a pair of bones. on f
suffering neighborhood would have a rest only the fannly
opposite sings unhappy hymns in rotation. And they
are a large family.
The latest “light woman” of history tagged
into the British drama (at Loudon Savoy)J?,fea Ht V
l’Enclos, the WthcentUry Vends wbdpreSfervfed ker l feaUt/
and her lovers till she was 90, ahd then lost theln omf J/
dying. Ninon was so fascinating in arlvahCed age that
her own son, who did not k.mw the ‘ secret of his With
(good old melodramatic property), fell iH loV |
and suicided wheh she ekpiaihed thihgk. Tbife Wd.l of
many lovet-s cable to be rejgArdfed As thb idfeAl, model «.oJ
taste and style, tWgh Mb n>ebssA.riVV dt
girls ehteribg Society. It Vrolild not hate byeh h ,
find leadibg acttesses to lit the title-p Art ill the »fe\y
"cloGraves'S “ Bond of Ninoii ”-As (it is age wAs coh-
Settled. Biit as looks hAd to be cphside.tted, the part whs
taken bV Lena Ash Well, formerly Beerbohitt Tree s leading
lady, who will hot rank among thb veterans for many a
year.
One bf AiistrAlifi’s lffosfc enterjlrLshig
Wreckers died at Sydney the cither day. aged 76.
rrtariy years Daniel Sheehy Was it fairiilidt
figure tb the chen Whb hang found wh'eh & wrecked
6r abandoned ship is going at auction, and the
wraiths of the derelicts that passed into, his hands
to be broken up as “old junk,” or patched ahd
sold, would make a big phantom fleet. Also he
got in some flrte work in the salvage hne. Hi,s
Work in floating-off and towing, ,to . Sydney tly?
four-masted barque. Falls of Garry,,.piled up an(l
abandoned as a total, wrepk on thp coast of Aew
Caledonia, is considered, the smartest bit of salv-
age yet done South of the Fine.
The death is cabled from England of
Colonel Mark Sever Bell, V.C., aged 03. The
colonel was a Sydney native, son of Hutchinson
Bell who in the thirties arrived in Sydney, and
started business as a Customs-house agent. He
was afterwards official assignee, with an office in
Castlereagh-street and a private residence at
Botany Mr. Hutchinson Bell retired to his
home in Yorkshire over half a century ago. The
colonel gained the V.C. in the Ashantee \y ar,
when King Koffee Kalcalli struck a cold time,
and lost his golden stool and his royal gamp of
office.
The steamship Devon brought out from
England 150 immigrants for Maoriland, Ah
Australian paper interviewed some of them iff
passing, and found that these were the Wages
they were running away from V atitaatt for fch&
London County Council, 4s. 6d. a day ; flretffah
in electrical engiheerihg Woi’kS, 9d. ah hour fa
9-houf day) ; laborer in go'odshed, North Stafford-
shire railway cohipaiiy, £1 a Week fdt 10 hours a
day; irbnmOulder, in Belfast, 38s. a Week tor 10
hours a day; Lancashire collier, 205., a week;
lumper in Swansea docks, 20s. a Wbek; plate-
layer, Midland Railway, 225. a week,
Teeth that are not regularly cleaned, and
cleansed from impurities, become impregnated with
acids or deleterious organic matter which cause decay,
and what is perhaps still worse, introduce into the
system bacteria that are a serious menace to the genera!
health. The mouth and teeth should be as regularly
washed and cleansed as the hands ; it should be just as
much a daily habit to do one as the other ; and as Odo!
meets the requirements of a combined mouth wash and
dentifrice more adequately than any other knowh pre-
paration.*
“K.” from the Vic. Western District
In “ Plain English ” (B. 14/6/’O6) occurs the following
“ The Manifolds, of Camperdown, have made a fine art oi
thus squeezing the tenant dairy-farmer.” But, of the
three Manifold brothers (who own separate estates), there
is one who has the well-deserved reputation of being the
best landlord in the Western District. This is J. O.
Manifold, who was for a short time in the Reps. His
rents are by far the lowest in the district; he gives long
leases—up to 18 years—and he is selling the farms on easy
terms to some of his tenants. So low are his rents that
many of his tenants are now wealthy men, and some oi
them live in Camperdown and hire families to work then
dairies. He is easily the most popular of the local pro.
prietors. You were probably thinking of his brother,
W. T. Manifold (husband of the fashionable Mrs. Willie
Manifold), who is just now on a jaunt to the Cold
Country. W. T. Manifold is famous (or notorious) as
« Penny Billy,” on account of the fact that he pays his
share-tenants a penny per gallon for their milk. He sup-
plies land, cows, house, &c., and the tenant supplies the
labor. Out of the result Manifold takes, in a good season,
over 3d. per gallon, which is certainly an extortion ; and
he mav certainly be said to have acquired the “ fine art
of squeezing the tenant" to perfection. His wealth is
popularly believed to reach seven figures. The third
brother, Edward, stands halfway between the other two.
Watson’s progressive land-tax will cause a tremendous
splutter amongst these Western District landlords ; in
fact if they pay it in gold, a special train will be needed
to cart the hoodie away. For, besides the Manifolds,
huge sums will be paid by the Blacks, Shaws, Curries,
Mackinnons, Clarkes and Maearthurs ; also by Chirnside,
Dennis, Murray, Coles, and many others.
"THE DRAMMER."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the orchestry’s a-toonin’ up I settles in me seat.
Then glances at me programme, an’ thinks now I’ll ave
a treat
After eight hours at the washtub in the bustle an the
’eat
(1 goes across an’ calls for Mrs. Palmer).
There’s nothin’ suits me feelin’s like a good, strong, meaty
play,
With situations crowdin’in a most bewildenn way.
An’ the villain we. rin’ dress clothes in the middle of the
day.
Oh 1 how I loves the ’eavy melo-drammer.
Me old man says I’m dotty, straight—he does, upon me
But all the Same ’e shouts me, an’ a boh ’e’ll l fte'e\y give ;
The# Nj goes to see the latest, greatest artist at the
’“Tiv.”,
An’ ’elps the boys to whistle, stamp an’ ’animer.
How me—l likes me old friends an’ I loves ’em ev’ry ofie,
The poor gtey-’eaded father and ’is ’andsoule ’ero hdh 5
Tlie 'ei'Oihe, an’ villain, an’ the man who makes the fun
The same old fun in ev’ry metodraihmer.
When the stage is dat-k an’ dim, an’ very shivery music
plays,
It sends a thrill right up me back just where I ties me
stays. , r
An’ the Villain grips the ’eroine, an’ says, “ Ah, ha 1 for
days
I’ve waited j r ou an’ she begihs t'6 Stammer ;
An’ asts i'f he’s a man as eVeV knoo a mother’s love,
Demandin’ ’ifh to leave ’er—then she calls on ’eaven
above,
fire ’eTO rushes on an’ gives the cove a vi’lent shove,
Then Sobs, “ Me darlin’ girl”—that’s proper drammer.
Through five long acts the ’ero an’ the ’eroine gets fits,
But the villain’s low accomplices turns ’onest an’ they
splits;
While the comic man has always got the warrants up his
“mlts,”
The ’ero ’ugs the ’eroine to calm her.
You talks about the Hopera—to me, it’s nothin’ more
Than dressin’ an’ frivolity ; gimme the tears and gore—
The murders an’ explosions—though I’ve seen ’em all
afore,
I’ll go again to see ’em in the drammer.
VIC.
JOHN MRIGHAN.


Furred vSKins
Rabbit vSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
J' ROM LIKE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
arl< l 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
PHOTOS
' N
Country or Gu
Good City Posts await
Cur Postal Students.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore St., Sydney. [3.
sef
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Edward VII. had a birthday last week and
there was the usual flock of “honors” and the
usual invidiousness m their distribution. Tooth’s
Brewery (Sydney) is made a baronet and Toohev’s
brewery isn t. Justice Owen of N.S.W. is made
a knight, yet devil a thing is there for Peter Close
with whom his Honor has been so closely
associated of late. Goodness only knows on what
system these things are run ; but two chief reasons
tor royal favor seem to be Coin and Beer.
• * * *
The punishment by British law of the
Egyptians who murdered a British officer seems
to have been unspeakably brutal. According to
the cables:—
Four of the men were hanged, and six flogged in a
space which had been roped in where the assaults were
committed, with the gallows and whipping-post in the
centre. A man was first hanged, and left hanging while
two others were each given 50 lashes. Another was
hanged, left hanging, and two others whipped; then
another was hanged, and two more whipped; and
finally, the remaining two were hanged, and the other
culprits flogged.
If that recurring remark “left hanging” had
applied to- an execution in Russia the British,
press would have been full of smug reproaches.
THE TAILOR AS ART
CRITIC.
The TAILOR AND CUTTER criti-
cises very severely the pictorial
renderings of clothes, as seen on
the walls of the Royal Academy.
“From the tailor’s standpoint,”
says the critic, “this year’s ex-
hibition is by far the worst we
have seen.”
SNIP: "Why, she’s got none of her seams in the
right places. And, hang it, if the top button
ain’t missing!”
-That unfortunate Sydney tram-driver who
recently committed suicide by drowning, seems to
have been a victim of the habit people have of
lingering on the lines. Sydney is full of people
who drift slowly across the tram-lines and are
content if the approaching car dodges them by a
yard or so. In a busy street the driver just
shaves 125 of these people every mile. He has to
assume that they will jump from before his
vehicle inside the last yard of safety ; if he took
the only sure method, and pulled up every time,
he would be at least 15 minutes late on the run
from Circular Quay to Redfern, and there would
be half-a-mile of blocked cars cursing behind him,
and he would straightway lose his job. In the
end he runs over somebody, of course—he runs
over the drifter who cuts tilings too fine. The
recent suicide did that, and for the few remaining
weeks of his life he could seldom sleep because
the last howl of his victim was always in
his ears. When he did sleep he dreamed about
the tragedy and howled himself. So in the end
he rose up early one Friday and drowned himself.
laid Brady on hw\ fe r £ niv “- The first blow
him to hiffPA*- r baC ! : ’ but tle sec °nd brought
the GreeL v er tt rk f 6r - ? e J llst fell all over
head and he f , uet ] ’ botb hands and his
vfgor that inffind£ nd k,Cked and butted with Sllcb
fractured II fift f en seconds one Greek had a
»rw? o I* , ’ 't fractured nose, a damaged taee
L j t femach that was bleeding internally He
hmcf V" tel ( o !f'f V» hospital in aSmbu!
Wiitbu, r S , S y slowly at time of
one lin ,u 1 I H ek N ?' 2 lost sun <Jry teeth, half
turn a , “ U,cll ear - He gained in re-
on his head I ‘ lctn ?’ e :ui d a large wound
No ‘1 o-nt nff\\ S ° lfc - wasn 4a H loss- Greek
Pick ,n S i he easie st. He was stooping to
aval ind.e p° f , COal t( i throw at the human
the tai? of S Bra & eau " ht si^b t of him out of
the Greek nn His foot shot out and caught
three Se n und e, r -l'P. making him toss about
pound of ' 8 t lnd talb as th ough he had a
n o , .l '?■ '“a 8 u, . outh - Brady was locked
The Greet ” u! nlil 1 ctl V g & rievous Godily harm.
T S:ll< that he had battered them with
bleedi, t ’i , but B ? d y exhibited his raw and
feeding knuckles, and said pathetically “ That's
W«M I'ave pTt tLtif l'd a
the Bhooli ' i 'tl'i iiu toerat Panton w.is on
at the Sv f d « Ve i lblS r lugglsh blood was stirred
criDnled g l Brady S f ba nds and the bandaged,
also had K , nCe ° f . hl ? ?PP°nents. The victor
pital di£ h d Swathed 1,1 white where the hos-
ce ved at H e T“ Up tbe & a wound re-
said Pantom Prehmmary h,t - “ Discharged,”
* * * *
“ Micawber ” writes :
Stdnpv e f; it ,r c u |,e 0f flve lads from Ormond House tin-
establlshnlent for tlle detention of under-sized
n ?a.y Ul 'ge upon officials concerned tlie neces-
timati morafblots befc Ti r ac P°n |m °dation for these unfor-
U dmvood ipii !i he Wl " dows of their cells abut on
'i d ™ '! ’ d e , ver - v morning a group of stunted
endeavor 1 1’“ seen clinging to tlie bars in an earnest
first u iOflcation nf iV -‘ e attenfclon of Pedestrians. My
aar e l n ° f . lel ,r Presence was the concussion of
; ? . boko - , The nail was suspended by
su n hly ; ! S T nl P. leces of sheeting, torn, pie-
fiom the beds, and attached was a niece of
bi e ed S acZssit Vlt Th n ean 'est desire for a cigarette serib-
rhe sam ® thing occurs every morning-
, 'lO fc l, P> and as they float gracefully earth-
an‘.in at S fhe on ' t 0 l oatch th e eye. The demand
n m I/ n V s always the same-cigarettes,
thathevi hard-featured youtli was howling
at he d„o mad it he didn t have a smoke The most
Pmate S iads f i at Tf ° f tl,ei f confil 'ement is'that uufor-
occum- the T e, * ht t 0 10 J-eare are forced to
resrnice vn.mi as ) ca se-hardened youths whose
1 le.cnce would contaminate a stone image.
* * ♦ *
Elder McCullagh, who now bosses what
remains of the Australian part of Howie’s “Zion ”
forWi Ultb T- Particulars of the prophet’s downfall
and the ructions that have ensued theremi. Before
m v« B V r lg t 0 Mexico - c the Purple-winged prophet
7wl | Vaa / Wei ' ° f attor, my ov ’er all his (or
Wkl v r ged i Pr T', ty ’ estimated at £4,600,000.
Vhen Vohva heard that Dowie was going to re-
voke that deed, he signed away to Elder Granger
every interest held by Dowie throughout the
world Dowie then filed a bill in the American
courts to recover control, and “a strong Bar has
been engaged 011 both sides.” Just so ! Four
millions will provide an exceptionally strong Bar '
\ ohvas followers now number barely 5000 while
Dowie s have dwindled to 200. As to the Purple
I rophet s capers, Voliva says Zion’s total liabili-
iffiSn' tO - £, ’ 200 ’ ofto i that is at pre-
sent £60,000 in interest and dividends (!) unpaid •
that there are outstanding notes against John
Alexander to the amount of £60,000; that that
vociferous person has overdrawn his personal
£1 os'vufi Wlt i i, the f Zl i°'! E;l ,' lk to the extent of
£lOB 200, and has fooled with the church’s account
in the same bank to the time of £4O 000
Ir alleg ? S v thafc Ml ' s - Howie spent
£lBOO on a diamond bracelet, and Miss D. £l6O on
three pearls—some of the pearls cast before
the swine, presumaldy. But the most amazing
pait of Voliva s narrative is that the whole of the
land on which the holy city of Zion is built, and
which Dowie has leased or sold in blocks is
merely held on option of purchase.” Dowie he
says, never got either lease or title for this land
and, of course, the legal owners want their land
back. In other words, they want Zion. It is a
staggersome story of folly and credulity, and the
end of it all is summed up in the information that
a strong Bar has been engaged on both sides
costs, of course, to come out of Zion.
* * * *
At Broken Hill last week Rev. E. J.
luck preached his farewell sermon at the South
Baptist Church after 16 years toil in the smoky
report ' bnef extract from the newspaper
. j' ea I f s * and applause marked the more
touching-parts of the address. The preacher stated that
salary' weeks he received only 365. in
Wages, nine bob a week and applause.
* * #
Members of the Sydney police force—
especially old members-do not relish the break-
ing up of certain well-known gambling dens.
Ihey know the games will be carried on else-
where-111 all probability in way-out suburban
scrubs and paddocks, with well-placed scouts on
watch. Ihese open-air schools were carried on
fifteen or more years ago. To visit, or break up
such assemblies of “two-uppers,” pugilists, dog
or oockfighters meant for the police miles and
miles of running, walking, scrambling, dodging-
and manoeuvring, with weary, hungry spells of
waiting and watching. The old city two-up
schools served as centres where the police could
as a rule, drop on a man or gather points and in-
formation about things done, doing, or in train in
the criminal world. That was very different
from running ten miles over damp paddocks in
search of news.
THERE IS A COOLNESS NOW.
SINE: "Yes; he was my first music master."
HE (absently): “ Was he? I didn't think he was so old as that."
If.J. : Saw a spectacle last Thursday
niKlit at Kedfern railway station. Lady North-
cote appeared leaning upon the arm of Chief
Justice Dailey, who was bending from his
tall height to the level of her ladyship, in a
platonic attitude. Behind the august pair crept
respectfully a tall, strong-looking gentleman—the
aide, no doubt—tenderly bearing in his manly
aims the vice-regal lap-dog. After him—the
correct number of paces-tripped miladi’s maid,
laden with the vice-regal muff ; whilst, an equal
number of paces behind her, swarmed the vice-
regal footman, respectfully carrying the vice-regal
iug and hairpin box. And in front went a lai "e
policeman, with his arm extended to warn the
population to get off the globe and let the pro-
cession roll past. There was no crowd and there
was plenty of room, but in case the earth should
open and pour forth a crowd, that mighty cop
was there to tell it to get off the earth and roost
amid the rafters of the fixed stars till the vice-
regal party had finished using this planet.
* * ** #
“ T. O’Fipp ” : I encountered some repre-
sentatives of an interesting family the other day.
I was in a mis
eellaneous deal-
er’s little shop
at, Collingvvood
(Melb.) when an
old woman en-
tered and
whined : “ ’Ave
yer got sich a
thing as a plate
or two yer could
spare? I’m just
out er the ’erspi-
tal, and I’m goin’
into lod gin’s.
Soon as I left
’ome my old man
up an’ sold every-
think and cleared
out, the wretch !” “No, I’ve no
crockery,” said the hard-hearted
dealer, ignoring the fact that
there was a pile of it at his side.
“I sold my last plate a few
minutes ago.” The old dame de-
parted, muttering to herself. “So
she’s still on the hospital racket,”
remarked the dealer. “ That’s old
mother Mugsby. She don’t re-
member me ; but 25 years ago she
used to come to the old pot’s place
down at the Port with the same
tale, and I ve often seen her since.
No, she’s never been in the hospital
—not in her natural. She's as
strong as a horse. Still, she must
Have ruled a nice little stocking by using that
Rag. If you look out you’ll see' her grand-
daughter somewhere handy, pushing a perambu-
lator full of things the old lady’s begged. They
all go to the son's marine store. As for her
husband leaving her, he must be down this direc-
tion too to-day. He always tries the ophthalmia
dodge on the opposite side of any street me lady’s
working. Sure enough on reaching the next
corner I saw the down-trodden matron handing
odds and ends to a girl with a well-filled perambu-
lator. And when I crossed the road I met the
alleged ophthalmic veteran.
ri* * * *
llie British naval authorities go through
the yearly farce of offering eight cadetships in the
navy to Australian boys, “recommended by the
Governor-General. ’ As the parents have to weigh
out about £3OO per annum for the youngsters,
there is not much of a rush for the cadetships, and
none have been taken up for some years. Never-
theless, the British Admiralty is under the im-
pression that a few further restrictions should be
imposed, for fear some Australians should slip in,
and a ukase has been issued that the age limit has
been amended, so that all candidates must be over
13 years and eight months, and under 14 years.
1 his means that two-thirds of the possible candi-
dates each year will be absolutely debarred. When
the authorities come and shake up the official
800 l of fculoam one year, two-thirds of that year’s
crop of boy will be too young, and next year the
same lot will be too old. It doesn’t matter much
tor no one takes much notice of the cadetships
but it is an interesting point in a small way
Vic. Judge Eagleson’s recent action in
sending two female alleged jury-squarers to gaol
called attention to a system which is possibly
more widespread than the cash-bribery of jurors,
ihere are always a few nice-looking girls knocking
about the corridors of the Criminal Courts, and
the detectives have just begun to ask what they
are there for. Inquiries show that for years past
it has been possible to hire a pretty girl to be
your broken-hearted sister, and that grief-stricken
c amozel has of late assumed alarming* proportions.
• ordinary man is averse to entering into con-
versation with a beautiful young woman, and
when she tearfully tells the story of her poor,
innocent brother, whose arrest was all a mistake,
and whose conviction will mean that she and
mother will be thrown out on a hard, cold world,
ne is likely to be impressed, especially when the
ady suggests that they may meet subsequently and
tell each other the old, sweet tale of love. Since
agleson s action, good-looking women and
females under 50 in general have been chased off
the court premises.
TOO CAUTIOUS.
“I might have married him myself only I didn't
like his red hair.”
"Foolish girl! If he’d married you he'd hare
soon gone bald.”
A Maorilander who struck Punta Arenas,,
the Chilian seaport on Magellan Strait, lately,,
observes that the place (10,000 population) could!
do with a Health Department and a Prohibition,
League. Lvery other house is a drinking den,
and has its own peculiar smell, and every vacant,
section has at least two or three smells of its own..
It is a town of varied odors and varied colors;;
most of the houses are built of galvanized iron,,
and as they are dyed in many hues of paint, the
result, at a distance, is very striking. There is a.
Protestant sky pilot in Punta Arenas, and his
churchwardens include two Anglicans, two Pres-
byterians, two Methodists and a Lutheran. A
queer thing about his service is that every Sab-
bath prayers are said for the President of the
• 3 * ;a^es the President and Government
of Chili.
* * * «
A N.S.W. country bankrupt the other
day inserted, in heavy roundhand, in the space on
his schedule set apart for “causes of insolvency”
the gloomy legend “ trusting implicitly a rascally,
religious solicitor.”
THE MAID OF MYSTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
me for lA and has saved £SOO '/' aS ’ >een with
a recent MeW. Anti-SooialistmSnJ. at
Maid of Fraser !
Let us praise her
Methods Anti-Sosh and frugal ;
Proud in bearing,
And forswearing
Lace and feather, bead and bugle.
Socking- wages
Through the ages—
Still it seems a trifle funny,
Things she wore so
O’er her torso
Should have cost so little money.
Cash goes, if on
Yards of chiffon
It is spent; and so, despairing,
We are burning
To be learning
What the costume is she’s wearing-.
via.
A.R.


PRIZE WOOL
3
Guineas
d
©>6e Best Wool
Australia
produces will
be found in
W “ALL WOOL” WINTER SUITS
R. C. HAGON, 129 King St., Sydney.
The Eldershaw - Crackenthorpe divorce
case, recently heard in Sydney, was more than
usually commonplace. Two middle-aged men,
a woman or two not quite in their first youth, a
domestic servant, a butcher and a bike, bore a
hand in the narrative as principals, or witnesses,
or “props.” There were no tizzy circumstances,
no motor-car, no champagne, no poetry. The
bike seems to have been a plain bone-shaker, and
the lady was named Mary Ann —not “Anne,”
only just “Ann ’* without an “ e.” Yet, as a case
in point, England has lately been convulsed over a
lady named Billington. Miss Billington was one
of a female tumult which insisted on seeing Home
Secretary Asquith about Woman’s Suffrage. He
said he was due at the House of Commons, and
hadn’t time to interview a large and long-winded
deputation. He couldn’t get out of his own front
door for the numerousness of the deputation, so
the police tried to make way for him. And then
the Billington lady lashed out at the force with
her brolly. The assault was assessed at £lO or
two months, and Miss Billington decided to be a
mortar, or a martyr, or something, and pine in a
dungeon. She might be only a bony person with
goggles firmly grasping a cotton gamp in her
cell, but England bought her a halo (probably
made in Germany), and over 1000 meetings,
demanded her release. The Government felt,
itself tottering on its basis because of Miss
Billington, and yet if it released the lady she would
probably, in her desire to be a martyr, put in the.
balance of her term voluntarily in her own coal-
cellar. And the Ministry, apparently, hadn’t the'
sense to disguise itself as an aged Nonconformist,
clergyman, and go down and pay the fine, andi
thus cut short Miss Billington s advertisement.
It weakly reduced the sentence by one-half, how-
ever, and then, among all those 1000 indignant;
meetings, someone put up the necessary £s—per-
haps it was the Government disguised as an ancient.
Nonconformist divine that did it after all —and.
Miss Billington had to come out. Even a Billing-
ton could hardly make herself ridiculous by
clutching the door-post of her cell with bothi
hands and screaming that she wouldn’t leave.
* * * *
A recent case at Melbourne District Court
threw considerable light on the regard of that,
"desirable alien,” the half-caste, for his white half’s,
country. It appeared that Bertie Sydney Hun
Gip, at present known as B. S. Bark Shing, owed;
his white mother some £2O, money advanced to.
bring him back from China, where he had gone
with his father a few years back. Asked why he.
didn’t pay up, Bertie, etc., explained that he
earned 28s. weekly, of which he paid 14s. for
board, and sent Ids. to his “mother ” in China.
The mystified beak inquired into this other
“mother,” and learnt that Bertie’s disreputable,
yellow father, on returning to spend his old age.
in ease, had left his white wife here, and taken a
new yellow wife in Chow Land. Then his half-
white son had borrowed £2O by post from his‘
white mother in Australia, so that he might get
back here and earn money to support his bigamous,
yellow stepmother in Asia. As for helping to
support his white ma, or even repaying her
advance, Bertie never thought of that.
* * * •
Now that the illegality of serving blue,
papers, purporting to be writs or records of pre-
liminary proceedings, by debt collectors upon
creditors, has been drawn attention to by a recent
District Court action, another practice, perhaps
not unlawful, but which should
be made so by legislation, needs
a kick in the waistcoat pocket.
It is that habit which thesix-and-
eightpenny crowd has of de-
manding half-a-guinea from a
person to whom a letter has been
written under instructions from
a client who has already paid
the shark for writing it. Many
a poor devil to whom a letter
from a grampus of the law is
something akin to a death-
warrant has been bluffed into
complying with this unscrupu-
lous demand. To protect such,
this custom of the legal whale
should be made an offence, sub-
ject to the same punishment as
obtaining loot by false pre-
tences. In reality, it is a mix-
ture of false pretences, black-
mail, and highway robbery,
leavened by the characteristic
impudence of the roaring six-and-eightpenny lion.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : It is admitted that the conflict
between the police and the Melbourne unemployed
at the opening of the State Parliament was pre-
cipitated by the action of a mounted constable,
who urged his horse against the crowd while look’
ing in another direction. The man arrested was
being forced against an unyielding mass, and beat
off the moke with his umbrella. If this is not self-
preservation, what is it ? The charge was insult-
ing behavior—not impeding a policeman’s horse
while shoving in the execution of its duty. The
constable on top of the horse was the real
offender, and if police officialdom regarded a
crowd as anything more than an aggregation of
necessarily bad characters, some of these mounted
specimens would be turned loose to find jobs in
which their contempt for other people’s limbs,
would not do so much damage. During the
York visit, when the horse police were more ass
police than usual, the writer saw three persons
deliberately ridden down. The victim on each
occasion was absolutely helpless in front of a
surging crowd, and the action of the police in
pressing their horses upon the mass was deliberate*
and callous. Dozens of times toes have been
trodden off or broken, and other injuries inflicted!
upon peaceable people in this way by Melbourne’s
mounted police. The bobby who dances a flash
horse at a press of people that are doing no harm
should be sent back to the woods forthwith.
• * * «
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six:
first class artists are engaged. The establishment-
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
A DESPERATE CHARACTER.
THE BATTLER: “My orf! Yer ouyhtcr seen me. If the blokes 'adn't held me back there ’d
’a’ been murder done.”
Brisbane nearly enjoyed a riot over the
unveiling of the late Queen’s statute in the
Executive Building gardens. The 400 officers
who toil in this pile were told one morning that
they must not enter the building during the
ceremony, because the vice-regal party was to
take tea and ale there with the Premier. Many
of the departmental heads had previously
arranged to hold little socials of their own,
in imitation of the gubernatorial function,
and when they heard that they were to
be locked out you could have boiled a
billy on their wrath. The excitement grew so
violent that the order was rescinded, and the
Service stopped leaping on its hat and was at
peace for a time. The next trouble was with the
public. It was proposed to rail out common
people from a space in the gardens; to let a num-
ber of uncommon people inside the barriers on
white tickets; and to let a few utterly unusual
people with pink tickets on the platform itself.
The public was angry, and the white ticket people
were angry ; in fact, nobody was satisfied except
(the pink ticket people. Again the committee
backed into its hollow log. This made most of
the white and pink ticket people so angry that
they went to the football match. There was one
"Cheer, at the unveiling, and it was a poor one.
Finally, the official photo, fiend waved to his Ex.
to take off his hat so that he might show his noble
brow in the photograph. His Ex. thought the
idea was that her Ex. should stand up beside him,
DRY AND EMPTY.
FLORRIE : “I'm full up o’ this ’ere beer ami
whisky business, Bill.”
BILL: “ Blime? I wish I was!”
and he raised her up. Then he had to tell her Ex.
to sit down again, which she did with a disturbed
countenance. Altogether it was a muddled func-
tion.
His Honor Justice Simpson, of N.S.W.,
seems lately to forget his honor, or at least his
dignity. It’s the same old row. He cannot for-
give the Legislature for allowing District Court
Judges to try divorce cases. In Mr. Simpson’s
mind, only Mr. Simpson is competent to find out
exactly what Pereival said to Angelina when they
went astray together. The other day District
Court Judge Gibson refused—and was right in
doing so—to forward his notes in a divorce
case to Justice Simpson, and Mr. Simp-
son, according to the press reports, referred
to him as “Judge Something Something Gibson,”
having, or affecting to have, a difficulty in
deciphering his initials. That sort of business is
not high and mighty, as Justice Simpson pro-
bably thinks it is, but merely silly and childish.
And when his Honor Simpson afterwards took up
a lot of the court’s time in protesting against the
allegation that he said “ Judge Something Some-
thing Gibson,’’ yet admitted that he said “Some-
thing Gibson,” only he didn’t say it in the same
tone that the paper printed it in, and when he
regretted at great length that the reporter who
put down two “ Somethings ” instead of one was
not present (presumably so that he could fall on
him with great judicial tonnage) the dignity of the
Bench didn’t seem greatly improved. The next
trouble is that Judge Gibson, who is in bed with
the ’flu, says that when be can get out of bed and
get rid of the ’flu he is going to do something in
the matter of Mr. Simpson who, he says, suffers
from chronic incivility.
* • • *
“F.C.” : A mate of mine chanced to be
chosen among 30 whom “Jack” Wren took on at
the Ascot course for a month’s work at union
rates. He is an enthusiastic barracker for Wren,
and will stoush any man who says a word against
him. Wren is a clever tactician and a
master-advertiser, but—my mate, to my know-
ledge, has, during the last 12 months, put about
£l3 into the Collingwood tote and has drawn out
barely £2. The wages he gets for that month’s
work have come out of his own pocket!
* * *
The Westralian police are on the track of
certain collectors for a church in Jerusalem or a
home for exhausted parsons at Bagdad, who are
alleged to be bogus. It is well to warn Australians
that no help should be given to foreign collectors
for foreign charities unless they produce cre-
dentials endorsed by some well-known local
authority, and even then it is well to be wary, for
the chances are 10 to one that the well-known local
authority has been taken in by mere snuffle. A
written guarantee from the Crown Prosecutor and
the chief of the Detective Office is about as good
as anything. As for the assurance, in Sanscrit, of
the Bishop of Arabia, that sort of thing is worth
about as much as the moral support of a gentle-
man whojdoes the three-card trick.
WHEN-!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the swords are sheathed of the burning glances,
When eyelids like ivory shields drop down,
AVhen Woman, the mother of all romances,
Hideth her smile in the Great Dark’s gown—
Then shall our wounds their throbbing cease,
Then shall the Lords of the Land have peace.
When the golden hair we fondle and fight for
Loses its lustre on Earth’s last day,
When the lips we groped through the bridal night for
Careless are turned from us, cold and grey—
Then shall our wondering, warm love cease,
Then shall the Lords of the Land have peace.
U.S.A.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
AT DUSK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grey broods the water ’neatli a sky of grey,
Where stars set lamps to greet the coining night,
A steamer fades into the far away,
And ferry boats flit past ablaze with light.
New stars appear upon the harbor’s breast,
And deck each mast and spar with jewels bright;
'The anchored ships, like giant birds at rest,
Or their white ghosts, dream of the morrow’s flight.
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
RHEUMATISM.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“When I was down with Rheumatisin, over
£lOO went on doctors, and all for nothing, saicl
Mr. Waldron Frost, whose home is at Branxton,
midway between Maitland and Singleton. ,Y ear
in and year out, the disease got a bigger hold on
me. I had the best specialists, and they tried all
manner of cures on me. In spite of them all, my
case got more and more hopeless. At last, the
doctors told my wife, point blank, that they could
do nothing for me. I lost all heart then. I here
was nothing left for me, but to end my days a.
cripple—but, thank heaven, Dr. Williams Fmk
Pills saved me from that. Before three months
went by, they drove every trace of Rheumatisin.
out of my blood, and I’ve been as right as ram
ever since. ,
“ It was back in ’93 that I first got to know
anything about Rheumatism,” said Mr. E ipsG
“1 got a chill at work one day, and that night
every bone in my body started to ache. Eor
eight or nine years after that, I was never rid of
the terrible gnawing pains. No words can tell
what I went through. If the pains weren t so
bad in my arms, they made up for it across mv
back and in my legs. They were worse if I sat
down for a spell. My mates can tell you what 1
went through every lunch hour. Before it was
time to start work again, I had to get them to
help me on to my feet, so that I could get my
limbs into something like working order, before 1
dare try to do a stroke with the pick. If ever a
man suffered torture I did. Little by little the
Rheumatism got worse till at last it had me
thoroughly in its grip.
“ Summer and winter were alike. I never
knew when one of my bad attacks was going to
lay me out. I might go to bed pretty right, but,
before morning came, I woke in agony. When I
tried to struggle out of bed it was as much as 1
could do to stop from yelling. My muscles were
all cramped, and it was agony for me to move.
Four mornings out of seven, some one had to
help me on with my clothes. The pains spread
down my arms to my elbows. All down my back
and across my shoulders felt battered and bruised.
It gave me ail I knew to sit up straight. No one
but those that have had Rheumatism can under-
stand what I went through. Every day I was
getting more helpless. The pain worked down
from my hips to my knees. Once it settled there
it put the finishing touch to me. Many a day I
was too crippled to get to my work. I had to
give in and take to my bed.
“ There I lay, and wasn’t able to do a mortal
thing for myself,” added Mr. Waldron Frost.
“ I couldn’t even turn from one side to the other.
Hour after hour I lay awake, moaning and
groaning. The Rheumatism darted through my
legs till I nearly went mad. My joints swelled
up, and got so tender that I couldn’t bear to be
touched. To try and give me a little ease, the
doctors put the electric battery on me, but they
might as well have let me alone, for all the good
that did me. Then they ordered me to be rubbed
with liniments, but that was only giving me fresh
torture. Every time my poor wife put a finger
near me, I had to yell. The pain couldn’t have
been any worse if every bone in my body was
smashed.
“ Life looked very black,” Mr. Waldron Frost
went on. “ Clever and all as the doctors were,
they were never going to find a cure for my
Rheumatism. The whole eight years that I was
bad, there was never a week went by that I
didn’t have to lay out a £l. At last my wife
chanced to read about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
She would have me let her send round to Mr.
Lewis, our old chemist, for a supply. In a week I
was eating fine. The pains in my arms and
shoulders died down a bit. After a while the
stiff feeling went out of my back. I could
straighten my legs and lift my arms up. I stuck
to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills till I got through a
dozen boxes. By that time there was no need for
me to take another dose. I was rid of every ache
and pain. My wife and I are never done telling
how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured my Rheu-
matism, and cured it for good.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Waldron Frost,
by driving the rheumatic poison out of his blood.
They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t tinker
with mere symptoms. They actually make new
blood —just that ; nothing more. In the same
way, they drive out the germs of other diseases,
and build up the blood to carry healing, health
and strength to every nook and corner of the
body. In N.S. Wales, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
have cured the worst cases of bloodlessness, indi-
gestion, biliousness, liver complaint, kidney
trouble, weak lungs, asthma, influenza, headaches,
backaches, lumbago, sciatica, neuralgia, nervous-
ness, spinal weakness, skin complaints, and the
special ailments of girls and women, whose blood
supply becomes weak, scanty or irregular. If
anyone tries to palm off substitutes on you, write
for the genuine to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d., post
free. Medical advice given free.*
Choice goods offering in the matrimonial
line, in Melb. Age (16/6/’O6): —
PREPOSSESSING Young Man, 26, would like to
correspond with young widow or spinster, pre-
possessing, with hotel or business, to keep both, view
above. Apollo Belvidere, Age.
In other words, a beautiful young man wants a
beautiful woman to support him.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd- 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE.
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &c.
ARTHUR LEPLASTBIEB- Managing Director.
Dunlop Packings
s
fsdf
Arc guaranteed to wear well.
You will -find the Quality & Price rightv
■Send for illustrated catalogue -
The DUJHLOP RUBBER. CO. of AU3.LTD.
Toa FUNDEU yt AELBOU R.Ne tr AIL STATES.-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
'Tbti iricurabie affability of Alfred Deakin re-
advertisement recently when a question
noW Ho . use .of Reps re security for Australian
der ?i ln , forel S , n life assurance offices. The
possible trouble about the foreign life assurance office is
cnat it may decide, for some reason or other, to give ut)
Wh? 8 ' v eW b , Us ne3s be, ' e ' Then it may remove Its assets*.
When it no longer wants to stand well with the Australian
? a ? tO , se< r ut ‘ e ne ' v business, and when it may
even prefer to stand so badly with the Australian public
ai$ fc d policy-holders here will drop their policies
krtd enable it to , close lip ,i« Adstlalia for good
.f.’L T- 1 i! na - y J do „ mai W (.reiparitablb things.
dl 4 d !f s ,Te°)lle odt pt their Ikmdses, oi
refuses, od_ techmcdi points, to pay claim?, and
there are no assets here, and no legal redress nearer than
W?pdpn, or New York,or Magdehurg, the policy-holder’s
ftlMqoutlpqk ahead, of yhein,:
?!F fi u kh E TW idqesq t say,that Any foreign, life assurance
pgppriWWOpld do these tilings, any more than jt alleges
any or other gentleman would cpnynilt bur.-
a jt i ? a y?i 16 -that it ip well to have, laws against
kh.arp-practice in life .assurance and against burglary,
like ( otlie,r epuntries-j-has cast-iron
regulations pompelling foreign .life offic.es to keep enough
JhtpW.Y in .the, country.to coyer all liabilities under their
if rn ?j n Ph'W'ets, and there, is, no .reason .why Australia
aphould pot be similarly saJegtiardedi Also, there daub
hot take .sortie. VOW essential
time' 880 ensure 4be solvency of local offices at the same
~ J n t)l e 'riatter of protection for policy-holders
in.foreign hfq.offices, then, consider this answer of Prime
Minister Deakin ■
Mr., Deakin,: In justice to these (foreign life) eom-
P a PjfS he thought it,fair to .say that alf information was
rt eadily givgn, and on behalf, of those rtepreSyritatives he
fvaslassdfed.that, any measure providing, adequate, proi
section, of policy-holders in Australia would not be opposed
by therm ,-i - \.s. -\ , i. . ,», •, ■,,
t’ ’n? (N.S.W.) : Is it possible to provide protec-
(<Mr. Deakin q There) is no doubt it could be done with
their co-operation. < He vvas encouraged to hope that the
Government would receive the companies' co-operation
in making abundant provision for the protection of policy-
holders. y 0
It is difficult to remember a more dreadful case of affa-
bility than this. Mr. Deakin apparently can’t see how
an ything can be done to protect Australian policy-
holders against possible wrong by certain companies
Unless it is done with the consent of the pos-
sible wrong-doers. He hopes that the companies
Won’t oppose any legislation for the protection
of their Australian policy-holders. He also hopes for
their co-operation. If they do oppose, and if they don’t
co-operate, it seems as if the Australian policy-holder
must just take his chance, Mr, Deakin being too affable to
do anything unpleasant or compulsory. If the Prime
Minister had had the drafting of Australia’s criminal code
he wortld almost certainly have enacted that suspected
persons might be arrested With their Owh edrisent, dnd
have irivited all defddltirig bankets td cd-ophrittfe with the
Polibe in Secui-irig their owii capture. While thferb iS Sq
rtiiich Work t'6 be dorie it is lrtadderiirig to Seb tirrie wasted
bvet all this heedless affdbility.
i’tie IiAtMARiiET Permanent Land, BuildiNg
and Investment Co. (Sydney)
V iv al- i. Added to Re-
Nqv., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £452 Nil £452 £40,134
1898 .. |77 Nil 477 40,611
1899 .. 1401 1£ per cent. = £lO9O 3U 40,922
1900 .. 3344 3 „ „ „ 2201 lfe 41,065
1901 .. 2369 3 ,; ~ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902 .. 2022 3 ~ „ ~ 2308 614 41,777
1903 .. 2590 3 ~ ~ .„ 2477 113 41,890
1904 .. 3044 3 ~ ~ ~ 2584 460 42,350
1905 .. 3017 3 ~ „ ~ 2595 422 42,772
May,
1906 .. 1434 3 „ „ „ 1312 122 42,894
The sum required to pay the half-year’s dividend is only
an estimate, based on the assumption that the small
amount added to the capital all ranks for a full half-
Lear’? dividerid. The Haymarket Co. has the bad habit
Of hot Stating hdw much the dividend will absorb, so
information abortt the exact figures is always six niorithS
iri arrertr. Some other figrtres are as follows :
November, November, May,
1904. 1905. 1906.
Capital £86,232 £87,018 £87,448
Deposits .. .. .. 42,938 37,460 37,554
Other Liabilities .. 39,046 55,204 54,499
Advances and Balances
owing .. .. 52,675 57,593 57,505
City Properties.. .. 38,264 38,372 38,320
Other Properties .. 114,461 119,898 125,687
It is a big business, yet the return on the capital and on
the reserves as at the beginning of the half-year is only at
the rate Of about £2 4s. per cent, per annum, so the same
investment would show a considerably better yield if in-
vested in State securities. In an ordinary business this
Worild imply that the assets were vastly over-valued, and
would suggest the writing-off of all the reserves and a
good deal of the capital. In the kind of land-dealing
business that this co. does it suggests that the assets
linger too long on the co.’s hands. In buying land—often
unproductive land—to sell again, it is necessary either to
sell at a large profit or to sell at a small profit in a great
hurry. For the land is eating its head off (mixed
metaphor) in interest and sundries all the time.
* * * *
After some delay, Mr. Justice Walker (N.S.W.)
has given his decision in the suit brought by certain
policy-holders of the A.M.P. to restrain the directors
from extending the business of the Society to London.
Incidentally, those policy-holders challenged the validity
of the vote in favor of the extension, alleging certain
illegal acts on the part of the directors to influence the
ballot. Mr. Justice Walker found in favor of the directors
on|all points of law. Practically, the effect of the decision is
that directors of ourmutual insurancesocietiesareentitled,
in support of a policy they may approve of, but which
may be disapproved of by a large number —perhaps a
majority—of members, to send out to all members of the
society before the decision, an ex parte circular contain-
ing erroneous and misleading statements in support of
their policy, together with a proxy form for voting, to be
sent in to the directors before the meeting and
the recognised discussion can take place. For this
purpose it seems they can use the society’s funds ; use
the society register of names and addresses of members ;
and use the society’s organisation and officials all over
Australia to canvass members to support their views,
although none of those privileges are open to the other
party to the controversy.
Under these circumstances, it is easy to see that
in the case of the A.M.P. Society the complete control of
its £21,500,000 funds, and of the policy of the society has
passed from the members (for the election of directors, on
a vacancy occurring, is virtually in the hands of the six sur-
viving directors) and the officials, and members must now
submit to whatever course of action their own paid servants
dictate. The advantages of “ Mutual” as against “ Pro-
prietary ” offices fade away considerably in view of this.
If Mr. Justice Walker’s decision is not appealed against
-V th , e Pnv L Council, early application to the
hwfjf 1 Legislature for life insurance legislation will
f hri m T ore ' " eces ? sar y tha " eveK in America, by the
hurt th \ Legislature has now provided (amongst othel
fiiattersj that eoniplpte registers of names and addresses
qt all members of Mutual Insurance Societies shall be
sodety f ° r lnspection and use by any member of the
,? E :TRUstees; And AgencA
Co. of Maonland (Bunedin) i
April, Profits. Dividends. fo t ße- Re-
lacri L . serves, serves.
isqq i 24 Per cent. =£lol6 £460 £147
laoo " 12 l' .. .. 1016 707 854
1900 " lorn S » >• I°W 302 1140
loo? “ l? 4 ? 12 l n i> 1016 927 2073
idha “ 12 * » » 1016 560 3642
1903 " a Jot » ” 1016 783 3425
ion? " » •> 1016 343 3768
1904 .. 205, 12J „ „ 1016 1041 4809
Premiums on New Share Issue .. 1332 6141
1000 " 23 2 2 124 per cent. = 1093 1209 7350
1906 2094 12J „ „ 1172 922 8272
4 ’' e J’ aid - n P c , ft Phal is now £9375, The earnings for the
year represent £22 6s, 9d, oh the paid-up capital, or £l2
10s, sd, per cent, oh capital and reserves, as at the
gi ntimg of th e year. Therefore; the co, may fairly cott-
that it is on a good vVicket. ih the way of invest-
hits £2393 cash Oil deposit; £5500 of deheiitiireS;
diid£ Oqßoqit umrtgage... Arid the dniy fchirig .tuqt cab
possibly ciisturl) the shareholders’ sfeej'i is the of
. uncalled, capital. That is a regular arid unavoidable
drawback of the trustee,business ; this co. pays splendid
Ir'To'lL 8011 ; th. e 7s. 6fl. per share, that is paid-up,, bui;
tqe £3 l/s. ,6d. per sharp thfit.is liable tp he caljed up
no,divjdpnds,, |Of Course thereds nq probability of
it hqipgicaUed up until tjiq Japapesq flept. appears pff (the
Gee,dll Beach and drops a big shell among (.he qecprlties«
hqt ,W(ien that event comes to pass anything maV
happen. , . * b
,1. l * v,. * * » ! p ,
JVli Id ura: Yes, we reckon they are worth the
price you mention.
_• * * •
The Castle Salt Co-operative Ca (Adelaide):
n. l Added to ;
L ' h Wiitteri Re- (tie,
May, Lrofits. Dividends. ,■ off. serves, serves.
1899.. £2189 Ifif £2189 ,
1900.. 219$ Nil 1420 £775 £775
1901.. 2214 Nil 802 1412 2187
1902.. 5049 , Nil 2542 2507 4694
1903.. 6065 8| per cent. =* £5762 1134 4463
1904.. 6041 7i „ „ „ 4939 760 352 4816
moa” If ’’ ■* “ 4939 750 4736
1960.. 5890 7J M 4939 750 201 4930
There is also a small .marine insurance item wfiicti, it diay
be, should be> included in the reserves. The present
writer, for lack of more definite information, omits it, re-
serving' the right to reconsider the position when lie
knows more about the marine insurance item. The co.,
as the above figures reveal, is not wildly profitable ; in
the vievv of the Foreign-trade party, of course, no mere
Australian manufacturer has any right to make 7f per
cent., but if an importer didn’t make a great deal more
than that he would say indignantly that Socialistic legis-
lation was driving capital out of the country. The Castle
Salt Co.’s reserves are small, and Small as they are there
is a gloomy suspicion about their genuineness, The
assets include a goodwill item the amount of which, as it
is lumped in with other assets, is Unknown. Goodwill is
mere paper, and, so far as this item goes, the reserves are
Hot genuine. If it goes further than the reserves then
the deficit is genuine.
* * •* «
There seems little doubt that the fires ih the
Maoriland wool-cargoes were caused by spontaneous
combustion in damp wool. One sailing- ship (the Pitcairn
Island) which left on March 19, was destroyed. Three
steamers leaving within a week Of one another in April,
and a steamer which left in May, were an badly damaged,
Wodl peoples Sity thdt iii Maorilknd; with its wet shearing
season, \vool goes iiito hales drid, dilnips dangeroiisly Wei
r-dnd Maorildtid had d specidllj'. vfec sedson this yfcar:
In Aiistfalid there is sonie soft of supervision! eXefcishd
by surveyors paid by the irisdrdnee companies, but iri
Maoriland (though, owing to, its, Wetness;, mole sdpef-
vision is wanted than in Australia) wool can go qh
board as wet as the shipper and the ship’s captain care
to risk it. There were once company-paid surveyors on
the islands, but so much of the business went (at lower
rates) to Lloyd’s, that other insurance offices grew
tired Probably Lloyd’s has been badly hit by tb.e
five recent fires, which must have done damage running
well beyond a quarter of a million (the Pitcairn Island
alone was insured for over £100,000). Among other in-
surance concerns, nobody is expressing any sorrow at all
for the nasty pinch that Lloyd’s must have got. Mean-
time, insurance rates on wool ships have taken a large
and agitated jump.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of foodstuffs
. Added to
April, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves,
1896.. £10,200 Nil £10,200 £17,258
1897.. 10,470 2£ per cent. = £3648 6,822 24,080
1898.. 3,386 if „ 1824 1,502 25,642
1899.. 6,530 2-| „ ~ 364 S 2,882 28,524
1900.. 0,359 2| ~ „ 3648 2,71 l 31,235
1901.. 7,124 „ ~ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902.. 15,883 3J „ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
Loss.
1903.. 4,097 Nil - 41,024
1904.. 15,420 Nil - 25,604
Profits,
1905.. 10,658 Nil 10,058 36,262
1906.. 12,140 1J „ „ 1824 10,316 46,578
Things are steadily improving with Swallow and Ariell—
Swallowed and Burial some wild wit called the firm a few
years ago when things were looking distinctly gloomy.
The profits represent £8 6s. sd. per cent, per annum on
the paid-up capital of £145,953, so the dividend of £1 ss.
per cent, leaves a wide margin for the reduction of old
liabilities and the wiping off of old misfortunes. In recent
years theco. w'as first struck by the drought, when it had
to buy materials at high prices, and then the rains and the
low prices came and found it loaded up with high-priced
stock. But even before that disaster it was struggling
with an absurd load of debt, which has progressed as
follows
Bank
Mortgages. Overdrafts. Total.
1897 .. £23,600 £48,562 £72,162
1898 .. 21,350 50,294 71,644
1899 .. 20,350 48,166 68,516
1900 .. 19,350 62,623 81,973
1901 .. 18,350 59,920 78,270
1902 .. 18,250 66 559 84,809
1903 .. 16,850 77,443 94,293
1904 .. 15,450 64,952 80,402
1905 .. 14,050 46,875 60,925
1906 .. 12,6(>0 37,921 50,571
The position, therefore, is better than it has been for a
good many years, and if the dividend is kept down to the
present low figure, and the co. has reasonably good
fortune, another three or four years should see it clear of
all its liabilities. After that, the patient shareholders
should begin to see a better return on their money. The
co. started with insufficient cash in 1888 ; and in its very
first year, though it paid 8 per cent, dividend, it was
carrying mortgages and overdrafts amounting to £67,768.
One notable feature is that in 1888 the “original pur-
chase of freehold properties, machinery, horses, rolling-
stock, and goodwill ” stood at £148,500. That was 18
long years ago, and they stand at the same figure to a
penny to-day. Considerable sums have been written off
properties acquired since 1888, but nothing at all off the
original purchase. When the co. has got its overdraft
and mortgages cleaned up, and is thinking of larger
dividends, it would probably not be amiss to apply the
whole reserve fund to writing off the goodwill—whatever
it may amount to—and to writing down these original
properties to a bedrock valuation. It is impossible to
imagine that they don’t require writing down or to
suppose, in the face of this immovable item, that the re-
serves are genuine, for the horse that was bought in 1888
must be ptetty dead now. Still, even with this reservation,
Unrigs look better with Shallow and Ariell than they have
done for a vpry long while.
* * * 4
A big water-scheme, to provide irrigation in
conjunction with the generation of electric power by
turbines, is being suggested by a private syndicate in
Victoria. The proposal is to dam the Godlbuin River ih
the gorge at Trawool (a place comparable to the.Murrum-
tiidgee gorge.it Bah-en Jack) bj- a wall ISOQft. long, and
$9 store up about 60,000 million cubic feet of water. Pf-o-
moters claim the feasibility of supplying electric powfer
for all purposes to Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, Castle-
niaine, Daylesford, and elsewhere, with (at the same time)
a discharge for irrigation never falling below 144 million
c.ubip feet.a day. According, to Minister Swinburne the
probable ppqt of building the c|{up \ypuj(d be £760,000.
Exactlyi what concessions tjie promoters (who hftvq iipp
yet made surveys or estimates) ask of the State is hot yqt
known, but the scheme Would certainly require the diver-
sion of the Mansfield railway. The Victorian Ministry is
touching the proposal very carefully. The Goulburn
River is already called on to supply the big Waranga
basin, and Water Minister Swinburne reckons that the
irrigation conditions that he would put in any concession
Would stop business being done on terms pleasing to
private promoters; If any big thing like that is to be
dotle, it Would be more safely handled by the State than
by a private
The rriariager of Broken Hill South niiiie cotti-
p'lairis : — u In JUtie l4th, you refer to the high recovery,
arjc( strife that itjs s(ud.{hat the South milkman has a
habit or including,.pi Ms recoveries, the.s|i|iips- This is
quite inaccurate, and the method qf obtaining quf mill
recoveries is very clpaijy shown in our half-yearly i-epoqt?.
Again, in vour issue,of the 2fst .inst., it is stated, re tfie
development qt 970 ft. level, (hat the actual presence and
trend qf the org body was only disclosed by putting in a
etossemt :on. the.exploratory drive, started in the direc-
tion the (ode wqB ( SUppose,a ,to ü be. Asa matter of fact,
the ore pady wqS'e!ieountqredjWitni(i iff. of tne point at
which I expected to cut it, Tqe exploratory drivy then-
tjoned is in reality the main northern drive, which wag
hging driven in footwall country, about 40ft. east of the
ore body.
* * * *
At the. present moment, a marine-store dealer
jVpUkl fed very, much n,t home on the Central mine
(Broken HjllL 'Tile Ulsipriptjlf/ISiJ O / the qld mill, which is
now pretty complete, ha,s turned, the, northern end of the
surface w ol ’k&into a huge sQrap-heqp, out of yvpich ail
emergency concentrating plant is being slowly evolved,
The whqle of the east side, or concentrating section, of
the mill has .been dismantled, and the queer, conglome-
ration of slime-encrusted jigs, vanners, settlers, and other
material torn,out of it. The crushing section of the mill,
which resembles a man who has been bonnetted, is being
brushed Up and rubbed down ready for another day. The
two. Edheb’ckiboi|efs have beefi taken out and the cracked
masonry work demplishedi Tout gfitldlng-paiis are-on
order, but have not yet beem placed in position,
South imine has set the..fashion in: grinding-pans, ,a,nd
several managers along the line of lode are now regarding
the idea with a friendly smile.
* * * '*-1.1
The Central expects to do big things with its
granulating process, which, when the new mill is ready,
will be worked on an extensive scale. The duplication of
the present plant is nearly finished, the simplicity of the
process requiring few arid not very elaborate contriv-
ances, The new mill will carry still another granulation
plant, to treat the residues direct from the sandboxes
and extract the zinc. The granulation, or Btrllot, process
is a beautiful one in operation, a feature of it being that
it will treat, with apparently equal success, any sort of
residue that comes along. At the Central the recovery of
zinc is about 46 per cent.
* » * *
The Junction (Broken Hill) is slowly beginning
to Stir itself after its long slumber, The stomach-pump
has been successfully operated, and the mine’s “innards,”
with the exception t>f an important winze near the
junction North boundary, hare been cleared of water.
This WiHze was sunk from the 775 ft.., to work a stope of
rich ore—the One ewe iattib of the battered old mine—
Which Stupe, was just beidg opfefted up' when the fire
obeitrfed. The winZfe is rtow full Uf water, of smashed
ot Sorfietning, add 111 aiiv case the Junction will have to
dvvdit th‘A convefileiice qf Junction North before the lost
area can be explored. Arid tlife Jiinctioli North Will not
be in a position to start pumping for soriie tithe j'et.
Quite a group of young mines have spritng intd
existence of late at Broken Hill along the supposed
northern and southern continuations of the main line of
lode. Of these, the North Extended arid .the New G.B. If.;
Consols have already proved themselves worthy of
more than passing notice. The former is managed
by Theo. Delprat, son of the Proprietary manager,
and an unmistakable chip off the old block. The
lode he has cut at the end of the South drive at the 175 ft.
contains the right sort of stuff, exactly similar to the ore
found in the North mine’s northern ore body, and readily
amenable to treatment. The development at the new
Consols is chiefly galena, big at the 300 ft. Whatever it
may turn out as a silver-lead mine, at present it is a
splendid waterhole. t t
The New White Leads (Broken Hill), generally
regarded as the best proposition south of the South
Blocks, and the father of a group of mines which have
grown Up aroUrid it, is opening well. In places, however,
the ore is heavily charged w'ith pyrites and copper, which
greatly detract from its value. The lode is improving as
it iroes down, which it will need to do.
b * * * *
Developments at the British (Broken Hill) con-
tinue to give satisfaction. For some days past the
management has been waiting to take the first cut out of
the lode at the 600 ft., Block 15, near the main shaft, and
the ore there is expected to turn out something good.
The first cage has been placed in Marsh’s shaft, and haul-
ing from there will be pushed on at once.
B » * * »
“Bromide” writes despondently from Broken
Hill“ Block 10 has not heard (or felt) the last of the
Central creep yet, and I am strongly of opinion that very
soon it will be necessary to sink a new shaft and remove
all machinery, power plant, etc., to a site further u'est.
Have worked in that mine for some time, and know that,
before the Central creeps started, the mine was “mov-
ing ”at any or no provocation. Stoping on the open-cut
system and gouging out the pillars on the top levels
where the lode is an immense width did not improve
matters. Creeps became common, and the hanging wall
(a peculiarly rotten one) was left without support. Now
the Central—Block 10’s main support—has gone, and the
effects are noticeable on the surface where cracks are to
be seen in all directions. When the management decided
on a new shaft and power plant, there were keen discus-
sion underground at crib-time as to the best places,
but w’hen it was definitely known just where the
shaft was to be sunk and plant erected, the general
verdict was, ‘ They should have gone further away
from the lode.’ Recent events have proved the correct-
ness of the miners’ theory, as cracks can be easily
traced from the Central right under the power plant,
the new compressor building, the shaft end of the aerial
tramway, and into and through Harvey’s shaft. The
Central is bound to go again very soon. When it does,
all the broken ground in Block 10 on the boundary will
follow it, and that means good-bye to Harvey’s shaft and
power plant. What makes me still more positive is this :
I worked four years ago on the 500 ft. level in what was
known as Campbell’s stope, close to the shaft of that
name. We were put to work picking up the back just
after a movement, and the look of the place would
frighten you and keep you 01} the jump ready for a holt.
There was a big crack several feet wide running parallel
with the Central boundary ahd going up God knows how
high. This crack has never been located and filled. An
immense body of ore had come away from the hanging
wall and had not found bottom, but was crushing the
timbers and closing the main level, and the wall itself
was badly crushed. Harvey’s shaft is sunk just at the
back of arid right on the edge of this old crush, and being
‘ gone ’ at the 500 ft., what chance has it of resisting this
continual dragging Centralwards ? The management, for
the sake of economy, sank in the hanging wall and kept
close to the lode to save cost of driving on the different
levels, and now shareholders need not be surprised to
hear that their main shaft is gone and that it will he
necessary to sink a new one.
* * * *
A Sydney man who is interested in Cobar
writes: —
“ Anyone visiting the C.S.A. group of mines, as the
writer did after six months’ absence, cannot fail to be
impressed with the progress made all along the line.
Particularly is this the case on the C.S.A. mine, in which
public interest is just now centred. The episode of
‘ boring ’ was disastrous to the market value of the stock,
but now that the first shock is over, and development
Steadily progresses, the mining public is realising how
absurd it was to put down inch bores in a lode already
fcrovfed to be 210 ft. wide, and which probably exceeds
SOO't. ih width; apart from the large lode on the co. s
Wt. j Blocks, which are Jet urttouched. As a practical
liiiner said to me : ‘ Try boring in the Mount Boppy Gold
Mirte add see What results you will get, or ih the Great
Cobar Copper Mine, and you’ll be Very disappointed,
And yet— last year the forinfer paid £65,000 in dividends;
and the, lattet has jtist sold for £BOO,OOO. The fallacy
o'f bpHlig ih a lodfe Of s uc 'h lnaghithde without the
latest scientific safeguards is Well dealt with in the
last number of the Queenslahd Governftiei.
Journal, in an able article On lead and zinfc. ' r he C/S; A.
mine is opened up at the 450 ft. level by a drive -10 ft.
across the lode, and by extensive drives nOrth and south
as well as by numerous cross-cuts, and anyohe visiting it
to,day must be impressed with the fact that thousandiOf
tphs pf pay. ore Ajre efeosefl.to and evfcr.v w eek this
quantity is increasing. With develbppient., Asj.showing
how misleading the boring has beyfi, It may.be .stateq
that within Bft. of one of the bores which gave po<?r
results a fine body of high-grade ore was intersected,
from which consignments have been sent to Cockle
Creek, and in other instances short cross-cuts have laid
bare large bodies of pay ore. Impatient investors ask
why, with the quantity of ore in sight, smelters are not
at once erected, but in my opinion the policy of the
Board is correct in this respect, however reprehensible
then * boring ’ policy may have been. The new main
shaft, 12ft. X 6ft< ()IH,, Which should have been com-
menced sii mohtt|S agO; is pfOgfessitig at a fair pace, and
when file new boiler is ifi position sinking Should he at
the rate qf 80ft. per month. By thy time it is down
450 ft. (600 ft. is the. .objective) connection Will be fundi
w ith drivei. t(ie .existing sliatt, and a lot more
development wifi haye.been done. .Meanwhile the com-
plete plan for smelters and accessories, thereto should be
formulated, and the work put in hand. Dliring if
months probably 4000 tons will be sold, and this,
on results already given, should give a clear profit
Of .some £1,6,000. The last, 100 tons, gave £4 14s. Bd.
pet tqri profit.. The .way work is being carried out
underground arid on Surface shows that ,the managers
know they have a good property, and that they mean to
organise the working of the mine anq (fie erection of the
plant on a business-like basis. The large darti was fuf.;
at the time of my visit, and quite 12 months’ supply of
water is thus stored.
“Gardiner’s (late Andrews’) mine adjoins the
C.S.A, qri the south, the shafts in the respective proper-
ties being 1000 ft. apaf t, High-grade ore lias been struck,
but not much infonqatjqn ,is given to the press or the
public still, it is knpwn that a loosing snpW' is
being gradually opened up, and when papitftl comet tdori®
no doubt more will be heard of this property.
“ Next to Gardiner’s comes the C.S.A. Central
—a mine with a large area of land and direct on the line.
Already by costeaning the cap of, the lode has been
Opened, and a shaft is now being sunk on a kindly and
proniising gtiisettl lode. The C.S.A. Nqrth has two shafts
down, the, ore front, ofie tit Which looks yery promising,
but in bQth the North and.thO.Central nothing payable
can he expected before, 2Qofi. u O|- 250/t. is reached. Then
it is quite likely,that fherq fvill. bq sprpe
mining circles. One thing that struck ipe. tfie confi-
dence of Cobar mining men in the C.S.A. field.”
* # «f i ; t
Since January last the Golden Fleece. af
Wyalong (N.S.W.) has yielded £3OOO in dividends. Stone
is coming up freely from two reefs at the 500 ft., and
sufficient is in sight to keep stoping work going till the
end of the year. The True Blue is on rich mineral stone
in the deep Country and has despatched to Cockle Creek
100 tons stone and 60 tons concentrates. Sydney directors
have paid a visit to the Homeward Bound and are well
satisfied with recent developments. They have arranged
for the immediate erection of the long-delayed machinery.
As anticipated, a change has been made in the manage-
ment, Mr. S. George now being in charge.
* * * *
Slack Range (W.A.), from being n syndicate of
6750 shares, has blossomed into a Melbourne co. of 80,600
shares, of which 12,500 are held in reserve. Holders of
Pld scrip get 10 ntw for each old one held. Co. has been
paying regular monthly divs. of 55., or £1687 1 os,, which,
W’ith ohe ss. bonus, make £11,812 10S. for the half-year
gilded May 31. If the same rate of profit is mainlaihed
Ch. will pay od. ri-.bnthly OU the new scrip issued. CO,
starts With a rfeserve fhnd of £lO,OOO. Alf the orfe SO far
treated, has cofrie frOfti above the 100 ft. level. A taaih
vertical shaft .has,be'e/i sithk 800 ft. to the west, and aft
Eastern crosscut ,cttt trie reef 80ft. ih; shPWihg now fiat is
the Underlie. Mine is equipped with Scfap-iroft. Aft
ancient steaip winch ahd boiler do the raising. The Pro
is then carted in drays to the thill, greeted some chaihe
away. That ancient relit adofnecl the fiaihault 10 years
ago, when that mine was looked ttpbti as a Wild
eat. There is also a six-vat cyanide, plant. ~Ai
in the case of the Golden Pole, co. will pay divs.
for some months; but sooner or later there will he
a falling away, and somebody will be left with the
baby to hold. ‘ Six shillings a year on a 20s. investment
looks tempting, but it’s best left alone. Those flat
quartz reefs in W.A. peter out or lose their gold contents,
as happened with Island Eureka, Golden Pole, Cosmopoli-
tan, and even Great Fingall.
* * * »
~ Hainault, Kalgoorlie (W.A.j, is to increase
its capital to £150,000 by the issue of 20,000 new shares at
28s. 6d. per share. This is in the proportion of one new
share for each 6J old shares held. This will realise
£28,500, with which the treatment plant will be increased
by one-half. At last year’s annual meeting shareholders
Were told that the board had sounded manager Moss
about adding to the plant, but that astute individual
vetoed the movement, although he then had four years’
ore reserves in sight, as he was not sure of the mine. Since
then a lot of work has been done at the 750 ft. level,
which is quite as good as any of the others, hence his
consent to increasing the plant. Like its neighbor, the
Kalgurli, the Hainault has enormously wide lenses of ore
of comparatively short length, and, although these are
rich in places, the general average is only about 30s. per
ton. During last year mine earned a profit of £lB,OOO,
but this will be materially increased when the extensions
are completed, about six months hence. Moss is a
cautious individual, and certain to be well on the
safe side.
* * *
*
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has had
its usual run of bad luck. The Perseverance lode at
1900 ft., where pierced by a crosscut, was 1 Oft. wide, and
worth 555. per ton. On driving north it more than main-
tained its value for a short distance, and then suddenly
became poor. Driving south is now being tried. It may
be remembered that the Lake View lode at 1900 ft. was
worth 85s. for sft. wide, where first intersected, but gold
values quickly tailed off. Both at 1600 ft. and 1800 ft. there
were patches of 855.-ore, but unfortunately these were of
very short duration. In valuing Lake View shares it is
as well to remember that co. holds one half interest,
or 100,000 shares, in Broken Hill South Blocks,
which Manager Simpson reports to be looking
well. Simpson is reported as saying that he can
make the mine pay with lead at £B, zinc at £2O,
and silver at 25d. The extractable value of the ore,
according to the prospectus of co., was given as 3cwts. of
lead at Bs. equals 245., 1 - 750 z. of silver at 25d. equals 3s. Bd.,
a total of 275. Bd. It was stated that the zinc concen-
trates could be sold for 3s. per ton, or treated at a profit
of ss. a ton. Taking Is. a ton as the profit from zinc in
crude ore, this would make Simpson’s costs 28s. Bd. per
ton. In the prospectus they were given as 345. To show
the utter fallacy of these estimates, the Broken Hill Prop;
Co. in the half-year ended November 30, 1905, treated ore
worth 565. lOd. at a cost of 445., and at that time the
zinc concentrating plant was not in use. If costs of the
big mine, whose plant cost ten to twenty times the whole
puny £50,000 working capital of the South Blocks, cannot
reduce costs below 445, after the experience gained by
twenty years’ experiments, it is pure bunkum for a co.


working in a retail manner to tell the public that its
costs will not exceed 28s. Bd. Anyone buying the scrip
at the current inflated prices of 30s. to 355. will be sorry
forit. , * *
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), is still
pegging away on all its old properties, and has recently
started operations on the Trafalgar, which was
bought for the paltry sum of £750. The trend of the
Australia East lode, after passing through the Oroya
South block, is making for the Trafalgar. The manage-
ment of the Trafalgar in the past was farcical, and it may
vet prove a gold mine. Owing to the rich ore from its
bonanza chute, co. still easily leads the way in the matter
of profit, but this cannot go on for ever. A year ago ore
reserves were given as 192,200 tons, worth 168 s. per ton,
or 18 months’ supply. It may be mentioned that actual
results at that time only panned out 1205., or 76 per cent,
of the estimate, and latterly the figure has fallen to 100 s.,
or 63 per cent, Evidently the rich ore is gradually
becoming exhausted. A further proof of this is seen in
the fact that, in May last year, 9000 tons produced
12,8700 z., while this year it took 10,600 tons to produce
12,5930 z. As costs, however, were reduced from 355. 4d.
to 295. 4d., the profit only dropped from £38,500 to
£37,800. 8., M. and Co. make no attempt to estimate
tonnage and value of reserves on Dec. 31, ”05, but
merely say that present output can be maintained for the
next two years. This means 250,000 tons, worth 100 s.
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is taking a
very long* time to get on to the div. list again, and it is
not likely to pay much when it does. The net earnings,
up to end of May from time last div. was declared, pan
out at £21,600. Deducting the £6OOO overdraft, there
remains a credit balance of £15,600. The ore in the
winze below the 400 ft. level, which is sunk on the dip of
the chute to the north, only carries lOdwt. values. This
is unpayable. Although the value of the reserves was
given as 1275. per ton, May return only panned out
595. 7d., including gold from 750 tons of old residues.
The mill is in such a wretched state that the manager, in
his last half-yearly report, practically condemned it. It
is interesting to know that costs are being reduced, and
are as follows :—Jan.,6Bs.; Feb., 61s. Id.; March, 575. 6d.;
April, 495. ; and May, 425. The reduction is due to less
being spent on overhauling plant and on development,
and any further reductions in these directions are unlikely.
* • * •
Oroya-Black Range (W. A.) is more or less hung
up awaiting arrival of plant. Property is 100 miles from
the nearest railway station at Mt. Magnet, and, owing
to recent rains, the bush tracks are practically impass-
able. The mine is to be equipped with 8., M. and Co.’s
patent rock breaker (weight 8 tons, in one casting), 20 head
Fraser and Chalmers mill, and cyanide. This plant should
treat 3500 tons monthly. Ore reserves have been esti-
mated by Trewartha James at 27,000 tons, worth 70s.
During their eight months’ option a lot of the ground was
let off to tributors in blocks, consequently the reef has
been more or less proved for its full length of 3000 ft. In
this way 2000 to 3000 tons of stone have been raised and
are now being sampled preparatory to being taken over.
One lot of 600 tons is valued by the prospectors at £5OOO
net. Adding £1 a ton for carting and treatment, this
means £5600, or 186 s. 6d. per ton. The purchase price of
the original property was £lO,OOO, but some outside
blocks were subsequently acquired for a mere song. To
show how 8., M. and Co. and their Yiddish cobbers score
off the deal, it is only necessary to say that the mine is
to be floated in London for £200,000 in £1 shares ; 90,000
of these are offered to Oroya-Brownhill holders at par in
the proportion of one for five held. This will provide
£50,000 working capital and £40,000 to refund the original
cash purchase price, the expenditure on development
during option, and incidental flotation expenses. The re-
maining 110,000 shares are raked in by Bull Cohen for
putting the Oroya shareholders on to a good thing. This
is what is termed haute finance.
* * * *
The May returns and results of the chief Wes-
tralian mines pan out as follows: —Profits : Oroya-Brown
Hill, 12,5930 z. and £37,830 ; Great Boulder, 10,9480 z. and
£25,760 ; Great Fingall, 10,6180 z. and £21,300; Ivanhoe,
10,5300 z. and £21,050 ; Kalgurli, 79370 z. and £20,620 ;
Golden Horseshoe, 13,2150 z. and £20,440; Boulder Per-
severance, 60530 z. and £13,000; Associated Northern,
36360 z. and £10,970 ; Sons of Gwalia, 43700 z. and £5680 ;
South Kalgurli, 33160 z. and £5OOO ; Associated, 47000 z.
and £4770 ; Great Tower Hill, 22250 z. and £2160 ; Lake
View Consols, 36110 z. and £1640 ; Hainault, 16600 z. and
£1570; Golden Pole, 13430 z. and £1370 ; Ingliston Ex-
tended, 6750 z. and £1800; Red Hill, 7090 z. and £820;
Ida H., IOOOoz. and £900; North Feather, 1081 oz. and
£800; Menzies Consols, 804 oz. and £460 ; Gwalia Con-
sols, 511 oz. and £160; Vivien, 611 oz. and £100;
Craiggiemore, 4570 z. and £9O ; Waihi, 8390 z. and
£7O. Losses: Golden Ridge, 4840 z. and £650 ;
East Murchison United, £16250z. and £420 ; Princess
Royal, 4560 z. and £280; Cosmopolitan, 20720 z. and nil.
The principal features are a falling off in the profits of
Great Fingall (£2700), Sons of Gwalia (£3860), South
Kalgurli (£560), L. V. Consols (£360), Hainault (£430),
Menzies Consols (£1150), and Princess Royal (£1150).
Kalgurli shows an improvement of £ll5O, North Feather
of £4Ol, Waihi of £570, Tower Hill of £740, and Ingliston
Extended of £l7BO.
* * * *
North End, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is looking very
dicky, and most of the hands have been sacked. A meet-
ing was held on June 30 to decide on future action. Co.
started with a working capital of £5OOO only, and spent
most of it on the surface. In addition to buildings the
mine is equipped with a Gates’ breaker, 15-head mill,
Wilfley table, and large cyanide plant, and their purchase
and erection nearly exhausted the cash. Practically all the
oxidised ore has been gouged out, and the hard sulphide
rock has now to be faced. This means a lot of money.
The pay chute is dipping to the south, but as practically
nothing has been done on it at the 280 ft. level, it is im-
possible to predict how it will turn out. Although co.
has only been about six months in existence, the mine
has had five different bosses. Most of the shares are held
locally, though there are some in Adelaide.
• * * *
Merton’s Reward (W.A.), which is at present
hung up owing to scarcity of water, is expected to restart
shortly with the full 30-head mill, and treat 5000 to 6000
tons monthly. A supply of water is being arranged for
from Pigs Well, and the Government is now laying the
necessary pipes. On Nov. 1 manager Judd estimated the
ore reserves at 126,000 tons, worth 30s. per ton, and since
then 12,000 tons have been treated. As there was barely
enough water to run half the mill, a loss was incurred,
and it was decided to close down till more water was
obtainable.
* V * *
Revenue, Meekatharra (W.A.), still continues
to produce very rich dabs, the latest being 2500 z, from
lcwt. of stone. This brings the total up to date to
29150 z. from 15 tons SJcwt. There is said to be more
sensationallv rich stone in sight, but the worst of these
patchv leaders in Westralia is that they never live far,
and this show may peter out at any time like its pre-
decessors.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), is looking
pretty hopeless in the bottom levels, and it seems as if
the mine cannot last much longer. The results since the
beginning of the year have been as follows: January,
8248 tons, worth 225. 2d. per ton, profit £620; February,
8680 tons, worth 205., profit £800; March, 8500 tons,
worth 21s. 7d., loss £5O ; April, 8518 tons, worth 20s. 7d.,
profit £120; and May, 8815 tons, worth 19s. 11 d., profit
nil. No estimate of ore reserves has been published for a
long time, and most of the ore opened up in the bottom
levels is unpayable. In the bottom of the underlay shaft
the value is only ss. 9d. per ton.
Ida H., Laverton (W. A.), is looking better than
for a long time back. A year ago the ore reserves were
estimated at 8000 tons, valued at 555., and although
18,000 tons have been treated in the interval, they are
now given as 16,000 tons of 50s. ore. The prospects at the
fourth and fifth levels are good, and the pay chute ap-
pears to be extending northwards. 00. is now paying
3d. per share quarterly, and has a cash balance of £BOOO,
so is in a strong position for a small concern.^
Williams’ Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), seeks to vie
with Birthday Tunnel in cheapness of costs. Last half-
year co. worked at 10s. 9d. per ton for mining and mill-
ing, 2s. 3d. for stores and material, fuel Is. 6d., develop-
ment Bd., sundries 9d., management sd.—total, 16s. 3d,
Gold only averages sdwt. 16gr., and makes ss. 4d. per
ton profit. This is all very good as far as it
goes, but it is the same with Berringa as with
Bendigo. Tonnage crushed is far too small.
Williams’ Fancy, like the other Berringa mine, has a big
formation, but last half-year it only dealt with 52,763
tons. Directors, however, like present divs. rather
than putting money by to sink and open up further blocks
of ground well ahead of the mine. Without big ore
reserves, of course, big battery power is of no avail.
What is needed is for one big co. with strong financial
backing to grip hold of two or three of the mines. Then
to carry out the policy outlined above and give the field
a show—or bust. If the gold lives down there isn’t much
fear of busting. But it will take a decade to find that
out as things go on the field to-day. So it might just as
well bust quickly as die lingeringly.
•* * * •
South New Moon, Bendigo (Vic.), working
down to 1580 ft., and doing a lot of development, comes
pretty close to the Berringa mines in cheapness of costs.
William’s Fancy total runs into 16s. 3d. per ton, South
New Moon 16s. As in the case of the Berringa
property, South New Moon handles a small tonnage,
only 13,430 loads having been hauled last half-year,
the average gold being 13jdwt., against the Williams’
Fancy s|dwt. Hence the difference in divs. South
New' Moon to date has paid £412,000 in divs. (£l2
17s. 6d. per share) in return for 17s. 7d. per share
called up on 32,000 shares. No wonder Bendi-
gonians swear by their own district, for they
get good divs., honest management, low working
costs, and their administration is the cheapest on
earth. There is a good deal of questioning among out-
side holders over manager Bartlett’s report: “ Although
the gold returns have not been as good as in some of the
previous half-years, I confidently expect the mine to pay
dividends for a considerable time.” This is a bit of Ben-
digo caution from a man whose two deepest levels have
not opened up stone and who sees that an end must come
to the stone being milled from 580 ft. to 1220 ft. if depth
does not bring some quartz. *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), is a show that has been
mining intermittently since Heavens knows how'long.
The original owner was one M’Millan. It is said that he
made a fortune out of royalty. Without doubting this
assertion, it may be said that the classics prove that Ajax
was a strong man. And it will not be denied that the
people who are marketing Ajax on this occasion—how
long they will be doing it probably depends on
the absorptive qualities of the public sponge—
are also strong. Ajax, with only some 260 ft. of driving
done on a reef, with nothing better to say for itself than
that gold is “appearing in the stone,” had shares boosted
up to 30s. In a rise the reef is proved for 50ft., and the
widest part vet opened up is sft. Therefore “in sight”
there is 80ft. x 260 ft. x sft.—say, roughly, 7000 tons.
What is known about the stone is from “ dishing,” and
what is known about that method of sampling in Victoria
is that it is the exception to find it reliable. Battery
tests might have justified the market, and there are bat-
teries not 100 miles away from the Ajax. Now along
come the Nuggetv Ajax and the South Ajax and the
North Ajax : pups built on the hope that something may
turn up. But all that really has turned up so far is
7000 tons of stone with “ gold showing.”
* * * *
Derby United (Vic.) is another of the Mai don
has-beens that every now and then flutter, like wounded
birds, to show that they still have some trace of vitality
left. Its balance-sheet is rather dismal reading, for,
while the co. has an overdraft of £1929, its chief assets
are plant. These are set dow r n at cost, and so represent
about £14,000. But if they had to come to the
hammer there is no chance of anything like that sum
being realised unless some beneficent millionaire w’anted
to do the co. a good turn. The chief source of profit of
late has been the sands. These, treated by cyanide, have
netted about £3OO, and there is about a year’s work ahead
—roughly, £6OO profit in sight. Co. is building hope
on the continuation of a block of stone in the centre of the
Derby dyke, 175 tons of which averaged 14dwt.
Approximately, there is about 700 tons “ in sight ” here,
and there is low-grade dirt at the 820 ft. level south.
Anyway, the whole lot of stone worth storing is not
enough for six months’ hard work. There is always a
chance in the Maldon mines. That is what keeps the
current of calls flowing. The trouble is that, since the
decadence of the South German, there has not been more
than a prospect got anywhere in the field, save, perhaps,
at Oswald’s and at the Eaglehawk. The chances are
there, but they have been a very remote lot of late.
* * * *
To quote Holy Writ: “ And the rain descended
and the floods came and the winds blew.” First the
elements played the deuce with the Weldbrook (Tas.).
Now thev have played worse than the deuce with the
Briseis Extended. Not only will its big paddock have to
be pumped dry, but a big embankment—which ought to
have been up long ago—will have to be erected to keep
out the Ringarooma River and Valley Creek waters.
And just as the two shows will have to re-
construct, so will provision have to be made for debts
due (Weldbrook £llOO and Briseis Extended twice that
amount) and for future work. Truly this is a vale of
tears. No one is very much surprised at the Briseis
Extended flood, for the position of the mine almost
invites disaster. It is not only well on a level with the
Ringarooma, but a big drain was cut into it from the
river on the Arba side in the old days. Twelve months
have seen a woeful change. A year ago Briseis Extendeds
were up at £4o—just as were Gladstone’s. The cymbals
were clashed, and there came the floats of the Weldbrook
and the Ringarooma, and there was wild market excite-
ment. After that there was a sohering down. Yields
have been bad enough to sober anybody, and now the
floods pile disaster on disaster.
* * * *
Lake and Currie, Bull consulting engineers to
the Briseis co. (Tas.) for the London directors, having had
to amend their original estimate of the contents of the
mine, do not take any further risks. Thus the belated
1905 report, just out from ’Ome, is shorn of what would
have been its most attractive feature. The firm says dis-
creetly, “ insufficient information has been obtained to
permit of any accurate estimate of the drift remaining to
be worked. The course of the gutter is even now doubtful,
and at both endsof the mine isprobably different from what
has been assumed. The information necessary, therefore,
for a close estimate of ‘ore in sight,’ as the term is now
understood, does not exist.” Yet cables have been sent
to London by a Melbourne expert and published in the
British Australasian that with tin at £l6O per ton
there is £850,000 worth of metal in the mine.
As to cost, Lake and Currie’s figures show that the co.
got £23 a ton more for tin during- 1905 than 1904, and
produced double the quantity—643 tons against
3i2tons. Cost up to the stage of putting tin on the
London market was £35 a ton —Lake and Currie think
that in future it will not be above £3o—so that if
the increase in the value of the metal (£23
per ton) is reckoned in, the company had only
to spend about £l2 per ton more than that sum
to win a ton of tin. On the basis of £35 per ton the total
expenses at the Briseis mine were £22,487. The accounts
show the outlay at £27,059. Atnway, taking the latter
figure, past estimates of expenses given in Tim Bulletin
of £2500 a month were near the mark. Net
profits during 1905 went up from £39.520 to
£96,326, enabling overdraft of £30,000 to be liquidated,
and converting the amount of £367 brought forward to
the credit of profit and loss into the fine total of
£57,826. Yet shares do not move. If the expert estimate
cabled to London of £850,000 is taken as the ha*is of
calculation, with tin at £l6O per ton, it shows 5300 tons
metallic tin in the mine (inclusive of the Brothers No. 1
proportion) or 7000 tons of stream tin. As the output by
stream tin in the drift has averaged 51b., the sum, figured
out further, works out that there are over 3,000,000 cubic
yards of drift from which the Briseis Co. can draw re-
turns. Lumping Lake and Currie’s estimate of
1902, and Mackenzie’s of the Brothers No. 1, they
computed that there were 4,200,000 cubic yards of
drift in the two mines. Since 1902 over 1,000,000 cubic yards
of drift have been sluiced, leaving 3,200,000 cubic yards,
or the same as the above estimate. At the same time,
the life of the mine runs out at 10 years under the above
estimate, and that’s at least a third too long.
• * • •
“ B.” writes: “ Mt. Cannindah, near Gladstone
(Queensland), is a big, promising prospecting show, and
that is all, despite the Brisbane shriek of ‘ another Mt.
Morgan,’ on the strength of a few assays showing fair gold
contents. The essential of values in such a proposition is
to be determined only by the equation of the sampler ; if
he is heavily interested in the show, there is always a
strong probability that bulk Sampling is not quite ‘bulk
sampling.’ A disinterested sampler, with a cold-blooded
way of sampling, is what the market wants before it will
swallow the rumored capitalisation of £300,000. Further-
more, Brisbane floats are always accompanied by a strong
hope in Providence and the mine, which is Brisbane’s sub-
stitute for working capital. Nearness to a railway and the
undeniable advantages of working considered, Cannindah
—even if sufficiently developed for a big equipment, and
it certainly is not—cannot face any increase of nominal
capital without the provision of from £30,000 to £50,000
working capital. Meanwhile syndicate shares are being
boomed to £250 on the suggestion that each syndicate
share shall carry 1000 fully-paid shares of £1 to give the
little speculator his flutter. The idea of £BO,OOO for a
prospecting show without any reasonable amount of ore
blocked out belongs to the year 1893, and not 1906.”
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie
(Queensland), has cleaned up 1348 tons for 5410 z. gold,
or about Bdwt. per ton for June. Shares are in fair
demand in consequence of some developments arising
from the prospecting of a “ bed of slate ” 200 ft. below the
Monkland slate. On Thursday last manager reported
cutting 7in. of quartz in the western crosscut at the 915 ft.
level carrying “ good payable gold.” On Friday night
another leader of from lin. to Sin. was reported. The
object of the crosscut was to cut a fairly big forma-
tion of quartz worked in No. 1 South Great Eastern,
which manager estimates to be still further west.
This same bed of slate is very irregular in its
appearance and auriferous nature, and is from 16ft. to
20ft. thick. When the bed is grey the reefs intersecting
it are poor ir No. 1 South Great Eastern and No.
2 South G m Eastern, and No. 1 North Oriental and
Glanmire. in prospecting the same bed, found it grey.
The United 7 and 8 Monkland have lately taken out 93
tons for "ioz. gold from a reef in an extension of this
same eed. The greyness and poorness of this slate bed
are only local, and further north or south the same bed
may turn black and profitable. If the co. intends spend-
ing more money, the report must be favorable, and con-
sequently one wou.J think the report placed the mine
north of the Inglewood crosscourse. Recent mining
developments strongly point to the reverse being the
case.
* * * *
No. 4, North Phoenix, Gympie (Q.), after a
long period of quietness, during which prospecting has
been pushed ahead, reported this week, “ Breaking down
Victory reef in the winze.” The reef, which carried from
3in. to9in. of quartz, showed “fair gold.” This winze is
down 120 ft. from the 535 ft. level.
* * * •
West of Scotland. Gympie (Q.): The directors
in this co. have asked the Warden fora furthersix months’
exemption from labor conditions on the plea that they
require to raise more capital to thoroughly prospect their
ground as a result of the report made recently by Geolo-
gist Rands. Co. hasalready spent a lot of money. Rands’
report should be of public interest, for it should throw
some light on the relationship of West of Scotland and
other mines to the Inglewood crosscourse —a very im-
portant matter.
What has become of the Mystery, alias the
Commonwealth, on the famous Mystery Flat, and the
nice things that were said about it when Hoated at
Charters Towers'? The thing can hardly be called an
outside show; it’s one of the scratching backyard
variety. It swallowed all the capital Brisbane was
game to put up, and has been a consistent caller since
the local people took it on. It has every appearance of
remaining a consistent caller. Published report of the
mine some months ago said —“ Driving south on 3ft. of
stone.” Report dated May 21 gives the reef as ISin.
thick in the south drive. Now the parties concerned
have 2ft. 6in. in the cross-cut. They have been about
three months on a reef from 3ft. to ISin. wide, yet last
Saturday the quantity of stone in the paddock was by
measurement eight tons. Why this discrepancy'? The
stone on top doesn’t look good enough to suggest that
shareholders had carried the larger portion of the heap
away as mementos.
* * • *
Carrington’s Lion has ceased roaring at Charters
Towers, and the bear has put in an appearance. What is
being done with the property no one seems really to
know. Operations on the market are the only indications
that shareholders have received concerning the delicate
position of affairs. Carrington’s is the only show on the
field that employs an assayer—or at least which employs
him in that capacity. Yet no values are supplied that
can be taken as a guide as to the probable worth of the
mine. The only time that values are mentioned is when
any particular spot is looking well; then there is furnished
what is termed a sectional assay value. Late crushings
are anything but satisfactory. 11 is doubtful if the return
of £1 15s. 4d. per ton, for 325 tons for the last fortnight’s
run, covers expenses. In May, 543 tons were treated for
£ll37—equal to £2 Is. lOd. per ten. Compare that with
this month’s (June) 625 tons for £1145, or £1 16s. 7d. per
ton. Then again, c impare those returns with the £26 per
ton stuff that was turned out when the show was floated.
Development below the No. 2 level has apparently died.
A resurrection may be effected if the results of ores sent
to Europe are favorable. It must be taken into conside-
ration that the co. gets no leturns from residues. There
are reasonable grounds for believing that the tailings
being stacked contain more values in gold and copper
than the amount recovered by the mill. What is to be
done with them is one of the problems that the co. is up
against.
° * * * *
Barring the Willcoeks cwra-Queensland Govern-
ment attempts to see what is below the surface
carbonates, Cloncurry (N. Q.) does not seem to be
getting the fair run that it deserves. Instead of
there being an anxiety to see some deep sinking, the
only point that seems to produce an argument in political
circles is the question “ how long- will it take to complete
the railway?” Kidstnn and Denham still say they’ll do it
in 18 months, and I’hilp and Forsyth, who have just re-
turned from the north, say that at the present rate
of progress it will take 18 years.
* ♦ * *
Reported sale of the Duchess mine, one of the
Cloncurry (N.Q.) carbonate copper shows, for £15,000
cash now turns out to be a six months’ option for £lOOO,
and £14,000 to complete the purchase if option is exer-
cised. A somewhat different thing. Two shafts are sunk
250 ft. apart, each 45ft. deep. The northern shaft and
surface work on the lode are said to have yielded the
prospectors £l5OO worth of copper, “ and,” continues the
report, “ the second shaft is also in good ore, and the two
shafts and the trench appear to indicate that the rich run
of ore is at least 250 ft. long.” A shaft has been sunk for
water near the creek ; result unsatisfactory. All this
suggests a couple of questions : If water was wanted,
why were the shafts stopped at 45ft. and a water
shaft sunk elsewhere? If the first shaft sunk and
the surface trenching from same yielded £l5OO
worth of copper, and the rich ore extends 250 ft.
to the second shaft, why was £l5OO worth of copper not
taken from this second shaft instead of selling the option
of the whole show for £lOOO ? Present holders are appa-
rently satisfied that the water shaft was sunk for drink-
ing purposes, and are sinking the No. 1 and No. 2 shafts.
At 50ft. in No. 2 the water is reported to have come in,
and during the next 50ft. it will be interesting to see
what takes place. To he hoped that the Duchess will go
down sav to 200 ft., and then open out. Having traced
the lode" approximately 60ft. in two shafts, it is a fair
thing to expect them to now set out to prove that the
Duchess is a mine.
* * *
It is about up to some of the outside shows at
Charters Towers (Queensland) to justify their flotation.
Some of these squibs went off with a report, and finished
up in a manner that reflects no credit upon the field. As
soon as one show puts its shutters up. mining promoters
seize upon a vacant piece of ground, form it into a com-
pany and sell to it the surface equipment of a defunct cat
that they had bought at the liquidation sale. It’s not a
question of the locality being favorable for even a leader,
it’s simplv a profitable sale of machinery that is the
guiding factor. Under these conditions is it any wonder
that School of Mines Director Pool says a number of the
mining companies are hostile to his pupils ? To be seen
within the shadow of the school buildings is to lessen their
chance of gaining practical knowledge. Were it other-
wise some men’s names would not appear for any length
of time above the epistle that conveys information to
shareholders that the bottom level had been driven the
length of a long handled-shovel for the fortnight.
• * * *
The Queensland sugar crop for this year pans
out at 152,259 tons, against 147,688 tons in 1905, 91,828
tons in 1904, and 76,626 in 1903. Apparently the “ ruined
industry ” is bearing up pretty well, despite the steady
vanishment of its Kanaka.
• * • *
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the general use of “ Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill mines use them extensively. The
managers favor these drills for their great strength and
simplicity having only one working part; also for
economy in air consumption as they require only about
25ft. free air per minute. Miners prefer them, as work is
made much easier; for tributors, “Wonder” drills are
the means of bringing in larger returns. Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, have five
descriptive catalogues for those interested, and attention
is drawn to an exceedingly simple and ingenious patent
water attachment for allaying dust.*
* • * *
Cobar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
*• A Banker ”: Betwixt times that I am
counting 1 Sloper’s cash to see that none of it has left
his care (driven therefrom, in fact, by Socialistic legisla-
tion'i I buv bullion from the harassed mine-owner by
means of a gold testing apparatus. Included in this is a
class burette which, so London office informs me, must
fte broken, as it’can only be replaced by obtaining
another one from Germany / Ye gods 1 Cannot we yet
make a glass tube in Australia.
The most insane and criminal form of gambling
is that in which a man who has toiled and saved t° accu-
mulate a competence for bis widow and children in the
event of his being suddenly cut off, makes some practi-
cally irresponsible friend his executor and trustee, it is
bad enough to gamble with one’s own money, which can
be replaced to-morrow, but to gamble with your wife s
jointure or your orphan’s patrimony, is a thing.
The horror of the thing is intensified by the fact that
leaving them to the tender mercies of the private trustee
is a one-sided gamble in which they stand to lose every*
thing and gain nothing. What a man wants in that
particular business is Security, and the added security
that if the man in charge does bungle affairs and lose the
money, there is a fund from which his widow and
children may be recouped. No private trustee can
give such a security. Of late years the papers have re-
ported a startlingly unpleasant number of cases in which
trustees have defaulted with trust moneys, and the fact
that some of them have been caught and sent to gaol
has not helped to feed and clothe the women and children
they robbed. The Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
of 2. 4, and 6 Spring-street, Sydney, is a solid concern
with resources totalling £1,026,992, established under
a special Act of Parliament, under which the whole of its
vast resources are security for its fidelity in dealing Yvitn
estates left to its care. If anyone has a solici tor in whom
he places confidence, the legal business of the estate
can still be carried on by him, while having
the benefit of the Company’s resources . as
security. Moreover, this sterling company is a
professional Trustee ; managing estates is its trade ana
business, and it stands to common sense and reason that
it must manage them better than the private and amateur
trustee who does it with the fag end of his intellect.
When a man is living he doesn t go to a jeweller to stop
his teeth, but, when he is dead, he often leaves the
management of his estate to a man who has never
managed anything, and is not nearly so likely to make a
decent operation of it as the jeweller is with the teeth.
• • * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and vre will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbekg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 26 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiial
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluuiing, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriution of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* • # *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the 44 Hornsby ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.* _ „
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the hate Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
• * * *
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
tvpe, are at present being constructed for the •‘keystone”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound flap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.* [B]
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first minein Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904,. and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horse power motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [1
* * * *
Financial News (London) of 18th July, 1905,
wrote as follows with reference to the last annual report
of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
“ In ever}' respect the report of the Colonial Mutual
must be regarded as satisfactory, indicating, as it does,
continued growth and increased prosperity.”*
* * * *
Important Privy Council Decision.—Wilfley
v. Card Concentrator. The petition of the Wilfley
Company against the judgment of the High Court has
been dismissed, with costs, by the Privy Council. No one
can any longer obstruct the sale of this Concentrator, 17
of which have been ordered for the Central Broken Hill.
N. Guthridge, Ltd., Sole Licensees and Manufacturers of
the Card Concentrator.*
* * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection w'ith
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.* 0
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


Are You Interested ?
&
V/
fitter—^
IT is a Sound Invest-
-1 men tto add to your
personal property a
g-ood intrinsic article of
Jewellery, But it is not
always convenient to
put down 5, 10, or 20
sovereigns all at once.
Just so. Now this is
where the necessity of
a little philosophy
conies in. And we offer
it you in our EASY
TERMS of purchase of
our famous
Hail - Marked e
JEWELLER
WATCHES. No oeicer
goods come from Lon-
don than we stock, and
iio greater inducements
in the wide world are
offered you to possess
yourself of the best. We
English
food s,
Y and
use of our goods, and then if not,
proof to your satisfaction we hand
.you hack your deposit in full.
Write or call to-day for Catalogue
and Particulars, etc.
The . ..
s
British Imperial Goldsmiths,
PITT STREET (Corner of
Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will piease you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
David vStorer Boris’
[Registered Trade Mark]
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(SL BLUE.
Kept by . ..
ALL MERCHANTS
(Sb STOREKEEPERS.
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
WATSON’S WHISK T
Resch/s Waverley Bi-ewery, Agents.
7*
Aboriginalities.
“Lantana”: Reading about strong fe-
males in The Bulletin lately, calls to mind a
trio that I knew in Victoria. Their father, a
strapping Irishman, kept a butchering establish-
ment. He did the buying of the stock and the
actual killing—the girls, or, as they were usually
called, “the three ‘Greases,’” did the rest—skin-
ning, quartering, cutting-up and salting. A small
boy drove the cart and delivered, while their only
brother, a little squib of a man, was book-keeper.
“ A gmtleman born, Dinny was not fit for work of
the like of this,” the girls would say as they
shouldered a quarter of an ox. Big, raw-boned
women they were, and could fell a beast with a
blow of a stone between the eyes. “ They re born
stone-throwers,” their old man would remark
“and come by it honestly. Mure, didn't their an-
cesthresses distinguish themselves at the siege o’
Rimenck ?
* * -x *
The spectacle of Hindus airing their
blankets on the milking-pails in the yard of a
Clarence River dairy would be thought,'by those
who didn t know, a mere vision of some man who
had dined on Chicago potted beef. But it seems
it isnt, and that is where our colored fellow-
subject airs his blanket quite frequently. The
Hindu has long been a dirty brown fact in the
butter and milk districts of northern NS W and
a community that doesn’t want Kanaka in‘its
sugar should kick quite as hard at taking Hindu
in its milk. The ordinary domestic fly is quite
enough substance to find in the milk.
Chasselas ” : Dr. Danysz, who carries
SSdSjw n death f 'r ‘, h « »*3
incidentally, in proof of the liarmlessness of hi«
S “1“ [ »™» «' life, .hat ra IS
while Sraten n °” RBfc mic, J 111 Ellro P« which,
J y "''P lll -, out these pests, had not
injured any other animals. Some two rears mm
and'f.inn® of""y f to ° k P < t ,ssessioll of the fields
started ri am™ f V !? tona ’ thls disease somehow
started amongst them in the Wimmera district
and swept southward to the coast. Its
"■ere a scaly sore with a burning itch s and the
oth C e e r gn The d d tl,emS f lVeS death a »d’ate each
the fonn d,sease transmitted itself to man in
tne torm of a sore much resembling ringworm
4 Wim 6n nntat l d xt emitted a mouse like smell!
A \\immera medico, with European experience
Aoe amfr’ Cal,e f P-Wie attention to ft m the
c’ K ' an , (l diagnosed its symptoms as local nro
it S were tr le n r Wh °! l,ld ne - Ver come m contact with
e treating it as ringworm. A carpenter
taken’ / y contract . ed the disease from
th t he ; °dli a St f k t 0 make '»'« bed, told me
six month? i expeefc to " et rid of it for
d li !US wh f n one sore healed another broke
1 e lived h?f tl SaU i that d ° Z, :? ls in the town where
it be known. ***' "' ere ashamed to let
* * * *
R . e hairless blacks at La Perouse
18. 7/6/OG). An- aboriginal family of the same
type was found 80 miles N.W. of St. George 10 1
during the days of Thomas Mitchell. Orifh,!®
the report declared that there was a whole hair
less tribe but on investigation the tribe dwindled
to a family of seven—the parents, two boys and
three girls 1 hey hadn’t a hair among them, and
were of a lighter color than the ordinary blacks,
with very large ears and prominent jaws. The
wVdr 7 WaS f lirs j . re P° r ted ten years before the
white men found it ; a tribe of blacks which had
gone out on a gm-stealing expedition came across
the apparitions, and set the tale circulating. Old
Ashton, of circus fame, approached the authori-
ties for permission to show the family, but there
was a hitch in the negotiations. The language of
the hairless household could not be understood by
the other tribes; but this was set down to long
isolation, though it seems probable enough that
they were the relics of a separate tribe with a
separate language. From the parents it was
impossible, one authority says, to gain any in-
formation as to their history. Eventually the
hairless home broke up, and the offspring married
into die surrounding tribes, but their children
were m every respect normal.
* * •* *
“K.” : An aspect of the rabbit question
which is mostly overlooked is the disastrous effect
which bunny has had, directly and indirectly, on
the native fauna. He is believed to be respon-
sible for the practical disappearance of the native
cat from Victoria. In the Kaverina, by eating all
the available food in drought years, he causes
great destruction amongst the emus, kangaroos
and smaller animals. Rut the most mischief is
done through poison, which, though spread for
the rabbit, is eaten by all mariner of wild birds.
I have seen scores of magpies and parrots killed
by poisoned wheat, and also (which doesn’t matter
much) hundreds of crows. Smaller birds, such as
ground larks, are also killed ; and. where much
poison is laid, there is soon a wholesale clearance
of the feathered brotherhood. Those birds that
won t eat the poisoned grain eat the poisoned
raiihits, and so go to their death just the same,
laking it all round, I believe that the most
destructive agency at work amongst our birds is
the poison laid for rabbits. Dr. Danysz’s pas-
teurella (which sounds like the name of a bird
mixed with an umbrella) can’t do much more
damage ; but all the same 1 hope that it won’t get
trie chance.
THE MILKY W.A.
HODLRY : “ Wot! No water! Has the condenser
gone dry?"
MRS. HENNESSEY : “Ho, but Hogans cow has.
He bought me out of water so's he could give
the customers condensed milk.”
As showing what may happen in the trail
°f ril poisoning, Mr. S. G. Theurnack, of Binna-
way (JN.ri.VV.) states in June Agiucui.tuhal
Gazette that he lost the greater portion of his
bees last year through poison laid for rabbits.
Statements of that sort are generally met with a
demand for proof that the destruction was due to
rabbit poison. The proof Mr. Theurnack offers is
that dead bees were found in hundreds along the
trail of the poison carts, as well as in the hives. The
proof may not oe conclusive, but it goes a certain
way, and in any case 26 colonies of bees are dead
and receipts that last year reached £9O have this
year sunk to nil.
Householders will find that for universal
use Little’s PI ,enyle Disinfectants are unsurpassed,
i n u 011)0 rhenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold bv all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, throughout Aus-
THE COMING OF THE ENEMY.
Rule 174.—Officers must carefully watch the approach
of the white ant.
OUT-BACK POSTMASTER: “ sh no use callin’.
Rule one sheven four shays I goiter watch ’em.
An’ I’m goin’ ter.”
Adelaide Public Library Board recently
got possession of an interesting relic of an early
Australian “contract-laborer.” It is an agree-
ment dated 11th Sept., 1837, and signed by
Colonel Light and Charles Mann, on behalf of
the Colonisation Commissioners, granting a fro©
passage to William Green, “laborer and sailor,”
and his wife from England toS.A. Green was to
do what labor might be required of him in con-
nection with the survey of the colony” for 12s.
per week and rations. The document came to
light through Mr. ,1. E. Mitten, of Hindmarsh
G'-AA whose father was trustee of Green s estate.
Evidently pioneer Green did better than 12s a
week and rations before he died, or Ins estate
wouldn t have had much use for a trustee.
* * « •
Again we hear of Bruce Smith’s friend
and gentle black brother,
the Kanaka. At Cairns
on a recent Saturday a
youth (aged 16) was walk-
ing along the road, when
he was met by Bruce
Smith’s reliable laborer,
who demanded money.
1 lie youth not having
any couldn't accede to his
request. Thereupon the
object of Bruce Smith’s
admiration (ride the doc-
tor’s statement) attacked
him, gouged one of his
eyes nearly out, bit one
ear to shreds, hit him on
the head and face with a
/ stick, inflicting nasty cuts,
and left him unconscious. He
was picked up and brought into
town, and even then (six hours
after the assault) was so dazed that
he could only tell of the occurrence in a
vague sort of way. Bruce Smith’s friend is
still at large.
It s a long furrow Archdeacon Oakes, of
Kelso (N.S.W.), has set himself to plough with
his plea for more humane methods for the destruc-
tion of rabbits. The reverend gentleman objects
both to poisoning and trapping as too cruel. And
really chloroform is out of the question, while to
mesmerise the rabbit before slaying it is a matter
ot difficulty. Even the most powerful mesmerist
would look down a burrow with his glassy eye for
a long time before he did much good.
Kaban ” : What an astounding confusion
exists in the vernacular names of Australian forest
trees. Such recklessly imported terms
as “ash,” “ hickory,” “syca-
more,” “beech,” “sas-
safras” and “teak”
are applied in dif-
ferent parts of the
Commonweal th
to trees of dis-
tinct species,
and often of
different
genera. Even
such Austra-
lian-made
names as
“ myall,”
“kurrajong,”
“ brigalow ”
and the poeti-
cal “ dead
finish ” are
open to the
same objec-
tion. When
we come to
the all-per-
vading “gum-
tree,” we find
a state of
things even
more be-
wildering.
“ W 7 hite,”
“led,” “blue”
and “grey”
gum seem to
be inter-
changeable
names, and it
would puzzle
an expert to
say what par-
ticular species
have the best
claim to be
called “pepper-
mint,” “stringy
. bark,” or “ r.'.ess-
mate.” The very
name “gum ” is not
strictly confined to
the genus eucalyptus, outside of which we may
nnd a red gum” and several “water gums.”
Among the acacias, too, the same state of affairs
obtains to a limited extent, so that a reader can by
no means be certain of ‘he exact species referred
to when black,” “silver,” or “golden ” wattles
are mentioned. A bushman, suddenly trans-
ported from one part of Australia to another,
would find himself quite at sea as regards arboreal
nomenclature.
* * * *
“ Itan ” : At the Biggenden (Q.) State
farm the perennial red clover stood the lieat of
summer well, and matured its seed. This
development was considered impossible by ex-
perts, on tlie ground that the plant requires long-
tongued bees (such as the bumble bee) to fertilise
it, and there are none of these in Queensland,
ihe opinion is expressed that some indigenous
insect has managed the function, just as some
insect has managed to cross the upland cotton
with the sea island, and produced a cotton bearing
the best qualities of both. For some years
American growers have been trving to hybri-
dise these varieties of cotton uiisuccess-
tuily. Apropos of cotton-growing, it looks as
if the industry had come to stay, independent of
the benefits winch will accrue through the cross
if it can be reproduced. A Brisbane firm is now
offering to buy all the cotton that, can be grown
delivered at the nearest railway station, at lid!
per lb., which represents an average return "of
£7 pet; acre. The great bulk of the Queensland
cotton crop raised last year was grabbed up by
Maori I and buyers, who purchase from America
several hundred thousand pounds’worth annually.
1 hey declare the Queensland article is superior 10
that imported from the land of the harvester
swindle.
In Melb. Supreme Court was witnessed
recently the unusual spectacle of two well-dressed
women convicted of sheep-stealing, in company
with a young man they had driven 34 j uni bucks
out of a paddock, but had barely got a mile away
before they were discovered. The man escaped
Among the witnesses were “Charlie” and
L eter, the only two black-trackers Victoria
possesses. They will probably be the last public
servants of their race—as far as the Cabbage
harden is concerned—the remnant of a people
who were, perhaps, 10,000 strong when Batman
pitched his tent on Yarra bank.
Was one night camped at a
Maori settlement, winch had that day received a
consignment of dead shark. The whole settle-
ment dined on this with pirau corn (rotten maize)
for trimmings. I, with 40 natives of mixed ages
and sexes, occupied a wharepuni which the natives
hermetically sealed before retiring. At midnight
1 awoke, and without going into details, I am
willing to back one small slice of the air of a
Maori wharepuni, occupied by 40 or more natives
after shark and pirau corn diet, against all comers
alligator, dead whale, bust whale, &c , &c.
RABBITING.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
W “— tone! *" d blaring winds „„ d
TI, %“hM” y b “ h b " ore ““ a «“ bl 'S"‘rf .«*
We '»„S; a °“ »■>««>« —h.*h
Ab °^ nd ; e ro ""‘ s lidc °> >«*• 'ike tl-.vl or
W “to”rub nd S " dW '“' "" * ">“ c*»'P in
A " pEfto?; " th .*• „„ d
And'^l'V 0 P * d f “ d d k ht '«n to the -
a‘2j, with BUI to help
Yuh ! Watch us, silly rabbits—on the land !
Yes, me and Bill-o, grinning in the sand ;
He likes it—grinning out fchere in the gand ’,
~ h bar and shove l. grubbing burrows in the
And they C st, n r fr long ' armed down to grab the rabbits, as
Unhappy in the dusty dark-their little day is done
When we break their necks and strip them stark, to the
last shred of fur.
We stack the raw skins round us, shining ghastly white
and green,
And pile the gory carcases close handy to the grave
hich takes the waste of slaughter, nightly when the
crows have been.
A good, red quid a week an’ penny pelts-an’ who's a
slave ?
I’m here with crimson knife and sticky hand
With Bill-o, grinning knee-deep in the sand.
Aw, chuck it! grinning out there in the sand.
Once every week poor Smith comes out to bring our meat
and tea,
And the mail from home-an’-mother, and the flimsies
from the south ;
Once every week he tells us “ there’ll be weather f’m the
sea
On Mond’y Tuesd’v anyhow ’’—and swabs his parching
mouth, h
While, just above, the sun swings by, a grim and gorgeous
blaze ;
The sweat rolls down Bill’s plaintive nose and vapours in
the heat,
And all the wide plain, scrub and flat, lies trembling in
the haze,
With brimming heat-lagoons a-flood where sky and ..rev
bush meet. B J
I like this way of going on the land !
Going out to grub and bullock in the sand—
With Bill, all rabbit-blanky in the sand.
Bill s pulse is calm these lonely nights; he lives bis life
dead slow ;
He has no sins to scare his sleep, he lies there htill as
stone,
Pit-mouthed and touzle-headed, with his shameless feet
on show
Below his ragged blanket-and I maunder here alone
Beside the flaming camp-log flaring down to feathery
ash—
With every girl I’ve ever sighed for smiling from the
flames,
And all the luck I’ve ever missed rip-rearing in a flash
To start my mad brain-devils on their stale and silly
games.
Lounging here with Bill-o on the land !
With Bill-o here, his big ears full of sand—
His scarlet hair and flop-ears full of sand 1
S. A.
FRANK HENTY.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES;
Your Tram
Punctuality is ensured by
the use of our ‘ BUNDY ’
CLOCKS.
Employers
Are your men at their
posts on time everyday?
100 minutes lost by a staff
of men costs you—what
you pay.
Our ‘BUNDY’ CLOCK will
save all this leakage. Write Us.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
IN
m
hT:7.
OUT
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.
It may not be generally known that a Chicago firm has for some time past been supplying a “long felt
want ”in the South Sea Islands in the form of tinned man. Recently there has been a slump.
CANNIBAL MERCHANT (to Yankee commercial traveller): “ You see, disgusting and gruesome
rumors hare reached us that your firm adulterates its goods with the flesh of pigs and
cattle, so that the demand here has almost ceased.”
“A.P.R.”: Lack of firewood in plain
country is a standing annoyance to the camper-
out. Knew a rabbiter once who hotly pursued
the logs about a plain, and whose camp might be
found anywhere within a radius of four square
miles; every day or so he had to shift camp on to a
new dead tree. Logs are deceitful and malign,
anyway. Once planted a pair of boots in one end
of a 20ft. recumbent tree, and lit the other end.
That night the log burnt itself out in one-third
the usual time, and consumed my boots and
rejoiced exceedingly. The next night I camped
near another barning log, and a snake emerged
from it and entered my blanket. Old bushmen
never camp under dead trees, on account of the
risk of falling limbs.
The Australian bushman is a good type of
strenuous humanity, and one of the finest speci-
mens of the genus is the timber-cutter of the
N.S.W. North coast. An excellent performance
was put up recently by one named Johnson, resi-
ding on the Tweed River. The time occupied in
doing it was less than a fortnight. He was called
to Kempsey (Macleay River) as a witness in a
law case. The vessel in which he travelled being
unable to call in at Kempsey, he had to go to
Sydney, and then come back to the Macleay.
The case over, he went by steamer to Grafton
(Clarence River), being very ill on the trip. From
Grafton he rode to Casino (Richmond River), a
distance of over 70 miles, in a day. Next day he
had a five hours’ train journey from Casino to
Murwillumbah, and after a hearty dinner took
part in a wood-chopping contest, in which he was
scratch man. He won his heat, and dead-heated
for second place in the final. With a good mili-
tary system, what sort of a soldier would he
make ? And there are thousands like him in the
bush.
* * * *
The Ipswich (Q.) local authorities are
calling the water hyacinth some ugly names,
despite the fact that they’ve only got themselves
to blame for the hold it has in the Bremer River.
It had been neglected to such an extent that
navigation was impeded. It was hoped that a
flood would carry the curse into the Pacific Ocean,
and thereby relieve the authorities of a good deal
of anxiety and expense. Well, a fresh came and
cleared it out, causing smiles on the collective
municipal countenance. The re-appearance of
the hyacinth, as plentiful as before, has changed
the smiles into nasty language, and the captains
of the small steamers trading between Brisbane
and Ipswich are also saying things not permitted
at mothers’ meetings.
* * * *
“ Fitzgenius ” : Billy, the shepherd, has
lately been greatly embued with the idea of
writing to the new Queen of Spain. He has asked
me to correct any mistakes. I forward you a copy
of his lett r herewith, word for word :
To her imperail majesty
Queen of Spian. .
You majesty,—l ain taking this liberty of writting to
you to let you no how i wish to congatulat you both on
you exession to the thron of Spanish by marage of the
kina' and youre narovv escape from dying in the assasions
hands. It was trully a Godsend and it show how litle
you can turst these Spanaird and other foreingers. You
majesty that is why ian pruod i Australian We are free
an unbounded as the Ooeon, trully we have its drauback.
We are not all thus. Some of us whose name is G. H.
Ried and others are traters to the cawse. And Bruce
Smith who would let Australiar overun with black men
and others who called dagose. Hoping you husband will
not let you unhappy for we both are the same blood, we
are Brittish, which is thicker than water.
You most humbly & every obedent servant,
WILLIAM BOSH.
* * * *
Several Yictorian shire councils have a
quaint habit of meeting on Tuesday or some
other day “nearest to the full moon.” Vic.
country roads are vile things, and councillors are
often long-winded and start for home late, and
but for the full moon the whole show would break
its neck.
Many lyre birds fall victims to the ama-
teur’s gun because of their silly habit of miscel-
laneous mimicry. Having shot the bird, seen
indistinctly in a thicket of leaves while cawing
like a carrion crow or shrieking like an insane
galah, the amateur’s next effort is to make some
use of it. That is often why lyre-bird tails still
reach city buyers, notwithstanding the heavy pro-
tection on the bird. An M.L.A. who would
sooner shoot a Treasurer than kill a lyre bird has
mounted a stuffed mimic on a stand in his parlor,
and tells how he had three shots at it as three
different birds, and finally brought it down when
it was pretending to be a hen or a goanna or
a bedstead or something.
DOWN IN TOWN.
“I gee by the papers here, Jim, you're the backbone of the country."
“Well, if I'm the backbone you must be the fat and the marrer of it, M'riar!"
THE FARM.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
“I would like to give you eight years, cried the
magistrate “ Yes, please,” said the accused, beaming.
He = was grievously disappointed when he only got a
month.—-Yea,’.? item.
There ain’t no points in trampin’ round ther street,
A-bumpin’ inter crushers on ther beat;
No, there ain’t no points in coilin’ down them gardins,
nor in toilin’,
Lumpin’ coal, or shiftin’ rubbish fer an eat.
Now, I wants things ter go smoothly like a charm,
Git reg’lar sort er job upon ther Farm,
Where yer feeds on, strike-me-dilly, hominee an’ best o’
skilly,
Up be Pentridge on ther Model Lodgin’ Farm.
Oh ! ther Farm, ther Farm;
Ther Pentridge Model Farm,
Where yer cells is cool an’ shady and yer grub is nice an
warm;
Oh ! it’s better far nor swag gin’, breakin’ stones or bones,
or maggin’,
Board an’ lodgin’s on ther ’omely Model Farm.
Now, some blokes thinks it’s great to dodge ther crust,
Bone grubbin’ in ther gutters an’ ther dust;
Round ther Eastern Market walkin’, sellin’ fowls or
bunny-’awkin’,
Fer a doss an’ lush an’ grub an’ weekly bust.
I’d sooner give ther beak me bloomin’ arm,
Accept ’is invitation to ther Farm,
Fur away frum biffs an’ rossers, bucks an’ bats an’ ’ooks
an’ dossers.
Fer a little stretch ov sunshine on ther Farm.
Oh ! ther Farm, ther Farm,
Ther pleasant, roomy Farm;
On ther everlastin’staircase in ther summer, though it’s
warm ,
Y it, it’s better fur than walkin’ round them lines or couta.
’awkin',
Air an’ exercise upon ther stony Farm,
It’s all right w’en a bloke is voting an’ raw,
And on ther By ter dodge ther bloomin’ Law ;
'E ken chance ther ducks an’ peelers, crack a crib or butt
the reelers,
Then flash ’is diles an’ stuff, an’ oil ’is maw.
But ther life’s a-kinder lorst its crimson charm
W’en a copper drops his baton on yer arm ;
W’en yer bones with cold is cracklin’ and ther breeze
blows through yer tacklin’,
An’ yer campin’ out, just ’ungry fer ther Farm.
Oh, ther Farm, ther Farm,
That warm an’ 'appy Farm■;
W’en blokes is old, that reg’ler life exerts its blushin’
charm ;
An’ ye’ve reason then to thank it w’en yer dossin with a
blankit,
Oh ! they fixes yer up cosy at ther Farm.
Them coves wot ’owls fer work an’ lets it slip,
That kinder chump gives me ther blessed pip ;
Swears they’ll join some push o’ tampers or some Mur-
rumbidgee campers;
But them contingencies, I let’s ’em rip.
Losin’ work ’as never filled me with alarm,
There’s allers bits o’ jobs about ther Farm ;
Doin’ Polly, breakin’ metal, keeps a bloke in bonza fettle,
Cripes, I like me steady billet on ther Farm.
On ther Farm, ther Farm,
Ther steady, pluggin’ Farm;
Where ye’re free from lush an’ blowers an’ put safe away
from ’arm.
I’m a cobber ov the Warder, ’is respected, reg’ler boarder,
I’ve a blushin’ billet waitin’ at ther Farm.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Gr. something (Park Road, Auckland): You say
“ under separate cover I am sending you three sketches.”
“ Sketches ” might mean tales or drawings. You give no
titles. The signature is past all deciphering. Why not
write your name and address legibly on the sketches
themselves, and attach the stamps to them, instead of
sending separately a letter with two snakes at the bottom ?
White Australian : Latest available birthrate figures
are : Victoria, 246 births annually per 10,000 people ;
Australia, 263; United Kingdom, 285 ; Germany, 351 ;
United States keeps no statistics for the whole
country. But the effective birth-rate doesn’t deal
with the number born so much as with the number
who survive. If vou deduct the total deaths from
the total births, then the increase by excess of births
over deaths is : Victoria, 107 for each 10,000 people ;
Australia, 139 ; United Kingdom, 107; Germany,
146. Prussia, about the most virile section of
Germany, shows an increase of 155 per 10,000
Starr : “ Birthrate ” too obstetrical altogether.... Kaban :
“Winter” is the only poem with “goloshes” in it we
ever received. Otherwise it isn’t remarkable.... A.J. W. :
The answer was intended for y0u.... Backblock ; They
don’t quite score.. . M’Cartney: Hadn’t the ghost of a
chance H.R.M’D. : None of them has quality enough.
.. .Agnes D. : Prettv, but quite conventional and undis-
tinguished T.R.B. : Very vague and nebulous'. It
doesn’t do to leave too much to the imagination
Quidam : We like your stuff when we can read it, but we
can’t always read it. Still, we manage to read it_ oftener
than you might expect The Go. : Has some spirit, but
slumps in the metre... .C.G.D. : Metre trouble in your
case also Ronald F. : The prosiest verse we’ve struck
for a long time G.P.B. : Mediocrity only Magician:
No points about verse of that kind... .G.E.H. : A rough
piece of work B. Sheldon : Thanks. Quite sufficient....
Sombre : “Brandy” very, very dreary H.B.C. : More
enthusiasm than eiegance.. .Unknown L. : Mere rubbish...
H.W. : You are right; the subject required a better pen.
. ...H.H.J. : Ineffectively handled Bathos: A good
idea, very inadequately treated... .Mavis D.: Well enough
versified," but they have nothing to lift them out of the
ruck of regular love verses Two Rocks : Failed igno-
miniously HerbertF.: A caustic style, but not enough
behind it M.K.F. : Has a good central idea and some
notable stanzas, but is weak between... .J.S.M. : Hope-
lessly out of our line. Reads like a Sunday-school tract....
M.S.W. : Doesn’t get near publication level Wamba:
Much too long. The middle is the only part that counts....
F.M‘T. : Ruined by the rhymes, which are mostly not
rhymes A.O.A. : Too prosy and didactic Ruby W. :
More spirit than syntax. You’ll have to learn the use of
the literary' t 0015.... J.H. (W.A.): The subject is longpast
resuscitation Arthur N. : Too vague and incoherent.
You probably don’t know yourself what you mean
Waimaluka : Loose and disordered eloquence Roslyn :
Subject exhausted... .Clias. M. : Too wordy.... N. B.
Webster: Your elaborate suggestion as to what
might he made out of the fact that Ogden,
of Chicago, kills ’ogs, cost 2d. for deficient postage.
D. W. J. : Well-meant, but ineffective Coo-
namble : One is middling, t’other bad C.R. : The
second item is ancient, and the first has nothing in
it Hubert C. : Much below the mark S.B. : Has
good touches, but lacks vigor and movement... .Radium :
Too insignificant for print M.L.G. : Versification too
clumsy:...L.E.A. : Picturesquely written, but only a
commonplace short stor.y, after all Black Swan : Can’t
undertake to print a regular letter, but will consider any
pars, sent in S.K.: The Bulletin viewed the acquisi-
tion of a part of Papua by Australia with grave mis-
givings. But we have the Possession now, and it’s a duty
to govern it properly 7. In the event of a big war Australia
would, presumably, have to leave Papua to its fate....
A.0.D.: Better certainly a State river service than
to build an unprofitable railway Wanderer:
Tired of the over-pubbed-town competition
Wathoo : Rather too unpleasant Vik Bruno: Hardly
worth space S.A.T. : Imagine yourself sat upon....
Blue Bush : You ask, “What is a Socialist?” Well, a
Socialist is a great fool if h'; doesn’t buy The Bulletin
regularly Maguire: All three are married. Henry
Lawson and E. S. Sorensen have been in Sydney for a long
time, so your samples are spurious. “ Banjo ” Paterson
has edited a Svdney paper for a long while, so the
man you met in the bush who said he was “ Banjo ” was
extra spurious... .W.C.L. : Yes; pay for anything use-
able. Your items too parochial. Aim at pars which will
interest Australia, not merely one city... .First Trial:
Verse faculty hardly formed yet... .Jess : Thanks. We re
always thinking over that problem ; but it is surrounded
with difficulties Unsuitable: Ooorabudgeree, Bobs,
H.E.R.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Madge S. : Drawings show no promise F.G. : “Point
of View ” and “ Adding Insult ” both rather bleak jokes.
Frank L. : Hardly good enough F.J. : “Slow” is
a curious effect in light and shade, but wouldn’t repro-
duce well Dewan : You say that you have plenty of
witnesses to prove that you sent in that suggestion. You
seein to have more witnesses than sense. You send no
name, and the address at the head of your letter, if the
Melbourne directory is reliable, is bogus. There is
apparently no “129 Bridport-street.” We don t under-
take to acknowledge suggestions, but we pay for them if
accepted, provided the sender sends a name and an
address.
What could more eloquently support the
contention that the world’s spirit of progress
waxeth stronger than the fact that more than 12
million gallons of D.O.L. whisky are distilled
every year? Inasmuch as it is true that the
wisdom of the imbibers increases at the same rate
as the consumption of D.O.L. there is some hope
for this old world yet. Man is what he drinks.*
The new Commerce Act scored a kill first
try. A consignment of rings marked “ nine carat ”
invited the cold eye of suspicion, and on analysis
the nine carat dwindled down to three. It was a
horrible interference with the liberty of the
subject! When an importer isn’t allowed to
swindle the public by selling three-carat gold as
nine-carat, it is evident that this once-free com-
munity has sunk into chains and slavery.
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
Nasty little coughs and colds
Quickly make you ill !
Drive you to a legal man
About your final will.
Better far to cure the cold
With Woods’ Peppermint Cure,
Than life to be a burden
Which you could not endure.*
The weary Senate has disgustedly banged
its doors and gone home for want of
any work to do. This trouble arises partly
through too many Bills being originated in the
Reps, and too few in the Senate; and partly
through the fact that the Senate goes straight
through its business while the Reps, waste their
time on silly obstruction. It is a joyful thing to
reflect upon, that Australia will be unified some
day, and then it won’t require any Senate. At
present it is paying a Senate which it can’t keep
employed more than about six weeks in the year.


y<sM.
'sn'fb
lor .
' ’Whoever carried ifre w
repeal ©f Income
\iould "to tsY r i it~o iV^*'
)>olificaJ des4 bodj. £■
[b«»+] d
df
Ztffcr
i T sjy,i.tr
lb
'ifce lap i$
/rr-M . - .41
P'otectlonK+3 To loin ‘ll nr)
in -fje rijc^l-+pi*ce - -fo
s° c,^^, s rv )
K on (oionel
is -firs'P’ sKot" in Hfe Struggle
joy Au's‘*V4 , »**> V.oj-M cej 'S
•fro*)
T£ S sl>«*«ld be
re}>ly db s^od^
,n direcdTo* .
" Owmp "fo
'fitlVltfiT'H we \
fjJV'/e I*6l/ TjM *l*'josi’'Jo\ v
0o on oa.r ICiiecs jfo PeT * N.
renewal our jj3 Cr) tj\
G>W'-' Uoo'Hfe^vens! A
}rtmifr wit" <J
Self vQs|»ec+'? Vafn«/f:C
" pofe "too \rjuc\j
$< run to h7elakwclroJic!
" It Hjto *b««i s u^ e srcd, T
■fb *void furfJjer
1|)« G>*»**>ohweayttf)
over Ri^erih^."
! Represeofefon
■ tfo
aloofness oj 1 Ufa
& it +o
brood or>
grievances “
A*'§°S :
yr w ~ '
£Jud Kms] ©Je«foKs
sj, *to relam men
4© wi ft S+W>7£
h7o^l
" Neither, of
1 will ! **
of tffe loficc i
fo»»»s«t»t~o|>4hs Vl5 fSrtawje*"/" ,
THINGS IN MELBOURNE.


A N.S.W. PARLIAMENTARY WHIRLWIND.
Being extracts from a speech by Mr. Crick—more or less appropriately illustrated.
rfic !.* he Premler take this course-
T *“ e a " thCSe crim,nal Proceed-
ings instituted by the Crown. I, there
A LITTLE CUSS FOR SOMEONE ELSE.
Mr. Wood, rising In his place. Interposed; “Mr.
Speaker, 1 rise to a point of order.”
Mr. Crick turned towards him and exclaimed
angrily: “You can go to Hell!”
is any suggestion that 1 am going to
flee from this country, I will place
£lO,OOO in the Treasury to-morrow’.” -
DIOGENES IN LUCK AT
LAST 1
1 know nothing that can re-
flect on any member of this
Administration.”
“What member of Parliament would
like to have his private accounts ran-
sacked ? Or what minister of religion
e ither?”
A CABINET SECRET.
‘‘The only discussion he had heard I
at an Executive meeting during the I
fQUg. years he was a member of the I
Government was, ‘ What are you I
going to have to drink?’”
A LITTLE ELESSING FOR HIMSELF.
“ Until now no man ever suggested that I robbed him of sixpence. lam not
going to claim that 1 have led a faultless life, but I claim to have been a good
son. I claim that everybody who has had claims upon me has shared in my
prosperity.”
A CURSE.
“ You may expel me. ' Expel me, and be
damned. The Supreme Court may strike "
me off the rolls. Damn them.”
Crick (to the Devil) : “ Here, take these I ”


HiiTheWopl^
HllDeflififrice
i|
Odol is used daily
in Royal and Imperial Households,
and by the most distinguished
members of society, the highest
military representatives and
scientific authorities, and by dentists
thtmstlves.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several
months (the half-size bottle 1/6 ).
PERSONAL ITEMS.
‘ Gr-P-B.” : Said Pony Fred to me on the
wharf at Wellington (M.L.) when they brought
the coffin ashore: “I was up in Wanganui last
week, and saw John Ballance’s grave growing
wild. What price Seddon’s in a few years ?”
Captain William Turton, It. N., who died
in Melbourne the other day, aged 74, had resided
in Victoria for the past 50 years. He did a lot of
surveying work for the Government, and his
name survives in Turton’s Tracks and Turton
Kiver.
Governor Plunkett, of Maoriland, has been
hauled over the coals for non-attendance at the
Seddon obsequies. When John Robertson died,
and not in harness either, Governor Jersey
attended the funeral, though he had never known
the old swearing ex-Premier.
“G.H.”: The statement (8., 14/6/’O6)
that W. F. Massey, leader of Maoriland Opposi-
tion, is a storekeeper, is incorrect. Massey is a
freeholder, an opponent of increased land-tax, a
larmers’ Union supporter, a tiller of the soil, and
altogether bucolic and interested in Cow.
Police Magistrate Pery, lately wrecked in a
buggy accident between Bellinger and Bowraville,
* he Bari of Limerick. He took to the
JN.b.W. bush early in life, and travelled up
through various C.P.S.-ships to the humble Bench
The old man m Ireland owns about 5800 acres—
probably bog.
The precious MS. of Dan O’Connor’s great
work was destroyed in the ’Frisco fire, and he
laments, As a matter of fact, I had sold an in-
terest in it conditionally for £5000.” If that is so,
somebody else will lament, and Dan oughtn’t to
be quite ruined, unless the £5OOO. too, was de-
stroyed in the fire.
John Sawers, ex-general superintendent
of the Bank of Australasia, with which institution
he had been connected for 40 years, died suddenly
at St. Kilda (Vic.) on Sunday, aged 65 years. He
joined the Sydney branch of the bank on his
arrival from Scotland—most of the old financial
men seemed to arrive from Scotland—in 1805.
A. T. Magarey, who died at Adelaide
recently, aged 57, was looked upon as a human
encyclopedia regarding the habits and customs of
Billy, our black fellow-countryman He helped
to found the S.A. Geographical Society in 1885,
and as secretary to the institution did a lot of
work in getting the Calvert Exploring Expedi-
tion on its ill-fated way.
Those two unfortunates, Hoskins and
McNair, who were arrested in Sydney last
August, on a charge of complicity in the alleged
Willis land frauds, are still awaiting trial. Their
cases have been again postponed, and by the
time they are really tried they will haveAieen
lingering on bail for a year. There have been
many discreditable muddles about the Lands
business, and this isn’t the least of them.
SENATOR BEST.
From the list of passengers by the Prinz
Sigismund, which recently left for Hongkong,
&c. :
Mr. How Ohow, Mrs. How Chow, Miss Chrissie Chow,
Miss Gunnie Chow, Miss Alice Chow, Miss Annie Chow
Miss Jinnie Chow, Master England Chow, Master Geonre
Chow. ®
“ Master England Chow” is something abo w e the
average. Why wasn’t one of the girls “Miss
Britannia Chow ?”
Some July birthdays :—Ex-Senator P >w-
ner (S. A.), 62 on the sth ; Iceberg Irvine 48, and
Dr. Rentoul (Vic.), 60 on the 6th; Astronomer
Charles Todd (S.A.), 80 on the 7th; Percy
Grainger 24, and Joe Chamberlain 70 on the
Bth ; Governor Taibottle, 65 on the 11th ; Ade-
laide Advertiser, 48 on the 12th ; ex-Astronomer
Ellery (Vic.), 79 on the 14th ; Senator Trenwith,
59 on the 16th ; Captain Creswell, 54 on the 20th ;
“Smiler ” Hales, 46 on the 21st; Ben Hoare
(Age), 64 on the 22nd ; Railway Commissioner
Tait (Vic.), 42 on the 24th ; Judge Gordon (S.A.),
56 on the 26th ; James Graham (Sydney), 48, and
Carty Salmon, M.H.R., 45 on the 29th.
Justice Owen, who takes a title in his 72nd
]i as spent 46 years around the law courts of
N.S.W. All the N.S.W. Judges—Supreme and
District Court—of Owen’s early legal days are
long dead, and the practising barristers, with the
exception of G. B. Simpson, who is on the Bench,
are out of harness—dead or retired. Trinity
College, Dublin, is responsible for his Honor’s
early legal training. That institution may be
called the nurse of Australia’s Judges of the past
generation. It raised Stawell, Redmond Barry,
Peter Faucett, Molesworth, and others. Darley,
of the present day, also came from Trinity.
Brewer Tooth, the new baronet, made the
political fight of his life when he opposed little
Dr. Ren wick in a contest for South Sydney. Had
he won—which he didn’t—the chances are he
would have made his home in N.S.W. instead of
in England. The burning question of the day
" as education—Renwick for secular and com-
pulsory, and Tooth for denominational. Renwick
nowadays doesn’t look much of a fighter, but at
that period he was as active as a mosquito.
July Review of Reviews for Australia is
a stimulating number. There’s a full page picture
r f I' (London editor) with an earnest
shriek by W. I. Stead on the nobility of W. T
Stead s aims. Then there is a full page picture of
Judkins (Melbourne editor) with an earnest
shriek by Judkins on the purity and nobility of
Judkins aims. But there was no picture of the
.Lord.
Little Sammy Way, the S.A. Chief Jus-
tice, has got rid of the corset judgment which has
lam heavily on his chest for nearly two years, but
there are still two belated taxation appeals which
have been standing over for many months, waiting
till \\ ay makes up his great mind. Until the
Oh let gives his decision, thousands of pounds
1 !i to be in the Treasury will be with-
held from payment by the two wealthy companies
interested. An impression is abroad that S. Way
nils so many honorary and ornamental billets that
lie hasn t time to do the work he is paid to do.
F. Levien, M.L.A., of Victoria, who
died the other day, was the most remarkable
speaker in the House when he was first elected in
1871. lie was a dark, handsome young fellow,
and intelligent enough, but with a frightful im-
pediment in his speech. It was not a funny one
like Marcus Clarke s or Howard Willoughby’s,
but a startling one. It began with a sort of
gurgle, and ended with a sort of whoop. This
occurred about three times every five minutes.
After a while, however, he got rid of the thing by
some means or other, and only old lobby-haunters
and pressmen remember it now. Probably Bent
and Uaunson are the only men in the House who
can remember Levien as he was when he used to
gurgle and whoop.
A noted character, one Archie M‘Phee,
pegged out in Timaru (M.L.) hospital lately.
Long years ago, when the country was overrun
with Captain Cook’s domestic pets, he appro-
priated the title of “the champion wild-boar
slayer of the Southern Alps.” And he earned it.
Many thousands of pigs squealed their last when
Archie went out with dogs, spear, and knife. He
had a trunkful of yarns about hogs, many of them
being of a thrilling character. In later years
Hennessy got M‘Phee by the wool, and on the
morning of his death he got run over by a vehicle,
and was patched up at the hospital. Same night
he fell off a railway bridge, and that settled him.
Lyttleton Holyoake Bayley, whose name
has been cropping up lately as Attorney-Gfeneral
m an early N.S.W. Ministry, was really
introduced to fortune, if not fame, by W.
B. Dailey. Bayley, a briefless barrister,
had cleared out from England with an
idea that he might catch something in
Melbourne. That golden city offered him
nothing worth speaking of, and he arrived
in Sydney with hardly anything in his
possession but a hearty laugh. Dailey
was not an original wit, and had told his
then collection of funniments so often that
Slippery Charlie Cowper said he’d choke
him if he repeated them any more. In
this strait Dailey met Bayley with the
hearty laugh, and told him the old stories
over again, and so generously did Bayley
pour out his sole possession that Wiliiam
Bede fit once pronounced him a man of
erudition, discrimination and exquisite
humor. Bayley knew nothing of politics,
but Dailey ran him for Mudgee and got
him in. Then W.B. went to '‘Slippery,”
and said, “See here, Charlie, give that
Attorney-Generalship to Bayley.” “ Boo,”
cried Charlie, “he’s nobody; he knows
nothing.” “If you don’t,” said Dailey,
“ I’ll repeat two of my jokes—two of the
very worst.” Cowper saw W.B. meant
it, and capitulated. But Bayley found
that Dailey used up all his laughter, so,
getting a little money together, lie fled to
Bombay, where he became a judge.
Bendigo, the Victorian city which
turns out so much gold, and so many
pressmen and singers, is also the home
of innumerable policemen. Victorian
Chief Commissioner O’Callaghan is a
Bendigo bobby; so is Inspector-Superin-
tendent Mahony, who stands next to
O’Callaghan in authority. Sainsbury, the
cute little Chief of Melbourne Detective
Force, is a Bendigonian, likewise Michael
Sexton, the detective about whom such a
shindy has been raised of late. Nearly
every third policeman in the force-
barring the ex-farm-burners—comes from
Long Gully, or Back Creek, or White
Hills, or Ironbark, or some other Bendigo
location. There must be something push-
ful in the Bendigo air.
There is a superstition that the Australian
is a lazy sort of person, but some of him manage
to take their ease rather violently. A witness in
a Sydney Banco Court case, who hustles round
Lismore (N.S.W.), stated that he was the local
council’s inspector of nuisances, Small Debts
Court bailiff, town-common ranger, sanitary fee
collector, rate collector, and dairy inspector.
Between whiles he collected vents for 14 houses,
and supervised a dairy farm. In addition, up
till recently he made himself useful in directing
the street traffic, and when time hung particu-
larly heavy on his hands he conducted prosecu-
tions under the Public Health, Dairy Super-
vision, and Towns Police Acts.
The other day Conroy, M.H.R., was in
the throes of one of his most violent speeches in
the House, glowering horribly, threatening ter-
rible things, admonishing in shouts of thunder,
and looking altogether like a man on the eve of
blowing the Government toSheol, when an enemy
touched him on the elbow. Conroy stopped in
the middle of his avalanche and growled “ Huh?”
“Could you lend me a voice jube?” said the
enemy gently. And then the thunder was resumed.
Paris Nesbifc, K.C., conducting a libel
action in Adelaide, and met by the defence that
the words, if used at all, were “ only good-natured
and joking abuse,” quoted the Book of Proverbs:
Asa madman that casteth firebrands, arrows,
and death, so is the man that slandereth his
neighbor, and sayeth Am I not in sport?” A text
is always a good card to play in Adelaide, and
after duly considering the precedent laid down by
Justice Solomon in the Supreme Court of Jeru-
salem, the Court gave Nesbit’s client a verdict for
£5O.
A SLIGHT MISTAKE.
MR. GULPITDOWN (who has wandered into church in a muzzy condition and gone to sleep):
“ Yve brought me change at’ri’, barman. But wheresh the drinksh?”
It takes a census to reveal queer Christian
names. In M.L. lately designations like Lord,
Earl, Captain, Plunket, Admiral, Ranfurly,
Richard Seddon, and Carbine were traced across
various census papers.
Thus Reid Murphy, the remarkable Kil-
more (Vic.) police magistrate—who once had some
young men stripped and flogged in court—in
fixing up an affiliation case, and reducing the baby
allowance to ss. a week lest 7s. Cd. should “act as
an inducement to other girls to become lax in
their morals ” :
I myself have written two novels, and I am one of the
few people in Victoria who have received payment for
contributing articles to English journals.
Evidently a proud and inflated Murphy. But
what was it that reminded him of the payment
just then? Was it the 2s. 6d. he had docked off
the baby-money ?
What an unblushing and ungovernable
savage the lowly “ Kerristian ” parson can be
when his snuffle is outraged ! Perth (W.A.)
Methodist Conference, after casting out the eloped
parson James for “ wife desertion, forsaking his
work, and disgracing his church,” attempts the
highly Christian proceeding of pursuing its ex-
brother in the Loard, and making his future life
a little hell, by resolving :
That a circular letter, containing a description of James
and a statement of his offences be prepared and signed by
the president, and be posted to the president of each con-
ference of the Methodist Church in Canada, and to every
Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the United
States.
Guilford E. Gray, who passed out at
Blakiston (S.A.) recently, brewed many a foam-
ing tankard in his day. He was born in 1842,
and in his young days entered his father’s brewery
at Littlehampton (S.A.). In 1865 he started a
brewery on his own at Melrose, but continued dry
weather killed it —which isn’t so queer as it looks.
Afterwards he managed Boucaut and Lewis’
brewery at Macclesfield, and put in 14 years at
Bailey and Stanley’s brewery, North Adelaide.
He bought the Hyde Park (Adelaide) brewery in
1885, and in 1888, with some others, built a
brewery at Broken Hill. Drought again frowned
upon him, and after trucking water for some time
from Adelaide, the brewery retired from biz.
Later on he managed the Waverley (Broken Hill)
brewery, and the Union (Adelaide) brewery.
I hen his health gave out, and he retired from the
brewery altogether.
It is seriously alleged that Harry Foran,
well-known in Sydney as a man of great clamor,
is to be the Labor nominee at Clifton (Vic.)
against Higgins, the good Democrat who was
Attorney-General in Watson s Labor Ministry.
Foran is a bellowing person‘with a capacity for
disaster which beats the thirteen superstition all
to nothing. In 1894 he came fifth at Fitzroy
(Sydney) with 32 votes out of 1685. In 1895. at
Lang (Sydney), he got 45 votes out of 895, and
was fourth. In 1898, at Belmore (Sj'dney), begot
45 out of 1171. In 1901, at Fitzroy (Sydney), he
scored 108 votes out of 1685 registered. In 1901
(Federal) he stood against Reid at East Sydney,
and was licked by over 4000 votes. In 1903 he
stood for Melbourne Ports (Federal), and Mauger
beat him by over 10.000 votes, while the second
man beat him by over 7500. Foran has no
“ mozzle” worth mentioning, and his awful desire
to “stand” is a useless expense to the country.
Foran, as his party well knows, hasn’t a ghost of
a chance against Higgins. The only thing it can
hope is that he may split the vote sufficiently to
give some lory like holy Sam Painter a cbaiice.
“ Jar ” tells how he gave his first vote to
Seddon :
Blake’s Terrace is, or was, an outlying mining area of
the VVaimea (Maoriland). I was working at Blake’s in
1869. One day I entered the local store to sell some
gold, and when the deal was completed Bill Keech, the
storekeeper, said : “ Oh, by the way, there is a cove
coming down here from Pegleg to-night who wants to get
a seat on the Road Board. He is going to spout over at
Jnnmy Preston’s pub. Will you pass the word along.”
I did, and about a dozen of us turned up. Jimmy’
Preston, the publican, who was in his shirt sleeves,
occupied the chair, and with rugged informality intro-
candid‘T-te, “ Mr. Dick Seddon,” to the meeting.
Mr. Seddon was then a strapping young fellow with a
florid complexion and a great mane of yellowish hair It
soon became evident to the most inexperienced amongst
us that we were listening to a beginner making an initial
attempt at public speaking. The .candidate.got himself
tied up in an awkward tangle of metaphorical kinks.
i guiltily resumed his seat beside the chairman,
arid, leaning over the table with arms akimbo, said:
Its no use, bo.ys, you see I’m a poor hai.id at,speech-
making. Let us have a drink together, and yarn over
things in a social kind of way.” This happy proposal
was met by a roar of sympathetic assent, and from that
out the meeting was all right. Digger Dick began his
marvellous public career with a seat on that Road Board
“P.”: A few years ago a stalwart figure used
to come striding with long, loose, reckless strides
up Collins or Bourke-street, swinging an aggressive
stick, and thrusting forward a square chm at all
the universe. It used to go up Parliament House
front two steps at a time, and make the pictures
on the wall shake as it marched through hall and
corridor. “Charlie Kingston,” people said
affectionately. Now, a weary man leans every
afternoon on the arm of his wife, who helps him
slowly and painfully up the steps to the door of
the House. He sits through the debate, a burnt-
out fire, until the wife comes to help him away
again. Kingston is paying the hardest penalty of
strenuousness. Richard Seddon had the happier
ending.
About Joshua :
“Jack” Joshua, the new president of the Victorian
Chamber of Manufacturers (in succession to Charles
Atkins), proved a sad disappointment to the Argus and
the local Reidites. Being an eminently “ respectable ”
and a high-toned sort of citizen he was expected to talk
Moderate Protection—a little more Protection than the
present Importers’ Tariff permits, and just enough of it
to restore prosperity to the Joshua distillery business
of which he is the working- head. But when he made his
policy speech to the Chamber the other week, it appeared
that he had a healthy contempt for Moderate Protection,
likewise a scorn for “ anti-Socialism ” and all that the
Rat Man term implies. He spoke of the workers-—common
wage-earning workers—as the manufacturers’ best friends.
The Stinking Fish journal naturally grew funnv on the
subject of Joshua. It twitted him with his youthfulness
(“Jack,” by the way, is older than he looks), and smiled
loudly at the absurd fact that his experience had not yet
started to go bald on top ; to which he replied that
whereas youth can be trusted to cure itself, “senility
ends only in the grave.” Then the Argus pelted the
pert distiller with “chestnuts” in its Saturday edition,
comparing’ him to the son of Nun, blowing - his own
trumpet round the walls of Jericho. But the Bible is a
dangerous book for a newspaper to monkey with. At
next meeting of the manufacturers, the president gave
them some quotations from the Book of Joshua touching
the men of Gideon, who, when they saw that their game
was up, sought an alliance with the son of Nun and his
people, even as the anti-Socialists, despairing of Free-
trade, are now anxious to rope in the Protectionists on a
side issue. The Gibeonites, remarked Joshua of Mel-
bourne, showed stale bread to his Jerichoian namesake
and gulled him into a league with them ; but the Argus
men had only stale jokes in hand, and he (young Joshua)
wasn’t joining their league. This portion of his speech
didn’t appear in the Fish journal’s report next morning.
The Argus is doubtless watching* its opportunity to draw
the cork of a bottled-up allusion to Joshua’s “ Colonial
Spirit, * which will appeal to its readers as a glorious
British joke.


Anthony Hordern 4ons
l 1 Nitersal Providers
Palace Emporium
.Syon/EY 4 .
s
Catalogue
I a OF
T #^
Carpenters.
Engineers.
Blacksmith^
Plumbers.
Farm and Garden
s*.
“The TRUE EPIC of the times is NOT ARMS
and THE MAN, hut TOOLS and THE MAN—an
infinitely WIDER KIND OF EPlC.”— Carlyle.
“WITHOUT TOOLS and THE ABILITY to
USE THEM,” writes a well-known author, “ MAN were
but a POOR, BARE FORKED ANIMAL, WORSE
CLOTHED than the BIRDS, WORSE HOUSED than
the BEAVER, WORSE FED than the JACKAL.”
The LEVEL-HEADED ARTISAN who BUYS
HIS TOOLS at ANTHONY HORDERN’S FAMOUS
LOW PRICES secures A GOOD THING EVERY
TIME he PLANKS HIS COIN. He gets TOP
QUALITY AT BOTTOM PRICE.
YOUR ADDRESS, PLEASE! for a COPY of
our TOOL CATALOGUE, J 76 Pages, and MORE
THAN A THOUSAND ILLUSTRATIONS—Post
Free Anywhere.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS -0*
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
THIS IS A SNAP!
DO NOT DELAY sending for one of these excellent
Watches, in Gun Metal or Nickel Silver Cases.
Every Watch Guaranteed First-class Timekeepers.
Two years’
with every
For a good,
Timekeeper
cannot
12/6
Sent Pose Paid to any address in Australia on receipt
of 12/6.
THE UTILITY SUPPLY CO.
35 Po3t Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Guarantee
Watch.
serviceable
this Watch
be beaten.
12 6
Missing- Friends.
WOODROFFE (ROBERT), left Horncastle,
Lincolnshire, for New Zealand, in
October, 1876 ; last beard of at Dunedin, Otago,
1877 (or children, if dead). Inquirers, Executors
of Ann Seymour (aunt), c/o ANDREW and
THOMPSON, Solicitors, Lincoln, England.
ERBERT MARSH, of Tuxford, Notts.,
Ultramontane, your address is sought.
Reply to “LOCO CITATO,”
Mirtna Station, Charters Towers, Queensland.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
■ftSMM».
I iwk k ->T£*-r >?t f k
ims&mm*
sw
ing
llllfilll
S&
ffli S»
SWi
teßaaawhgaffii
&!ff.
Qwtmmm
■
dfs
sfd
fgd
I'll Try It."
CAPILLARINE
GIVES
YOU A
Luxuriant Moustache
CAPILLARINE will give you a full grown, Luxuriant
Moustache in remarkably quick time.
It has been sold in Australia for over 20 years.
Buy a pot to-day—you’ll have no regrets.
*3*4
The Result •
Price 10s. 6d.
POST FREE, UNDER
SEALED COYER.
CRAIQ & AITKEN, 6548 George Street, SYDNEY.
A Bargain Phonograph Offer
■
Tpr^nf'
An EDISON PHONOGRAPH
and 12 RECORDS for
♦ ♦ ♦
655.
A Bargain Offer that
may be withdrawn any
day \siihout notice.
THE PHONOGRAPH
is tlie famous EDISON
GEM, usually sold at 50s.
It is a wonderful instru-
ment, quite as good as the
larger ones —simply wants
more winding.
THE RECORDS
are of your own choosing—■
the very latest. They com-
prise 3 Edison Records, 3
Rex Records, 3 Columbia.
Records, 3 Pathe Records.
The Complete Outfit of Phono=
graph and 12 Records for 655.
Write for Catalogues of Instruments and Records.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
/MiTMinno IiUJUTniTT’ fATCTTR AHTfiRS
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
All rarcs or one vvoiiu* __ _ ~ . ~ ~ , . ,
THE HOULDER LIME STEAMERS.
A A,*
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW,
&c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE..
LANGTON GRANGE
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ET.STREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,000
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6,300
9,200
10,000
6.300
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third
L 14 Water-street Liverpool. 30 Gordo.i-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cu.vo,
Vires 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Knsenada La Plata Capeto*" and Durban, South
vires. Head Office: H 6 Leadenhall-street, London, L.O.
Buenos
Africa.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.


CjLMUUGfo
£
JV*
w
$
f-.
yO
fv
50
ixmfwft
4
'<xAtfa/o
o^urv^
<M A iAcd)
high-class comforts.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
as
_ ‘‘gr/n^netteS*
‘WV^ S R Are ™por ea, - Fabrics
@>V RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Akini.— Jul 7 3, 1906.
iJI hil - e ad vo°atmg a kind of reception house for
ladies just out of gaol, Sir Harry Rawson seized
the occasion-he was presiding over the Prisoners’
AT 7- * 0 S f? mce , fchlngs about the nice
woman No one objects, but some women of my
Nellie n Mar?ell ha HVI g?t Y P ° n , chairs < as Mil
iNellie Mai tell did in London to protest re
women s suffrage) to deny his Ex.’s statement that
woman was given to man by the Almighty.”
and fffp“r nt may be said to rest on Genesis
and the lauline doctrine and Book IV. of
Miltons Paradise Lost,” his Ex. will win
fonmW- aWI lf <.T* e hkes t 0 plead that kind of
f T , u "f atl( ? n - If woman was not exactly an
an o el, she was the nearest thing God had
gwen man to that sweet etheieal being”
said the Governor. It’s the word “given”
that cuts. But there’s no getting away
from it in the Books, and men who are not
politicians never fail to remind the inwardly-
raging woman of it. “O, thou, for whom, and
from whom I was formed,” says poor Eve of the
epic before she invited Adam to the informal
apple supper. Yes, woman was given to man
along with the Garden and its salads and its zoo
S?iuY nt]l . WOra f\ ma - ke men for £ efc tradition’
they 11 continue to he given to, and given away by
Governors ana male Circumstances.
You can hardly get through a day’s miscellaneous
reading without coming on some fresh proof of the
Whiskered Person’s belief that woman was
created to attract him and beguile him into
supporting her. A noble lord speaking at a
London Mission Hall to a lot of girls who had
just given him a display of musical drill, told them
that they should always remember that a
beautiful form appealed to young men, who very
properly preferred the girls who could walk and
carry themselves correctly.” Then after some
more advice he quoted Emerson’s “a beautiful
figure is better than a beautiful face,” but he did
not finish the quote which tails off with “ but a
beautiful soul is better than either.” Perhaps he
knew that the girls knew that tlievoung men were
not taking any beautiful souls, thank you.
Lord Northcote’s country tour will teacli him
more of Australia and Australians than he would
learn in 10 years of life in our cities. At one of
the up-country railway stations the G.-G. saw an
old jullock-driver standing by his team and look-
ing on with dignified indifference. Here was native
worth at home—here was a bit of local color. And
going up to thebulloeky, his Ex. entered into con-
versation, asking him the weight of his load, and
other stump-extraction queries. The bushman
did not remove hat or pipe, or alter his poise.
He did not smoke harder or speak more quickly
In the noble simplicity of his self-reliance he was
a duke. He regretted that the lash of his stock-
whip was missing, or he would crack for the
visitor a crack that could be heard four miles
off. His just you try that, boss,” was to the
Governor a gracious invitation, but it was not his
day for stockwhip tactics.
The Tooth Brewery is now a building to be
reverenced. Each chimney has a nimbus around
its cap. For Lucas Tooth is a baronet. He is
the largest shareholder in the property, and
owner of the famous Kamerook estate, where
the cheese comes from. The new baronet
married his cousin, Miss Nellie Tooth. She is
sister of Mrs. Cecil Stephen and a very smart
dresser. One of their two daughters is married to
a clergyman and the other helps the maternal
looth to entertain gorgeously. The family has
long outgrown its Australian socket and does its
marrying and entertaining in London. Last year
it gave much of its beer-money to various charities
m which Royalty is interested : hence the bauble.
I was looking over the S.M. Herald last week
to see if anybody I knew had been born, and I
struck this
‘ kN.—;llay 25, Mill Hill road, Waverley, the wife
ot Irancis O’Brien—a daughter (Edna Marv)
Granddaughter of George Faddy, Esq., great grand-
daughter of William G. Faddy, M.D., great great
granddaughter of the late William Faddy, Deputv
Governor of Isle of Saints, West Indies, great great
great granddaughter of late Captain Faddy, R.M
cousm of the late Peter Pitmore Faddy, Lieut.!
S ’ A i’, W °? l ) vlch > Eng., cousin of the late
Peter Faddy, Major-Gen. R.A., Woolwich. (Home
papers please copy.) v
After that they can’t say that Mr. O’Brien
married a nobody, although all these grand people
UIC uding tlie great £ reafc great grand-
Miss Grace Palotta waited till she went to Mel-
bourne to spring on the public the tact that she was
writing a novel, and that it was to be published in
Australia at an early date. “A Viennese
Romance it is to be named. Actresses, of all
women, ought to be—if they have imagination and
the power of literary expression—good novelists.
I hey get so much in the way of experience-
travel, constant change of personal types. In no
other walk ot lite may a woman see so much of
the Passions little and great. Yet I cannot recall
any actress, except Elizabeth Robins, who has
written an imaginative work of any consequence.
Senator Keating and his wife are at present
sunning themselves in Sydney. At least, the
latter is. He is on a spasmodic tour with the
Governor-General attending sheet-and-pillow-slip
balls in aid °f the local hospital.” and sending
back Ins plate for more boiled beef at the banquet
ft 1 ’! 8 aI W such “an unqualified success.”
Boiled beef is often on the menu offered toGover-
nors in important centres. Likewise boiled turkey.
Mrs. Keating is staying with Mrs. “Billy”
f° y n im h °; a fr , ler ?d tells me, looked “ripping ”
at a ball last week, in a ruby gown. Her guest at
the same ball, was in Polar white, with a pink
rose coronal. p K
Dramatic accounts of the reception into the
Redemptonne Order of Miss Madeline Toohey
eldest daughter of the late J. T. Toohey, are to
hand. Ceremony seemed to be invested with
Order ? and “reumstance and pathos. The
aspirant h,?? en - cl one, but when a young
ofworldlinesf Ttl Gd there is cplite a !ond splash
seenbv than ‘ h ?, ceremony. Miss Toohey was
and enW ?®^ u ests (behind a grille) clad in white
she left- m ocade » w ith wreath and veil. Later
With &h 3r Ppe 3, ed ln the habit of the order,
off her n ° f her a ? ariB gown sh « had put
itsrem« o ; lS now Slster Mary Peter. But
her mbfd il aS a year or so in which to change
bed mol 1SI l• P rof essed ” yet; she’s not a
f.v rn ni? f mp il,a Tllis Oder is almost
praying for the “intentions”
of the wnrm h ,°- wri f e to from all parts
on tLTr £ asklag tl,e nuns to besiege Heaven
which mir ? count on some particular account
the neHt-i y aVe to do with the saving of
Snt of M?r r S t v ,L Heport S; iy« that eighty per
wnv o/ P e .t'tions are granted (but there is no
th/iiS Ckm? the statistics) and, generally
simfort of d H eCe?Ver se, \ ds alon ff a gift to help the
would not \ mterceders. In all reverence (I
to write fll £ pant on an y account), I’m going
burn bio- ri fc - he f^ edern Ptonnes telling them of my
and 3 t eS,re to ! g ° on the land, to raise onions
exneiwl ti a ’J ( strawberries for market, and
3 ? tlle dee P Joy of feeling a calf’s horns
and the 7 C u m - UP like little bullets,
them wfth Ca f h ;U i rap^ufor joy if y° u scratch
are a C 4 hlFd ‘ rhe land the Redemptorines
«if„,- P * a y*. 1 i? to m y possession must have a good
view into the sunset, and there must be flannel
flowers and bush, and a wild bee’s nest on it, and
some native bears, and Torrens Title (Heaven
will please be very particular on this point), but
rl on lit _ I don’t want to leave any
doubt as to the land of selection for which I yearn.
The point is: What reward could I give the
Urder for praying me into the property ? I could
promise the first little native bear raised on my
selection, or some locusts and wild honey, which
latter, I suppose, would come in handy for the
convent pantry. J
. Art,st c D - H. Souter’s Bulletin cats are mew-
ing in a fresh place. A quantity of Doulton china
decorated by him is for sale at a city firm’s
premises. Ihe whole Snuter-cat family—Tom,
1 ussy, and Kitties—appear singly or in groups on
dinner and tea services and drawing-room orna-
ments. To realise Calverley’s line, “He stood an
e ion crescent flouting the ivory moon,” you’ve
got to see a feouter cat facing a rival Romeo on a
dinner plate.
Hie smartest woman at the sheep show this
year was Mrs. Michael Dalton, of Kangaroobie
fetation, near Orange. Her tailor-built gown of
soft, glowing red cloth seemed to temper the icy
wind that blew over the shorn lamb. The lady is
an imported bride whom “Kangaroobie” met and
married abroad.
Douglas Gerrard is at the Australia awaiting
the outgoing of the Sonoma on Thursday. The
splendor of his afternoon visiting* clothes
might be increased only by the addition of
Ur ion s Belt. He is a stone or so heavier, browned
like toast, and decorated with a few not disfiguring
scars, achieved by riding savage buckjumpers on
some half-a-dozen stations. He denies the state-
ment that he was murdered by a bullock, which
seems to me unwise. I don’t know much of these
things, but I always understood that advertise-
ment was good for the professson. If I were an
actress, and it was announced that I had been
torn asunder by wild elephants, I wouldn’t deny
it; I would simply advertise that I had recovered
and would appear as Juliet.
Mrs. Bland Holt has been entertaining over
fives and under twelves at a party. The Holts
often get letters from generous parents offering
them a child for adoption. But that is quite a
common experience for childless people who are
in. prominent positions. Mrs. Holt has the con-
stitution that fits the artist who survives. In 20
years she has not been absent once through sick-
ness from the role she chanced to be playing.
Lady Northcote is giving Australian art a lift,
bhe has commissioned some local artists to paint
her a set of Australian scenery subjects.
The musical Haigh Jacksons left on Wednes-
day, en route for South America, where they will
give a series of concerts. Chili is Mrs. H.J.’s
birthplace, and they’ll start their tour there.
Miss Leila Doubleday’s concert brought a smart
audience and a musical one. The Barton lady
and a fluffy following were present. Concert
brought £5O profit, and, up to date, 16 gentlemen
have promised as many guineas a year to the
little genius’ musical education fund. She may
give another concert on Saturday. The violin
from which she extricated such amazing music
was loaned to her by Mr. Nugent Robertson, a
Sydney barrister, a great fiddle collector and a
good amateur player.
Miss Ravvson is ably representing her late
mother at the head of State Government House,
and keeping the ball of conversation rolling at the
tri-weekly dinner parties.
The lady whom Australia knows best as Miss
Ethel Mills has charge of the Australasian
page of that new publication. The Throne I
am assured that the publication is astonishingly
swaggah. Its name implies a giddy altitude in
Vanity r air. Surely the Australasian who gets
into Miss Mills’ pages will die of frozen pride
Ihe signature, “ M. Forrest,” that you see, these
days, at the tail of so many pleasant sets of verse
and stories, is that of a sister of Miss Mills.
A correspondent writes me that Mrs. Coghlan
presented three Australiennesat the May Drawing
Room. On the day before the Bending of
the Spine Mrs. Coghlan held a efress
rehearsal at her flat and the palpitating Three
gowned in their Court clothes, went through a
lass-your-royal-hand pantomime for the benefit of
a delighted group of spectators. The prettiest of
the bunch was, says my correspondent, Miss Alice
Coles of Bondi. (No doubt Bondi will be able to
identify its fair Alice; I cannot.) She wore white
silk net over satin, fluffed and ruched and
caught with Louis Quinze knots. Her train
of white satin with rouleaux of the same material
was a triumph of Parisian simplicity. Mi ss
Nevison, another of the Presented, was also
superbly fluffy, and Mrs. Austin Chapman had
regal clothes (I’ll trouble ye to admire me adjec-
tives), but Mrs. Coghlan’s own maize Chantilly
gown put the rainbow over the show. It was in-
let with pompadours and pink and blue medal-
lions outlined with ruchings of tulle and pompa-
.ur bebe velvet. The medallions matched the
pink-lined chine train, embossed with yellowish
pink chiffon roses and green chiffon leaves. The
bebe bodice had a tucker run with the bebe velvet
in maize pink and blue, and the effect was sunset-
rose like and eminently becoming to the wearer.
Mrs. Walter James, wife of the Agent-General
tor Westralia, was presented next day by the
Countess of Crewe (one of Earl Rosebery’s
daughters). Mrs. James’ train was draped with
r mi ! es Limerick lace made about the time
that the Harp was twanged through Tara’s halls,
oo it is an heirloom. An heirloom suggests
ancestry.
Mrs. Coghlan, by the way, has been the means
. a h Australian actress an engagement
with Iree. Said actress just wanted a little wire-
pulling to get a hearing for her undoubted talents.
“Lottie and the Lady” is the title of George
Lambert s last Academy picture. Miss Thea
I loctor is the Lottie of the canvas, and she is
shown in profile view stirring the batter for a
pudding. Ihe lady stands full face with two
fishes on a table in her neighborhood. She is
probably giving instructions to Merely Lottie
about the dinner. This meagre and inartistic
description is given me by a returned stroller who
thinks that pictures don't matter. Lambert, it
may be mentioned, is sending out a long-expected
Picture to Sydney National Gallery. It is called
Ihe Ihree Kimonos” and is a study in girls
and gowns.
Talking of very solvent widows—there’s one at
the Australia Hotel at present, and as she’s orna-
mental as well as solvent her name—Peacocke
isn t unsuitable. Mrs. Peacocke has flown here
from Christchurch (M.L.) and brought her own
motor-car with her. It must have impeded her
night somewhat, as we made her pay £9O duty on
it. But that will be refunded if she takes the car
back. It will carry her to Brisbane and Mel-
bourne and other cities of the Commonwealth
before she returns to M.L.
.More than half the bathers at Manly Beach this
winter are women, and they remain in longer
than the men; and they don’t shiver when they
come out of the water into the colder air. These
women are as ruddy as roses and hard as billiard
balls. I hey seldom miss a morning dip, wet or
hue, calm or gusty. Among them is a lady of 05
who is as alert and agile as a schoolgirl.
Widow of late Peter Russell, the Australian
millionaire, has bought the Alfred Harmsworth’s
house in London, and is making loud splashes in
the society pool.
Our organist, Mr. Arthur Mason, away on a
European holiday, is putting most readable stuff
into his Musical Pilgrimage.” He saw our late
visitor, Miss Parkina, as Musetta in “La
Boheme at Covent Garden, but he had seen
a better Musetta in yignorina Viccari who was
here in the Dani days. As for the appearance in a
star part at Covent Garden of Frances Adler, that
fair, plump, young party won’t be in a hurry to
make a collection of the criticisms on her first
appearance. 1 hey are tepid, or patronising, or
cold. But they are in spots encouraging.
* T £® children’s annual ball in aid of the Civil
Ambulance and Transport Corps occurs at the
1 own Hall on June 11. Prizes and donations are
pouring in to a committee that says “Let ’em all
come. Youngsters will do a grand march past,
and the prize child in each section will then be
sized up.
The bridegroom of Miss Roxy Barton turns out
to be the basement-voiced actor who played the
name part in the “Messenger from Mars,” and
brought the word 44 otherdom ” into knowledge.
Many Judges profess a childlike ignorance of
slang when used in court, but our Judge Back-
house is an exception. His Honor admitted, last
week, that he knew “copper” meant policeman
and 'squeaker” sergeant, but the word “cobber”
was too much for him. It was explained that
cobber meant friend, mate or “pal,” and his
Honor admitted to a knowledge of “pal.” An
obhgmg attorney volunteered the information
that clobber meant clothes. lam proud to
say that I also knew that “clobber” meant
clothes.
Captain Kershaw, who commands the Ophir
and is well-known to numbers of Sydney-siders*
must fully realize the inscrutability of the ways of
Providence. A recent mail brought the few details
of tne suicide of his bride that the inquest made
available. He had waited for seven years for this
lady, and they were married but a fortnight and
were on their honeymoon, when she went alone
on the early morning walk from which she never
returned. He wished to accompany her, but she
brightly declined the escort as “he would be too
long dressing, and she wished to further explore a
beauty spot they had already visited. A gardener
saw Mrs. Kershaw walk down the bank into the
mill-stream and get under a barbed-wire fence in
the stream so as to reach deep water. The Ophir
during Captain Kershaw’s absence from its
quarter-deck, has bedn making a series of cruises
to Norway. But he will be in command again on
the vessel’s next trip to Australia.
Ex-Sydney-sider A. Goring Thomas is in
Canada, and is described as “ fairly prosperous as
an agent. ’ He cannot be a land- agent, or the
adverb in front of “prosperous” would be “stu-
pendously” instead of “fairly.” The musician
will be remembered as a handsome man, prema-
turely and completely bald. Well, he has now a
fine crop of nice wavy hair. A long trip works
wonders for some persons.
What a loseable article is the bookstrap. I lose
one a fortnight or so, and finders are no more
grateful (I suppose) than if they’d picked up a
pin. lhis week, I shan’t write you much for
I ve got a vicious cold, brought on by too violent
exercise chasing my dog to borrow his collar, in
which to carry my books. He is a powerful young
Newfoundland, and he gave me an awful run for
the makeshift bookstrap. As he ran he barked at
me over his shoulder, “You shall not have my
only garment! I will not part 'with my clothes
for you to wrap around hooks. Go and run after
yourself.” And he didn t part until I was
reinforced by a chop, which was bribery and cor-
ruption, and should have led to the brute being
disfranchised.
An accomplished girl, with a foreign-language
education, who has been teaching in Sydney for
some years, and who is quite dependent on her
own exertions, tells me that it is becoming despe-
rately difficult for such as she to get a living.
Cause: The number of girls, whose fathers have
incomes from £3OO to over £lOOO a year, who are
in what is known as Society, whose parents keep
three or more servants, who go to Government
House and to First Nights and share the expense
of dances, yet who desire to have a little more to
spend on themselves. When there are two or
three or more daughters the Paternal Grumbler
with, say, £lOOO a year simply cannot afford to
give them more than £2O a year each as dress
allowance. Sometimes he could afford a lot more,
but lie’s mean, so to keep on the surface and swim
with the bigger fish the girls teach—something.
It may bo music, singing, kindergarten work,
physical culture, dancing ; in any case they do it
at cheaper rates than qualified teachers. I know
° ne girl who makes beautiful silk underskirts.
When one is finished she gives an afternoon tea
and auctions it to the highest bidder. And she
hasn t an auctioneer’s or a hawker’s license either.
So long as the toil doesn’t trench too much on
their amusements these girls work their little tin-
pot accomplishment or two for a smaller sum than
any poor professional can who has to pay for her
board and lodging out of her earnings. Work is
a noble thing, of course—Carlyle and others of
the great have intimated that it’s quite noble and
worthy of profound reverence that you have corns
on your hands from hard graft—but it’s a very
ignoble thing to undercut the professional rates of
women who are working for a living—not for
extra frills and golf-club subscriptions.
An Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Y ou Harborites and your old ju-jitsu (B. 16/6/’O6) !
rnat is ancient history in this city of Adelaide-on-the-
Horse-Tram, which proves that Adelaide can still play
tortoise to Sydney’s hare. As far back as a year ago the
correct Adelaide damsel was being taught the gentle
Japanese art of smashing her neighbor. I tried it myself,
out collapsed after the first lesson, which chiefly consisted
! n o'og on your back on the floor and holding your bated
» ” or v ®: r 'ouB lengthy periods. When you’d done
that for awhile you had to raise one limb into the air
while the rest of you stayed behind. That completed the
nrst lesson, and I took discretion bv the fetlock and didn’t
go to see what happened next.
tron) a Brisbane correspondent:—
There is a lurid atmosphere of envv, hatred and malice
hanging over Brisbane since the annual ball of the Irish
Association of the 27th. Vice-royalty having promised to
grace the scene, a flutter of excitement spread itself
round the committee as to who should dance with his
, :in the official set. Several ladies had almost equal
claims, and things became warm. Finallv one of the
officials announced her intention of taking the honor on,
a,nd to this resolve she adhered like glue, despite
various attempts to jump her claim. A new gown
ot emerald and white brocade was ordered home for
the occasion, and in the face of its magnificence
all opposition was quelled. But, alas, for the well-laid
plans o mice and men. When the moment and the
Governor arrived in the room, said the President, turning
tohisLx., ‘May I present my sister, sir?” “ Certainly,”
was the reply ; and, bowing before the lady, “You will,
of course, be my partner in the Lancers, Miss ” ; and
quiet Miss , all innocent of the enormity of her
offence, piloted him through the official dance.
For George Reid the female anti-sosh crowd is pre-
paring an orgy of hero worship. George isn’t a very
romantic sort of hero, but there’s a good deal of him, and
anti-sosh isn’t too particular about quality so long as the
quantity is all right.
Yours Affectionately,
ARENEHI.
Be wise in time, and be beautiful for ever ! It
isn t only that the wrinkles of Time and Care, the furrows
of Grief, or the blemishes of Age are effaced completely
by Valaze, but every other disfigurement may be over-
come, and loveliness be substituted by the power and
efficacy of face massage. The Beauty Institute is in the
centre of Melbourne and the Victorians prize it dearly.
It is their privilege to have treatment, in charmingly
appointed apartments with a staff of pretty Viennese
operators in attendance. But the unhappy and unfor-
tunate Australians in other parts suffering from a double
chin, and a, dozen similar defacements, have the advantage
of purchasing the face rollers and other special scientific
massage devicesfromMdlle. Rubinstein with full directions
for their use on neck and face. The Beauty Institute is
replete with all the scientific secrets and powers of defying
Time and Care. What is fame and fortune to a woman
ugly to look upon ? But what a glory is beauty to the
poorest in the world? Valaze and face massage as pre-
cnbed by Mdlle. Rubinstein are within your reach. 1 '
Bathurst National Advocate tells a new
Reid story :
In his early days at the Bar this manner of his, com-
bined with his curious and unusual appearance, was a
• • • However, there are occasions on
which the affable racket ” can be overdone. In a tram-
way accident case, some years ago, an infuriated witness
who was a Chinaman, had to be placated, and he bade fair
to be a pretty tough proposition. With well-assumed
nonchalance, Mr. Reid rose to take the alien in hand
Hitching up his robe, adjusting his eye-glass, and suffer-
ing an affectionate smile to beam over his countenance,
Now, old man,” he began—but he got no further. The
presiding judge could stand a fair amount, but the spee-
tacle of a full-blooded Mongol being engagingly addressed
as old man” by counsel in open court was the limit.
Almost with violence, Mr. Reid was requested to “drop
If only Reid had addressed him as “ old rooster !”
The late Michael Davitt left an interesting
volume of “ Leaves from a Prison Diary.” Davitt
met several convicted clergymen, and, curiously
enough, most of them had been gaoled for bigamy.
There were also numerous bogus divines in the
various prisons, who confessed that their most
profitable game had been to trade on sectarian
animosity. Gaol “ religion ” is very lightlv
changed. One habitual criminal had served dif-
ferent sentences as Jew, Protestant, and Catholic,
and intended to describe himself as a Mohamme-
dan the next time lie was convicted. The few
lawyers Davitt came across were among the best-
conducted prisoners. In Dartmoor he met the
lichborne Claimant, who was regarded by his
fellow-prisoners as an authority on all subjects,
and was the regular arbitrator in all arguments.
Davitt found that a large proportion of the thieves
he encountered had started on a criminal career
through reading the “Jack Sheppard” and
Claude Duval ” type of swine-wash.


Atfe:tSuprem«i
m
aw
-zr
□
£
•.*.’.*• j• i •*»•: 1 1» t • V".v, • •
v?v
Imitations
None Genuine
WiHvout
Trade Mark
OFAVS.Lt®
gt<wi
<F)ress
Shields
KLEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
PD
df
OiUSHAPE
otme
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 3, 1906,
My Dear Yarrie,—
The curtain-raisin" on the State Houses of
Babel was more exciting than usual. The Mann
partly made noises outside the gates and inside
the Exhibition grounds. The red rags of the
Talbottle Ex. were to the mob what the Picador’s
mantle is to the fighting bull, and the old warrior
shook his crested head in bitter displeasure as the
jeers of the malcontents reached him. In the
Council Chamber a contrasting air of solemn
peace prevailed. The gathering sat mute and
staid. Only the oracular voice of the lengthy
usher in fancy rig announcing with crushing
weight that “ His Excellency—the Gov-er-naw—
was approaching the Council Chambah ”
brought a smile to the face of the gloomy assem-
blage. The spectacle of Jenkins of the gay and
bounding whiskers reading the Lord’s Prayer with
great unction, the clanking body-guard marching
fore and aft the peppery Ex., and the bowling-in of
round Thomas at the head of the assorted mem-
bers of the less dead house—all kept that smile on
the quiver.
Folk gathered thick at the Wrixon tea, which
brought the State Parliament opening to a frilly
finish. The hostess herself was on the spot in a
nice rig of damson-plum cloth with a frothy lace
top and jaunty toque, carried out in the same
fruity tone. Her daughter was close by in an
excessively plain garb, and more godliness in her
face than ever. President Wrixon’s daughter is
the champion slummer of this capital. Her good
works are of the day’s routine. The Talbottle
Dame looked gayer than usual in violet velvet and
furs—her violet toque set cheerfully over a giddy
head-dress that dipped like a grey shaving towards
one grey eyebrow. Speaker Madden’s family, in
heavy mourning habiliments, was about. Pastor
Bevan had a wonderful bale of white wool round
his ears, and the bloom of a baby in his round old
cheeks. Archbishop Clarke sailed to and fro in
purple and blue draperies.
The giving of jewels and tram-fares during the
billing and cooing period is now a feminine joy.
Several Court cases have revealed the change of
fashion. Angelina gives Edwin a gold watch, a
pair of sleeve links, the cash for a trip or a new
pair of boots. Edwin casually asks for a few
other luxuries by way of demonstrating his
undying affection. In three recent cases Angelina
bought her man at a great price, and then, after
enjoying the privilege of keeping him in cigarettes
and travelling exes, for some time, lost him.
In each case the foolish one dried her tears on
a hem-stitched hanky and sought the aid of the
Court for the restoration of Edwin or such goods
and money as were lent during the blessed
engagement. Fancy having to keep Romeo in
collar-studs and small change, and good humor,
all the time of his early balconyings. The Juliet
sex is taking on itself too much responsibility.
Man has sixteen or twenty-one pockets to carry
money in, and his habit of not having any money
in any one of them seems to be growing on him.
A Toorak girleen has been photographed in an
after-dinner mood, whiffing luxuriously at a
cigarette. She is in decollete dinner garb, lounges
back in a settee, and at present looks out from
the large show-case of a popular snap-shotter in
the city. It is emulative of the he-diner, and is
the most audacious public picture so far noted
here.
Two rejected suitors for the hand of a pretty
footlighter have, after a long term of rivalship,
shaken hands in common grief, and become in-
separable pals. Perhaps they both joy that they
have lost a pearl beyond their price.
In medical circles there’s gossip of a coming
divorce —the wife being the aggrieved party.
A eat conspiracy resulted the other night in a
certain private hop being mostly attended by he-
guests. The fact is the two sisters who hosted
things are dangerously attractive, independent
and sportive. So they are in much demand.
When their cards for the great hop were circu-
lated, the cat element grew active and determined
to scratch the engagement. A whole sheaf of
refusals fluttered in to the gay girleens from their
smart she-pals, while the male acceptances
weighted down the post-bag. The hop eventu-
ated, and was voted a jolly big success. The
great male majority made no complaint, and now
the young tortoisehells of Toorak are wondering
where their joke came in. Their scratch-match
only left them out in the cold, and there’s a bitter
reflection in the fact that ever so many delightful
polka-partners went to waste all one evening in
consequence.
Officials and men in the know declare that there
is an abiding Better-not air about the Stonington
Private Secretary—more so than has marked any
V.R. caddy since the days of Wally the Sphinx.
In S. Australia, where Governor Le Hunte now
and then puts his long careless foot in it, the
astute Victor Hood became vigilant and quietly
assertive, and finally Better-notted the flounder-
ing Ex. out of his careless ways. With an indif-
ferent vice-regal like the Talbottle, who’s a bird-
fancier by nature and a cross old warrior by habit,
there is no such need of the Better-not policy, but
by giving excessive care to the red : tape business
and no attention to anything or anyone outside
the stamp-licking and such secretaryings, he
probably helps to remind his Ex. now and then
that he is a Governor in receipt of a salary. That
must account for an occasional spasm of activity in
Talbottledom.
There was a scramble on the most nipping
bleak day of June to shake the right paw of
Grace Palotta —as offered per pasteboard by the
management. The clans streamed up the Prin-
cess’ staircase, and she who stands for so much
charm and cheeriness had the shake in readiness
with a beauteous smile and a big, bright look into
the bargain. Grace has such a flattering glance,
such a large and generous one. It offers cheer,
hospitality, any amount of sympathy and interest,
a bit of love, and a whole crowd of friendly over-
tures. Grace’s reception glance is worth a sonnet.
Who was there doesn’t matter much. Of course
all the world (this Bent world). And everyone
talked of the brace of white plumes in the Palotta
head-piece. Never did a pair of milk-white tips
come in for such a lot of talk. They were wonder-
ful in their way, being monstrously full and soft
and chrysanthemummy. A black rig scissored and
modelled in Paris was Miss Palotta’s second piece
de resistance. The music of the strings was
sounded in vain. Pandemonium in petticoats
beats down all the bang and blow in the world.
The Ward-Willoughby firm, wore party smiles
and the sombre clothes that the tailor prescribes
for sacrifice to Tea.
Toorak, at the Palotta Reception, searched in
vain for the fashion-plate glories of Mrs. George
Willoughby. They waited to be paralysed, but
the lady and her trousseau wonders were laid by
for the day—alas ! for many days. She was wel-
comed in this windy capital by the ’flu.
Rupert Clarke has taken up his box quarters
at the “ Mexico ” show for the season. His sport-
ing pals are not sure which member of the Co.
he’s understudying—H. Ward or George Wil-
loughby. Incidentally, Melbourne is rather
taken with the plump George in his “Mexico”
pirouettes. He is as light as thistle-down
in step, and brings his stylish coat-tails into
the most feathery play. Also, he cultivates an
airy flourish of the paw that gives his pirouette
figure further effect. It’s a greatly improved
George we’re seeing.
The Mary Ann of the day is a great old curio.
One of her in backing out of a place, and vindi-
cating the action (to which hangs a registry-
office four shilling fine) spills much ink m ex-
planation to the mistress-elect. Her letter reads:
Re your vacancy for general, I regret to state that I
found it necessary to withdraw my application for same.
I admit I authorised Miss Alpress to offer my services to
you on the thirteenth, but it was done with an imperfect
knowledge on my part of the location of Mr. Blank’s pro-
perty. Had I been aware of
And so on for a page or two, Then occurs this
statement:—
On my way into town on Monday I looked up all parti-
culars available at the Public Library (as I am in the habit
of doing when going up country), in the railway-map,
the time-table, “Australasian Handbook,” and “Post-
office Directory,” and found to my surprise that Rabbit-
ville and Magpie Valley were ten miles apart.
Then follows a length of detail with such official
and nice elaboration that one wonders whether
it’s Mary Ann’s idle jest of an idle day, or a
genuine and conscientious effort to escape the
fine.
Miss Mabel Taliaferro —the she-star of the
Collier co.—is a far livelier and prettier miss off
the boards than on. Her make-up must be bad,
since it belies the genuine sweetness of her 19-year-
old countenance. Also, there is an incessant play
of expression that amounts to an illumination of
the small face m conversation. The Taliaferros '
are an aristocratic Yank family. “We are
Southerners, you know. its a mighty good
thing to be a Southerner,” laughs the small viva-
cious miss with a patriotic warmth. Since her
bib-and-tueker days, when, at two-aud-a-half, she
pantomimed in infantile lead, Miss Taliaferro
has been adjacent to the footlights. Her
early teens saw her at character-work, and she’s
been at it pretty well up to the present Collier
season, where she shines less because of the re-
strictions that fall to the befooled female in farce.
She has only to be around, looking simple and coy
and sometimes stupid, while the star comedian
scores off her. Miss Taliaferro has been the guest
of the poet Yeats’ family for months at a stretch.
The bard himself she describes as a sort of Byronic
eccentric, who has a cranky fashion of cravat, an
unorthodox thatch, and a manner that is erratic
enough to suggest the excuse of genius. Still,
he’s a charming host, and the family is altogether
unique. In the Big Smoke the little miss has
guested with the Zangwills. The “Ghetto”
novelist she described as being of appallingly un-
washed and ungroomed habits. “ But once he
talks,” said she in excuse, “you forget all this.
The man’s brain is immense ; it dominates every-
thing. Lately he has married, and his wife has
restored him to cleanliness.”
The Richmond Worships came out with a brace
of balls—a double-barrelled mayoral effort. The
first was reserved for grown-ups, and was worked
out on ordinary suburban lines. But the evening
following, a fancy hop for kids was given, and 500
gay youngsters had the time of their lives. A
few hundred adults had a view of the panoramic
scene from the balconies. It was alive with color
and fling—movement isn’t the word. Mrs. W.
Green and her clever daughter had for days
previously been training the Richmond toes in
the way they should trip, and they tripped some-
thing fine. Two or three graceful measures that
showed careful rehearsal were the minuet, the
Norwegian dance, and a floral polonaise march.
Mayor G. F. Jones is a prosperous solicitor, and
his dame is a dressy person. Their two shows of
last week knocked spots off all the other suburban
efforts.
Another kids’ hop was given with much
elaborate frill by Madame Crevelli last week.
Madame is the leading Frenchwoman among the
local Cream, and all her entertainments are such
as to keep her in the top place. The Crevellis
have a full quiver, and the fashionable world sent
its sole and solitary chick to a party where half-a-
dozen sturdy French Australians were hosts.
Gorgeous fancy dresses gave a pantomimic effect
to the scene of rollicking kiddie.
Mrs. Hector Wilson —widow of the squatter—is
putting in a glad tim« in this great centre of
population. She frequently figures in the theatre
boxes and excites interest by her foreign manners.
The dame has also a remarkably keen and
observant pair of eyes.
An interesting rally of the music-mad folks of
this centre signalised the Marshall-Hall Con-
servatorium Concert last week. Girleens in the
throes of studentitis with well-groomed flowing
manes and an intent ear-pricked air followed the
bill through with devotion. Two of the performers
of most frilly account—Misses Carmen Pinschoff
and Ruby Grey—wore rival pinks, the chiffons in
each case being of the cutest cut and tone. The
smart confident bright style of Miss Pinschoff
made her the winner. Whenever you are in for a
competition the thingis to look sanguine of success.
That often secures the trophy. A contralto of
particular charm appeared at this amateur trial in
the person of Miss Gertrude Fleming. Any
amount of fine feeling pulses in her singing and
the quality of the voice is great. A daughter of
jolly Justice Molesworth —(Enone—strummed
with some taste. But a girl with a Tennysonian
label like that ought to finger the ivories with
finer poetic effect.
One of the worst afflictions of the Australian
permanent soldier, genuinely devoted to his work,
comes from the snobocracy who seize upon the
flimsiest excuse to have a “military wedding.”
Every time a man, holding a commission in the
most obscure volunteer regiment is going to marry
into one of the Very Best Families, everybody on
the staff, whether known to the contracting
parties or not, is bombarded with invitations,
that the function may be glorified and the
illustrations in thesassiety press adorned by multi-
tudes of officers in uniform. The practice had
groivn so common in Melbourne that, whenever a
swell wedding took place, the barracks would be
found in charge of a corporal, and the officers
would have to work all night catching up arrears
of duty. The other day a strike occurred. When
the usual post arrived with a bushel of invitations
from a family nobody had ever heard of, the staff
as one soldier was lined up, and a red faced man
commanded it, in the tones cf a bull, to sit down
and write an all-round refusal.
Dilletantes are just now toying with an olive-
green volume of love lyrics and poetic fragments
from the lyre of Dr. J. W. Harbinson. Most of
the verses are just long enough to con over in the
few minutes’ leisure the fashionable she allows
herself for books on an idle afternoon. A
poem the length of “ Endymion ” is too
tremendous an undertaking for the smart
Toorakite. A verse of a few lines suffices. A
sonnet even is exhausting. The verse-cult is not
fashionable. I have seen a fairly-seasoned member
of the Cream blush to be found with a Shelley in
her hand. Kipling is the only rhymer whom the
smart She affects without apology.
I have a grievance, however, against Dr. Har-
binson’s volume. There are 97 pages in it—not
that that’s a grievance. First there are three
blank pages. Then comes one page with the
single word “ Poems” on it. Then a blank page.
Then a page which says “ Poems by J. W. Har-
binson.” Next a blank page. After that a page
which says “First Edition, 1902.” A blank page.
A page which says “Dedicated to Lord Tenny-
son.” A blank page. A page which says “ Second
Edition, 1906.” A blank page. A page which
says “Dedicated to My Wife.” A blank page.
A page with five lines of print stating that the
poems were originally published in various papers.
Blank page. Page with four lines from Herrick.
Blank page. Page with four lines from Heine.
Three blank pages. A preface. Twelve pages
with a very few remarks on them —largely quota-
tions. These seem to be a continuation of the
preface. Then 16 pages, nine of them blank and
four of them “Index. Then come 37 poems,
quite a lot consisting of only one verse. lam not
educated up to all this blank paper. I may be an
ignorant woman, hut 1 frankly admit that I
didn’t take blank paper lessons when 1 was at
school, and these great bare spaces don’t appeal to
me.
The Mark Foys arrived in this metropolis per
motor, last week, without showing a rain-splash,
though for nearly two days along the road
showers had been incessant. The two wliirrers
were hermetically sealed up in the petrol car,
and, unharmed, saw the heavy curtains of rain
swing past their windows. After getting their
walking joints into order and having a glance
round the city of great midwinter blow, they en-
cased themselves again in the gale-proof machine
and toot-tooted all over the country, finally re-
turning hither and packing up for their harbor
home. The Foys seem to get any amount of fun
out of their motor.
Presence and patronage are two different —very
different—matters. Last week a hospital com-
mittee fell into the awful error of announcing the
Yice-Pegal presence as an attraction for their
annual hop. Thereupon an excited aide wrote to
the committee, calling respectful attention to the
fact that only their Exes’ patronage was pro-
mised, and requiring that fact to be stated. Bo a
subdued and crestfallen committee sadly re-stated
the matter. Presence was too, too'much ; patron-
age had to suffice.
A gay Benedict who had kicked over the
domestic traces and taken the girl of his heart
informally for better or worse gave a spree the
other day to a shoal of his gay brethren—all
well-known identities—and they unblushingly
sang “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow.” But the
wives are asking : How dare they ? It has caused
several indignation meetings of wives. There
ought to be a special song for such occasions :
“ He’s a Jolly Good Bad Fellow.”
A letter from London tells of the gay time
Melbourneites who left here in March are having.
Mrs. Langtry is tearing round, and has not a
minute to spare. The Clarkes were in Paris for
some time, but have now crossed the Channel,
also the Nialls and Leveys, who will probably
stay at the same hotel. Mrs. Willie Manifold’s
pretty daughter is to be sent to school at Paris
instead of Brussels, as was first intended. Miss
Cumming is seen about, and also the baby-faced
Captain who used to be Aide to the State Gover-
nor. Yours Affectionately, Tryphena.
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar ! In times gone-by
Such foolish methods were excusable,; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing- remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of ail pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and 6s. per pot.*
There are some miserable people on Bris-
bane Daily Mail. This in comment on an ex-farm-
burner who lately died while wiping out Bam-
baata’s followers :
A man can die only once, and sudden death in the
battlefield, while a soldier is doing his duty to King and
country, if it be not glorious, is an enviable way out from
this world of sorrow into the great Unseen,
It is a world of sorrow to an anti-Sosh organ
engaged in the impossible job of putting the futile
Philp into power again.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTH AM’S saa.
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neu algia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1 /», 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
pfcß
GS-O TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Ust3 Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS,^
sdf
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surgic ttt. ument
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The appeal of the Russian Jews for
American intervention on tlieir behalf is likely to
fall on deaf ears, the U.S. has its own to
fry.
Freetrader Skene, M.H.R. (Vic.), speak-
ing against the anti-Trust Bill, began: “We
claim for our business men the greatest probity of
any men in the world ” Then someone said :
“Especially butter-exporters !”
“ S.G.” : The Tory victory at the Murray
(f.A.) was a pretty humble thing after all At
the general election of 1905 Duncan beat Labor
man Monks by 1228. Now Duncan’s successor
beats Monks by 115. The Labor vote has gone
up by 390; the Tory vote has slumped by 723.
Private Enterprise engaged in the butter
manufacturing industry of Bananaland has
unitedly appealed to the State Government to step
in and compulsorily grade the cream at the
factories, by establishing at each place a State
official. Yes-No Reid might detine this position
next month when he invades Queensland, and ex-
plain whether or not it is Socialism.
The melancholy ex-Premier Philp lately
told the people of Charters Towers, in aggrieved
tones, that “Kidston harried the Divisional
Boards and made the local authorities pay up
arrears. Kidston had made a first-class bailiff.”
Queensland’s old Tory push has got political dis-
honesty so embedded in its bones that when a
Premier comes along who makes people meet
their solemn obligations to the State it snivels
about the matter as if honesty were an outrage
and solvency a curse.
An alleged Income-tax Abolition League
is trying to form itself in Melbourne, and at latest
it had got about seven commercial men and a
butter-exporter to join. Also, it sent an organiser
down to Geelong, where the poor man, after
rounding up a dozen incompetents to hear his
League’s views, failed to get a seconder for his
“abolition” resolution. Geelong may be slow,
but it would probably pay more attention to an
organiser of a Public Debt Redemption League.
Already, with the Commerce Act hardly
dry on the statute book, the Customs have stopped
one consignment of gold rings stamped 9-carat,
which were found to be practically less than
3-carat; a consignment of spectacles invoiced
“Pebble” were proved to be made of ordinary
cheap glass; and a lot of foreign goods which
were branded with the name of a local firm as
makers, with the obvious intention of passing
themselves off as Australian manufactured articles.
This is a fairly good beginning.
BILL STICKING.
Mr. Deakin is the bill-sticker of Australian politics.—
Reid, at South Melbourne.
Well, after all, George’s political ambitions lie
much in the same direction.
The Peel "River Co., which lies like an
incubus on the richest part of M.S.W., still holds
over 263,000 acres (say 411 square miles), including
40 miles of river frontage. After all we have
heard about the breaking up of this great
monopoly, all it has done is to sell 50,000 acres at
huge prices. Apparently the Closer Settlement
policy has hardly started yet.
W. H. Tuckwell—good well-fed name that,
suggesting Fat —writes to Sydney Telegraph on
the iniquities of the income tax, which, he says,
all in one incoherent breath—
presses most heavily on those who earn from £2OO to
£250, it does not touch the affluent as some suppose ; but
a man earning £2OO to £250 very often, nearly always, is
a poor man, but I think generally people find it very
much harder to live since I'JOO than it was previously oh
the same income.
“ A man earning £2OO to £250.” Split the differ-
ence, and says he earns £225, and pays, say, £5 a
year life insurance. His taxable income would be
£2O, his total payment 10s. a year. Even at £250,
and supposing he has no life insurance, his income
tax wouldn’t represent sixpence a week !
CANUTE .
Said Vic. Premier Bent, a day or two after
his Brighton speech : “ There will he no reduction
i the income-tax at present, nor any ‘gallivant-
ing round the country with the money, as the
Argus suggests. The surplus has gone ! We
have paid £500,000 out of it to the Savings Bank
Commissioners towards wiping off the deficit, and
we have handed £lOO,OOO to the railways to adjust
the accounts. Ihe surplus has gone 'io pay our
>ebts. , . t hat one act more than covers all
J.nomas bellowmgs and clownish capers. He is
no angel, but, compared with Reid, Ovve’Sullivan,
and a dozen others, he is a statesman.
the Carruthers scheme of placing
the JN.to. W. Lands Department under a Commis-
sion ever become law, it would naturally, one
would think, lead to the saving of the salary of
the Minister of Lands as some kind of a set-off
against the salaries of the Commissioners. But
Oarruthers has no such idea in view. He pro-
poses to juggle with the total duties allotted to
tiie various portfolios, and find Ashton a job as
Minister for Closer Settlement, among other
titles, which is carrying the business to the limits
of a farce. Carruthers could resume all he wanted
by the simple expedient of land value taxation,
graduated on large areas. That would make
closer settlement bring in revenue. The present
method only makes it a huge spending business.
Premier Bent, having recently promised
to spend £105,005 on wire-netting for the Vie.
rabbit-pestered shires, now proposes to make the
necessary machines and the netting itself by
prison labor. “ these men,” says Thomas, “earn
Is. 4d. a week at their present employment, and
cost about 18s. to keep, and 1 am getting tired of
that. ’ Bent's move will infallibly cause an
uproar among importers and Laborites, and yet
there is absolutely no logical objection to his idea,
the prisoner must keep himself or be kept by
men outside, and it is cheaper to make him keep
himself. The proposed undertaking represents
otate Jdj ii tor prise and Socialism, as well as repre-
senting a huge saving of money. And even if all
prisoners are kept fully employed there will be
plenty of work for free men—as soon as they
resolve to give up importing so much and to make
more things themselves.
Thomas has a motion in the House of
Reps, favoring analysis of all proprietary medi-
cines, suppression of those
whichare harmful, and
compulsory description on
the package of the in-
gredients of all prepara-
tions allowed to he sold.
The suppression of noxious
medicines is certainly de-
sirable. The compulsory
publication of ingredients
would probably ruin the
whole proprietary medi-
cine business ; for the chief
curative ingredient of the
average advertised nos-
trum is Faith, and the
mention of that fact on the
label would rob Faith of all
its good works.
lie. the brutal assault
on three Australians—one
of them a woman—by Jap
soldiers and officers in
Corea. What a damp,
mildewy silence the Tory
dailies preserve over the
affair compared with the
frenzied columns turned out
about the Petriana sailors
who, by the way, were not
threatened with any.thiugmore dangerous than free
board and lodging ! Wo far the only allusion to
the case that the writer has seen was an appeal
to the public to suspend judgment. Had it been
a case of the Australian Government looking
cross-eyed at three Jap tourists, however, judg-
ment would only have been suspended with a
rope round its neck.
The Freetrade-Liberal Association of Vic-
toria has elected its president and vice-presidents
for the ensuing year. Outside of the “ Board,” or
Council, or whatever these humorless citizens call
themselves, the Association has no visible mem-
bers. But the faithful few persist in ttieir annual
meetings, and deliver addresses to one another,
and profess to be satisfied with the progress of
their “educational work.” Also, the Lord gives
them comfort through the medium of Parson
Bevan, the cherubic veteran with the extensive
head of hair. Bevan is a vice-president.
Federal Shipping Commission report sug-
gests the building of eight turbine steamers to
give a fortnightly mail service between Australia
and London, the steamers to be run directly by
the Government. The report proposes that the
money for construction should be borrowed, and
if an adequate sinking fund and a sufficient re-
placement fund were provided that would not be
so objectionable, as the vessels would represent
an asset. But why the suggestion that they
should be built in England. Why not spend the
£3,000,000 construction money here ? With that
basis a big ship-yard, which could later on construct
Australian warships, might be founded.
George Reid at
Adelaide : “Some
people seem to think
that I am support-
ing the cause of anti-
Socialism for myself.
In fact, I often won-
der what will be-
come of it when I
die.” A Voice: “The
fat will be in the tire
then, George.”
Which, when you
come to think of it,
is a theological
point.
The army of un-
employed that Tom
Mann conducted to
the opening of Vic.
State Parliament last
week was not 5000
stiong, nor even 500.
But it was a decent little procession of citizens,
none of whom looked content to have nothing
better to do. The cause of the unemployed suffers
from Tom Mann and his wild skite about their
numbers. He provides the excuse for the Fat-
man’s sneers.
Mr. Crick in the N.S.W. Assembly last
week :
I will not refer to the Telegraph, because that is a
paper which can be bought if you pay enough for it.
When 1 was in the Lyne Government ue bought them.
We altered their leading articles. Their articles were
brought down by the editor;! myself revised one, and
put it just the opposite way to which it was going to be
published.
This may call for some explanation by the Sydney
Telegraph. It certainly calls for explanation
from Mr. Crick. Is “buying newspapers” part
of the legitimate business of a Cabinet Minister?
Apparently the Tory is so wedded to
Private Enterprise that he won’t learn. Kew
(Melbourne) has always been disgracefully treated
by the Tramway monopolists, hut, now that it
has a chance of joining with other councils in a
municipally-owned electric tram service, it shies
off that profitable proposal and actually crawls to
the Tramway Co., and asks what the monopolists
will take to electrify and extend the local ridi-
culous, out-of-date horse-car service. The co. is
at present considering how much it can ask with-
out frightening the aforesaid fool Tory of Kew.
Defence Minister Playford’s theory that
Australia shouldn’t .establish its own arms and
ammunition factories because “ they wouldn t
pay ” puts him in the curious position of a man
who apparently thinks the army should return a
dividend, and the navy should yield 10 per cent.,
and who expects the fortifications to show a hand-
some cash profit. Defences are not generally
expected to “pay” in the ordinary sense of the
word. Why should the arms and ammunition
factory, which is the most urgent defence work of
all, be the one exception ?
Bananaland’s political Ishinaelite, Joe
Lesina, got a bad knock while in the Far North
denouncing Premier Kidston and all his works.
Joe had been saying violent things about the
Democratic Government’s taxation policy, when
a Labor opponent rose up and explained from
Hansard of 1902 how Joe voted with the awful
Pliilp crowd in favor of the motion which gave
power to garnishee wages to recover the poll-tax,
when his vote, if given with the Democrats, would
have made the division a tie, and possibly have
led to the defeat of Philp and Co.
The Senate spent quite a while just before
its recent adjournment trying to devise means
for making the Parliamentary refreshment-room
pay its way. Yet it seems a simple problem.
If the Senate would enact that its members shall
get drunk in rotation, one each day, it would find
quite an improvement in the takings. When a
crowd, which is mostly teetotal or thereabouts,
sits down to inquire seiiously why its drink shop
doesn’t pay, the thing approaches the ridiculous.
Only steady drinking can make a refreshment-
room really prosperous.
A Melbourne boot manufacturer, protest-
ing against the alleged “commercial ignorance”
of the Anti-Trust Bill, assured Minister Lyne
that “the drought and increased local boot manu-
facture account for the increased imports .” Lyne
had nothing to say against this staggering theory,
and the expert theorist left it standing on its
own awful dignity. If an increased local produc-
tion entails increased importation, the duty of
the Government is clear. Suppress the local boot
factories, and then the importation of foreign
boots will fade away, Any local manufacturer
who tends to increase importations is a friend of
George Reid and an enemy to the Common-
wealth.
From the gallery of the Heps. :
Willie-motor Kelly, of Sydney, whose bumptiousness in
the House of Reps, has already gained him much well-
earned contempt, put his foot the other night into a
yawning pit of contumely. Page, of Maranoa (Q.), who
is developing into a violent anti-Australian, had led an
attack on Colonel Hoad, who is suggested as the In-
spector-General of the Australian army. Page based his
loud remarks on an alleged report of Curly Hutton, the
obstinate being who “ reorganised ” the Australian forces
till half of them were ready to resign. Apparently
what Curly Hutton says is law to Page in Australian
military matters, Hutton being a general in the same
British army that made Page a bombadier. Page,
however, spoke apparently from conviction of
Hoad’s unfitness; Kelly, apparently, from a desire
for political posturing. Hoad is credited with
a constant desire to keep friendly with those
in power, and Kelly asserted that there was no man
in Australia who made more attempts to use political
influence. Pressed to prove what he had said, Kelly
related that, when Hoad was leaving Australia
for Japan, he sent to Kelly, whom he had met only
once, a courteous telegram of farewell. Little Willie-motor
interpreted this telegram as an insidious attempt to
capture the mighty influence and friendship of him,
Willie-motor, the fly on the Commonwealth wheel. So
Hoad’s courtesy became a basis on which the man with
the well-cut coat and the badly-cut manners based an at-
tack. The expression on members’ faces, while the little
tailor-made gent was thus repaying courtesy, and making
private messages the theme for public contumely, was
interesting. Salmon told Kelly that he was damaging
himself more than Hoad. Pat old Knox quivered with
anger, as he condemned this insinuation against an “ act
of courtesy”; and Minister Ewing thought that Kelly,
for all his ravishing coat-tails, might not have understood
what was “ natural between gentlemen.” And they left
Kelly wondering.
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
Bent’s deliverance of his policy-speech
at Brighton was much more comical than
his ordinary displays of oratory. Some one
had written out for him a speech composed in
heavily-ornate language, full of metophors like
the cemetery of past failures,” “ the blue depths
of experimental legislation,” “surveyed by the
theodolite of experience,” and soon. Bent propped
the huge mass of sheets on a desk on the platform,
and began to read religiously ; but every now and
then he stepped out in front of the desk to add
something in his own peculiar stj'le. Having
finished his interjection, he would walk back to
the desk, hunt up his place and read on. The
effect was as if Dr. Johnson and the Push were
having a duet.
At last the American pot-pourri which is
partly beef and partly man and partly sick rat has
found an apologist. Australian Tkus'J EES and
Investors Review (20/G/’ofi)
The “ realistic school ” of fiction has probably reached
its lowest depth of degradatic n in such a novel as “The
Jungle,” by Mr. Upton Sinclair, of Princeton, New
Jersey. The really illuminative fact about the whole dis-
turbance is that Mr. Upton Sinclair is vice-president of a
socialist organisation. That is a quite sufficient indica-
tion that he is a man of ill-balanced judgment and reck-
less statement.
Thus anti-Sosh capital rallies to the defence of its
Horror. Happy thought! Why doesn’t G. H.
Reid show the genuineness of his anti-Sosh by
going to the country on a platform of Chicago
Beef ? That would have the proper foreign-trade
flavor too.
Not long ago W. M. Fleming, M.L.A.,
made this alarming statement to his constituents
at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.): —
Political influence is still exercised largely in the
Railway Department. I know of a case in which a man
obtained temporary employment in the railway service,
and paid a member of Parliament J;1 for getting the work
for him.
Naturally Mr. Fleming was asked to explain, and
to supply the name of the member who took that
base and sordid “quid.” The name of the
member has not yet appeared, but this further
explanation is forthcoming:—
A man wanted employment on the railways, and stated
that if I would get it for him he would pay me well. My
reply was that I would try to get him employment, but
on the understanding that there was no money in the
matter. I then asked him if he had been dealing in any
way with members of the House. The reply was that he
had paid &% to an hon. member on two different occasions
to get temporary employment on the railways.
Apparently, therefore, there is still political in-
fluence at work on the railways. Fleming seems
to work some of it gratis, and the other (unnamed)
member works some more of it for £2:
THE NEW ONUS PRO BANDI.
DUGALD THOMSON : “The (Anti-Trust) Bill appear to
assume that a man is guilty unless he can prove he is
innocent.”
MR. KINGSTON: “Very necessary sometimes.”
“ Here! Prove you didn't steal it!”
Alfred Deakin used to talk bravely about
Australia being able to produce men quite capable
of filling the vice-regal office in Victoria, if the
vice-regal office were really necessary, and seemed
anxious to give the Australian product an oppor-
tunity of showing its capacity in the gubernatorial
office. As Prime Minister of the Commonwealth,
Alfred the Affable had his chance of appointing
an Australian Administrator for our State of
Papua, but ran off at once to the Downing-street
veteran, William McGregor, as the only possible
man for the office, whereas McGregor is old
enough to be father to the Australian who should
got the billet. It would take three lifetimes to do
the things Deakin has talked about doing, so he
should waste no time doing the things he has
expended so much eloquence in assuring us he
wouldn’t do.
Quinine that does not affect the head,
Laxative Bromo Quinine Tablets represent
Quinine, combined with other ingredients, in the
most acceptable and efficacious form for colds,
influenza, grip, or any catarrhal disorders. Head-
ache and feverish, or malarious conditions. At
all chemists, Is. l^d.*
No chemist, who sought in vast ages
The Phantom Philosopher’s Stone,
Has handed down that which assuages
The throat trouble always so prone.
Till Woods’, after thirty years’ trial,
In tests both exhaustive and sure,
Discovered a charm to defy all-
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited (Sydney),
report: An attractive demand still exists for all classes
of the staple, and during the week we have disposed of
upwards of 300 bales of wool at highly satisfactory prices.
The Annual Sheep Show and Sales now in progress have
attracted many Pastoralists to the city, and we are
pleased to welcome so many of our old friends, who make
it a rule of rallying round us at this period of the year.
The Merino sales commenced on Monday (2nd July), ours*
being fixed for Thursday and Friday sth and 6th), when
we intend submitting an attractive catalogue of prac-
tically the whole of the Tasmanian consignment, together
with drafts from well-known New South Wales studs.*


WE HAVE NAMED THIS BOOT THE
“ECONOMY” BOOT
on account of the remarkable combination
of STYLE and DURABILITY in its
structure, in conjunction with
the VERY LOW PRICE
charged for it :
16/6
Post Free
17/6
■ vv
T
H
E
C
A
L
L
A
G
H
A
N
FRENCH CALF... 16 6
Post paid .. 17/6
TAN LEATHZR... 18/6
Post paid... 19/6
Free Delivery insludes West Australia.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue . Post Free .
WE EXCHANGE BOOTS, OR WE RETURN
MONEY IF SATISFACTION IS NOT GIVEN.
We have Hundreds of Testimonials.
“Messrs. Callaghan & Son.
“Dear Sirs, —Please find enclosed The Boots were a perfect fit, and
most comfortable. I shall be most happy to recommend any of my friends to
your firm.—J.L., Devenport West, Tasmania.”
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
ARE
YOU
AWARE
9
■
9
■
9
■
We Are Offering;
TIG f ° r 21 S
It is an absolute fact that we can supply you
with a choice selection of the following :
Half-Yearly Volumes of Windsor Magazines
Illustrated. The best and brightest Magazine published;
handsomely bound in cloth—suitable for presentation. Pub-
lished at 7/6 ; our price 2/6. Postage 1/- extra.
Half-Yearly Volumes of Cassell’s Magazines
Illustrated—bound in cloth. This popular magazine is a great
favorite —welcome in any home. Published at 7/6 ; our
price 2/6. Postage 1/- extra.
Century Magazine Volume
Bound in cloth—illustrated. A high-class Magazine full of
bright and interesting stories. Published at 9/6 ; our
price 2/6. Postage 1/- extra.
World’s Work Magazine
Half-Yearly Volume bound in cloth. This is a bright and
clever Magazine full of interesting articles on all arts and
crafts, notable men and women, etc. Published at 9/6; our
price 5/-. Postage 1/- extra.
Secure One of each of these Volumes. They form a Library
in themselves. BRIGHT, INSTRUCTIVE, and ENTERTAINING.
JUST OPENED.
John Foster Fraser s New Work, “Pictures
from the Balkans,” Post Free 4 -
A Story of Romance and Adventure. The Volume is full of illustrations
from Photographs taken by the author. A most interesting book.
We have in stock the following works by the same author :
The Real Siberia,
America at Work,
Canada As It Is,
With Numerous
Illustrations,
With Numerous
Illustrations,
With Numerous
Illustrations,
Post Free, 4/-
Post Free, 4/-
Post Free, 4/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mm— SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
BE SURE
you’re right, then go ahead,
good motto to follow in buying
materials, as in everything else
buying Dampcourse you know
That’s a
building
. When
YOU’RE RIGHT
if you see the above signature on
every roll. It’s a guarantee of quality.
Malthoid Dampoourse is made from a
pure mineral, and won’t squeeze ont.
“Itit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”—Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Yic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., ETD., Melb., Vio.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILL 1 AM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Cheh., N.Z.
E.L. YENCKEN&CO. Pty., Ltd.,Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO„ LTD., Brisbane, Q.
siNmw
Wjtiik
mrx
3 m-t
S RERAS
H etc-elc
&klomni
s ls
nor
DISC
FIT
rn
A
Seteclh
from all
GRAUPi
IncludinJ
Record'&£
Jr
ƒ
dsf
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NICOLEPHONES
The World's Triumph in Talking Machines*
From £3 lOs. to £.12.
Nicolcpbooe PlSc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUFLEX RFCORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. ■ • 5/. each. 7in. - - 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
lOin. - - 3/6 each. 7in. - • 1/6 each.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George St*,
SYDNEY.
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
OO CANDLE POWER for Less than
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene.
Complete, with Mantis
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
Extraordinary
Value.
Best British Manufacture.
%
We now stock
Incandescent
Acetylene
Burners,
with Mantles, Chimneys,
and Globes; also Acety-
lene Gas Fittings and
Lamps.
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
DOCS YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS ? IF NOT, WRITE TO
WELSBACN LIGHT CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne* Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade n p p n
American . . . I EZL | tl^L
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLON lAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading; Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents. Adelaide. Melbourne & Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
BOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
„ .^. hi , n ? s } lave been leaking out of late in Svdnev
cricket circles. Those contracts of which the Melbourne
n ythsr f a e rasn, onl i d u ntly WOuld appear havebeen
Ohii!*« ? fche club was concerned. The Melbourne
'"tract appears to have been with one ex-player
°"‘-Y dh ? ls supposed to have got the rest of the gansr
tme^'f\ COn^ ra r^ S i W **' b him. If this yarn is proved to be
comm tt» e f IS i ltt e ffi doUb f that - 110 matter what executive
com mttee takes ofhee, that particular player-or rather
ex-player, will go out for all eternity.
* * * *
bein b-jtbc Age, “public indignation has
Ground Trn^ 1 ” Melbourne” by the action of the Cricket
inter^«LT rustees m letting the ground to the V.C.A. for
naHnn ” 1 matc . hes - If anybody noticed “ public indig-
ation wandering around he must have used a field
fnfmU H ly i 0W ’ after , the case of the Melville Island
bom-ne a fat i ot *?- f public indignation in Mel-
fnerhin Melbourne has llttle thought for aught but
eve on Rmf i ft lrd ?{’ a ' ld f hrou « h fche vveek has one
vlrnth!’ the other on Jack Wren. Beside the crystal
Tm«fee= „lL dispute has now narrowed down to the
Minister M the M - C : C “ "’ith the betting on the former.
, Mm T aypolntsout that the appointment of the
six new trustees was questioned at the time they were
appointed and the act was shown to be perfectly valid ;
wdfh the®d h a" t / ley have aoted strictly in accordance
with the deed of grant; and further, that in ’76 the
M.C.C. was warned by the Government that its intention
to laise money for a new pavilion, billiard room, skating,
loom, etc was a violation of the grant. Finally, says
Mm ray if the Trustees have lost possession of the ground
fh®, w hcle«r a nt,is invalidated and the land has reverted
to the State. That the cheeky club perceives it hasn’t
a leg to stand on is shown by the strenuous efforts it is
now making to come to terms with the V.O.A.
* * *
Jj Without professing to understand
aught about the petty rights and wrongs of the wrangle
among Australian cricket authorities, a scornful observer
may be permitted to remark that their wrangling is a
forcible illustration of the childishness which marks the
conduct of the sport. Cricket is essentially a boys’
game, and though its managerial representatives and
many of its most enthusiastic supporters be old in years,
they never cease to be “ kids ” in temperament. The
time-honored language of cricket description is infantile.
Grey-haired critics babble about “ hat-tricks,” “ pairs of
spectacles,” “ducks,” “butter-fingers,” &c., in the
manner of school boys. Their talk about “ the science
of the game is positively nauseating to outsiders who note
that some of the most effective batsmen reached the full
height of their scoring powers when they were one-und-
twenty. Youth and activity succeed where the experi-
f« n< i^ d . u t ' t . lns “ scientist ” comes to grief. Even the
old bowler owes it to his strengthened muscles that
ne ts sometimes superior to the young bowler. An agile,
intelligent,stripling, such as George Lohmann at the age
of til, could put all possible “art,” as well as “ devil,”
into his hurling of the ball for half-an-hour at a stretch.
Experience m cricket does little else than conserve a
youthfulness of mind in performers and barrackers who
should be old enough to know better.
* * * *
The return Rugby match between N.S.W. and
Queensland happened at Brisbane last Saturday in weather
that was described as “ glorious.” Somewhere about 7000
people looked, on, and cheered what was apparently a
rather attractive game. Curiously enough, the Corn-
stalks played best against the wind, and managed to make
their fuli score during the time that the Queenslanders
had the breeze to help them in their line-kicking. Appa-
rently they do not understand the full use of a touch-line
in Brisbane, while, even against the wind, the Cornstalks
made every possible use of it. The first half ended with
N.S.W. eight to three. The second half was brightened
by a tremendous kick by Messenger, who, from half way
landed the ball against the bar. With the wind in their
faces the Queenslanders played a much better game than
before, and made a series of attacks on the N.S.W.
line that kept the Cornstalks strictly on the defensive.
But the N.S.W. defence was too good. All the attacks
failed save one, and a well-contested game ended in a
victory for N.S.W. by eight to six.
* * * #
Sydney Rugby, Eastern Suburbs is quite
confident that it was only the absence of Messenger in
Brisbane that brought about its downfall, when Glebe
romped over it by nine to five. There may be
some truth in this, for the Eastern Suburbs club
is numerically weak, and, consequently, has little
or no reserve strength. On the other hand, the
absence of some of the University cracks probably
saved North Sydney from an even worse defeat than it
got, though 26 to nil was bad enough in all conscience.
This was the record downfall of the day, although South
Sydney’s crushing of Western Suburbs by 15 to three was
fairly decisive. Newtown and Balmain drew with three
each, and Sydney managed to tread on Manly to the tune
of 12 to three. St. George had the bye.
Of course the interest of the day was centred on
the Eastern suburbs-Glebe match. Sixteen thousand
people climbed over one another to get in to see the
struggle. Eastern Suburbs came away like the wind, but
passed forward. Glebe took possession and charged, but
was throvvn down, and the Eastern forwards carried the
leather right to the Glebe line, where the full-back
stopped the rush and kicked into touch. The lanky
Glebe men secured from the line-out, and carried it at the
toe right across the ground. A passing rush took it
to the corner, where Glebe scored. The kick failed.
Glebe came again, but was thrown back, and then the
Easterns swept down on the Glebe line, where a red
man stopped the rush by smiting a Suburbs man on
the nose. This bit of effectiveness caused him to be
ordered off. Glebe again tackled, but the Suburbs
struggled through, and forcing the Glebe down on to the
line, tried to break through. The acting full-back saved
Glebe over and over again, and the activity of the three-
quarter men prevented Eastern Suburbs getting through.
The second half found Glebe indulging in line-kicking.
Cricketer Cotter distinguished himself by a great rush,
but was called back, and out of the consequent scrum the
Suburbs heeled to their back, who kicked clear in a
pretty style. Another scrum right in front
of Eastern’s goal saw Glebe gain a penalty
kick, which Cotter essayed, but was baulked.
Another penalty kick soon afterwards, on the same spot,
saw the ball strike the post, and both teams rushed up
and piled themselves on the inflated implement. At last,
with a supreme effort, the gasping Suburbs men, got it,
and kicked clear. It was a great struggle, in which the
Suburbs missed the jugglery of its splendid three-quarter,
Messenger, very badlj. Then Glebe tried to dribble in,
and D’Alpuget, the Suburbs full-back, rolled on it. But
the fates were against the Suburbs, and another penalty
kick right in front of the line saw Cotter kick that long-
fought-for goal. A succession of marks kept the Suburbs in
constant danger, but they all missed or were intercepted,
the Eastern men grew desperate. The captain was shout-
ing frantic instructions, and presently the result was
seen. A series of passing charges carried the game into
the Glebe territory, and Eastern Suburbs began to play
up to its true form again. The result was that inch by
inch Glebe was forced back, till at last a Suburbs man
struggled over the line carrying a Glebe man and the
ball. Called back, the line out took place right on the
line, and the Suburbs secured and fell over. Scott con-
verted his own try, and Glebe was leading by only one.
Time was running out, and Glebe came away with a great
four-men passing charge, and scored another try. The
kick failed, and, as the ball struck the ground, the
whistle blew.
Metropolitan Rugby Union is getting
1“;® rfl OWlng bo a "’hisper that it has allowed cti-
tain clubs to engineer a virtual boycott against referees
best Dhu e P rs S nff a fh d , h ?'P artial readiness to order the
nf hL th fn fleld . w they are ff ui By of foul play,
regardless of how the clubs chances of the preuiiershiD
eets abouTt°ha?Vh Vi iS S ° n lhin ” is dead ‘y- Once h it
welfare of the th U ' n ? n ,’ whlch I s supposed to have the
. b . de .i? a * e a* l heart, will not suppress rough
play, no girl will allow her best boy to join in a game in
for eve y be . ei . tder /ui'ied for life, have his oeauty
spoilt for ever, or both. It s against Nature. It is auite
Drerniershirf th ?H Clubs ’ Whose chief conceln is the
ud hot h 10 rT d resenb crack Players being sent
the ™JL the Ulno u n ’, vvhlch is th e guardian of
the rofa.L a ",! loe ’ and whose representative
denftoln i / S - « ealy su PP° sed to be, should be
5? afb ° u c , lub lnfl uences. In the matter of bitting out
the rough players the Union seems to have been strangely
nlen of,„^m en M’ lt i s understood, the Union allows the
plea of justification for using the fist or the boot, and if a
er t , c “lf, ovc by preponderating weight of evidence
.' ! i, U , ler - ie 7 vvas the aggressor the Union
iL Sm J» S f S the case against him. Next week it
, tbe °ther iellow, and that time the Other
bellow has the weight of evidence in his favor, so both
are acquitted on the ground that they acted on the
defensive in a case in which they were both declared
the aggressors.
* * * *
return round of Vic. League matches com-
■ ; ” c f d Saturday last, the results showing that Essendon
is in pioving, South degenerating, and others remaining
much as before. The two mentioned collided on South’s
a fast, finished exposition was given by the
Uons, while the heavy, clumsy “Skinner’s hirelings”
hopelessly around, the final score being, Essen-
don 59, South 26. Two of South’s players got “ wet,”
and used their fists, and as the umpire spoke firmly to
tiem, they may hear more of it. Fitzroy went down to
the seaside to play St. Kilda, and this proved by far the
finest garnie of the day; fair, fast, and exciting
light to the finish, which saw ’ltoy three goals seven
behmds to Saints’two goals eight behinds. Saints have
entered a protest on the ground tiiat the bell was rung
lali-a-nunute before time ; they say they were in an easy
positmn to score a goal at that moment which would have
lett them winners instead of losers. There is a large
assumption therein, however; and if the match is
replayed Boy is almost certain to win. Carlton walked
over Melbourne by 70 points to 25; but ’Wood didn’t
hnd in Geelong the soft snap it expected, only squeezing
through ultimately by 75 to 61. There were no surprises
about the Association games, though Footscray’s defeat of
Wdliainstown by 56 points to 60, was rather unexpected.
Brunswick and ‘’Ports,” being both adjacent to the
bottom of the list, paid less attention to the ball than to
each other, and then, about five minutes before the bell
rang, two opponents got “into holts,” the rest of the
teams chipped in, the barrackers swarmed over the fence,
and a general mix-up ensued. As the Association is
stricter than the League in such matters, somebody will
probably pay for this little episode. During the week the
Junior Association retired one player for two weeks, and
passed out another for two years for being too handy
with his fists.
* * * *
The chances that Victorian football offers to a
clever young player may be gauged from the fact that
last Saturday four League clubs tried no less than eight
neu players from the country, besides as many more
from local juniors. One smart follower, working in a
country foundry, was so keenly desired, and secretaries
and delegates who went up to interview him became such
a nuisance—they couldn't wait till he left work—that the
timekeeper started docking the time lost in these con-
versations. The player mentioned this to the next
delegate who came along, and that smart indivi-
dual skipped back to town, smiling. By the next
post came a cheque, not too largej but re-
presenting far more than the time lost, and a
note saying the tempter was quite sure the other would
run down and play for them next Saturday. But, alas !
the smarty blabbed about his ’cuteness, and the following
post there came a cheque from another club, covering
the time lost through its delegate, the fare down and
back, and the half-day lost through the anticipated
Saturday s game. But so far the backblocker has made
no sign ; he just founders away all the week, plays with
his own club on Saturday, and says nothing.
* * * «
In Sydney the League competition is headed by
Newtown, with 16 points : Bedfern and Sydney are next
wßh 14 each ; and Balmain occupies third place, with lo!
Behind that doesn’t matter. The star performance of
Saturdays League matches was the struggle between
Sydney and North Shore, at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Sydney scored the first points, and then North Shore
scored a goal. The teams scored alternately, and went
ahead in turns, but at the end Sydney was leading by 36
to 33. Had the game lasted another ‘five minutes in all
probability North Shore would have been leading. They
were excellently matched. Newtown blotted out
Paddington, winning by 106 to 13. East Sydney also
walked over Y.M.C.A., scoring 56 points, while the Good
Young Men made a teeny-weeny 15.
* * * *
In the British Association game around Sydney
Pyrmont is streaking for the cake, with 17 points in hand
and the nearest rival is Balmain, with 14, while Bozelle
is close behind, one less, making pace for Glebe, with 12.
After that they are only single figures, which don’t
count.
* * * *
Sundry footballers have written complaining of
remarks recently passed in this column of a nature dero-
gatory to the Australian game. One writer wants to know
how it is that a game which has been described as equal
to Bugby in point of danger should be scoffed at as the
pastime of those who have not the stamina to play Bugby.
Well, this is how it strikes the writer. The great danger
of the Australian game is that every man is shepherded
by an opponent, and when both these players jump for
the same mark there is considerable risk. One of the
most hideous accidents that ever happened on an Aus-
tralian football field was that in which a young Melbourne
player had his kidneys burst and crushed out of position
through several players, who jumped for the same
mark, falling on him. This writer has no prejudice
against the Australian game, but, although he has
played and followed Bugby for about 25 years in
Maoriland and Australia, he never heard of such an acci-
dent as that happening on the Bugby field. Admittedly
the purpose of the designers of the Australian game was
admirable. But it seems that, no matter what game men
play in which there is a genuine trial of strength, those
who want to play roughly can always find a way to injure
others if they desire to. The trouble in the Australian
game seems to be that it affords opportunities for men to
injure one another unintentionally. As regards stamina,
it certainly requires more to play a game in two spells
than four quarters, and the passing charges which are a
feature of Bugby are a greater test of strength and en-
durance than the rushes in the Australian game. The
very fact that there is no off-side in the Australian game
makes it a much easier one than Bugby, where the field
must at least try and keep up with the leather. There
are other reasons for the remarks that have been passed
but space is precious.
* * * *
An enthusiastic Rugbyite writes from Queens-
land to the effect that it was not Swannell who kicked
Carmichael, but , another player. The Bulletin
resolutely declines to publish the other fellow’s name, as
that would mean that next week sixteen more letters
would arrive denying that it was and passing the
blame on to ... . or and this paper isn’t the Bugby
Union. The same correspondent says that if the kicking
of Carmichael was accidental, then it was the funniest
accident he ever saw. From this it would seem that the
Bugbyite considers that kicked Carmichael on
purpose, although it all depends on how much the
Bugbyite has seen, and as there is no evidence on the
point the case is hereby dismissed with 2s. 6d. costs.
* - *- * „
The capitalistic press is a humorous hog ! On
May 11 the German Beichstag passed a law which pro-
vides that any motorist who runs over and kills a married
man must pay compensation to the widow and children,
and provide a pension in cases where the victim is perma-
nently disabled. This is described by the Sydney
Telegraph as “shackling enterprise and clogging the
wheels of progress! ” German motorists are said to be
aghast, and it is believed the industry is crippled in Father-
land. Which is all unmitigated rot. If motoring cannot
progress without running over and killing people, then it
should be suppressed like typhoid, or cholera, or any-
thing of a similarly unpleasant nature. The only people
who are likely to be affected by the new legislation
are the sort of international hogs whose performances
on the French roads led to the formation of country
leagues to shoot automobilists at sight.
* * * *
The ancient scullers are all said to be now
engaged in careful training for the race which the Sj'dney
Sunday Sun has engineered. So far, £l3O has been
donated by the public towards the prize fund, and it is to
be sincerely hoped that none of it will have to be spent in
burying any of the old chaps through the bursting of their
boilers in the last sprint. This is an irreverent age, and
the sight of the ancients paddling drearily over the scene
of their former triumphs is more likely to move young
Australia to derision than to sentimental appreciation.
Still, as long as none of them strain their inside works, it
will be a harmless day’s fun, and a procession of past
champions such as could not be seen in any other coun-
try in the world.
* * * *
Stanbury finds it somewhat difficult on occa-
sions to get an uninterrupted run when training, on
account of the pleasure skiffs and motor boats that
throng round to have a look at him. On Wednesday last
week one of these crafts fouled him, and, turning his
skiff right over, hurled James into the water. He found
the water decidedly wet, but was cheered by the dis-
covery that his boat was in no way injured. A heavy
yeil of mystery hang’s over the doings of Towns. That
sculler is not taking the world into his confidence:
neither is he taking any steps to let it know that he is
improving every day, and looking unusually fit. Stan-
bury has been described as a “ tower of strength,” but
rowing is an uncertain game, and the backers thereof
never know their luck till the judge’s flag is hoisted.
* * * *
Interest in the billiard match for the champion-
ship of Victoria, between Savvkins (the holder)and E. J.
Campbell, was somewhat discounted last week by their
meeting in the final game of the Vic. Billiard Markers’
tournament at Alcock’s Hall, Melbourne. Both men
were on scratch, and Sawkins scored his 500 when his
opponent stood at 399 —a very decided beating. Perhaps
Campbell had the worst of the luck, his biggest break
being only 43. But Sawkins, with best breaks of 53, 49,
and 78, played a more solid game all the time. If he had
a championship table to practise on at his room in the
Old Exchange building, which he has been running for
the past 18 years, Sawkins might be soon expected to
hold his own vyith Memmott, whose “ form,” when he was
playing exhibition matches with Stevenson, was very
erratic.
* * * *
John Wren, is, after all, to have possession of
Melbourne Exhibition building at Cup time—for four
nights. He musn’t use it as a battleground forstoushers,
but he proposes to hold a foot racing’ carnival in the arena
of the adjacent quadrangle, and give £5OO prize money to
the principal event which is to be a 130yds. race open to
the world. There’s a popular belief that the world’s
fastest sprinters flourish in other lands than this, but
judging from what happened to Duffey, the first prize is
not bound to be snavelled by a foreigner. A mile
champion race is included in Wren’s programme, and the
added money will amount to £775 in all. Footracing is
attractive until it reaches the point where nobody puts
trust in animals that can talk. It may boom for a short
season, and Wren’s purpose, anyhow, is to advertise him-
self a promoter of Sport, with a capital S.
An Australian Axemen’s Carnival is to be
chopped at Fitzgerald’s Circus building, Melbourne, on
12th-14th July. Erskine Scott, the manager, states that
the entries have exceeded his expectations, and the best
Tasmanian talent will take part in the fray. Melbourne
hasn’t seen a competition of the kind for many years, and
there are thousands of j'oung citizens whose knowledge
of wood-chopping is confined to their personal achieve-
ments in their own back-yards. The axemen’s operations
on 56in. and 62in. logs will give them a new thrill.
B. R. Wise, K.C., who is mentioned as a
coming High Court Judge, was at Athens during the
Olympian Games. “Barney” was in his college days an
athlete of no mean capacity. His first feat of note in
England was winning the school distance diving competi-
tion at Bugby in 1873, his brother being second. In 1876
in the famous Crick paper chase he ran second to B. S.
Benson in a run of lhr. 16min., the distance being 121
miles. In 1877 he won the mile at Bugbv in 4min. 44sec.
also winning the half-mile on the fiat, and the half-mile
over hurdles. He then went to Oxford, and in the Pem-
broke College strangers’ race won the mile easily in 4min.
26sec. In 1878 he was hard at work for a university prize,
which he ultimately gained, and trained for the annual
sports as well. He broke down and was laid up for
nearly four months, and did not get right until the end
of the year, when he won the Pembroke College Strangers’
mile. In 1879 he won the three mile handicap at Cam-
bridge, but he again broke down in a three mile race at
his own university sports. He competed in the combined
Oxford and Cambridge sports for the mile race and,
making all the running, won by 4yds. in 4min. 34see. On
the following Monday he started for the One Mile Amateur
Championship of England, beat H. C. Jenkins and C. J.
Johnston, and won easily by 10yds. in 4min. 29sec. Next
season he won the half-mile of his own college, and the
one mile race at the university sports, leading from start
to finish and winning in 4min. 26sec. He ran against
Cambridge, and was successful in the mile race ; time
4min. 29sec. In 1881 he again competed for the Amateur
Mile Championship of England. W. G. George and
several others started. The finish was left to Wise
and George, the former winning by syds. in 4min. 24sec.
and a fraction. This was his last and best performance.
The V.R.C. Grand National meeting has come
round again, and on Saturday the first of the big w’inter
hurdle races will eventuate. A field of 20 or thereabouts
may be expected to line up, and possibly punters will get
just such another shock as they suffered last year, when
the brilliant York, from S. Australia, won in the pro-
verbial canter. At time of writing the three miles race
doesn’t look very open to a surprise. Florin, the favorite,
has a 2 to 1 chance, according to the stable estimate,
and the “ book ” bears out this estimate. At the
National meeting last year the son of St. Swithin, with a
light weight up, smothered Marmont and York at the
finish of the Doutta Galla Hurdle Bace, which is a £5OO
matter, anyhow’. And on Cup Hay, he W'on the three miles
Hurdle under a 12st. burden. If he gets round the course
this time Florin should beat most of them, if he doesn’t win
outright. Of the others Bealm, Oblivion, The Shamrock
and Battlesnake seem to be most fancied. Old Chappie’
the runner-up in 1905, has a chance, and Elderslie will be
backed if he carries the hopes of Leslie Macdonald, for
he’s a beautifully bred horse, once tried good enough to
win a Caulfield Cup. Taking four to beat the crowd—
Florin, The Shamrock, Elderslie and Battlesnake—this
scribe picks The Shamrock to do the trick, not on “ form,”
but on hints, inuendoes and betting indications.
* * * *
There is no recent “form” to foreshadow the
result of the G.N. Hurdle, as there was three years ago
when Marmont was carrying everything before him.
Among the recent winners Battlesnake is the most
attractive, and Corinthus, who ran second to him at
Moonee Valley last Saturday, has an outside show.
* * * *
Lachlan, the big bottled-up colt that failed
badly in the Newmarket Handicap, seems to have been
thrown into the two Cups on the assumption that he is a
non-stayer. Certainly his few public performances thus-
far have suggested a weak spot in his composition, but
his breeding—by Bill of Portland from Mersey’s daughter—
should give him stamina, and with 6.10 in the Melbourne
Cup and 6.12 for the Caulfield, Lachlan looks a likely one
among the lightweights.
» * * »
If Australia wanted an advertisement that its
people were a horsey race it has got the same in the
shape of Ossian and other racehorses owned by Crick,
M.L.A. The fact that these animals were engaged in an
important meeting interfered with the sittings of the late
Lands Commission, and effected the adjournment of the
law courts. The latest is that the debates of Parliament
itself have been subordinated to the movements of Crick’s
horses.
* « * *
With all the talk about “cronk” running and
ineffective stewardship on metropolitan courses little is
said of the barefaced robberies perpetrated on the local
holiday crowd at up-country race-meetings. These annual
gatherings in many cases amount to a mere plundering of
the rural enthusiasts by gangs of visiting spielers. A
day’s “sport ” for the residents of the Bullanagga district
costs them quite a lot of cash every time. But they
always come up smiling to be taken down. They love a
good horse, and sometimes the animal of their choice wins
a race owing to an accident in the arrangements of the
wire-pullers.
The gentleman who races under an alias is fairly
conspicuous—or, at least, unconspicuous—in Maoriland.
There are nearly a hundred of him registered, and a little
“ Who’s Who” pamphlet, revealing his identity, his occu-
pation, and the color of his moustache would have a big
sale among the racing public who keep the game alive.
* * * *
The pony war has ended by the Ascot Club
coming to a full and “ honorable ’’—which in this case
means financially satisfactory—understanding with the
“Ring.” Briefly, the cause that led to this compromise,
or combination, was the realisation that cut-throat u'as a
fools’ game, together w'ith the growing- arrogance of the
Pony and Galloway Owners’ Association. Ascot Club
reckoned it was better to come to an understanding with
the other clubs than be at the mercy of the owners whom
it affected to control. .Now the owners’ body feels an
Ass. in more ways than one.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Par (B. 21/6’/06) re five miles novice
race run at Oakleigh (Melb.) is somewhat confusing to
followers of amateur athletics. The “novice” is run in
conjunction with a second teams race, some competitors
being eligible for both events and others for one race
only, though all runners leave the mark together. The
novice is one w'ho has never won a race or prize over
cross-country, and the second teamer must not have
finished nearer than fifth in a ten-mile championship.
This year the novices numbered 48, the total for both
events 120 (a record). Olympians Blake and Wheatley
were competitors in previous years, but Blake only
secured the second teams supremacy, whilst Wheatley
won both events.
* * » *
“ Hooko ”: The natural fighter was up against
science in two contests put up at Melbourne Cyclorama by
the Olympic Olub the other Monday night, and the natural
skin-shifter went down with a hollow moan on both
occasions. Of course, the natural fighter has to abandon
much of his intuitive devilment on entering the ropes
under rules. Black v. Gault were partners for the first
set. Gault is an amateur, who was in towards the
finish of the recent footballers’ tournament, and is a
hefty lad. His opponent, scaling much lighter, is several
shifts from top as a professional, but when Gault waded
in to effect a sudden finish, Black shifted, blocked, and
stopped, and, picking vulnerable places on his enemy,
hit them with such effect that Gault was finished in two
minutes. O’Connor v. M‘Gibbon followed. O’Connor
was the natural slugger, and looked the tougher. He is
known as the Pride of the Push. M'Gibbon is a slim
youth of quite a genteel ty-pe, but he knows the business.
He got under O’Connor’s cart-horse deliveries with quick
punches that hurt the latter’s tender susceptibilities.
Once O’Connor knocked Mack heels up with a swing on
the chin, but the fifth round saw the Pride of the Push
beaten to a stand, and without the option, so the washing
floated from his line.
* » ¥ *
William Heckenberg’s pitiful display against
Peter filing, in the return match at the Sydney National
Sporting Club last week, closed the big axeman’s fighting
career. Although he suffered severely from a heavy
counter early in the second round, the great outstanding
and of all Heckenberg’s other fights, is
that he has no heart. William is better at knocking
down trees than pugs., and should never have left the
trees.
*#•*111
“Snell”: I am waiting for Joey Carruthers
to raise his bitter cry against Melbourne for pinching the
boxing game from Sydney. Not many months back,
nothing worth mentioning in the boxing line happened
m Melbourne, and the Sydneysiders who considered
themselves “draws ” wouldn’t think of meeting down by
the Yarra. Now Bent’s city has usurped pride of place,
and all the big events of the near future are booked either
by Jack Wren or the Olympic Club. The former has the
first world’s championship match ever fixed for Australia
billed for Ascot on Cup week, and is also bringing the
American middleweight champion—who follows on the
heels of the boss heavy—to meet Tim Murphy and other
dispensers of local stoush. The Olympic Club is fighting
Cripps and Williams, Tim Murphy and Bill Smith, then
w^v Winners J and is importing Mike
Williams, the African champion, who whipped Murphy,
to take on such of our big men as may be available.
Altogether it is up to Premier Joey to say something
about State rights.
* * * *
The defeat of Murphy at Sydney Gaiety Club
on Saturday night by Thorn, of Westralia, was a beautiful
example of the value of form as a revealer of coming
events. Griffin bad beaten Murphy easily, and in his turn
succumbed to Thorn without anything Homeric happen-
ing. Therefore Murphy had no chance against Thorn.
As a matter of fact it was just a question of hitting
power. Murphy laid Thorn out with one on the jaw, but
there was no steam behind it, and Thorn just jabbed
away with both hands till Murphy was exhausted as far
as offence went. But, paradoxically, he had the stamina
to take all the punishment that Thorn could supply with-
out being knocked out. In the fifteenth round the police
interfered, and the referee declared Thorn the winner.
As Murphy proceeded down the street he was followed by
an admiring crowd till his journey to the tram became a
triumphal procession. Unfortunately, as Peter Amos
. ° u ffb said about Art, “there is no money in that sort
of thing.”
* * * *
S.T.S.”: There are two fine lady-like wagers
in The Sphinx’s Lawyer,” a new novel by “ Frank
Hamby ’ (who is a woman, as any one who studies her
betting ideas would guess). (I) “They are laying 6 to 4 on
your proposing within the month, even money within
the next two.” Anyone who took the first bet and laid
the other would have a good thing. (2) “ Before he
arrived at the ring, he had decided it would be absurd to
put only a pound or two on Leviathan at six to one.
r inally he put a £lO note on. He felt he had got a
bargain, for now the odds were eights, and the heads were
backing Tisley.” Apart from the doubtful “bargain,”
what are “heads” on a racecourse? Legs I know, and
even mugs, but heads l
Seems that English motor-owners are consider-
ably exercised over the idea of forming a corps of cars to
transport bodies of picked riflemen cross country in the
event of sudden invasion. Conan Doyle and Colonel
Mayhew are organising the movement, which u-ould be
an excellent one if only there were anything like a large
body of crack rifle-shots to be transported. Strange that
a country that has for ages produced the champion big-
gun shots of the world should be so deficient in small
arms marksmen.


n
'•n/
Finest EAST Indian Tobacco is the Most
Costly in the World.
We want to impress this upon you. The finest EAST Indian is now more costly than the finest Havana.
We dare not make this assertion unless it was strictly true. The above fact is not generally known, as it is
only in recent years that tobacco of such fine quality has been grown in the EAST Indies ; so most smokers
look upon Havana still as the best. But we assert, as tobacco experts, and can prove it up to the hilt, that
this is not so. Finest EAST Indian is by far the best Tobacco—also the most costly. Ninety per cent, of the
imported Havana cigars are the greatest rubbish—the tobacco of which they are made being really only fit for
the pipe ; and such cigars would have no sale at all, only for their past reputation. Continental countries
have recognised the superiority of EAST Indian Tobacco, and it is only a question of time when England will
follow suit. Old Havana cigar smokers are astounded on smoking their first Marsuma.
You have never experienced to perfection the
strange indescribable delights of smok’ng unless
you have smoked a “ MARSUMA.”
SOIL HU AGENTS
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs'. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
[8
Mr. DUNCAN McL'AN, Greyrneut!*, N.Z.
BVKRYONB CAV CUT HAIR WITS THK
oide-A)iva!:Q La!r-CZ!ppcp
TJu Bate Hair Cuttor Ever Invented
Only 8/- carr,ag *
Paid
ADJUSTABLE COMBS TOR DIFFERENT LENGTHS.
SHORT, MEDIUM AND LONG.
Really Three Clippers in One
WILL SOON SAVE ITS COST IN A FAMILY.
KEEP THE HAIR TIDY AND LOOK SMART.
*"pHE obstacle in the way of thpse automatic hair-clipper*
A coming into general use in families has been th»>t each
clipper w.s set to cut only one length, and thus several
cli - >ers were needed to properly complete the cutting. The
Wide-Awake Hair Clipper is supplied with adjustable combs,
•o that, where necessarv, the hair can be cut almost as close as
shaving or it may be cut a quarter '»r half an inch lone as de-
sired. This overeomt-s all the difficulties hitherto experienced,
and thus anyone may readi y tin ertake to cut hair with a
clipper. There is no danger, as with scissors, as it is impossible
to cut the skin. Men’s and boys’ hair should be kept well cut,
both for the sake of good health and smart appearance but
frequent visits to the hairdresser’s are tiresome and expensive.
The price of the clinper is only Bs., thus it will soon save its
cost in a family. Sent packed n a neat box carriage paid to
any address complete for only Bs.
UNION MFG. & AGENCY CO.,
299 Eliznbeth Street. Melbourne.
Amusements.
pRINCE ALFRED PARK.
. (Old Exhibition Grounds).
FOR A THREE WEEKS’ SEASON, COMMENCING
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 7, 1906.
BOSTOCK and
WOMBWELL’S
NOVELTY CIRCUS and COMPLETE
MENAGERIE.
THE FIRST OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALASIA
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Boxes to seat Four, 20s,
Sole Proprietor—E. H. BOSTOCK.
Advance Agent—ALEC VERNE.
Under the Direction of DOUGLAS BOSTOCK.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
At a toney young ladies’ college in Sydney,
two of the sweet girl graduates are named Boa-
dicea and Hypatia. A dimmer light is named
Beulah.
Amuse merits.
THEATR E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON;
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Stirring Melodramatic Story of London Life,
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL'S.
Written by Sutton Vane, Esq.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY 7 ! THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
NEW SEASON OF FOUR WEEKS ONLY,
beginning v
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY" 7,
Mr. Charles Frohman
presents MR. WILLIAM COLLIER in the Famous
Farcical Comedy,
ON THE QUIET.
Box Plan at Paling’s. !? PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of WILLIAM ANDERSON.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS of
CZERNY,
“ A magician most profound in his art.” —As You Like
It, Act V., sc. 2.
An Entertainment of the Highest Class, REFINED,
ARTISTIC, HUMOROUS.
PRICES —35., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
FRANK TALBOT, Treasurer.
GEORGE MARLOW, Business Manager.
Lyceum hall, Sydney.
Direction .. .. .. W. J. Macdermott.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Macdermotts Peerless
Picture Coterie.
Presenting the First Authentic Scenes of
’FRISCO EARTHQUAKE.
PROFESSOR W. E. SCOTT, MR. ARTHUR FORD.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
ENTE NARY HALL, YORK STREET.
Manager .. .. Mr. R. H. COLLINS.
EVERY EVENING.
“ Two Superb Attractions in One.”
Flattering Reception Nightly of the Favorite Musical
Organisation, THE
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
First Part. —The Ever-Popular JUBILEE CHORUSES.
QUAINT MELODIES. MALE QUARTETTES and
SOLOS.
Second Part—lntroduction of their Great THAUMA-
TURGIC DISPLAY OF MOVING PICTURES.
Thus making TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN
ONE EVENING.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales
White Rose, and All Railway Bookstalls.
Under Vice-Regal
df
Patronage.
GRAND VIOLIN AND VIOLONCELLO RECITAL by
MR. MOWAT CARTER (The Eminent Violinist),
MR. BRYCE CARTER (The Distinguished Violoncellist),
Assisted by—Miss Edith Bunting (Pianiste), Miss Annie
Perry (Soprano), and Mr. YVIII. B. Beattie (Baritone), at
Y.M.C.A. HALL, PITT ST., THURSDAY, JULY 12.
PRICES— 3s. (reserved) and 2s. Plan at Paling’s.
J. EDWARD SYKES, Concert Manager.
TEN JOURNEYMEN TAILORS
Constantly employed solely making COATS—NO FACTORY WORK.
The Best and Most Fashionable Goods, regardless of cost.
RESULT—Once a customer, you will always have your Suits made by
E. T. WALSH, Expert Tailor.,
359 6EOR6E STREET (opp. the G.P.0.).
SUITS from FOUR GUINEAS. Samples and Measure Forms sent to any address
SEND 10/6 FOR THE PLUM RAZOR.
SEND 10 6 for the celebrated PLUM RAZOR —use it and
you’ll say you never had a more comfortable shave. It
is made of specially tempered steel—that’s the secret of its
success. Sold in Australia for over 20 years.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d.
Tablet of Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
6548 Georoe St.
SYDNEY.
PRICE 10/6 POST FREE.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, s/o-isy
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr., Harry Rickards.
M A TIN EKS W KDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of BRINN, Sensational Judder and Cannon
Manipulator, in “ PASTIMES ON A BATTLESHIP.
Continued Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Wajß.
Great Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported by Mr. HARRY KENDAL, in their Original
Comedy, “THE ORDER OF THE BATH.
Continued Enormous Success of BLAKE and GRANBY.
THE SISTERS WARNER, MISS NITA LEEIE, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manatier. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEYMOUR & DUPRE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
HOMER B. MASON and MARGUERITE KEELER,
Comedy Artists, in the Comedy, “ HOOKED BY CROOK.’
VASCO, the Mad Musician, plays 27 Instruments.
MDLLE ALEXANDRA, MASTER BERTIE, Noveltv Act.
Plan at Allan’s.
aw PRICES—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is.
THEATRE
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
]jassee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JULY 5, & FRIDAY, JULY 6,
Last Performance of HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 7,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the Successful Drama,
THE ASSASSIN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 7,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including
MR. ROBERT WALDRON and MISS JANE HUMPHREY,
THE SQUAW MAN.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. EDWIN GEACH.
The LAUGHING SUCCESS of the DAY,
THE WSLLOUGHBY-WARD COMEDY CO., including
MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in the World’s Greatest Laughing Success,
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES —55., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and
The Grand. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
dfs
Terms.
Weekly
Pay-
EDISON
Phonographs. Cash.
STANDARDS.. £5
HOMES
VIOLINS 15
VIOLINS 30...
ACCORDEONS £1
ANGLOS £2
ORGANETTES £3
AUTOHARPS..
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SOKT,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
boomerang mouth organs.
Amusements.
AUSTRALIAN AXEMEN’S CiIOPPINQ CARNIVAL,
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus Bulling, Melbourne.
*225 12th, 13th, & 14th JULY, 1906.
in Prizes. PROGRAMME:
CHAMPION STANDING BLOCK CHOP, 56in. Logs.—
First, P'2s and Gold Medal; second, £10; third, £5.
Entry 10s.
CHAMPION U.H. CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £25 and
Gold Medal; second, £lO ; third, £5. Entry 10s.
U.H. HANDICAP CHOP, 02in. Logs.—Fast, £3O;
second, £l5; third, £5. Entry 30s. ; no acceptance.
S.B. HANDICAP CHOP, st>in. Logs.—First, £3O ; second,
£l5 ; third, £6, Entrv 30s. ; no acceptance.
INTERSTATE TEAMS MATCH, 3ft. Logs.—First, £10;
second, £5 ; Entry 10s.
D.H. SAWING MATCH.—First, £10; second, £5; Entry
10s.
PALING SPLITTING COMPETITION.—First, £10;
second, £5. Entry 10s.
BLACKBUTT TIMBER. Entries to
C. E. ELY, Toora, South Gippsland.
E. ERSKINE SCOTT, Business Manager.
Business Announcements.
THE
I
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from enter.ng
either mouth or pipe
bowl. E-ery pipe is
guar mteed.
erits
of the
fdfds
A
“JVUSTA’
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well-s-asoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Con m- nwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDFE M, .
(tOTTH FT, ft CO., Sydney. J
MELBA ACCORDEONS
sdf
Produce the
most .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know*
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3. or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and tripL Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all 1 atyi improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276 = 278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It ha 9 cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy lias failed. English Prices, 4/6 and II
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stc.JE, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAY 1 KS, ALLPOET &, POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
mi
A Novelty in Soft vShirts
Since we introduced these Shirts to Australia the demand has increased by leaps and bounds, anr ) ~ , p m.
immensely popular. Those who are wearing it say it is a big success. The novelty is the .. oft Co ar . . ' ..
Collar is turned down all round like the stiff white collar, but is vastly more comfortable, ihis collar n o 1 .. ' ” h f
shirt, and of beautiful shape. Its comfort is indescribable —you must wear it to appreciate its good ea l ” es - • A h- ’
and can be worn with a white linen collar. This is just the shirt for Country Wear lennis, Golf, Tome Wear Sporting,
Travelling, etc. The materials are in very handsome designs, and are exclusive to us. Ihe man wh
comfort will find in this noveltv shirt exactly what he reauires.
FILL IN THIS FORM.
MESSRS. PE APES & CO., LTD., 309-311 George St., Sydney.
I enclose lor a Sample Novelty Shirt.
SIZE OF COLLAR
NAME
ADDRESS
PRICES (including Collar)
Oxford and Zephyr Material Tl 6
Ceylon and Winter Flannel 8/G
Xropical 9/G
Cream Unshrinl'.able 11/G
Best All Wool 12/6
Fill in the Form To-Day
and have a Sample Shirt
sent to you.
Postage 6d. extra.
PEAPES <a CO. LTD.,
MEN’S and BOYS’
OUTFITTERS
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
A new claimant for the mantle of Elijah
has appeared at Ipswich (Q.) in the person of
Jacob Thomas Wilhide, a former follower of
Dowie. On Sunday, June 17, he renounced the
leadership of the Prophet of the Purple Wings,
and denounced the beetle-browed Voliva, and the
Australian vituperator-in-chief, Elder M'Cullagh,
as traitors to the cause of Zion. Wilhide, who is
assisted by his wife, is no shakes as a cusser. His
weakness in this respect is evident from the fact
that, when he was hissed at the conclusion of his
address, he only referred to those who hissed as
being either geese or serpents. There are so many
Elijahs clawing for those Purple Wings now that
there won’t be a feather left soon.


A. SAUNDERS
THAT’S THE NAME.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising 5 pieces.
Other Styles.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK
in Silk-lined Case, 7s 6d. ’
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s
m
m
m
Mm
m
m
M'J&t
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Sterling Silver mounted.
First-class Timekeeper, las.
Extra Quality, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak INK STAND, Nickel Mounts,
Cut Glass Bottles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, to £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver,
articles, 15s 6d.
Larger Size, 18s 6d.
<*S
5K
w
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver Plated,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
Save by Mail.
Personal service in
our Mail Order
Department
enables
us to
serve you by Mail
anywhere,
as perfectly as if
you visited our
Showrooms.
All Goods sent.
Post Free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SAFETY VESTAS BOX
HOLDER,
Richly Embossed, 7s 6d.
Cherub Design, 8s 6d.
Pree to All.
No matter
where you live,
if you have a copy
of our Illustrated
Catalogue,
you can obtain the
latest goods delivered
to your own home,
at City Prices.
Write for our
Catalogue
to-day. We send
it Post Free
to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH and COMB,
In Velvet-Lined Case,
Other Styles, I7s 6d, 20s,
Solid Silver,
15s 6d.
255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Fine White Bristles, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s Od, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted
PIN CUSHIONS,
Heart Shaped, 2s 6d.
Larger, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Self Rollins: RAZOR STROP,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand-
somely Embossed, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 13s 6d,
17s 6d, 255.
A. &AuMJi£RS.
Gent.’s MILITARY HAIR BRUSH
Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles, 15s.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR PTN BOX, Solid Silver Top,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass, Size 6in. x ljin.,
IQs 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s. 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU-l
DE-COLOGNE BOTTLE,
Cover and Stopper, 30a.
Larger. £2
B
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather
CHATELAINE BAG,
Sterling Silver Mounts
and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
jr
n
c,
c
fcVSI
O
fesgs
L«
&]M.m
m
V;V
<K
ire
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass
d- i i TOILET BOTTLES.
Richly Embossed. Solid Silver Tops, in 3 sizes
7s 6d, 8s 6d. 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile LEATHER PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted Head
SALTS BOTTLE. 3s 6d.
Other Styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent, ’s Morocco Leather
LETTER CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH,
Pure S ver-1 .atcd, Real
Badger Hair, 5s 6d.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15 S 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
Comprising 2 Richly Embossed HAIR BRUSHES and
COMB, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, £3.
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SERVIETTE CLIP.
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Leather Wallet
POCivET BOOK,
Silk-lined, fitted with
every convenience, os 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
12s 6d, 15s.
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
3P
41®
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Hobnail Cut Glass Head
SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Top, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Fine Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
mm
m
tm-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver CARD CASE,
Handsomely Engraved, 15s 6d.
Without Lid, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
Gent's Gold-Mounted Amber CIGARETTE HOLDER,
m Solid Silver or Plain Cases, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CIGAR Size, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
mm
[iimiiaiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiniiiiiiiuiumuiuiimiiHiHiiiiiii
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass TOILET BOTTLES,
Richly Embossed, Solid Silver Tops, £2 ss.
Larger, £3 10s, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather PURSE,
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
12s 6d 4 17s 6d, 20s.
iiiiiifl liiiiii
:!i!!i!!!!rai|l!!!l!!i!!
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver SHAVING SET,
Comprising Shaving Brush, Soap Holder, and
Powder Jar, in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3.
A. SAUNDERS I
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


WHAT NURSES SAY
OF
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Women at all times are more or less subject to weakness brought about by Indigestion and Pelvic Disorders, and in the course of
her profession a nurse sees much suffering, much of which could be avoided. A duly qualified nurse admittedly ranks next to the
doctor as an authority on the treatment of general ailments and womanly weaknesses, and in following her profession she has a
varied experience, and every opportunity to gain a thorough knowledge of the various treatmen.s of these diseases. She is therefore
able to judge and competent to speak of the wonderful efficacy
of Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills as a Remed/ for all complaints
originating from disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Kidneys, and for
all Female Ailments from whatsoever cause arising.
Haclcett Terrace and Race Course Road,
Charters Towers.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in recom-
mending your splendid remedy, Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, the merits of which are
supported by my own personal experience.
Tor ten years 1 have used them occasion-
ally. and they have assisted Mature in the
fulfilment of her functions during my ad-
vancing years. lam now 60 years of age.
enjoy wonderful health, and am entirely fred
from ache or pain. During the past ten
years in my capacity as a nurse I have al-
ways recommended your Pills, and 1 still
do so, as they are a gentle, but sure and
effective medicine, suitable for young and
old. lam sure if the young women would
only use your remedy occasionally and
study the : r health there would be far less
sickly and ailing wives. They would do well
to take a course of these Pills and endea-
vour to overcome their weakness, and thus,
in the years after the period of child-bear-
ing. they might live in comfort, free from
the ailments which so many are afflicted
with in their declining years. Again, I
heart ilv recommend your remedy to women
especially, through the medium of this
statement, which you may publish in any
way vou desire.
Mrs. AMELIA JOHNSTONE, Nurse.
52 Rose Street, Ballarat, Vic.
Dear Sirs, —T have much pleasure in re-
commending Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
for the cure of Headaches and Biliousness
and the rnany common ills of life. I have
used them with the most satisfactory re-
sults. and so has my daughter.—Yoiirs
faithfully, Mrs. E. ROBINSON.
84 George St., Camperdown, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Having used Dr. Morse's Indian
Root Pills as a Family Medicine for the
last two years, I can conscientiously re-
commend them to all who suller from any
of the common ailments, and also to women
for complaints peculiar to their sex. I find
they do me a world of good, and 1 am con-
stantly recommending them to those with
whom I come in contact. —Yours faithfully,
Mrs. M'CULLOUGH, Senr.
(Nurse for 42 years.)
Brisbane Street, Ipswich, Q.
Dear Sirs, —For six or seven years I have
used and recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. They are a splendid medicine
for women and all female ailments. They
do not sicken or gripe, and are a perfect
laxative and regulator of the system. —-
Y’ours very truly,
Mrs. J. WEIG AND, Nurse.
Olive Street, Albury, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—For over seven years Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been our
family medicine, and we have always found
them unfailing as a cure for all general com-
plaints. They act gently but thoroughly,
and restore the system to a healthy condi-
tion. At one time I was greatly afflicted
with Liver Complaints and Indigestion, but
since using your Pills I have no return of
these ailments. I take one Pill occasionally,
which keeps me in good health, and I always
have a bottle in the house, and wherever I
go T carry a supply with me. I have recom-
mended them to hundreds of people, who
have invariably formed the same good
opinion of them that I have. —Yours truly,
Mrs. E. VILE, Nurse.
1
i
iilllUl
it
w,
-M
l
W
WPi
1
rseacn
Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills are frequently prescribed by doctors for the many ailments peculiar to the female sex, for the very
reason that these pills are purely vegetable, mild in their action, and effective as a laxative and cleanser of the whole system.
Throughout the many stages of woman’s life, from peevish girlhood through womanhood, motherhoo l to the declining years of old age
there is.no be ter, milder, or more effective medical companion to women-folk than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They promote a
free and regular condition, dry debilitating drains, heal inflammation and ulceration, and cure all womanly weaknesses, cleansing and
restoring the Bowels, Liver and Kidneys to perfect working order. A few doses occasionally when well, will assure a pure and
healthy system. Women of the highest type, women of superior education and refinement, whose sane discernment and good judg-
ment give weight ana force to their opinions, highly eulogise the wonderful corrective and curative properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills Years ago, Pills were the medicine of the poor only. To-day the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to overcome
the common ailments and restore health and happiness to sick and ailing women, has convinced not only the working section of the
population, but the wives and daughters of the more wealthy, professional, and independent classes that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
l ills are Women’s Best Friend, and are absolutely Indispensable to Every Lady’s Boudoir.
I as
' - • J
PILLS
ARE A PERFECT FLOOD PURIFIER, AND A POSITIVE AND PERMANENT CURE FOR BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
HEADACHES, SALLOW COMPLEXION, LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES, PILES, PIMPLES, BOILS AND FOR FEMALE AILMENTS.
THEY DO NOT WEAKEN. THEY DO NOT SICKEN. THEY DO NOT G^IPE.


'
m
m
' r. J
'
■y,h
'
M
wmlk ••'
' otmm ' **
1 """
I f V
' ■
■
s?M®3Sfc»
■- 1
VS (.V
mm
i 111
sri
B M
I
imf.
mm
■
■
• , ; -VI
x
. • ■■
T\ AVv -| 3 - V'/<•» X
A Good Find"
as?
Regd
mm
>
/
- igBP .
'
IS
EAGLE BRAND
V
f f
Ask for our spcciarMincrj MickcwM make Ike Lest Bools for all Mining
Work in ike world. Our Apeciaf lines are Acid proof, Damp proof, Flexible,
Comfortable © %ar-resislin§. Hie wear of one pair will convmcc^ou . Beware of imita-
-tions of our Brands. look carciuly for ike ri# Brands. %b/dfoJiJktcAecj>cxj.
THE DAYEYHALLIDAY COMPANY LTD. Jole Manufacturer BRIJBANE, Q.


BEAUTY SUCCESS#
EAUTY is a very big asset in all stations and paths of life. In society, in
professions, in business, in the home, it is potent in making for success
As beauty more often exists in the charm of a fresh and clear complexion
and expression than in the perfection of features, it is really within the
reach of all, now that we have Valaze to give the one, and it lies m
oneself to cultivate the other. . . ~ ~ , j j._.
Valaze ! What is it ? It is a most wonderful skin-food introduced to
Australia by Mdlle. Rubinstein less than four years ago. A skin-food prepared by one
the foremost skin specialists of Europe, Ur. Lykusld, who enjoys an almost world-
• i rP niit'it ; on as an expert upon diseases of the skin, A skin-food which has been
tli, rona?ilv tested by years of use in Europe, particularly in Russia and Austria, where
SeT£ y are notedfo y r their beautiful complexions. A skin-food personally used and
tested by Mdlle. Rubinstein before she began to import it A skin-food which isnow
tiSed htthousands throughout the length and breadth of Australia and New Zealand.
A sitirhfood Which is absolutely guaranteed as the best to be had, not only in
tra Vakze a arid eleftr the muddiest skin. It will eradicate pimples
freckles and all discolorations. It feeds arid tones the tissues, so that wrinkles and
ba-iness and all such signs of approaching age disappear. It braces and nourishes
the skin until it again wears the freshness, the clearness and the transparency usua y
onR associated with childhood. All this Valaze will do, and more. A trial Will prove.
y Valaze is found a boon by men who suffer from sensitive skins or from blotches
and eruptions, which are so unsightly, and such a drawback in business. Valaze,
trio I*? most Dlensrint H/Tid soothing to us© rifter shriving. . . i
* Tllferfe dtfeftoW facial blemishes that Valaze will not cure, but birthmarks, m y
disfiguring growths, mousefnarks, &c.,are beyond its reach. These, .however,.can all
he successfully treated at the Beauty Institute, which Mdlle. Rubinstein has estab-
lished at 27/collins-street (take the lift), and fitted up with the latest and most
scientific apparatus and appliances. Red noses need no longer be a bugbear asl they
cttn be cured in from one to three sittings by means of Dr. Lassar s wonderful electric
invention, ttouble chins are made to disappear and the face to assume its original
contour Hollows are filled out by the new paraffin treatment; scars are made to
disappear and superflous hairs eradicated by the latest electric treatment. A course
of Massage treatment at the Beauty Institute will not only prove vastly improving,
but is so soothing, stimulating, and refreshing that it seems to work physical good
by resting, toning, and restoring jaded nerves, and stimulating the tissues and cucu-
lationoUhe bloody of new prepara tions secured by Miss Rubinstein m Europe
is a marvellous cure for Blackheads and Open Pores, a facial blemish, unfortunately,
from which many Australians stlffer. Those who suffer from this disfigurement will
be glad to know that its virtues are positive and marvellous. This preparation, com-
pounded by the famous Dr. Lykuski, absolutely removes Blackheads, effectively
closes all Open Pores, softens the skin, and assists in preserving a beautiful com-
plexion. Continual daily treatment will effectively remove the worst and most
obstinate case. Mdlle. Rubinstein discovered this treatment during her visit to
EurOtfe, where it is used by all the most eminent medical authorities. It js also most
effective for Rfefefciffg the hands in a beautiful, soft condition.
*
!f>
fl
4.*Z
m
m
t /**.
5-; *:
im
< j*
7Tie Latest Scientific Method of Treating Red Noses.
<§
a
M
Hf
'
a
- yg^m-
ft
%m
Zf
Treating a Double Chin by Electricity.
~,, „„ nW tribute to the virtue of Valaze is abundantly set forth in the
thousanclsfof letter, Mdlle RubineMm »“ S* qSe at
expressions of gratitude and appreciation, but here are some :
Newcastle Hospital, Nov. 21,1905.
To Helena Rubinstein,—Dear Mdlle. ,—I shall
be very clad to receive the booklet anrl list of
new goods. I must take this opportunity to
tell you that the Blackhead Cure is simply
marvellous. I had them very badly, and two
applications made a wonderful difference. 1
nr.i of,ill usimr it.—Yours truly,
FLORENCE McALLISTER, Matron.
Charlton, Victoria, Feb. 14, 1905.
Dear Miss Rubenstein,—Please send me
another jar of Valaze. My daughter has had a
rash on her face for years, and I cannot say
how many doctors she has seen. I heard of
Valaze, and she has just used one pot, and her
face is quite clean. Yours WJLgON>
Drouin, Gippsland.
H. Rubinstein and Co, —Dear Madam, —Kindly
send one small jar of Valaze by return. The
result of the first jar is far beyond my “Pota-
tions, and 1 shall recommend it confidently to
all my friends. Trusting you and \alaze may
good fortune you F. d s e ™ir B
“ The Nest,” Leura, New South Wales.
To Mdlle. Rubinstein, —I am enclosing'stamps
for a second jar of Valaze. lam pleased to say
it has already made an improvement in my
skin. -Yours faithfully, ELEMENTS.
Outtrim Park, Outtrim.
Otago, New Zealand,
January 2nd, 1905.
Mdlle. Rubinstein and Co.—Would you
kindly send me two large jars of your mar-
vellous Valaze. The small jar you sent, me
simply worked wonders. I have tried other
preparations, but they are not to be compared
with Valaze.—Yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. FITZGERALD.
Singleton, New South Wales.
Dear Miss Rubinstein. —I do not think I
could find words to express my pleasure of
Valaze as a skin food. It has made a vast
difference in my complexion, all the dark
blemishes entirely disappearing after a few
applications. Will you at your earliest con-
venience send me another jar.
f U lly, M. L. VINES.
CAPILIAJS
(Manufactured by Capillus Manufacturing Co., 205 Regent St., London, W.)
ee . .. •’ B •, f In coninoundinar, an incomplete mixture was accidentall.l spilled
mmmmmssm
packed free from observation. Price, 10s. Od.
VALAZE MASSAGE ROLLERS
, . , „. AT ,i„ almost from time immemorial. Jt is only comparatively
Massage and its great soothing and curative effects has been nown ° k t o convince them of its exceeding great values. For nothing is it
recently that Massage has been used by the European races, but it lias not taken i n th in<r G f the tired muscles. This facial treatment has
more in request thaS for the beautifying of the skin the toning up of the.complex.. ,n <? when this was fully recognised, the leading skin
been brought to a wonderful state of perfection, and, whatis more, it w ' Rol) w hj c h may be used in your own home. They have been
specialists began to experiment and test, and the result is t e won from Europe They form a very simple remedy for the removal of wrinkles,
introduced into Australia by Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein, ori or neck / The soothing, stroking or circular move-
skin blemishes, a double chin, and excess of flesh, or their use will tend to> rou d weakened nerves. They are inexpensive and work marvels,
ments improve the nutrition of the skin, regulate the circulation of the 1 (u| , direotions are given as to their use, free of charge, and Mdlle.
as to any special treatment, for recognises skin va
e, i Single Holler, Ss. ; Small Site Sets
Rollers! in else, complete, 10s. 6d. These Rollers will last you a lifetime.
Mdlle. Rubinstein & Co., 274 Collins St., Melbourne.
List of Prices of Valaze Preparations.
sk arsa £s* ss ”^1""
DfSS^'l^iSckhSffl’open I pire Sure,' Untied to cure the most obstinate ces,
2s. 6d. box. Posted, 3s.
There is an admirably written and fully illustrated “Guide to Beauty” Booklet issued by
MdUe Rubinstein on the subject of skin care and treatment, containing valuable and most practical
knowledgeregarding the complexion. It will be posted Free to „» r one enclose 3d. ,» Sumps to
Mdlle. H. Rubinstein, 274 Collins street, Melbourne.
lillI ill i»„ ll^ n sss>njra’®4 COIGnI her ECtlet?
all who want to improve their Complexion or their Health.
Name .
Date.
Address
.190 .
mouM. «■*«« « o'"'”*
tZt’jULY. °’ ZToOotoO to take to,, aOoaoto,o ot M*l,o. RoOlostolo: vl.lt to
interview her on all complexion matters -


m
/
If
\
L
n*
A
-
/
'* «• -~'«s*r«j;
<
Wz
imuiHi
V'**J •
mSMrnmmsm
B®
- ' ' - ,_J
»S@B^S**6SSC«H3*i
3j§|||3BgE^;'
®SS
'■ • A % . j
T A -J*>Y v
* - -
sey
: •■; : %
,»•--. - lV I
I
II
/A-A *Y‘ AS
■ rM' *
> .A‘ ;•/ A .1
-;.:A
p' %
■Ammm
y J -~We >+
Y< S
A */- ,? Avf A •>;,.• r.A
or\
/ ■
*
.
SB
. y A
/
• :
A v
SCvs
' ' t
*> <a
n
n\\ y
—. ‘J n
/;A^BS|
vSPFT; '
% »
. ef ,i
S2 E %_ I // .
r-TW’*
V XKI 1/j
Says the Man with the Hoe: “ Yer may depend they
ain t any better smoke than that there ’AvelocK!
99


r
it
Made in
SOMET
TO
GROWAfii
l
J «
I
<5
landra Station,
via Young, N.S.W.,
September 2nd, 1905.
16 “MITCHELL” DRILLS
ON ONE ESTATE.
Gentlemen, —The “Mitchell”
Drills (16 in number) purchased
by our share farmers on this
Estate have given every satisfac-
tion, and I have much pleasure
in testifying to their all-round
capabilities. Some of these
machines have drilled one
thousand acres each without
costing a fraction for duplicates.
I certainly consider the
“ Mitchell ” Drill the best on the
market, and strongly recommend
anyone requiring a drill to take
no other.
(Sgd.) J. MURRAY,
Manager.
THE- BEST MUST WIN.
I. .
No. I—Patent Remov-
able Bush for Main
Wheels.
A Bush that makes the Wheel run like
a buggy wheel.
Is 11 inches long, is self-aligning, and
can be replaced at any time.
An exclusive “ Mitchell ” patent.
This Bush gives our wheel the “pitch”
and “gather.”
We DON’T use a Stub Axle.
No. 2—The Main Driving Wheels.
A Steel Wheel, with a Wooden Felloe— indestructible.
The Tyre can always be kept tight.
Spokes can be removed and replaced by the operator.
Tyres, 3J inches wide.
Cannot carry up sand and dirt.
No. 3—Speed Device for Grain Feed.
An Absolutely Positive Spur Drive.
We change Quantity by changing Speed.
A Perfect Worker under all conditions.
3 Pinions, each having 4 Speeds.
Gives a very wide range of quantity.
No. —Shows the ** Pitch** of the
“Mitchell** Wheel (From a. Photo.)
No. a
No 2
No. 4«
12 Reasons why
“The Mitchell” is the Best.
It has a Grain Feed that sows all kinds of
Seeds, and does it with greater regularity than
any other- Drill.
It has a Manure Feed that sows positively ANY
manure, regardless of what condition it is in.
The Grain Speed Gear is a quick change
straight Spur Drive, which cannot slip and miss
sowing. See Cut 3.
The Change Gear for Fertiliser is easily and
quickly operated, has a wide range of quantity,
and is specially strong.
“Mitchell” Main Wheels are known every-
where for their strength. Spokes are removable ;
Tyres 3| inches wide, over Blackwood Helloes.
See Cut 2.
Wheels run on Patent Removable Bushes,
which set them out at the top and in at the bottom
like waggon-wheels. An exclusive Mitche l
patent. See Cut 4.
Grain and Fertiliser Tubes are made of Ribbon
Steel —indestructible.
Main Frame is one piece of Angle Steel, with a
Bed Rail of X Steel—a tower of strength.
Hoes and Disks are interchangeable. ‘ Mitchell ’
Drills can be used as Hoe or Disk Drills, and the
same draw bars do for both.
It is a Drill that is honestly built throughout.
Only the best material is used in its construction.
It is a particularly easy Drill to operate. Every-
thing’s handy. There is no complicated mechanism
about the “Mitchell.”
It is made IN Australia, by Australian work-
men, with Australian capital, and specially tor
Australian Farmers.
161
Inter-State Agents:
New South Wales— Jas. Martin & Co.,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
South Australia— South Australian. Farmers
Co-operative Union, Franklin btreet,
Adelaide.
Queensland —J ackson & Co., corner Eagle and
Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmania South— Murdoch Bros,, Hobart.
Tasmania North-W. Hart & Sons, Launceston.
Grain and Fertiliser Drills, Ploughs,
Harrows, Harvesters, Strippers,
Winnowers, &c.
Mitchell C£L Co.,
Agricultural Implement and Machine
Manufacturers ....
Melbourne.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
j-wiii ourew.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON ~ fr> ptw
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13 S . £ 3l 10g
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Svdnev.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON'& CO
111 William-street.
A mu, Ainu & Fremantle Agrnts : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agrnts : HENRY WILLS & CO
Agrnts : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
oON t LID., Creek-street..
Banking.
The Bank of ]|ustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and t he East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual |jife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £-3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and "’ithout restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.-. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled , .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M. L.C.
General Manager (or Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
OALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED,
rvy'* ——■
Capital Fully Subscribed ... JC4.000.000
Cap tal Paid up £ 1,000,000.
Reserve Fund .£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
(or Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
3xr. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
Oib“S B S„ gm*._ Gene.
Steamer
STUTTGART
WEIMAR
♦SCHARNHORST
*BULOW
Tons
504 S
5000
8131
8000
Ade-
laide
2 p.m.
July 28
Aug. 25
Sept. 22
Oct. 20
oiramers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
NKW S <TnT\r l .'. Y A Eve j' w° Ur Weeks > m ' a NEW BRITAIN
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to lIONUKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*WILLEHAO, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRIi\Z WALDEMAR. 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRIKZ sit: IS MU D, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
Twin Screw Steamers.
Sthe ie Agen. V s! UTY - F ° r f, ‘ rther ParCicU,a " “ pp| y
___[£|Jj_WANN & CO., 7 and 0 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
1.191 IT ICO. '
Capital Paid-up £457.538 10 0
Rkskrvk Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(In vested in Government Stock) 6o|ooO 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. D. May. Asst. .Mnirr.. W. B. Alford
London Officf, :
31 RUDCE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA 3T., LONDON, EC.
17 Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR three-weekly service.
NINEVEH
♦MARATHON
SALAMiS
A. Robb
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
Noon. July 21
Noon. Aug. 21
Noon, Aug. 31
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os Do £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
Till RI '-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dnhjety and Com pan y, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
A,
PLYMOUTH anti LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
13th JULY,
AFRTC, SITEVIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 fi
Only One Class of Accommodation'
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Ai f lication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dnlgety mid <'om yani/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
o C'EATVriC S.s. Co. & A.. (wa SAM FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY *AST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
wnr Ph M n S *' 7 SO A - 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 9.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send nr appvy to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
\\l
M
WINTER
TO
K. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fd
HOLIPAYsC
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Baron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
sfr
&
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
iixr.s.-w.
Iflont depete j).s|. go.,|;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74. SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAIL-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. . . £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Es<|., C.M.U., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Ejcj.';
lion. J. AI. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOW.MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Public Notice.
BahK of New Zealand.
NOTICE is hereby given that a DIVIDEND
at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on the
Share Capital at March 31 last has been declared.
The dividend on the shares on the Sydney Register
will be payable at the Sydney Office on and after
July 2, and on shares on New Zealand Register
on receipt of the Warrants from Wellington.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE NEW TURBINE STEAMER,
MAHENO,
SAILS JULY 9.
GRAND EXCURSION.
<£6o Including all Expenses* £OO
Besides seeing the fine Scenery of Canada,
the Grandest in the World, an oppor-
tunity is afforded of visiting the South
Sea Islands of Fiji, Fanning and Hawaii.
The Native Life on the Islands Is Interesting’.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
A. XT Gr. 6, SEP T. 3.
S3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPA IY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-streefc, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YuUNC. X
Wv>.«UEriFU|. VakUc.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030,
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager. a>j
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager. w
™! e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
TranMiping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala, July 11.
S.S. Wollowra, July 13.
S.S. Grantala, July 25.
BRISBANE,
MACKAV,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, July 7.
S.S. VVollowra, July 21.
/test and Cheapest /to ate to <} old tel tie.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE.STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, oia COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French (Government, calling- at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will he dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India, China
Bitavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7s’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London ami give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
The Commercial Hanking Com,pang
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,100,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Coiien, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.’
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
JiJEWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find ever} omror ami convenience at
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
JJfIE Largest and Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower lhanlicensed hotels. City, 1-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
(England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.


Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to —
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
DC-LIVE AGENTS WANTED IN .VARIOUS STATES.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam°Anisee(r
k Fop (
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
. Safe for Children.
TRADEy
MARK
0/5, AIMISE^
all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
J/ou get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 1013. .^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bail 3
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . •
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being' close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Grotand Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
m
rtr'iitil
UHy
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
lvilda Kai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE T Vi;l EE for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
and att'ectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free tf charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout tlii marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
inmiTM - what it will accompli 'h. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Kemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tlou this pap' T, I will also include a large
package of oth p r valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Wiite to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydney
«. *
■
1« V-
-,v
inimminnutAiiilrmuu
BRAND YOUR
SHEEP
WITH
PATENt
SHEEP BRANDING UQUIDI
BLACK, RED Ob BLUE
4s. Per Gallon.
(In 8-Gallon Cases),
1-Gallon Tins,
4s. 6d. each.
Kempton, Tasmania, sth September, 1905.
Dear Sirs-Tt is preferable to any 1 have ever used: the £ noN Senr
sheep, the more plainly it shows. (Signed) JAMhS HADDOA, Senr.
years
“ Coorawong.” via Coonamhle, N.S.W., 16th May, 1905.
Dear Sirs,—l have been usinfj “ Kemp’s Sheep Branding Liquid for a number of
rs. 1 find " Kemp’s ”is the best. 1 will continue us.ngAt. a _ HQWAm
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
„ „ SYDNEY (E. RicK & Co. Ltd.).
„ „ ADELAIDE CD. &J. Fowler Ltd.).
„ „ KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety &. Co. Ltd.).
„ „ BRISBANE (E. RicH &• Co. Ltd.).
„ ~ ROCKHAMPTON (New Zealand Loan
Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.).
„ „ TOWNSVILLE (Australian Estates
Mortgage Co. Ltd.).
„ FREMANTLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
„ HOBART (Win. Crosby & Co.).
~ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell &, Co.» Ltd.Jc
and
and
»»
WILL CRIMINALS ESCAPE DETECTION
BY REMARKABLE DISCOVERY OF
ROCHESTER SCIENTIST?
Man Increases Height and Cheats Bertillon System,
HOW ANYONE MAY GROW TALL
United States Government Official Offers Himself as
Proof that the Height can be Increased.
SEVERAL INCHES MAY EASILY BE ADDED BY
MR. MINQES’ NEW SYSTEM.—HOW
IT IS DONE.
(Special Correspondence.)
Brighton, N.Y., February 4. —At last, after
years of study and endless scientific experiments
for increasing the height of those who are so un-
fortunate as to be short in stature, a Rochester
scientist has solved the problem, and given to the
world a greater gift than Edison’s electric light;
Marconi’s wireless telegraphy; or the Bell tele-
phone ; for what can be more inconvenient or pro-
ductive of more discomfort, than to be short ? The
short man or woman is always at a disad-
vantage ; in business, society, on the stage or
rostrum. The great orators, statesmen, gene-
rals, presidents, hnv o •'•■rely been short men.
Mr. K. Leo M .ages, a Rochester
Scientist, m/m Makes Short
People Grow Tall.
Not that the short men are not just as brainy, but
their stature is against them. The great society
leaders are not short women. Tt seems there is no
longer any excuse for anyone being short, if you will
just follow out Mr. K. Leo Hinges’discovery for
increasing the height. Mr. Mmges himself once
knew the discidvanttig'es, the trials cind tribulations
that beset the path of the short man. He deter-
mined to grow tall. He tried everything he could
think of, and everything anybody could suggest.
He delved deep into the study of anatomy and
physiology. Finally, when he was almost
ready to give up in despair, he discovered one
of Nature’s marvellous secret laws a law
by which the human body can actually be made
to grow. Mr. Minges tried bis new discovery on
himself; it worked like a charm, and to-day Mr.
Minges is 6ft. 2in. tall, and as straight as an arrow.
He next solicited others to try the system, and
behold their height was also increased. He adver-
tised far and wide to get persons extremely short
in stature to try his system and put it to the most
severe tests possible. The results were simply
astounding. The following extract from the New
York Herald shows what can be done :
“Post Office Inspector Williams says the
Bertillon system of identifying criminals is
a failure; and he offers his own person as
proof of his assertion. Mr. Williams was
measured by the Bertillon system, and went
to work to prove how little use it was in
detecting felons. He was weighed at the time of
his measurement, and tipped the scales close to
one hundred and ninety pounds ; his height was
recorded at five feet two inches. Now his weight
is one hundred and fifty pounds, and he is five feet
four inches in height. The change was brought
about by training he undertook. The ability to
increase his height was the one thing that broke
down the certainty of the Beitillon system. It
was known that a stooping thief might learn to
walk erect; one with cross eyes have his optics
made straight; or a man with birthmarks be freed
from these signs of identity ; but when it was dis-
covered that several inches could be added to the
height of a suspected man, the detectives who
relied upon the Bertillon system were thrown into
confusion.”
Mr. Minges has written a remarkable book,
which fully explains the secrets and the science of
increasing the height. It tells how he himself
grew tall; and how many of his friends have done
so. i He sold the copyright of his book to the
Cartilage Company, of Brighton, and this com-
pany proposes to give away 5000 copies simply
for advertising purposes. But there is little
doubt but that the returns which will eventually
come from this substantial kind of advertising
will in the end prove very profitable, as nearly
every short person who sees the book will want
a copy, and there will be a perpetual demand for
it. Until the 5000 copies are exhausted, any
person who wishes to increase his or her height
may get a copy absolutely free, simply bv
addressing the Cartilage Company, Dept. 52 L>
Brighton, N.Y., U.S.A. Please do not write
through mere idle curiosity, as the book is an
expensive production, and is offered tree only to
those who wish to make practical application of
the information contained therein.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
corner LITTLE COLLINS & ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
r\ t 0 a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding’ up of same, and bpg to submit the following - lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left, full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price -. •• •• ..£3 15
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Uanimerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
rh'-ht modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge .to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. (id. Sale Price*o 8 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top actlort, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5- .
Sale Price .. .. •• •• •• ..£2 15 u
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. • • • • .. . • • • lo u
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO. ...
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carnage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
0
0 0
0 0
w)
$
SPIRO Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF 1 PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HA GIENIO
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria — Grant, Bradley &
Co Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia P. Falk &
Co., Ltd. , Henry Street, Fremantle.
TREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULfIi INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
JSTTES. So'd hi all Chemists.
“L. Crade”: St. Kilda (Melb.) is very
proud of its Poets’ Corner, where every street is
named after some celebrated bard or other ; but
I’m afraid some of the bards would hardly appre-
ciate the compliment. The other day I tumbled
into a narrow little street in an out-of-the-way
corner, where no one could get into it except by
accident. It was about 200yds. long. On one side
was a row of back fences, and on the other a,
large, open drain. It was Shakspeare-street!
Shakspeare the illimitable, with a back fence on
one side and a drain on the other !


Eczema Broke Out Also on Hands
and Limbs—Suffering Intense —
Doctors Said Too Old to Be
Cured —An Old Soldier of 80
Years Declares:
“CUTICURA TREATMENT
IS A BLESSING”
“At all times and to all people I am
willing to testify to the merits of Cu-
ticura. It saved me from worse than
the tortures of hades, about the year
1900, with itching on my scalp and
temples, and afterwards it commenced
to break out on my hands. Then it
broke out on my limbs. I was advised
to use salt and water, which I did, to
no effect. I then went to a Surgeon, who
commenced treating me with a wash of
borax. This treatment did me no good,
but rather aggravated the disease. I
then told him I would go and see a phy-
sician in Erie. The reply was that I
could go anywhere, but a case of
eczema like mine could not be cured;
that I was too old (SO ). I went to an
eminent doctor in the city of Erie and
treated with him for six months, with
like results. I had read of the Cu-
ticura Remedies often. I was strongly
tempted to give them a trial, so I sent
for the Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and
Resolvent and continued taking the
Resolvent until I had taken six bottles,
stopping it to take the Pills. I was now
getting better. I took two baths a day,
and at night I let the lather of the Soap
dry on. I used the Ointment with
great effect after washing in warm
water, to stop the itching at once. I
am now cured.
“The Cuticura treatment is a blessing
and should be used by every one who
has itching of the skin. I can’t say any
more, and thank God that He has given
the world such a curative. Wm. H.
Gray, 3303 Mt. Vernon St., Philadel-
phia, Pa., August 2, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in thi
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference; It. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of GO), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug 8c
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
Mailed Free, “ llow to Cure Disfiguring Humourf.”
Address, It. Towns & Co., Sydney, S. W.
: :
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
oiijfc of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
I'JE EMSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
'Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney
Sole Australian Agent]
Clean White
TQfyfh mean soun d teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
A FREE GIFT SALE
as
1
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5,000 Beautiful
Blank Ostrich
Plumes, 1 J in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
f 7/f| GIVEN
) ' ' AWAY.
Post Frde One Feather
Pom Pom Oiven Free to everyone ordering
tills month. Catalogue Free. Writ*
to-day. Send postal nores.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Dyspepsia
and all Affections of the
Stomach, the Liver
and Kidneys,
HEADACHES
and Nervous Weakness,
which usually comes
from Stomach Ills,
»# * *
INSOMNIA
and Palpitation of the
Heart,
£ Jf
CONSTIPATION
ARE ALL QUICKLY
CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like Indigestion or Liver
trouble, and nothing lifts them up
so quickly and surely as a course
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
WILL CURE YOU.
What thinking
takes out
of
Brains
must be
Put Back
by Food
Grape-Nuts
There’s a reason.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO KILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
THE VOICE OF NATURE.
(By “Mars.”)
Whenever anyone suffers from rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, backache, blood
disorders, anaemia, indigestion, jaundice, biliousness, sick headache, general debility, gravel, stone,
bladder disease, or Bright’s disease, it is but Nature crying aloud for help and saying, “ Your liver is
out of order ! Your kidneys are not doing their work ! Restore them to health, or your suffering
cannot cease.” Nature will not be outraged. So long as the urinary and biliary poisons, which cause
the disorders mentioned, remain in the system you must suffer. When the kidneys and liver are
fulfilling actively their appointed functions the poisons which cause the disorders are expelled in a
natural manner, and suffering ceases.
The kidneysof the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains
in weight, of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matters varying from a thiid of an ounce to
nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins con-
taminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning, such as rheumatism,
gout, lumbago, backache, sciatica, persistent headache, neuralgia, gravel, stone, and bladder troubles.
A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine, passed the first
thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand till next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows
a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in it, the kidneys
are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s disease,
diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes sugar
from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the
blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have lived
their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some form
of biliary poisoning such as indigestion, biliousness, anaemia, jaundice, sick headache, general debility,
and blood disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done.by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy, and wee
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of these vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s Safe
Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be
found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding
a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [12]
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
fds
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
—
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE I|3 EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Genu
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash StSydney, N.S. W.
EST? 1782
PHGENIX
Assurance Company of London
U 7 irii'i M«, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers;, WILLIAM IM.
LTD.
FARMER, Mawokr.
As corrected by Reid : “ Australia for the
Stray Aliens.”
“Hypo”: The vacant land around the
Footscray (Vic.) woollen mills—left for extension
of premises as trade increased—is now cultivated,
and a fairly good crop of oats is coming on. Mean-
while thousands of bales of wool are being grown
for export to the old world to be made up into
woollen goods and returned to Australia in a
finished state.
Reid, in his speech on the Address-in-
Reply :
It is no part or duty of the State to become a guide
as to the quality of particular articles of commerce.
State grading is an unwarrantable invasion of the
rights of the producer.
Yes, that was what they used to think in America
before the Beef was found out.
Instead of 104,000 male voters, the next
general election will witness some 200,000 adults
qualified in Bananaland. Plural voting disappears
entirely under the law passed by the Morgan-
Kidston Government. It is a coincidence that
Morehead, M.L.C., the biggest pluralist in Queens-
land, who was entitled to record no less than 61
votes, died a few months ago, just before the
one-adult-one-vote principle became law.
Democratic Richmond (Vic.), which pays
the Melb. Gas Co. £2OOO a year for its local
light, is inviting other councils to join in a
scheme for damning the Yarra and generating
electricity for lighting, heat and motive-power.
Figures given by engineers show that such an
undertaking would pay handsomely, but the Gas
Co., Hydraulic Power Co., and other bodies will
assuredly put in their spokes presently.
Reported in Brisbane that the recent visit-
ing Jap warships were surveying the Barrier
Channel, and some rude people began to suspect
our noble ally of sinister designs. But then the
class of person who says that the presence of
smoke in the house is only an indication that it is
a fine day Outside, or that the hens are laying
well, suggested that the rumor arose from the
tactical drill of the cadets ; and the incident ended
there.
It is a favorite gag of the anti-Sosh Fat-
head that State competition with Private Enter-
prise only pulls through because the State does
not make its own business pay the same taxes
as Private Enterprise has to pay. Yet the
Maoriland State Life Insurance Department,
which is confined to Maoriland, pays far more in
taxes than any office the same size in Australia.
If the A.M.P. paid at the same rate as the Maori-
land State office, its taxes would absorb 250 per
cent, more than they do.
Of the first Forrest Government of Wes-
tralia (Dec., 1890) there is none remaining in
State politics. Shenton (Colonial Secretary) re-
cently resigned the Presidency of the Leg.
Council. Sep. Burt (Attorney-General) is playing
at law and making money breeding beef and
mutton. Marmion (Lands) is dead. Butcher
Venn (Railways and Works) is resting on the
proceeds of selling deceased oxen. Of the Thros-
sell Government (which succeeded Bigjohn in
1901) not a solitary member remains in active
politics.
Of Victoria’s 56,000,000 acres 31,000,000
are held privately, and of that huge area but
4,268,000 are under agriculture. How puny and
futile are Bent’s—or anybody else’s—efforts at
closer settlement when those figures are con-
sidered ! And what a lot agriculture means in
giving a country increased population. The
4,268,000 acres employ 121,231 hands, while the
nearly 27,000,000 used for grazing employ but
21,089 hands. Closer settlement is far too slow ;
a land-tax that would force the big holder to sell
his land would bring population with a rush.
Recent Bremen (Germany) emigration
statistics ought to make Australia think. Out of
75,148 emigrants who passed through the port
during the first quarter of 1906, only one solitary,
lonely individual went to develop the great
natural resources of Australia. Nearly 71,000 left
for the land of High Protection, the U.S.A. ; 3000
for South America ; 283 for Canada ; and over
1000, who could not scrape up sufficient cash to
get further, went to starve in Britain. It is inter-
esting to note that among the emigrants only 5109
were Germans, the rest were mostly natives of
Slav Europe.
Now that Mr. Justice Simpson of N.S.W.
has decreed that cursing at a wife is sometimes
cruelty and sometimes not, intending divorcees
should ask him to draw up a few rules on the consti-
tution of cruelty. Some time ago a respondent was
brought before him, chiefly because of an occasion
when he had held his wife’s bare feet on some hot
coals. If he had repeated the torture, said the
Judge, it could have been regarded as cruelty ;
but as no evidence to that eject was produced he
could not free the lady. Has any one ever known
a woman who would give a man a second oppor-
tunity of burning her feet ?
Quite recently someone in the biggest
wooden building in the world, which same build-
ing struggles with the moth and rust of decay at
Wellington (M.L.), evolved the fearful idea of
collecting the “experiences of old colonists,” to
be published in book form by the Government.
Smart young writers are to interview the ancients,
take careful notes of their incoherent recollections
and their fish yarns, and do them into literature.
What a collection they will be, especially if the
Government pays for liquor for the “old
colonists,” and wakes up the hazy sea-serpents of
their dead past with rum !
“ Huffin-Gufiiu ” : Have had to spend
much time at Melbourne pier 1 itely. One does
not always need to look at the ships’ flags to tell
their country. Look, instead, at the crews. On
the German boats, Germans; on the Japanese,
Taps; on the French, Frenchmen. But on the
British, anything—lndians, blacks, mongrels, but
no British to any extent. Were I, say, a German,
at one of my native country’s ports, and saw Aus-
tralian ships manned by Chows or blacks, while
other nations’ boats had their own men on board,
my good opinion of Australia would not be
increased. What is Australia going to do about
it?
“ T.D.” : The Six Hatters lie is about the
most expansive myth invented since the days of
Sapphira. I met it in a beautiful new form the
other day in the brain of an English country
squire. He said, “ What odd notions you Aus-
tralians do get. I understand that the Govern-
ment out there is always in the hands of the
working people who happen to be most numerous
at the moment, and you have a Ministry now
consisting of Six Hatters. It’s very odd, you
know. But what I can’t understand is why you
people should want such a lot of hats as to make
that the most powerful of all the trades.”


COIIItIH .OfcOHCE s *.s"y.
These goods are just off the steamer from London, and are the
very newest things in vogue in the old country. We post them
free and safe on receipt of cash with order.
H 1165. Solid Silver
Toy Tea Kettle, for
the Christening’ Gift
9s 6d.
H 1164. Solid Silver Toy Tea Set, on Oak and
Tray, for the Christening: Gift, 12s 6d.
H 1166.
'Solid Silver
Toy
'Losing Cup,
•for the
'Christening
Gift,
5s 6d.
dsf
G 9393. Finest Pearl Set Bird and Spray
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 10s.
Write us for Free
Catalogues.
G 8256. Amethyst. Pearl and 9ct. Gold Bangle,
£2 15s.
H 159. Lady’s Penknife, Pearl Handle, 3s.
Men’s size, Cs (id. Best Sheffield make.
G 9183. Engraved and Silver-plated waiter, 16in. long, £2 10s.
G 9394. 15ct. Gold arid Fine Quality Pearl
Spray Brooch, £3 10s.
G 7680. Silver-plated Solo Steak or
Vegetable Dish, 14s 6d.
H 1035. Paste Set Back Comb, 8s 6d. Silver Mounted
from 8s 6d. Silver Gilt, 8s 6d. Gold, 16s 6d to 355.
STBP!
G 6714. Silver-plated Double Vegetable Dish,
37s 6d.
G 8144. Solid Silver and Pearl Knife Kests,
20s per pair.
G 6860. Cut Glass and Silver-plated, large size,
Butter Dish, 16s 6d.
G 7590. Silver-plated Cake Basket, 27s 6d ;
with supports, 30s.
G 9821. Very Fine China and Silver-plated Salad Bowl and Servers, £2 ss.
G 8125. Silver-plated Shaving Stand, with
Brush and Spirit Lamp, 355.
G 7591. Silver-plated Soda-water
Stand. A handsome piece, 20s.
m
1
&
KUTNOW S
Improved Eftcrvesccnt Carlsbad
POWDER.
Hirschcnsprung or Deer Leap
L?
dtT London
41, FARRINGDCN ROAO E.C
REGISTERED TRADE MARK..
!
*
Purifies the Blood.
“ Stirton, Southsea.
“ Kutnow’s Powder is most refreshing and clears the system
of Uric Acid, and acts on the Liver and Kidneys. I have
recently been very ill from Rheumatic Fever, and since I have
taken it I feel a great deal better, and I firmly believe it is a
grand blocd purifier.
“ A. GRAHAME-HARVEY. ;
THE INTESTINAL BATH
AND HOW
Kutnow’s Powder Cleanses the System.
The body is a form through which a stream of matter flows, or at least should flow. But un-
fortunately many people are greatly troubled with stagnation in the alimentaiy canal, which is
termed 11 Constipation.” The constipated man is like a stagnant pool from which noxious odors
arise, while the active man with clean intestines is like the mountain stream, bubbling with
activity. To insist on eating without insisting upon getting rid of the debris is to pay the
penalty of natural law. The food becomes poison, the body is not only like a stagnant pool,
but becomes even like a cesspool, ready for the germs of disease. The once energetic, shrewd
and brainy man becomes weak, vacillating, and incapable. He is haunted by a perpetual
dread of some impending evil—he knows not what. The blood thus poisoned gives rise to
imperfect digestion. Dyspepsia, biliousness, liver disorder, excessive uric acid and constipation,
all proceed from irregularities of the digestive organs which affect the nerves and iiiitate the
brain. Kutnow’s Powder clears the brain and renders the body physically fit. A dessert-
spoonful taken before breakfast will thoroughly cleanse your system, and invigorate you in the
most refreshing manner.
REMOVES ALL YOUR LIVER TROUBLES.
How to Detect
Fraudulent Imitations.
The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder
is strongly recommended by all leading
physicians for the stomach, liver, kidneys,
and bowels. You can obtain it at all con-
scientious chemists throughout the world.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S'.
Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
will then avoid imitations and know
How to get Genuine
Kutnow’s Powder.
Captain Barclay writes :
“Kirsteen, Cisbury Road, Brighton.
“ I am very unwilling to testify that things
have worked wonders, but really I cannot
speak too highly of Kutnow’s Powder. I
have suffered for years from constipation and
liver troubles. Your Powder has done all
that it claimed, and, more than that, it has
given me comfort. I have since taken two
bottles, and have to-day sent an order to my
druggist for three more. Its action is sure
and gentle, and at the same time certain,
without any distressing effects.
“ Faithfully yours,
“ Tv. BARCLAY (Capt.)”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW <SL CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.


[TheßestConsoleH
IS d
iar Pipe, j
Obtainable t
from all Tobacconists I
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to makg a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
Visitors To the old Country
Gloucester Road., Sou,tK Ker\sir\gtor\, Londorv, S.W. |
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON \
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
p/tf>
Z°va l
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Men’s Sac Suits a *
63/-
Met do to Measure in PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Mannfacture, and in
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and CO A TINGS.
for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
BIG BLOCK, Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT «
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES. BLIGHT, AND
RESTCHtS EYFUSHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL. EYE TROUBLED.
I\J EVER FAILC.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book :
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
WILL ANDRADE.« DOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Gujde by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated withoverSO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donblly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
RkcO'Eß, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, 1/3. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all de-
grees, Is. Cycle Building and Repairing,
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De-
cameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES
(Jill
,v
ill
*s*
{
V",
iS
Hoylb’s Card (James, is.
Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping,
Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man His Own
Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Confessions of a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., Is
3d. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamble,
Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories and Work-
shops, Is 3d. God and>
My Neighbor, 9d, p. Is.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200 1
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos,4/6. Howto Make Ur, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with
Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Better Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age ok
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State wili do.
508 GEORGE ST.
201
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
Free Catalogues.
BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE.
i •
dsf
# & <s?
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy ior Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” rr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mos* welcome relief
in a very short time.
£
❖
&
A
Britisb=Jfustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Pfjfp ArJ POST FREE, £1 per year,
i i ivc. utj n advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian wi-iters not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
\
anHirtraHN
%
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s .
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3 —Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing: Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORQ’s
tSS£X* cE °y \_\ F €■•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is Cd. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
ƒd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Eaoh Capsule bears the name Mr
(tan
Thomas Bracken, the Maoriland bard, lost
& good advertiser and friend in Dick Seddon.
Richard quoted Bracken so often and so freely
that it would appear he was anxious to boom
native poetry as well as native mutton. Maori-
land meat and Maoriland metres—the statesman’s
qpnd thought pf both.
“Hamer” : lie hotel nomenclature,
mentioned in Bulletin. In Thorndon (Welling-
ton, M.L.) there is a pub known as “ The Seven-
legged Sheep,” after a natural curiosity of that
nature, Jong since dead. “ The House Under the
Hill ” is. in my opinion, one of the most attractive
nnmes extant. It gives an idea of romantic sur-
roundings, but the house itself stands in sordid
Wpolloomooloo (Sydney).
“ Soak ” writes from a Sydney back street
at least, you go down the back street and take
the second alley on the left, and go through the
covered way at the end of the alley, and up the
broken steps, and along the dark passage, and
then up two flights of stairs with no hand-rail, and
then you find “Soak,” if he is in, and if he isn’t
in, you look for him at the public-house :
Wade’s Liquor Bill is a bute. Since it came in, Sunday
in our lodging-house has been a treat. Before the Bill
came into force all hands used to go out skirmishing
round the pubs looking for a drink. Now all the hands
fetch a supply in o’ Saturday night. Some boarder or
another wakes you up in the morning and asks you how
“ one” would go. Before breakfast two and three are gone.
During the day all hands loaf in and out of one another’s
rooms swopping drinks. One or two boarders are usually
back in bed before noon, and stay there. Others are still
going strong at night, and see to it that no liquor is left
over to spoil. The landlady spends an hour on Mondays
carrying bottles downstairs, and her hopeful son boasts
that he got four bob for a fortnight’s bottles. Yes, it is
a great Bill, and the drink is being put down—where it
was intended to go.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post fropi
Proprietors, 443 Bout ko St., Melbourne.
Consumption
Gan Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption.
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundreds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery—
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless < f cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself effective and speedy in curing' atarrh, Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles.
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
h y writing the Derk P. Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
668 Dixson Buildings, Sydney. Send no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return of
post, carriage paid,
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don’t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis,
asthma, pains in your chest, a cold on your lungs, or
any throat or lung trouble, write to-day for the free
trial treatment and book of instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
SOME
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
s
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young arid old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapteis
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life m its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d, Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Haxdybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, ilius., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man, His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddbn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
OF PLEASURE, lS 6d. LUNG COMPLAINTS, Is 6d. FRENCH
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with and
save your cash. Established %0 1 curs.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How, to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. , All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, bs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known.
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS.
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWM€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
fd
ITRiiiU every Knunu a..u ueuue .uunout
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and 1
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSSofENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE KEANS OF BEEF-CUBE. Will
forward the same, free o£ charge, to any-
one Interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
PIIiiLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
Cockle’s Hntibilious Pills. —*
“ I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
J“l\e JCarjcet describes it as —
“ Mr. Benqer’s admirable
preparation.”
27j<? British J/iedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
9
$
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd the AGED.
Bender's tood is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“ U.” : Re Tom Mann’s crowd and the
insulting interjections they threw, the other
Sunday, at a Melbourne Presbyterian parson. I
have often heard Melbourne Presbyterians speak
gushingly of the exploits of a Presbyterian lady,
named jenny Geddes, who hurled her folding
stool at an Anglican parson, in church, about 280
years ago.
Joe Cook broke out violently at Warragul
(Vic.) and said that the railways were a shocking
example of the evils of Socialism, and that they
would have been incomparably better managed by
Private Enterprise, Fat and co. It takes a bold
fool to blither like that in the modern world ;
but one thing about Joe—he seems to have the
courage of his weakness of intellect.
“Percy Malt by” writes in anger :
“ Plevna” (B. 7/6/’O6) gets himself quite heated over
the crass stupidity of that beastly fellah with the hoe —
or whatever they call their demned instiuments—and I
quite sympathise with him. They just do it to annoy
us ; simply won’t think. Why can’t they go to college
and work same as we do ? Why haven’t they taken steps
to have generations of ancestors surrounded by every
facility—leisure, time, and the best instruction that
money can buy—so they can inherit brains to think with ?
But, no ! Sooner than do that, they persist in laboriously
toiling for the huppah classes and, generation after
generation, cultivate the necessary muscle for their work
at the expense of their brain till their stupidity makes
me get up in the night and write heated paragraphs
about it. You’d think the son of The Man with the Hoe
would have the sense to rise and be an Abe Lincoln, but it
is an example of the irritating perversity of these fellahs
that he seems more stupid, if possible, than his father.
I have frequently remarked before on their thriftless
improvidence—how these contrary Blokes with the Hob
refuse—absolutely refuse I—to provide for their old ijge on
a wage of as much as ss. a day nearly every day, and now
owing to the spread of this cursed Soshalism they are
being as stupid as they possibly can just to drive Capital
out of the country and disturb the calm, cold intelli-
gence of their employers. I’ll get my half-crown cigars
and a comfortable arm-chair and doze over Plato till my
servants call me to dinner. I’m weally too distressed to
supervise my workmen for the rest of the day. It’s that
Man with the Hoe that has upset me.
An old timer’s tale of John Robertson :
“I was passing an out-station of his some 40 years |
ago, early one morning, when I saw a naked man !
running about amongst the saplings and shaking
them vigorously. Thinking it was a loony hut-
keeper, I rode over and found it was old Jack.
As he wiped the belated caterpillar and early ant
from his hair he snuffled : ' I felt I wanted a car-
mine bogey, and it’s too far to the crimson water-
hole, and I didn’t want to waste the hut water, so
I’m having a gory dew shower.’ Just like old
Jack. He never would waste water even with
whisky.”
‘ ‘ Edy. ” : Archbishop Carr, lecturing on
“ Religion and Family Life,” in Melbourne, the
other night, asserted that marriage must be
indissoluble because of “ the divine origin, the
supernatural dignity, anu the unity of Christian
marriage.” This leaves us one of two courses:
we must either alter our ideas of what is divine,
or tutor ourselves to believe that what is foul and
brutal is really beautiful and good. We know of
hundreds of marriages that are utterly evil,
compounded of inhuman cruelty and animal
viciousness. Archbishop Carr says these are
divine—they have “supernatural dignity.” Then
divinity can be hideous, and we poor mortals, in
hating it, may honestly claim to be superior to
divinity. We see everywhere about us proof that
marriage is what men and women make it, and
know that, when a certain man marries a certain
woman, evil results are almost inevitable, and yet
parsons and priests continue to insist on “ the
divinity and supernatural dignity ” of marriage.
Belmont (Q.) Shire Council recently re-
ceived a communication which made it somewhat
uncomfortable. Its clerk having resigned, appli-
cations were invited for the position, applicant to
“ state salary required.” The post was given to
a man who offered to do the work for £5O per
annum. Then a rejected applicant wrote the
letter aforesaid. He informed the Council that
the position was honestly worth £l5O a year and
a house, and ,that by appointing a man at £5O it
was putting a premium on dishonesty. He also
advised it to become part of another shire if it
couldn’t pay a decent salary by itself. He further
remarked that he had recently audited the books
of three shire councils paying similarly low wages,
and in each case had discovered defalcations.
Embezzlement is the natural concomitant of
sweating, and sweating on the part of shire
councils is invariably the result of under-valuation
and under-rating of property. The fact that the
salaries to be paid by the N.S.W. shire councils
have to receive Ministerial approval indicates that
an effort is to be made to prevent them following
in the footsteps of certain Victorian and Queens-
land local authorities.


ďf
m
cxfH
mi
VS
*nw
Mi
M
m
\fm
/!*'-
m
m
;-v.
V">
V?
<m
m
wm
%
m
m
, r
m. ■
wa
THE NEW TREATMENT FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, & INFLUENZA.
/RESERVATIONS of the robustness of the Swiss shepherds,
their wonderful freedom from throat and chest complaints
have pointed to some peculiar influence of the Pine Forests
of the Alps where they dwell. Although a similar influence
has been noticed in Europe and America, and although the
value of the pine-air to Consumptives and others of weak
chest has long been recognised, it is only recently that the
medicinal properties of the pine have been put at their proper value.
[t has been realised that certain species of pine have stored within them elements of
ox i.ioidinaij \.ilue as medicine. \\ liile this has led to the misuse of the name in connec-
tion with a variety of so-called “ pine ” lozenges used to relieve huskiness, but of not the
s igiitest Ic <d value where a Cold or attack of Bronchitis is concerned, the discovery of an
ac ual means foi transferring the identical pine essences to a tablet of convenient size
wit lout s.ici dicing any of their rare medicinal power is the achievement of modern science.
A small pleasant-tasting tablet or pastille has been invented, amounting to a wonder-
ful concentration of these rich pine extracts, which, as the tablet is crushed or dissolved on
the tongue, are set free on their errand of health.
These I cps, as the pastilles are called, enjoy the distinction of being the most unique
and also the most powerful and natural remedy for COLDS, CHILL, INFLUENZA
SORE THROAT, BRONCHITIS, AND ALL LUNG AND THROAT TROUBLES’.
They relieve the HACKING COUGH OF CONSUMPTION, and PREVENT LUNG
ot?wu NESS aft6r PLEUIiISY PNEUMONIA. Children with CROUP, COLD,
UR VV HOOPING COUGH derive the utmost benefit from Peps, which have the additional
advantage of being free from harmful drugs. /
ave } e P s handy is equal to having a Pine Forest in your own home ; for the aim
o this medicine is to confer in a less costly, more speedy, and more convenient form the
same benefits that come to the wealthy invalid from months of treatment in the rich pine-
woods of America and Switzerland. ~
V hen a little Pep (divested of the silver paper in which it is sealed and preserved) is
crushed in the mouth, or merely placed on the tongue and allowed to dissolve, a grateful
cooling sensation is felt throughout the mouth, and then down the throat into the lungs.
All the genuine essences which have been held captive in the pastilles are released and
permitted to bathe the tissues of the throat and lungs as the breath is taken in. The
fumes impregnate every inch of membrane from the mouth and nostrils to the furthest part
of the respiratory organs.
ge ™ lclde ancl ailtl septic of the highest value is thus brought into direct contact
with the diseased surfaces of throat and lungs, and the pleasant sensation aroused without
is evidence of the grand work of healing begun within.
While liquid cough mixtures are merely swallowed into the stomach, Peps are of more
real service in that their aim is to bathe the delicate air passages of the lungs and bronchial
tubes m their soothing and healing influence, and they promote sound health by repairing
the membranes that have been torn by the wheezing and barking of bronchitis or by the
hacking cough of Consumption.
. Cl ° r p;V ien ’ Dwyers, Teachers, Singers, and Public Speakers find them invaluable for
voice and throat. A box always at hand means a “ pine forest in every home.”
Heals the Lungs.
One thing: is achieved by Peps—which no
“cough mixture,” “bronchitis-cure,” or “cold-
lozenger,” which is merely swallowed into the
stomach can do—that is : Peps bring a powerful
medicinal agent into direct contact with the actual
tissues of the lungs and fine air-passages, when
these, and not the stomach, are the seat of disease.
Sometimes a cough-mixture will give the appear-
ance of a cure by drugging the system with
opiates, and the dose has to be continually in-
creased as the effects wear off. Peps are a pleasant
and powerful yet perfectly natural medicine. The
rich healing pine essences which arise as each Pep
is dissolved bathe the membranes of the nose,
mouth, throat and lungs, heal all sore places, and
restore health and strength to the whole respira-
LUNG HEuKT 6aUideal LUNGKTONIC and
Contain
No opium.
One important distinguishing feature about
Peps is that they contain no opiates, chloral or
any injurious narcotic drugs whatever. Cough-
mixtures and “bronchitis cures” containing
opium have often laid the foundation for some
deadly drug habit. Peps also contain none.of the
impurities which are present in medicated gums,
and none of the irritative substances (such as
ammonia compounds, tartar emetic, cubebs)
w ncn occur in many “cold-breaking” tablets,
the most delicate lady and the youngest child will
bud nothing in Peps repulsive either to palate or
stomach. Indeed, their action on the digestive
system is very beneficial, recovery from dyspep-
sia, indigestion, and flatulence often being
assisted.
FREE
TRIAL
Send this Coupon and Id. Stamp
to the PEPS PASTILLE CO., 39
Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. W., when a
free test sample of Peps will be for-
warded by return.
Tile Bulletin, 5/7/’O6.
sd
§
Cough, Croup,


9
r A
-U) i/iiy '£/
c
■a)
EVERY MAIL
Fresh Shipments of - KODAKS/* "JPRgMOg/’
DAYLIGHT DEVELOPING MACHINES, a.nd
all the Specialities of ** KODAK LIMITED,
i**chxdir*s the KODAK N.C. FILMS for all sizes.
V,
MB
"W
0
T3b.e New . . .
“ PREMO ”
Refle<stii\g
Camera
is a Revelation both in
Design CSb Mechanism.
The astounding popularity of the
“BROWNIE” Series of KODAKS
is still on the increase, and the price
of these favorites is any sum that
suits the purchaser’s pocket
FROM
6s. to 245.
Enlargements from 44 BROWNIE
Negatives
are a feature of the Photography of to-day.
BAKER & ROUSE
Sole Australian Agents for KODAK LIMITED,
PROP.
LTP.
375 377 George St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane ® Adelaide.
Business, Robbesy, etc.
“ Waikani ” : It is wrong to say that mummies
are found inside the fruit of tall trees that grow in
Thibet, or that they can be caught with the fly on the
Upper Irrawaddy. They are made in Los Angeles
(U S.A.) by one Fisher. Allen Kelly, of the _ staff
of the Los Angeles Times writes as follows of the
manufacture of mock dead men “ One of the attrac-
tions at the Christchurch Exhibition will be an Egyptian
village in which will be shown ancient and modern life
on the Nile. ‘Ancient’ will be mostly represented by
mummies, twenty of which are being built by Mr. Fisher,
of Los Angeles. This gentleman has been a maker of
antiquities for many years, but is tiring of
manufacturing dead ’uns and the order fiom
Maoriland is the last he intends to fill. The foundation
of a mummy, d la Fisher, consists of a board and a
plaster cast of a skull. The superstructure is composed
of burlap, cotton shavings, and glue. Curled wood
shavings, called ‘ excelsior,’ are used for filling. If tne
mummy is to be shown under glass or in a casket, Mr.
Fisher uses only ‘ excelsior ’ and burlap in building the
lesrs and arms, and strips of bamboo for exposed ribs.
He usually leaves a hole in the side to show a rib or
two—this is most effective. When the mummy is likely
to be subjected to critical examination, Mr. Fisher pays
more attention to detail—models the hands and
feet, and attaches nails made of cow-horn shav-
ings. Cotton batting, laid on m layers with
irlue makes an excellent imitation of dried and
wrinkled skin, deceptive even to the touch, Wisher
has been working in public on the Maoriland job
lot, and while so working frankly exposes the whole
nrocess of cheap American manipulation. He has made
tons of Indian relics, stone implements, pipes, toma-
hawks, war clubs, and ornaments, and his handiwork
reDoses in many hundreds of museums and private
collections in all parts of the world. His ‘ mummies
are exhibited all over the earth, and in the majority of
cases are cherished as genuine relics of a mildewed age.
In addition to the twenty mummies for M.L., Fisher has
made a nine-foot giant (giants always go big). The
material for a plain, ordinary mummy costs about sixty
cents, and takes fully half a day to make, but a giant
costs about six bob for raw material, and runs into about
two days in the making.”
* * * *
“ Jika ” : As to the profits of drapery importers
and such. My best girl, whose birthday approached,
lately informed me, in reply to a query, that she had
enough jewellery for the present, but had her eye on a
“duck of a hat,” at the suburban draper’s where
she helps keep the books. I inquired the price “It
was marked 425. 6d. last week”—l whistled— but it
will be down to 355. or so at next week s sale. I whistled
some more. “I don’t mind 355.,” I said, “but it seems
an awful lot for a feather and a bit of ribbon and a couple
of straws.” “You won’t think so when you see it on me.
But I’ll °'et the head milliner to let me have it at cost
nrice ” “she got it, and another, marked 455., for her
sister, at the alleged cost price—2ss. each ! I believe the
real cost was 6s. 6d. I’d just as soon see her in a shilling
velvet cap, but I didn’t tell her so.
* * * *
“ Barbara S.” : A girl of 15 came to my door
selling an instalment of a novel for threepence. It was
blood-curdling, romantic, absurd ; it was more dangerous
than a pea-rifle. Said the young thing of 15, “It comes
out every week, and each book costs threepence. When
you buy a hundred copies you are presented with a tea-
set of this design. Of course you can buy as many books
as you like. I have started, and I’ve had seven books
already this week. It’s a perfectly lovely story.” Thus
vou pav 255. for an utterly worthless story about a duke,
and get ss. worth of crockery thrown in at the end of two
years if you have the luck to collect the crockery. And
by that time 100 instalments of the duke have reduced
you to gibbering idiocy.
T’other Sunday morning, at Sydney Domain
sates three Dagos, who dispense chilled material to
the community, engaged in a fevered controversy.
A youthful pilgrim from Woolloomooloo was gulping
frigid refreshment which he had purchased from
Spirido, at the centre stall. “Looka out, sonme,
Sea tinka youa be pison,” exclaimed Hokipocus, a
descendant of Agamemnon, who manipulated crimson
iellv at the adjoining stall. “ Ba-a-a go eatathe celeree,
shrieked Spirido, “ no talka about my icakaream, you alia
jaw lika tha shark ; no berain.” Hokipocus, waving his
jelly hook with a dramatic air, eyed the knot of Domain
habitues that had assembled, and gathered himself together
for a erushino- reply. “ Gen’aman, he talk about shark,
when he sella tha feesh, he killa tha pore sicka laydee
with tha cronka perawn. Caraway ! He woisei tha
black man on tha boat.” Thereupon he massaged his
scalp with a dishcloth, said scalp having, the appearance
of being peroxided. “Looka at heem, hissed Spirido,
“he bigga fraud. He calla heemself Inglees, he dye Ins
hair lika tha fata woman who ses ‘ good niglita mea
dear ’ ” Just then another dark apparition unearthed it-
self and spoke. “ I betta fiva parnd my icakaleam is tha
best ina market, other fella to mucha strong egg, tasta
heem, gena’men, vera goot.” Then the audience moved
along, leaving Spirido and Hokipocus and Menelaus still
arguing.
* *
“ l ” • Health authorities in cities might turn
their attention to the nests of loathsome corruption for
sale as fancy boxes of chocolate. Wanting to gladden
the hearts of some youngsters the other Sunday, 1
stepped into a big city shop and asked the Dago "' charge
for three of the little boxes in his show-case. Dobablj
the sequel served me right—first, for trading with the
Dago, and, second, for not examining what he gave me.
The boxes, when produced at home, were fly-blown and
warped, and when they were opened a vile mass of pow-
dered sweetmeat and fat, writhing worms feU out. Ifw
similar fiv-blown boxes in the windows of little shops all
over the city. It wasn’t only the lost eighteenpence that
made me shudder (though I’m Scotch); it was the> loat * l D
aspect of .those gorged, somersaulting worms. They looked
as if they had battened on the dead.
«p». “No” the butter merchant said, “I
don’t let‘anybody make use of my telephone nowadays.
A man rushed in frantically one day, and said he wanted
to ring up a doctor—desperate urgency-delay fatal.
And he yelled into the transmitter that Willie s diphtheria
had taken a bad turn, and that Aleck s measles had
‘ struck inward,’ and that Katie was sickening with ah the
symptoms of scarlet fever. He had hung his overcoat
over a dish of cream, and his elbow was in a slab of butter
beside him. And the shop was full of customers, bmee
then, 1 tell everybody that the telephone s engaged.
Melbourne isn’t keeping its citizens clean for
nothing. After 21 months, receipts in the City Baths
have been £5104, and expenses (working costs, mteiest,
and sinking fund) £8315, leaving a debit of £3151. But
the baths, which cost £24,320, are better equipped than
any private ones were, and the charges are lower than
Melbourne ever before enjoyed. So the council proposes
courageously to make prices still more liberal.
“J. Shay” : Was witness of a pretty squabble
recently. The parties were two “ lydies ” of the palm-
reading and crystal-gazing persuasion. One came to
charge the other with attempting to secure her profitable
parlor by offering a bigger rent, lhe accused denied the
charge, and impugned the accuser’s veracity and virtue
and ' matrimonial relations. 1 roin the any thin- but
desultory recriminations which ensued, I gathered the
following -which, on the principle that it takes a palmist
to know a crystal-gazer, 1 took a note of. Lady No. 1
averred that lady No. 2 used her parlor as a cloak for her
real business as procuress, assignation-house keeper, and
agent for abortionists, and similar doings. Lady No.
asserted that No. 1 and her son worked a joint. The
mother told the silly girls who consulted per about a
foung man, a Orossus and hero, whom they would meet,
and explained that they should not be afraid to trust him
to the full, as all would come right in the. end. lhe end
,was that the son (the Croesus) would meet the girls,
borrow their money and jewellery, and drop them, binie
I heard a couple of butter agents squabble in a private
bar, the above is the most entertaining debate I have met
with. „ *
* » *
“Tav” : Bermo is an uncouth individual who
supplies us with an occasional rabbit. He met me the
other day (the meeting was unavoidable on my pai t) ana
proceeded to air a grievance. “ Ain’t you a clurk m one
of them banks?” he demanded in Ins rude way. I said 1
was. 1 “ ’Nd a nice lot of blanky coves y are too, he went
on, warming up to it: “I ’ad ’arf a quid give me lars
week, and 1 strolls into a bank to get it broke up. In
George-street it was-slap-up sorter place all marble nd
brass tittin’s like the shop where they supplies yer with
iced bellyache with a pineapple flaver. bpht that up
f’r us Arthur,’ I says to the bloke behind the fattin s. He
looks at it f’r a bit, then looks at me, ’nd then he says,
< This coin,’ he says, ‘is spewnous, nd snaps the blanky
thing in ’arf.’ ‘ Blime,’ 1 says, when 1 recovers a bit,
< I’ve a good mind to let y’ ’ave one acrost the jaw, s elp
me. I could’ve passed it on to someone easy enough.
The bloke says nuthin’, but gives the office to some joker
near the door ’nd I ’ad to go." It is regrettable that,
spite of my able statement of the case from an ethical
standpoint, he went away dissatisfied.
* ■* *
“Warrvm”: “ Silence is golden ” ? Rats! I
was silent once, and I’ve got heaps of silence for sale
now. It was at the annual sale ol unclaimed goods by
the Railways. A mangy travelling ba S. w ‘th s > sides,
was put up, “contents unknown, as alltthi n s of that
sort were in those days. I bid a dollar, and Joyce
ran it up to half-a-jim. “ Any ad vance on half-a-sov nn ?
Any advance. Going at ten shillin s. All silent at ten .
I was silent. “ You? bid, sir,” to Joyce. We went across
and had a drink. “Seems heavy,” Joyce said, after we
had sunk our liquor ; “ let’s have a sight inside.” Then
I knew silence wasn’t golden, for I could have got that
ba r and contents for 12s. 6d. There were two badly-worn
pairs of kharki pants, a tweed vest with a nickel Watei-
bury and bootlace watch-chain, three flannel shirts, a
nickle botile nearly full of dollied gold, and about 41b.
weight of specimens and slugs. The mint return for the
whole lot was £307 and some odd shillings. Joyce gave
me the odd £7; but, all the same, I’m hanged if silence
is golden. That 2s. Gd. worth of silence was all 111 want
for the rest of my days.
“Tim” : Be the “three card” men. They
worx in fours. One manipulates the cards and does the
spouting, and two of the gang, acting the decoymg rate
of simple countrymen, stand one on each side ot the
chief. 1 The third chap keeps “ nit ’’—also an almighty
sudden fist. Four cards are used, two black and one red
ace bein' 1 ' shuffled. The chief places these three cards m
a row then deftly jumps them one over another very
rapidly many times. This would be sufficiently confusing
in itself to prevent anyone picking the red ace (winnui o
card) with P any certainty, only for the manipulator
allowin' l, o-limpses to be caught of each card as he shuffles.
During theZffing the chief indulges in a lot of luring
platter, then makes a final clumsy pass, m which the pen-
sion of each card is paten* to everyone. Two to one you
don’t pick the winner he challenges. The trap is
not set then, and he does not wish to he taken up, but it
is his business to convey the impression that he is wd ing
fo het oil an v shuffle. Should anyone offei to stake ms
money then, f the decoy on the right side will hastily push
the proffered money aside and excitedly plank down a .
sovereign,' then pick the right card. The money is won
with such outrageous ease that the genuine pigeon gets a
ri-ifle suspicious and hauls off. There are no bidders after
the next deal. The chief turns round for a ap-
parently to see if any “ D.’s are about. Whilst hisljacK
is turned the decoy on his left hand whips up the red ace
and shghtly turns up one of its corners. The chief, without
noticing this, reshuffles the cards, and the onlookers
o-igo-le knowingly to themselves as they follow the course
marked winning aee. The decoy who won on the first
deafnow eageri pu"s down £2, and, going right past the
marked card, lifts up a losing black ace. In answer to
his groan of disappointment, the other decoy picks up til
mailed card and says, “Oh, you chump, there it was
staring you right in the face.” Here is where the trick
comesln. He doesn’t replace that red card but skilfully
substitutes a black ace marked in exactly the .same man-
ner The genuine pigeon confidently stakes his money
“ the next deal, and, lifting the marked card, finds to
his horror and amazement that it is of the Led bv
Under cover of the “ smother up and flutter causea by
a “ bird in,” the sharper who abstracted the winning red
card quietly picks up one of the black aces, deftly con-
ceals!, theii exhibits to the gaping pigeon the red ace as
if it were the card that he (the sharper) had just picked
up. The trick is then worked up again.
COAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a light head-wind is freshening, and you cannot
get the speed,
And the Old Man coins new curses that would make your
young heart bleed ;
When he asks the chief, like thunder, why the coffee mill
won’t go,
Then the chief calls down grim curses on the men who
run the show.
With their coal —call it coal ?
It was sent to plague your soul;
It might do for roofing tiles, or pavement flags !
But the firemen have to work it
(For it means plain sack to shirk it>—
You could get more steam by burning blessed rags ;
You could get more steam by burning greasy rags.
When the flames leap up the funnel, and the funnel is
red-hot,
And you try to think she’s doing “ ten ” and know that
she is not;
When the mate’s brass-bound existence seems to be one
long complaint,
And he calls on Heaven to witness that we’re spoiling all
his paint.
Then it’s coal! D n the coal 1
While the funnel at the bole
Starts to buckle up like blazes with the heat;
And the men called smart and able
Sitting at the office table
Idly beat a lively tattoo with their feet.
Yes ! they beat a curshd tattoo with their feet.
When a big head sea is running, and the salt cakes on
your face,
And the old tub rolls and pitches, and the screw begins
to race ;
Then your thoughts are far from cheerful as you watch
the flying foam,
And you know you’ve lost a Sunday with the wife and
kids at home.
And the coal! Flamin’ coal!
Hear it rattle at each roll
In the bunkers —- Ain’t the trimmers sweating free s
But in church with smiling chivvies,
And their pockets full of divvies,
The owners sing the hymn “ for those at sea”
Yes ! they sing their canting hj'mn “ for those at sea.
When the wind has got us settled and she’s doing less
than “ eight,”
When we steam up Sydney Harbor two-and-twenty good
hours late,
Then it’s “What have you been doing? Did you run
her off the track?”
“ Wind—and coal,” replies the skipper ; “ coal and
weather kept us back.”
Then the coal—call it coal.! —
Grins within its grimy soul.
“ You can get no better coal,” they say, “ than it.”
And the skipper, feeling humble,
Gets away to do his grumble—
“ I would like to know who owns that blessed pit—
I would give a quid to know who owns the pit! ”
So at six we get to moorings, and we leave again at ten ,
We rush away to kiss our wives and kids good-bye, and
then
We board the grim old coaster, dodging reef and rock and
shoal;
And we know we’ve lost our Sunday through the cussed-
ness of coal—-
Goal! Gall it coal ?
Still we laugh at Fortune’s dole ;
We haven’t time for thinking, but we’ve plenty time for
graft!
Now through the Heads we’re swinging,
And the engines start a-singing—
Then the cry of work is ringing fore and aft !
Yes ! the cry of work re-echoes fore and aft 1
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.


TATTERSALL’S consultations.
NOW OPEN
cttv™^P e ° r^e Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill w<! w T i '
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HTTPm'p
METROPOLITAN STAKES p “ UR “ LE EA CE, Victoria Park, S. A., Aug. 11...
MELBOURNE CTTP to • ® andwick ' N -S.W„ October 1
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
AlVtFORTAKTT NOTICE.
~ n , a l . wee P s on Races run after JANUARY 1 yon*r t *
®* T/cket, and 4(/. on each fOs Ticket .*,, ie { Government Stamn Tax will be nn ...i,
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHO > wn u h *™* 0re add these amounts to their remittances. P h
“Smite b he Sweep - .u“iT S Under Same as foj^e2™ 1*“ late . (, f 0RG ® , ADA MS to carry on the
C0 - d ° mg bUS,UeSS Wlth HOBART, or money m ay be remitted through lay BANK ia AustrllS * h , r0ugh “7 PARCELS
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3cl. per Parcel.
X
■ 7 •» V
s
5^
5V
V
5
T Cv
fV
<\
«*
<o
fV'
£>'
S?
&
dsd
fs
fs
fs
BRUNSWICK
(House-
hold)
SJJ
f
advantages of mechanical refrigeration are daily
I becoming better known and appreciated. It makes
possible the preservation of food products and
supplies pure hygienic ice, and forever does away with
the lodgment of poisonous germs which accumulate in
wood or metal-lined refrigerators, that become water-
soaked and soggy from melting ice.
The “BRUNSWICK” ICE MACHINE has a
refrigerating capacity of from 2001 b. to 10 tons per day,
or in ice-making capacity from 1001 b. to 5 tons of ice per
day. It is so designed that it can be run with any power
—steam, gas, gasolene, kerosene, electricity, or water—
and a half horse-power is sufficient to drive the smallest
...uc.cauujj; particulars and illustrations
J will be forwarded on application to any address
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
801. Agents ,or Sh.tplss’ T„Bn„n 5ep,,*.,,, c,clone 0n,.. & Fencing, . Hercules •ON Ang.nee, L
H7xBIT
HAVE YOU FAILET THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS]
DON’T OESPAIC.
liquor habit
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will bo destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for fo..d will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
given secretly.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
~ _ Ravensthorpe , WA., 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
e £ ect A d . (l "" e. I have no desire for drink ,
tn fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
0/ u ' Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free
TDe Dr. Langston Institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
iv^'-BOURne.
tobacco habit
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SAT/E nv atvtv nxrrcm XXUIN,
CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
mi . , LARGEST SALE OE ANY
Soreness in Uilriiin taken **"* r '? e are a,nazed afc ifcs wonderful influence.
fortinJln »l„ ® GI l ? Xper ' en l Ce del, B htful ;illd immediate relief ; and to those who are
r ng in allaying irritation in tlie throat and giving strength to the voice . mr i n
“ C °" §hB “ fi “ Ve lJr ° Periy tre “ ted this H. house sh „„ ld be dose is genera,, y suHicen,.
A—?TR3tlIt! OF COTTGWq *
that every wse.se has its commencement, and EXCEPTION to this B V LB .
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
18 1 was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying- at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did ail possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
ourrie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was'about done for
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suftocaxe a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of vour Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually' cured me.
I took another hottle away from the city with me and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out ‘and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G- Hearne Dear Sir,-I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when 1
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feehng of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as vom-
BronchitisCure.-Yours faithfully as jour
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland
BRONCHITIS.
T ™ AUSTRALIAN STORK KEE PER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY BRONCHITIS
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
li W V«- J . Hear "?' Dear Sir.—[ am a storekeeper,
Imnf.- ln this township for the last 20 years. One of ray
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
" U * r " f years and has been in the hospital with it
trier! R 1 - 0f - v ° ur va luable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
I le ' VaS sufflc, ® nt t 0 P ut h 'i n right. This gentleman is
1° -IT 8 ° f F' 6 ! an ol<ii bushnian, who has been in
these paits for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
med'cinefrom me. He is at my place now, and he savs
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
ot it y ou like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly, 1 P
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure I
suffered for 14 months with cough. It was so
distressing y bad at night that I could not get any sleep
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and .sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep bv me in case if
may return at any time. lam writing this” am sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY IJEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
u-iTh D n^, S i' r ’7 l ■ s " ffered from a sev ere cold on the chest,
ith cough, for five years, and during that time got
unHlTnt h i onl dlffe *' ent sources, but derived no benefit
unti 1 used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
if fc ih, 1 " 1 ' completely cured me. lam delighted with
and Jin'f h/S wonderful medicine ; does good at once ,
and can t be licked.—Yours sincerely
“W. TREMELLEN,
“Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
[PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes .--“After suffering from asthma for
- vears > and having- been under a great many
diffeient treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
homes of f! ei ' CU r • for A-sthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine,. I quite got rid of tlie Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he statesl am
the Wel l’ Never have the slightest return of
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
n „ „ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Air. Barham, accountant
Colhns-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
to othe hM 6Vei ' SlnCe been continuall - v recommending it
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had a very bad cou<-h so I
onehaW°of e it o S{.® °h y° ur , Bronchifcis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three dai s
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad oouWi
for the past twelve months, then used the mnaining hSlf
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think vour
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 33
,°^ l are v at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTOX ' V ‘
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,-I feel in duty bound to express
;inHl ud e first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
BiP- hf S ir!‘*fv, r ii* 16 ’ nexfc t0 i Cheshire, Chemist, North
},p» ht ’ X having' so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
fetter 1 P urch ased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure’ My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances wLo
suffei with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely, *
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNFN
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
i!.? ea £,.®! r >~-^ Cce Pt my testimony to the success of vour
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February- in Me]
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to try vour
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense rehef
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished
v leav l ng Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it is'
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi
cine.—Yours faithfully, a mec “-
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6<L; Large Size 4s 6d
I rfTfc . B|H SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR ’
W. G. H EARNS, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
BRANCH DEPOT- nf q . * OR Wf f D ED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
(luce: Ro. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 8a62.


MOUNTAINS OF GOLD
TRADE HkOgi MARK
lIJIMK
DISCOVERY
Fo
Couch Sjg
COLD|
CRO u g
CONSUMPTION
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE.
Throat,Lunos
and Chest.
WWMWM.U
PREPARED BY
Jg.
I SHELDON DRUG C? 1
U.S.A
Sydney n.s.w.
COPVM»Or«r CO
sf
According to old legends, exist in the fabled
land of El Dorado. But all the gold in this
marvellous land would not compensate you for
the loss of health or life, so likely to happen
as the result of the ravages of that fatal disease
called CONSUMPTION. Happily, this
dreaded fatality can be prevented through the
use of
D e SHELDONS/m
NEW 1
DISCOVERY^
OUGHS
OLDSand
ONSUMPTION
a positive, scientific, specific cure for these
deadly germ diseases, which is better for the
sick than all the gold in the world. It is a
remedy which actually destroys the germs,
vitalises the tissues, and builds the weakened
system back to health. It is a reliable, safe,
honest, and perfect medicine, which never fails
to do the work it is intended for. A guarantee
goes with every bottle. Try it.
Read the following letter from The Hon. A.
HICKS, J.P., M.L.C., Mayor of Eaglehawk,
Victoria :
Shkldon Drug Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs. —It gives me a great deal of pleasure
to be able to testify to the great value of DR.
SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY for Coughs, Colds
and Consumption.
I have tried it myself and found it to give imme-
diate relief, and successful in effecting a very
speedy cure, besides being a most palatable
medicine.
So popular has DR. SHELDON’3 NEW DIS-
COVERY become in this district, that I find in
my store that the demand for this line is so uni-
versal that I need hardly stock any other cough
medicine.
Very truly yours,
A. HICKS, J.P., M.L.O.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
Eatent medicine, or an ordinary cough mixture,
ut a scientific discovery that will make sore
lungs well.
To be obtained everywhere at 1/6 and
3/- f or will be posted upon receipt of
price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 O’CONNELL
STREET, SYDNEY.
0000
QOO9
0009
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
600 D
GOOD
SUNLIGHT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD FRIEND
ON
WASH DAY
311
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
A Dissertation on Travellers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f old battler can usually tell at a
glance what State a man belongs to by
the way he carries his swag. The swags,
too, are different. Matilda of Victoria has the
most taking figure. She is sft. or 6ft. long, neat
and slim, and tapering at the ends. Her ex-
tremes are tied together, and she is worn over the
right shoulder and under the left arm —much in
the way a lubra wears a skirt. The Banana-
lander’s pet is short and plump. She is carried
perpendicularly between the shoulder-blades, and
held in position by shoulder straps. Getting into
this, to a new-chum, is like putting on a tight
shirt. The Cornstalk doesn’t care much how he
rolls his; he merely objects to bulk and weight.
Generally it is borne on a slant from right shoul-
der to left hip, his towel doing duty for shoulder
strap. He chucks it down as though it was some-
body else’s luggage, and takes it up as if he would
much rather leave it behind.
I was once shocked to see Matilda brutally
assaulted by a Murrumbidgee whaler. Stopping
at a camping spot, he pitched Billy aside with a
growl; then took hold of Matilda by her ten-
tacles, swung her high overhead, and banged her on
the ground. Then he propelled her violently
across the landscape with his boot, unstintedly
cursing her in the meantime—for not being able
to travel on her own.
Neddy, the tucker-bag, or nose-bag, is of more
importance than the blue one, and by way of pre-
cedence dangles in front, mostly hanging to
Matilda’s apron strings. Billy sticks faithfully to
the hand that claims him. The exact time when
Swaggie, Bluey, Neddy, and Billy first entered
into partnership would be hard to determine. Go
where you will in the backblocks, and no matter
how lonely, dry, and hopeless the track, you will
not fail to meet the firm taking its usual walk and
going its customary picnic. Catechetical formula
of such meetings : “ How far’s the next station? ”
“What’s it like for tucker?” “Anyone died
there lately ? No ! Then it’s no use askin’ for
work.” And, as the firm moves on again, the
manager mutters, “Hard lines—nobody won’t
die.”
Nearly everywhere in country parts the term
“ traveUer ” is more often heard than “ swagman.”
It is applied to the footman, as though he were
the only genuine species of the order that has a
habit of moving about. The man with horses,
the man on the bike, and the men who trek per
medium of vehicles are just as much travellers as
the person who “pads the hoof”; but the bush
doesn’t recognise them in the same light at all.
Track society has its castes and classes, its rami-
fications and complications, like any other society,
and its lowest ebb is the sundowner. Too many
people are prone to judge the fraternity by its
low classes. The word tramp to them is almost a
criminal suggestion; it came from the Cold
Country with a bad reputation, and is seldom
used by the native born. On the average, swagmen
are as honest and straight-going, and just as worthy
of respect as their fellows who are in constant
billets. They are shearers to-day, drovers to-
morrow, and something else later on ; and as these
billets are not permanent, and good jobs are not
in the habit of coming after a man, they must
shift from one place to another, and carry their
drums on their own backs or on pack horses. But
the man’s a man for a’ that.
There are all sorts and conditions of men on
the track, from men of genius to harmless cranks.
There are sons of lords and dukes, heirs to earl-
doms and vast estates in England—men who had
renounced everything rather than marry in
accordance with parental tastes and inclinations,
as they tell you confidentially. Once on Mount
Browne I met the Czar of Russia selling needle-
wood pipes. He was travelling incognito , and
only revealed his identity to me because the in-
adequate postal service of the back country had
temporarily left him without the means of con-
fusing his enemies in vodka. The most amusing
are the loony gentry of Further Out—men from
other lands who have spent lonely years in
shepherding, or who made their piles on the gold
fields and lost them, having thus sustained the
shock of sudden wealth, and the more stunning
shock of sudden reversion to poverty. I met one
on the road to Eromanga, who was dragging his
open blanket behind him. Being spread out, and
loaded with his effects, it swept the road like a
street sweeper. Now and again he would emit an
echoing yell and spring into the air, upsetting every-
thing. Slowly and methodically he would gather
the properties up, take hold of the ends of the
blanket behind him, and start on again. “I’m
loaded for Kyabram,” he told me, and I put him
down for a broken-down teamster. On another
track I encountered an excited-looking man, who
was riding a brigalow stick, with a small swag
Strapped in front of him, and using his boot laces
for bridle. He was driving an imaginary mob of
sheep, and yelling to his dog to “ get round them
there.” The dog couldn’t understand, though
occasionally he would make a vengeful rush at a
flying grasshopper. Then the loony drover would
dismount, tie the brigalow colt up to a tree, take
off his belt, and chase the dog round and round
for splitting up the sheep that weren’t there. He
cautioned me not to go too near that horse, as he
was a terror to kick, having been mounted only
for the first time yesterday; and he intimated
that he was short-handed. I wasn’t looking for
droving just then.
There was a well-known Murrumbidgee whaler
in the Wagga district, who had been doing the
one circuit —embracing Gundagai, Hay and
Wagga—for 30 odd years, and during the whole
of that time had never done a tap of work. He
went down one side of the river and up the other,
the round occupying from 12 to 15 months. “A
man’s a fool to work,’’ he said, and he acted up
to it by doing no other toil than carrying his
swag.
There are men doing similar circuits in nearly
all parts of settled Australia. I knew six who
habitually worked a few stations in the lower
Buloo and Paroo country. But these occasionally
took work, and with the proceeds thereof had a
holiday and a jamboree at the wayside pub. That
is what they term “ going home to mother’s.”
The occasional swagman, thrown on the track
by force of circumstances, is of a different stamp.
He looks upon swagging as the hardest of graft,
and the last and lowest calling on earth. He sees
only the grim side of the battler’s life ; the gums
whisper no symphonies to him, the birds only
mock him, and the benighted bush is a horror that
gets on his nerves. He is no companion for the
old hand who looks up at his favorite stars and
says it’s time to turn in; and, making a pillow
with his boots and spare suit, goes peacefully to
sleep. He may tramp for months, tramp thousands
of miles, through all weathers and seasons, before
he gets work; but he never loses heart, and is
just as cheerful at the end as when he set out.
All men who pad the hoof do not carry the
swag on the back. Some years ago a fossicker
gained some renown by wheeling his belongings
in a wheelbarrow from an adjoining State across
Westralia to Ooolgardie. He had a mate, but the
mate knocked up on the road, and he put him and
his swag on top of his own dunnage, and pushed
the lot on to the goldfield. On the Crows’ Nest
track (Q.), I came up to a man pulling a brandy-
box on four wooden wheels. He had a good load
on, which was covered over with a bag, and on
top of that was coiled a tender-footed dog.
“Goreny grease on yer, mate?” he asked.
“ Th’bloomin’squeak o’this fakus is enough to
give a cove th’ blues.”
I regretted I wasn’t doing anything in that
line, and he deplored the scarcity of goannas.
“’FI could only drop across a ole gwana,” he
said, looking round at the forest of blackbutts,
“ I’d get enough axle-grease out of him ter do a
week. It’s not th’ wear-an’-tear o’ th’ axles alone,
but it’s a devil’s own drag when yer wheels ain’t
greased. Have ter make adoof it though, I
s’pose. S’ long ! ”
Coming down once from Glen Innes to Grafton,
I passed two newchums carrying the most awkward
looking load one could imagine. Their property
was contained in a chaff-bag, and hung by the
middle across a pole, which they carried on their
shoulders, walking one behind the other. A billy-
can and a kerosene tin (for boiling meat) also
hung under the pole; and, while one carried a
gingham, the other flourished a walking-stick and
smoked cigars. They looked as though their
mothers had just let them out for an airing.
Two terms that are often confounded one with
the other are swagman and bagman. The first is
a footman, the other a mounted man who may
have anything from one to half a dozen horses.
Though both are looking for work, they move on
very different planes; the latter is considered a
cut above the former, and looks down with a
mildly contemptuous eye on the slowly-plodding
swagman. They are rarely found in the one
camp. If they both make a halt for the night at
the same waterhole they camp apart from each
other, and, though one may visit the other’s fire
for a yarn, it is not as the meeting of two bagmen
or two swagmen. Apart from the perennial quest
of a job, they have little in common.
The bagman’s main concern is grass and water.
He is not always fortunate in getting both
together. When he finds water there may be no
picking there, and, after watering his horses, he has
to ride on to feed, carrying a supply of water for
himself. This is what a swagman calls a dry
camp. The swagman can get sufficient water for his
own consumption where the horseman cannot, as by
rooting in the bed of a creek, by fishing down a
well or a bore pipe with a tin and a few yards of
string, from station dams and tanks, and other
private reservoirs. He has no eye for grass ; he
doesn’t know whether the way he has come is
barren or rich in feed. Again, what he would
term good feed the other might consider insuffi-
cient for a bandicoot, and vice versa. At times
the bagman is led off a good road on to a starva-
tion track by the misrepresentations of the swag-
man ; his horses suffer in consequence, and the
gulf between them widens. On the other hand, a
brother bagman can not only accurately locate the
good patches, but describe the different kinds of
grasses and herbage along the road. This is
probably the most potent reason why the bagman
dissociates himself from the swagman.
But there are many more differences between
them. Apart from the fact that a horseman ap-
pears to greater advantage, can dress better, and
can keep clean, he hasn’t to work hard in looking
for work, and can represent himself as a stockman
or drover, or even a cattle buyer, while there can
be no mystery about a swagman ; affect what airs
he likes, he can’t disguise what he obviously is—a
hard-up worker. Though there is little difference
on a long journey in the daily stages made by
each, the horseman travels faster, and may not
occupy more than haif the time in going from
camp to camp. But he always has a horse-hunt
to do in the mornings, and if his horses are ram-
blers, he has often to walk the equivalent of a
day’s journey in search of them before he starts,
whereas the swagman has simply to roll up and
strike straight away for the next station. The
bagman, also, is listening half the night for his
bell, or he is troubling over a lame foot, a swelled
fetlock, or a sore back, while the swagman has no-
thing to disturb his night’s rest if he has not
inadvertently spread out his blankets on an ant’s
nest.
At times one finds the bagman and the swag-
man merged in one, forming a link between the
two classes. Two mates have a horse between
them, upon which they pack their belongings.
They walk themselves, either leading the loaded
animal in turn or driving him before them. Some-
times he becomes cantankerous when being thus
driven, and bolts, scattering the pack along the
road. As a rule, he is a quiet old moke, rough
and hardy, who plods resignedly along with half-
shut eyes, and sometimes goes to sleep altogether,
dreaming of the sweet wild days before he was a
slave horse—of evergreen runs and perennial
springs. He is an excellent judge of distance,
and when he considers he has done about the
usual day’s stage be begins to look about for a
camping place, turning off at a clump of trees, or
making a bee-line for any depression in the land-
scape that has the semblance of a waterhole. If
his wishes are disregarded for long, he is likely to
zigzag about, particularly where there is any
growing timber where the limbs might bump the
pack off him. His eyes show annoyance; he
begins to sulk, and his lip seems to hang lower
than usual. If he happens to be far in front, he
will probably lie down and roll, crunching up the
billy-cans and doing other damage before he can
be reached ; and another favorite trick of his, if
not closely watched on reaching a waterhole, is to
give the objectionable pack a mud-and-water
bath. He has learnt many dodges in his travels.
Of one-horse men there are two classes. One
packs his horse and walks himself, in the same
fashion as the mates. His horse is mostly too
tired to take liberties, being a cheap old screw that
takes six months to fatten and gets dog-poor in a
week, and it is owned by a man who is more used
to walking than riding, but who objects to making
a beast of burden of himself. The other man
packs his horse and rides him too. When he is
mounted you can see little more than the head,
legs and tail of his animal. He has a small swag
strapped in front, but most of his dunnage is
carried in a wallet thrown across behind the
saddle. His quart-pot and meat billy hang at the
sides, his water-bag is suspended against the
horse’s chest, and the bell and hobbles are
strapped round its neck. The animal is often a
sturdy half-draught, more common in a spring cart
than on a cattle camp. It is never put out of a
walk, and is almost as omnivorous as the goat of
backbloclc towns. If grass, herbage, or other
fodder is unprocurable, it shares the owner’s
damper; in fact, it would leave its natural food
for a few mouthfuls of dry damper or bread, and
it thrives well on the diet. The footman, when
he has got his ration bag dusted, solicits scrag
ends of meat for his dog ; but the one-horse man
asks for any pieces of stale bread that may be on
hand as a treat for the moke.
The bagman proper has at least two horses; one
he uses as a hack, and the other as a packer. He
may be a shearer, drover, rouseabout, or general
bush worker, and has usually a very fair turnout.
The bagman is mostly without pack-bags, and the
pack-saddle is often an old riding saddle (some-
times an overlander), the pack being rolled into a
long bundle, and laid across the seat, and strapped
down to the sides. His billycans, which are mostly
rugged, arestrapped on top, and ordinary parapher-
nalia are distributed about on the encircling straps.
His equipment comprises a yard or two of oilcloth
as an outside covering for his pack and founda-
tion for his nap, a small tent or fly, a tomahawk,
a gun or rifle, and sometimes a dish. He shoes
his own horses, and is provided with a good
shoeing tackle for the purpose. In districts
where flies are bad, his horses are fitted with
leather protectors or netted veils. One of these
animals is sometimes a cutter —a racehorse in dis-
guise ; and at stations, wayside pubs, drovers’
camps, and shearing sheds, he occasionally pulls
off a match for a pound or a fiver. His best
fields are the little towns. The town swell ridi-
cules the idea of his flash hack being put down by
the “ old pack horse,” so a match is easily made,
and side wagers laid as well. The packer, look-
ing his roughest for the occasion, and moving
slowly and sleepily about, becomes suddedly elec-
trified on facing the starter, and to the surprise of
everybody streaks away to the front like a second
Carbine. But the owner doesn’t call him Car-
bine ; he calls him Mulga Bill, or something
equally appropriate.
He contrives to be handy for the grass-fed races,
and having knocked about the neighborhood for
awhile and got his harmless-looking pair known
to the officials (who are publicans and store-
keepers), and having entered them when appa-
rently drunk, he is rewarded for his trouble by
getting Mulga Bill light-weighted for the Koo-
kooboorara Jockey Club Handicap. Then he
goes a few miles out and assiduously trains Bill
for the event. When the regulations require Bill
to be imprisoned in the club’s paddock for a week
or two, he is trained by moonlight along the main
stock route, and has the nosebag slipped on him
in quiet corners. Bill is used to substitutes and
rough preparations, and very often springs a sur-
prise on the public when the races come off.
There is also the man with the spare horse,
which might be anything from an encumbrance to
a flyer—mostly an encumbrance. He either drives
it and the pack-horse before him, or leads the
packer and lets the spare nag follow. It is useful
at times ; it comes handy to ride up to town while
the others are spelling, but it is, nevertheless, a
nuisance. It is always running off the road to
feed, or to get a drink ; it turns down the creeks
and gullies, and trots over to any strange horses
that appear. When it is being driven it reaches
the gates first, and turns down the fence, and
when it is following it is usually a mile behind
when the gate is reached, and there is either a
long wait or the owner has to go after it. It is
often a colt and is broken in on the road to carry
a pack, and generally succeeds in breaking up the
pack during the process. The man, if he has no
money and desires to tap the stations for rations,
takes the precaution to hide his stock, and goes
up to the homestead on foot, perhaps carrying a
readied-up swag and specially dressed for th»
occasion. When he has got his supply he makes
a wide detour to escape observation, and turns
out where his bells won’t be heard by the station
people.
Some men travel with several horses, all of the
average stamp of station hacks. There are usually
one or two flighty ones among them, but the
majority are quiet and staunch. These travellers
are cattle men, scalpers, brumby-hunters, buffalo-
shooters, or prosperous diggers. They have first-
class riding gear, perhaps a couple of pack-
saddles each, with complete fittings. They pay
their way wherever they go, and never stoop to
cadging at stations. Some of them employ a
blackboy (or a black woman dressed as a boy) to
look after the horses. This is common in the
west and north-west of Queensland. Travelling
to them is like a holiday, and when several meet
in a camp they enjoy a merry evening. The
packs will produce two or three different musical
instruments, and music, songs, recitations and
yarning alternate till late at night, while a dozen
horse bells are jingling in the bush around them.
Finally, there are those who travel about with
buggy and pair, in waggonettes, light spring
carts, tilted carts, spiders, sulkies, and other
traps (not to mention the huge contingent spin-
ning around on bikes). These are mostly big-gun
shearers, shearers’ cooks, drovers and bush con-
tractors. Most of them, as a rule, have a definite
destination, while the other travellers seldom
know where they are going to pull up. No notice
is taken of even rouseabouts driving up to a shed
in spanking turn-outs at shearing time, and
asking for a job in starched shirts and stand-up
collars j but if one clattered up in his buggy at
other times and asked for ordinary station work,
he would be regarded as an escaped lunatic. So
the buggy, like the bike and the horse, must be
planted among the bushes.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


PROOF POSITIVE
N)
vi
I
ll
tl
l
H
o
“ The Testimony of Your
Neighbour is Conclusive.**
FROM
SYDNEY.
Permanent Cures of Urinary Disorders,
Bladder Weakness, Gravel, and Other
Kidney and Bladder Diseases.
Proof again from Sydney—proof which you
can put to the test .
Mr. Alfred Hail-sine, of “Farnley Cot-
tage,” Cowles-road, Mosman, retired engine-
driver, says:—“l wish you to publish the
following statement about Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, for the benefit of people suffer-
ing from kidney and bladder trouble. For
many years my wife was a sufferer with the
kidneys and bladder. The symptoms were,
striking, aching pains in the back.
Ten years ago, when in England, she
consulted a doctor in Leeds; he failed to
do herany good, and remarked to her, ‘ There
is something about your case that I cannot
understand.’ (I mention this fact because
kidney trouble is often misunderstood.) On
our return to Sydney, she went to one of the
leading doctors ; he said she was suffering
from catarrh of the bladder (commonly called
inflammation of the bladder.) On exam-
ining the urine, he said it contained uric
acid, and the difficulty would be to get this
out of the system. He prescribed for her,
but his medicine did her no good ; in fact,
it made her worse. She had several other
prescriptions made up, and used various
remedies, but she was getting worse all the
time. She was scarcely able to get about,
and would be confined to her bed for days
at a time. On one occasion she fell down
on the verandah, when the pain struck her
suddenly. A book about Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills had been left at our cottage.
I carefully read the testimony of people
who had been cured by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills of kidney and bladder trouble,
and advised her to use this remedy. She
commenced to use them in January, 1904.
She was very bad at the time, but Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills soon began to make
an improvement in her health, by driving
out the sediment and other impurities
through the secretions in a natural way
(the doctor’s medicine had stopped this
sediment). Before long she was able to
walk about, ‘ the backache’ was cured,
and the secretions regulated ; thus she was
not disturbed at night. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done her a wonderful
power of good; in fact, made har a new
woman.
■ ‘ Seeing how Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills had benefitted my wife, and not feel-
ing quite right myself, having painful
symptoms of urinary trouble, and difficulty
in passing the urine, I commenced to take
them. They proved just as good in my case,
by regulating the secretions, and expelling
the sediment and other impurities. I have
kept the sediment passed with the urine
while my wife and I were using the pills,
and it has become solidified, and weighs over
20 ounces. Everyone knows that if this
were left in the body it would form a stone
in the bladder, which would necessitate an
operation, and probably mean death. There
is no doubt that if we had not taken the pills
when we did there would have been serious
trouble later on. We both feel better now
than we have felt for ten years. My wife
and I between us have used 100 boxes of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; then, of
course, her case was severe, and of long
standing. After reading this statement, if
any sufferer would like to see me personally,
I shall be pleased to give them full particu-
lars if they call at ‘ Earnley.’ I have proved
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills contain
the healing properties they are represented
to have, and know that if taken according
to directions, they will cure kidney and
bladder troubles. ”
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills are for sale by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s 9d per box (six boxes 15s 3d), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
\
WYALYKJ
YAmWWXS;
SERIOUS CHANCES
ARE TAKEN OF NEGLECTING A
SIMPLE CASE OF PILES.
Any person takes serious chances in neg-
lecting an attack of piles. This ailment has
a tendency to become chronic, and there is
also a further tendency to ulceration and
forming of fistula, which we know are most
difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of piles,
whether itching or protruding, is Doan’s
Ointment. In using it, there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many cures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. It enjoys a greater
demand and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other pile remedy ever placed upon
the market.
Mrs. James Mahony, 11 Healy-street,
Paddington, this city, states: “Mr. Mahony
has been a dreadful sufferer with piles. The
ailment started fourteen years ago, through
sitting on a hot anvil. First it was itching
piles, but gradually it developed into pro-
truding and bleeding piles also. I think
that he had this ailment in its worst form.
He sulfered terribly at times. He was
ready to use any remedy he could hear of as
good for this complaint, but though he used
a great many, got no relief until he used
Doan’s Ointment. We had seen this oint-
ment advertised, but he did not try it until
a friend (who had been cured by it) told him
it was ‘ the only cure.’ I am very pleased
to inform you that the first application gave
relief, and a further treatment gave him a
complete cure. lam sorry that he is not at
home to give you fuller particulars, but I
need scarcely tell you that he is very enthusi-
astic about this preparation.”
It cannot be repeated too often that
Doan’s Ointment will cure Itching Piles.
It will cure them absolutely. But do not
take the manufacturer’s word for this —ask
Mr. Mahony. He knows, for it cured him,
and he lives here in Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof? Could
there be better ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Remember the Name—DOAN’S.
The Prophecy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD a Friend ; the world can show
No gentler, truer man;
I had a Friend, long years ago,
In times Bohemian,
When Life was all with light aglow,
And gold threads Clotho span.
The thirst divine that comes to parch
The heart of Youth had we;
We meant to Helicon to march,
And bathe in poesy,
And walk upon the rainbow’s arch—
When we had found the key.
And then the woman came. He said :
“ Be wise, and let her be,
Or you will eat of Sorrow’s bread
And sup with Poverty,
And lay in Hunger’s lap your head ! ”
’Twas thus he spake to me.
When all the early glamor fades,
And all the rose and gold,
And Love no longer masquerades
In myrtles, as of old
Then you will know that he who trades
With rings is—bought and sold.
“ A Woman at your hearth will sit,
And hold your thoughts in pawn,
And to her own small mind will fit
Your dreams of Dusk and Dawn,
And sneer at all your shafts of wit—
Till all your wit is gone.
“Your Home will be a little Hell,
Wherein, till life is o’er,
Your doom will be to duly dwell;
And at its squalid door
A horde of famished wolves will yell
And want your coin or gore.
" And when the children come to you—
The sweet expected fruits
Of wedlock—you will sorely rue
Your come-down to the brutes.
When you must work from Black to Blue
To purchase socks and boots.
“For they will bang on pot and pan,
Their yells your brain will craze ;
The Muse her bullocks will in-span.
For she loves quiet days,
And you will walk, a harassed man,
On grim, unlovely ways.”
And yet I married, spite of all
The good advice he gave ;
His warnings all went to the wall.
His omens to the wave.
And I became a serf—a thrall—
A Benedict—a slave.
Yes, he spake true ; a Woman sits
And holds my thoughts in pawn,
And at the fireside sings and knits,
And even dares to yawn
When I exert my brilliant wits
Which, she observes, are gone.
O, when you know a woman well—
Or when you think you do—
And by her pursed lips you can tell
She slyly laughs at you,
Then Happiness does with you dwell—
If you are laughing, too.
The children came when they were due—
The sweet expected fruits
Of wedlock and-—his word was true —
I love the little brutes ;
And I must work from Black to Blue
To buy them socks and boots.
My Home it is a little Hell;
The wolves are at the door;
They gnash their teeth, and snarl and yell—
The children yell encore / . . .
Yet I could wish therein to dwell
A thousand years and more.
I have a friend ; the world can show
No gentler, truer man ;
I have a friend of years ago,
The years Bohemian,
When Life was all with light aglow,
And gold threads Clotho span.
My children sit upon his knee ;
He sits my hearth beside.
He laughs to scorn my poverty—
Which cannot be denied—
And says, that childless man, that he
With me shall still abide.
CREEVE ROE.
Smithson’s Snake,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALONG course of back-country whisky
had given Smithson—one of the smartest
operators in the service a touch of
“ snakes.”
His amazing and original conceptions won the
admiration of the whole office staff, and kept
things lively, until a five minutes’ death struggle
with an imaginary python, wearing a red hat and
gaiters (it proved to be the machine tape that had
somehow got round him), woke the “ old man ” up
to the fact that Smithson wanted a holiday.
The department, agreeing with the old man,
decided, in its wisdom, to send Smithson to The
Bridge, a pub.-store-post-office-all-in-one township
back o’ Bourke. And thither, when he came out
of the hospital, went Smithson.
The wonderful sagacity of the department in
sending a man with his failing to a place where he
had to board at the pub., practically work there,
and be invited to comeanaveadrink every time he
sold a penny stamp or sent a postal note to
iatts., was calculated to burst up the best in
tentions ever made. The schoolmaster (an ama-
teur naturalist, who preserved his specimens in
spirits when sober, and drank the bottles dry when
on a jag), and Jack the blacksmith (who had to
hold his glass on the edge of the counter with both
hands and tilt it into himself on account of the
“jumps”), in solemn conclave advised Smithson
to stick to brandy and not mix his drinks.
Sanders, the maintenance man, advised schnapps.
Old Toby, the cook, went strong on rum. As he
said, “ If yer puts a bit of meat inter brandy or
schnapps, it’ll eat it away, but if yer puts it inter
rum, it’ll preserve it.”
Everything went right till the races. Then,
the morning after the settling, the whole town
turned out to see Smithson (who had gone for a
swim in the dam) valiantly slaying a tree-root,
which he took for a boa-constrictor. It was
agreed on all sides that Smithson had grit, and
that no drunk in the country had ever gone for a
reptile of that size more courageously. Smithson
came back to the town with very few clothes on,
but with the light of success in his eye.
From that day, Smithson saw snakes almost
daily, and nightly as well. Occasionally he would
go steadily for a day or two, and see none ; then,
may be, when sending a message, he would drop
the handle with a yell and throw Government
property at a fancied reptile. Gradually, how-
ever, it seemed to dawn on him that he was the
laughing-stock of the place. Travellers used to
drop in for a stamp, just to have a look at him.
Once he heard the landlord describing his
ophidians to some callers (with a pride in his
voice), as if he were an important local institution.
The storekeeper from Pelalie, who was a
Christian Scientist, came in for a few days and
told Smithson to believe there were no snakes,
and if he believed hard enough there would be
none. Smithson was much impressed, and as he
knew (in his lucid moments) they were only
hallucinations, he tried this scheme.
There was one particular snake—a brown one
with a yellow belly and horn-rimmed spectacles—
that would pei'sist in coiling round the trans-
mitter, and in getting amongst the brushes and
bottles on the dressing-table. Sometimes this
apparition would get in the stamp drawer. Then
he put a great strain on Smithson’s Christian
Science belief, but the belief still answered pretty
well.
One night Smithson found him in the bed.
Having had a few drinks after tea, he wasn’t
feeling very scared, so looking at the snake, he
spoke: “Now, look here, old chap, this is going
it a bit too strong, you know. I’ve stood you in
most places, but, blow me, this is one too many.
Anyhow” (suddenly recollecting), “it doesn’t
matter, because you’re not really there, you
know. You look real enough, but you’re not.”
The wicked eyes glittered as Smithson took his
pyjamas from the pillow. Still muttering to him-
self “ you’re not there, you know,” he sat down
on the bed.
Smithson died an hour or two afterwards. His
last intelligible remark was that the snake wasn’t
real, and was itself well aware of the fact. Smith-
son’s first and last genuine snake was killed out-
side by a committee of influential drunks. It was
agreed at the funeral that Smithson enjoyed hard
luck, and the maintenance man was firm in his
belief that if the deceased had taken schnapps
regularly his fate would have been different.
ALEC ZANDER.
The ’Orse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT whs a gradual horse but honest, and as
it leaned its tired old head against the
verandah post, and gazed sadly at the
window marked “ Bar,” it looked like an animal
with a great sorrow.
A liar’s shrill voice rang out above the babel of
the crowded bar, and the horse pricked up its
ears and stood with tail inert, while a fly did a
fast two furlongs down its spine.
“Yes,” said the Voice, “I do mean it! Betcher
quid, then. Yes, that ’orse outside! By gosh , I
tell yer 1 Yes, ’e did it in one-fifty-three ! Yes,
't did! Well, I’ll betcher quid! ”
“ Y’ ’aven’t goiter quid.”
“ I’ll betcher quid ! ”
“Wot erbout ? ”
“ That there ’orse —the gray mare.”
“ Th’ nightmare! ”
There was a roar of laughter, and the old horse
shuddered.
Above the din the liar’s voice shouted defiantly:
“I’ll betcher quid on it ! I’ll bet anyone a
blanky quid.”
But the crowd jeered at him, telling him he
hadn’t got a bob, and inviting him, with sparkling
wit, to enter it for the Zoo Stakes, and lay against
the lions.
Then the liar rose to the occasion. He put his
voice up about two octaves, and lashed his
imagination until it got the bit between its teeth
and bolted. He went into details, and gave
names, places, dates, and times. He described
the jockey, his relatives, the course, and the row
between the time-keeper and himself over a
doubtful four-fifths of a second.
The horse backed and pulled at the halter.
Again the liar offered to bet a quid—or a
hundred quid —that what he said was true.
There was another storm of laughter that
shook the shanty.
The old horse, horror-stricken, snorted and
plunged.
Inside, the liar, his face white with fury, rose
and offered to bet anyone in the room a thousand
quid that the horse had not only done it before but
could do it again. Then he called all to witness
that, if he wasn’t speaking the truth, he hoped
that both he and the horse —he took particular
care to include the horse—might be compelled to
gallop for all Eternity on a track of red hot
cinders.
As he paused, the place shook as if a gang of
fiends had tried to pull the verandah off. But
they were all too absorbed to notice.
‘ • Betcher thousan' quid! ” shrieked the owner,
waving a ragged arm at the crowd “Betcher
thousan’ quid she does it again t’ morrer ! ”
They laughed at him.
He was just opening his mouth to speak, when
a face like a cry in the night appeared round the
door and asked.
‘ ‘ Any of yous ’ere own a gray ’orse ! ”
The liar turned “ Yes ; what about it ! ”
“ Becos there’s a gray ’orse in th’ crik with ’is
’ead under.”
“ Under wot'! ”
“Under water, y’ fool! ”
“Wot th’ ’ell for?
“ Well,” said the face “it may be tryin’t’ cure i
an ’eadache, but it looks t’ me more like a
sooeycide! ” I
KODAK.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot sifmmer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
3
'l
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
lf you are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine. in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB A CO., Lowell, Hub., TJ. S. A.
Aver’s Pills cure dyspepsia ; strengthen the stomach.
WEAK MEN ! brace upi
BE STRONG AND VIGOROUS. BE EVERY INCH A MAN!
Men, why will you remain weak,
when you can be made strong and
vigorous ? Every day men all around
you are being restored to strength and
vigor, and you can be as easily cured
as they.
During the past five
years ten thousand
weak men
Au s tr alia
have been
restored t o
their full
normal vigor
by following
our advice,
and using
the only
natural re-
medy pos-
sible for this
complaint.
,n,
M
if
Dr.
MCLAUGHLIN'S
ELECTRIC BELT
is Guaranteed
in every ease
undertaken.
Dr. McLaughlin s |«ctric
cures men so that they stay cured. It will cure you, if
you give it a trial. Guaranteed in every case under-
taken. It cures permanently and absolutely. It pumps
a warm soothing current of new nerve life into your
body for hours at a time, while you sleep ; and will cure
any case that exists of Broken-down Nerves, Weak
Back, Varicocele, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Stomach, or
Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Indigestion, Insomnia,
General Debility, and all Weakness of Men or Women.
BACKACHE AND SCIATICA.
LEADEItVILLE, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —I was in a very run' down state of health with.a Bad
Back, which ached always, and also Sciatica. Often having to
lose time through not being able to work, continually feeling
like an old man. In a few weeks your Belt cured me,
strengthened me in every respect so that now I am able to do
my work as I should and I feel young and vigorous—no pains nor
aches. Yours truly, A. F. POWER.
WEAK BACK AND DEBILITY.
CURRAWARRA, via WAGGA WAGGA, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs,—l am glad to tell you that since using your
Belt as you directed I have had no trouble whatever
with my back, and feel strong and vigorous in every way.
I consider it the one remedy for Weak Back and Nervous
Troubles.
Whenever I see a man suffering from a bad back I say
to him : “ Go and get one of Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric
Belts.” Yours faithfully,
C. G. HAGEN.
FREE BOOK
We want you to
read our illus-
trated Free Book
in which we
describe our ap-
pliances and show how they cure for all time. Send us
the coupon at the bottom of this page and we will send
you our Book by return post. Send for it at once.
Call if possible. Advice and Consultation Free.
OFF SERB
tbai 1
NAME
ADDRESS
Dr. McLaughlin Co.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
100 W. Market St.
SYDNEY.
'»
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
b ee pWs
T OR Bilious and !S ervotts Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
-i Giddiness, 1 ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath, Cos i veness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
Sleep, and all Nervous and Treiribt imr Sensations. &c, THK FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and ;1 ey will he acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, w cnickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of toe system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; re.-toriiig the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back .the keen ed re of appetite, and
arousing with iheßosußcn op Hkalth the Whoi.k Physical, ENKtiav of the human frame. These
are “facts’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous ajid Debilitated is that Beeeham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
the world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold lOverywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, ami 12s 9<i each.
1
w:;
fig
WUB&
mm,
2 51
Post Free,
This Splendid
WATCH
f CHAIN
POST FREE to any address
for
25/-
Fine Solid Silver Keyless
Watch. Has jewelled move-
ment, and we guarantee it to
give satisfactory wear for 15
years.
The Chain is a heavy one of
Solid Silver, but, if you prefer
it, we will substitute a thinner
double or a fancy chain for the
same money.
If you wanted to purchase
the watch alone at any store in
the country it would cost you
at least 30s. ; but, buying in
thousands as we do, we get the
watches at a special price.
Being content with a moderate
profit, we can afford to sell you
the complete outfit in handsome
case for 255., post free to your
address.
If, on receipt, you consider
the watch is not exactly as
represented, you can immedi-
ately return it, and we will send
another watch or we will cheer-
fully refund your money.
Ask for our big Catalogue.
It contains full details of many
other Watches.
If you woar Spectacles,
ask for our Booklet—
“ The Care of the Eyes."
Angus &Coote
“ THE STORE WHERE
QUALITY COUNTS.”
GEORGF ST Corner of the
uLUIVuL Royal Arcade,
Opp. the Barometer,
Q.V. Markets.
SYDNEY.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address t HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
Hie New Fetent
SOUND DISCS
1 Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
[how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. U. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne,
TDFt. IMC.A.lrl.Tinxr, M. D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTJN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of rien and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
MEN
A (VO
WOMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6; or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pages Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please Mention this paper when writing'.)


Tennis Players and Clubs.
SJazenger’s Coverad 1905
Championship Tennis Balls
14s- per dozen.
Postage ixx N.5.W. Is. extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co.'ii
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool -WNI send to
GOLDSBROUQH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES. SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
fds
fr Y
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
test
rnrnm
■
The above ont illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rack Drill far
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181b<. Operated by compressed air, consuminir al>oiit 25 CUBIC FEET
•f air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART —Strictly ONE MAN Rook Drill*.
SOLE AGENTS: 9. J I EMPRIERE 606 L,TTLE COLLINS BT., MELBOURNE
"* * **■ tcmrmcncj And at 64 p (TT 8T ( Sydney.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO-, Ltd ->
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwards Phopy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
PWNGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT MAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
1
□ uan
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
all first-
clfr* stores
in Australasia.
No. hl?0i l-BLADE
“ PA MPA,"
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buff mi& Handle-
Stag Handle - •
śdf
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAN®.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
S'ST333XT3ES'3Er.
The Victor in Ail
Recent Slime Saving
Competitions.
♦
SIMPLE. DURABLE.
CAPACITY—I 2 Tons in 24 Hours.
POWER REQUIRED—f-Horse.
Adjustable Dressing:
Surface to suit all
Ore Gravities.
'
. •
mm
The Manager, Bombay
Syndicate Ltd., Coster-
field, Victoria, says:
“The Sperry S timer is
a great success with cur
Slimes, it saves splendid
concentrates, 63per cent.
antimony and 2oz. gold
per ton
The Sperry Slimer.
Sole Licensees
aa*d
Maiitu.fa«a«.rer*s:
Ltd.,
