

DEW-A-Ix/S WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
R. Or. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining ana Contractors’ Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
KOBA.RX.
anss
PIONEER
■5
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
McLaren’s
Compound
TRACTION ENGINES
are SIMPLE, EFFICIENT,
ECONOMICAL, DURABLE.
Large Stocks of Engines <fc Duplicate Parts held in Sydney.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SOLE AGENTS—
Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent St., Sydney
tf
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS '&
BACON.
saF
7laticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A qjbb, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
cM r
vo
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
i V3JL
&
I
is the Queen of &II Cocoas
FOJ^
Arom<i,Strei\gtlu'Purit)C
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN
QUALITY.
SWT* I3XT BOTTLE.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
Wet & Dry
Crushing.
Agents
BROS.,
15 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
75 BARRACK STREET, PERTH.
45 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE. DUNEDIN.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “Hop’s" Pictures,
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
superbly produced.
HELIDON SPA.
Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1363.]
[Thursday, March 29,1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Charles Major, Yolanda, 3s od, postage 6d.
Nicholson, The House of a Thousand Candles, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
hoof, Engineering Pocket Dictionary, Is 9d, postage 3d.'
Haeckel, Last Words on Evolution, 7s 6d, postage 9d.
Lukin, Turning for Engineers, Is 6d, postage 4d.
Bottone, Modern Dynamos and Batteries, 3s, postage 4d.
Haggard, The Farmers’ Year, 3s 6d, postage 6d,
Fisher, Art of Enamelling- Upon Metals, 3s, postage 4d,
Winan, Practical Rifle Shooting, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Mrs. Beeton’s Household Management, new edt., 9a,
p. Is 3d. Solomon, Electricity Meters, 19s, postage Is.
Wm t- ’ E^°J" tl ? n : Th e Master Key, 7s 6d, postage 9d.
Woyaki and Pam, The Game of Jiu .litsu, 6s, postage 6d.
Kinzbrunner, Alternating Current Winding, 4s, postage 6d
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYnrjFv
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and LONDON. SYDNEY,
JUST PUBLISHED.
Victor Daleys
A Biographical and Critical Account,
with two portraits and MS. fao-silhile.
By A. G. Stephens.
Price, Is. 3 d. ; posted Is. (id. From all book-
sellers, or The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214
George Street, Sydney.
THE BED PAGE.
THE CHILD OF TEARS.
Impetuous as a wild-winged bird
Your pother could not be a slave ; \
Her gift she gave unto the world,
A child of many tears she gave,
Ho mouth was mad your mouth to kiss,
Ho bosom held you, safe and warm,
Poor little soul tvho came and cried
And no one heard you in the storm.
The people of the market-place
Of all your shame made merry play ;
The worshippers to chapel went
And said, “ Our hearts are clean to-day.”
Each mother to her white breast held
Her little mite of Love’s own gold ;
Softly she sang for its street rest,
And you were sleeping hard and cold.
They said of you, “ His eyes are bright:
Fair was his, mother’s face to see.
His mother’s heart ivas false and black.
So as his mother he shall be.”
Why the dark shadow’s hovering frowned
You knew not with your wondering eyes ;
You played about the brink of Hell,
And yon were sweet for Paradise.
In the long row pour little grave
Can cover all your baby fears ;
The great world cursed you and you, died,
Dear little unloved child of tears.
V.
SHAW NEHSON.
A CAROLLING PH LOSOPHER
JR. TUTIN (of Hull, Eng.) issues a handy-
selection (cloth 25., paper Is.) from the
• verses of diaries Cotton (1630-87)—that
shrewd, jolly iplade who translated Mon-
taigne and wa,., WaAVon’s friend and comrade
author. Cotton was no great poet, as he doubted.
Indeed, he had a just suspicion of the inefficacy
of poetry generally. “ Drink,” he wrote,
Drink, and stout drinkers are true joyg;
Odes, sonnets, and such little toys,
Are exercises fi t for boys.
Then to our liquor let us sit,
Wine makes the soul for action fit,
Who bears most drink has the most wit.
Even in obituary verse, where the poet properly
showed his craft, there was room for cavil:
And though to verse great reverence is due,
Yet what most poets write, proves so untrue,
It renders truth in verse suspected too.
Yet when Cotton wrote verses himself he em-
ployed a free, bold talent; and his cheerful
temperament makes his work agreeable. He can
give a lively description, as in “Winter” (ex-
tolled by Charles Lamb):
See ivhere a liquid mountain rides,
Made of innumerable tides,
And tumbles headlong to the strand,
As if the sea would come to land..
A sail! A sail! I plainly spy
Betioixt the ocean and the sky :
An argosy, a tall-built ship,
With all her pregnant sails a-trip ...
Cotton s angler’s philosophy prefers wine to
women :
'T is [wine] that gives the Poet rage,
And thaws the gelid blood of Age ;
Matures the young, restores the old,
And makes the fainting coward bold.
It lays the careful head to rest,
Calms palpitations in the breast,
Renders our lives’ misfortunes sweet,
And Venus frolic in the sheet .
But She !
Woman, man’s greatest woe, or bliss,
Does of ter far, than serve, enslave,
And with the magic of a kiss
Destroys whom she teas made to save.
This drinking-song rings more heartily :
CUARSON A BOIRE.
Com e, let’s mind our drinking,
Away with this thinking ;
It ne’er, that I heard of, did anyone good ;
Prevents not disaster.
But brings it on faster,
Mischance is by mirth and by courage withstood.
He ne’er can recover
The day that is over,
The present is with us, and does threaten no ill;
He’s a fool that will sorroiv
For the thing called To-morrow,
But the hour we’ve in hand we may wield as we will.
There ’s nothing but Bacchus
Right merry can make us,
Tkat virtue particular is to the vine ;
It fires ev’ry creature
With wit and good-nature,
Whose thoughts can be dark when their noses do shine?
A night of good drinking
Is worth a year’s thinking,
There’s nothing that kills us so surety as sorrow ;
Then to droivn our cares, boys,
Let’s drink up the stars, boys,
Each face of the gang will a sun be to-morrow.
Cotton’s Poems on Several Occasions, published
in 1689, have sometimes a breadth of levity that
is supposed to render them unfit for this decorous
age. Partly for that reason, possibly, W. Hazlitt
treasured them. The present selection omits all
that by any stretch of complaisance it should ;
but the original book is so rare, and is priced so
highly (about 21. 10s.) that a neat and cheap re-
print of the poetical pieces is worth having.
————♦ —— _
A contributor to The Muga. of Fine Arts gives
some prices of picture-sales at Christie’s during Decem-
ber : “Each had a famous name appended to'the frame
and <ach picture probably fetched just what it was worth’
A Constable, 3£ guineas; a Canaletto, 41 guineas ■ a
Murillo, 2 guineas ; a Veronese, 18 guineas; a Mierevelt
12 guineas ; a Rembrandt, 9guineas ; a Era Bartolommeo’
5 guineas; a Terburg, 5 guineas; and a Ruysdael, 32
shillings, lhe dealers had quite made up their minds
that these pleading works were not authentic.”
SERPENTS OF OLD NILE
HE Instruction of Ptah-Hotep (and other
ancient Egyptians) is reduced to English
- in a new volume of “The Wisdom of the
East” Series (Lond., Murray, Is. net).
Ptah-Hotep and the others are the oldest authors
in the world : Ptah’s book is a papyrus in the
Nationale at Paris, .supposed to have
been written from 5000 to 0000 years ago. Yet it
is in such good preservation that Battiscombe G.
Gunn, who translates, thinks that with care it
may last another 5000 years. Mr. Gunn’s intro-
duction is eloquent in praise of Archaeology, and
his noble prose deserves re-reading :
I could show, if this were a fitting place, that Archseo-
logy is not at all divorced from life, nor even devoid of
emotion as subtle and strange, as swift and moving, as
that experienced by those who love and follow Art. She,
Archeology, is, for those who know her, full of such
emotion; garbed in an imperishable glamour, she is
raised far above the turmoil of the present on the wings
of Imagination. Her eyes are sombre with the memory
of the wisdom driven from her scattered sanctuaries ;
and at her lips wonderful things strive for utterance. In
her are gathered together the longings and the laughter,
the fears and failures, the sins and splendours and achieve-
ments of innumerable generations of men ; and by her
we are shown all the elemental and terrible passions of
'the unchanging soul of man, to which all cultures and
philosophies are but garments to hide its nakedness ;
and thus in her, as in Art, some of us may realise our-
selves. Withal she is heavy-hearted, making continual
lamentation for a glory that has withered and old hopes
without fulfilment ; and all her habitations are laid
waste.
As for the true lover of all old and forgotten things, it
may justly be said of him, as of the poet, Nascitur, non
fit. For the dreams and the wonder are with him from
the beginning ; and in early childhood, knowing as yet
hardly the names of ancient peoples, he is conscious of,
and yearns instinctively toward, an immense and ever-
receding past. With the one, as with the other, theun,
accountable passion is so knitted into his soul that it will
never, among a thousand distractions and adverse in-
flaences, entirely forsake him j nor can such an one by
willing cause it to come or to depart. He will live much
in imagination, therein treading fair places now en-
wrapped in their inevitable shroud of wind-blown sand ;
building’ anew temples whose stones hardly remain one
upon the other, consecrate to gods dead as their multi-
tudes of worshippers; holding converse with the sages
who,. with all their lore, could not escape the ultimate
oblivion ; a spectator of splendid pageants, a ministrant
at strange rites, a witness to vast tragedies, he also has
admittance to the magical kingdom, to which is added
the freedom of the city of liememnranee.
His care will be to construct, patiently and with much
labour, a picture (which is often less than an outline) of
the conditions of the humanity that has been ; and he
neither rejects nor despises any relic, however trivial or
unlovely, that will help him, in its degree, to understand
better than humanity or to bridge the wide chasms of his
ignorance. Moreover, great age hallows all things, even
the most mean, investing them with a certain sanctity ;
and the little sandal of a nameless child, or the rude
amulet placed long ago with weeping on the still bosom
of a friend, will move his heart as strongly by its
appeal as the proud and enduring* monument of a great
conqueror insatiable of praise. At times, moving among
the tokens of a period that the ravenous years dure not
wholly efface in passing, he hears, calling faintly from
afar, innumerable voices—the voicesof those who, stretch-
ing forth in Sheol eager hands towards Life, greatly desire
that some memorial of them, be it but a name, may sur-
vive in the world of men....
Ptah-Hotep’s book and Ke’gemni’s (another
ancient Egyptian who deserves to be named) are
concerned with morality and conduct; and al-
though it is so old, their wisdom is worth study,
Ptah-Hotep recommends thee to be not proud be-
cause thou art learned, but discourse with the
ignorant man as with the sage. “Live in the
house of kindliness,” says Ptah. If you ’re a guest,
don t stare at your host: “pierce him not with
many glances. Don’t go making work for your-
self : “follow thine heart during thy lifetime ; do
not more than is commanded thee.’’ “If thou
wouldest be a wise man, beget a son for the pleas-
ing of the God.” But “if that son be heedless
and trespass thy rules of conduct, and is violent :
if every speech that cometh from his mouth be a
vile word ; then beat thou him, that his talk may
befitting.’
As regards the ladies of 5000 years ago (of course
this does not apply to-day) :
If thou, desire to continue friendship in any abode
wherein thou enterest, be it as master, as brother or us
friend; wheresoever thou goest, beware of consorting
with women. No place prospereth wherein that is done.
Nor is it prudent to ta«e part in it ; a thousand men
have been ruined for the pleasure of a little time short as
a dream. Fven death is reached thereby ;itis a wretched
thing...
If thou wouldest be wise, provide for thine house, and
love thy wife that is in thine arms. Fill her stomach
clothe her back ; oil is the remedy of her limbs. Gladden
her heart during thy lifetime, for she is an estate
profitable unto its lord. Be not harsh, for gentleness
mastereth her more than strength. Give (V) to her that
for which she sigheth and that toward which her eye
looketh ; so shalt thou keep her in thine house...
Perhaps this does apply to-day. “Feed her,
clothe her, oil her, fully understood, comprises
the wisdom of all the husbands of all the ages.
Ptah has a word for mining-speculators: “be
not covetous as touching shares . . . One hath re-
morse for even a little covetousness when his belly
cooleth. His prescient mind even refers to cur-
rent topics. He tells Mr. P—lsf—rd :
Repeat not extravagant speech, neither listen thereto •
for it is the utterance of a body heated by wrath. ’
A.nd he adds for Mr. McM— ll— -n :
Y\ hen such speech is repeated to thee, hearken not
thereto, look to the ground,
‘‘ thy f;lce he bright what time thou livest,”
adds I tab sensibly, he was a vizier of Egypt in
his day, long ago, and apparently he was a good
one. Le gemin lias less to say, but it was worth
saying. lor contrast Mr. Gunn prints The In-
struction of Amenemhe ’et /, who is a mere modern
dating about 4000 years back. His outlook upon
fife was rather gloomy, so we won't bother with
him.
These little books are certainly stimulating.
; "
A Supreme Moment, by Mrs. Hamilton Synge
(Lond., Unwin ; 2s. (id.), is one of the exceptional
noveis that come rarely— not great, but fine :
well thought, well written, well unwritten. The
author studies the interplay of characters in an
English scene, individualises them and vivifies
them : the story is just sufficient to keep the ball
in air. it is a suggestive book that may be stimu-
lating : its grave motive Help one another. The
phrasing is delicate:
They w ere not so young as they were.
“A man [in the house] is very trying, no doubt, in
some ways but he never knows what you are thinking
of, or even doing. ... It is very resting.” ®
“Long ago 1 came to the conclusion that life was too
serious—to be serious.”
A book for thoughtful people.
ABORIGINALLY SPEIKING
MRS. Langloh Parker’s book of Ihe k'uah-
layi Tribe , “ a study of aboriginal life in
Australia” (Loud., - Constable; 7s. fid.
net), is unfortunate in preliminary
patronage by Andrew Lang, whose ignorant
speculations about the aborigines are very tire-
some. Perhaps his worst blunder is in implication
of the familiar fiction that “the blacks are
the lowest race on earth.” The fact is, of
course, that before the English came. Aus-
tralia was, for the black men, something
very like a white man’s idea of Paradise.
The race was healthy, strong, and happy. The
land gave food so bountifully that the labour of
securing it was little more than a sport; the
climate throughout the year was benignant; and
life was a scarcely interrupted holiday. Por proof
read Torn Petrie's Bcruiniscences ; or study the
testimony which early explorers could not help
giving, despite their British bias. Lang writes:
As far as what we commonly call material civilisation
is concerned, the natives of the Australian continent aie
probably the most backward of mankind, having- no agri-
culture, no domestic animals, and no knowledge of metal-
working.
With allowance for tamed dingoes, the final
clause is true enough ; but the implication is
untrue. The Australian aborigine had attained
without agriculture and metals a state of
material civilisation which northern races
readied only by continuous labour. Civiliza-
tion is essentially the state, not the ways of
reaching the state. The individuals of civilized
nations toil hard—to what end ? Simply to gain
the power to cease toil. But Australian abo-
rigines were already at the goal. Why waste
time in agriculture where mild seasons did not
compel storage of victual, while yams and edible
roots, bunyas or plantains, wild fruits and nuts,
gave vegetable food in abundance ? Edible ani-
mals filled the bush ; the seas and rivers swarmed
with fish. Thanks to their generous environment,
the aborigines had gone forward, not “backward,”
in “ material civilization.” They lived in a blessed
condition which three-fourths of Europeans waste
their lives in endeavouring to secure.
True, the struggle with Nature in Europe, the
struggle for subsistence, the pressure of popula-
tion, have developed arts and appliances unknown
to aboriginal Australia. But the resulting luxury
is only for a few ; most live hand-to-mouth,
pursued by care and hardship to their graves. In
any philosophical admeasurement of progress, the
lot of the aboriginal was far more fortunate.
Cereals and metals are mere means to the end of
civilization, and in Australia the end had been
reached without the means. If ever there was a
Golden Age on earth, it existed in Australia
before the whites came. Yet one has heard in a
Sheffield board-school the miserable children of
miserable knife-grinders repeating solemnly that
“ the natives of Australia are the lowest race on
earth.” And the harassed teacher, facing his row
of puny victims of an English slum, was an ironic
object-lesson that Lang probably has known all
his life without comprehending it.
Mrs. Parker is unfortunate also in this, that her
book is neither exactly scientific nor precisely
literary. The tribe her subject is located in N.W.
N.S. Wales: her station for inquiry was on the
Narran river. But she gives no map or informa-
tion of exact boundaries, nor does she state the
number of her informants, who, “all except the
old men, my chief sources, were employed by
white settlers.” The district lias been occupied
by white settlers for a generation ; the remnant
of the tribe is semi-civilised ; and observers know
how difficult it is in such a case to distinguish
primitive aboriginal beliefs from knowledge
gained from the whites. Mrs. Parker has worked
laboriously and with love, and her collection of
facts and observations has value ; yet one is not
satisfied that she has eliminated the possibility of
error.
The book is arranged in sixteen chapters, deal-
ing with manners and customs, beliefs and
legends ; and many of the details that Mrs. Parker
records would have been missed by a man. Per-
haps the most important chapter is that affirm.ng
a partial belief by some tribes in existence of
Byamee—a spirit represented as the source of all
things—an All Father. A great deal of curious
lore is included in Mrs. Parker’s pages, and any-
one ethnically interested in the aborigines will
find her book worth scrutiny. The story of the
widow with a “ white heart ”is quaint; but is it
not borrowed from the vulgar English tradition of
“white livers”? :
Should a woman be left a widow two or three times
there are sinister whisperings about her. She is spoken
of as having a 1 white heart ’ ; and no man can live long,
they say, with a woman having a ‘ white heart.’
’The temptation of unborn children reminds one
of the virtue attributed by Welsh midwives to
Welsh rabbit, as recorded in Grose’s dictionary.
What seems to me a somewhat peculiar ceremony is the
reception a coming baby holds before its birth.
The baby is presumably about to be born. Its grand-
mother is there naturally, but the black oabv declines to
appear at the request of its grandmother, and, moreover,
declines to come if-even the voice of its grandmother is
heard ; so grannie has to be a silent spectator while some
other woman tempts the baby into the world by descant-
ing on the glories of it. First, perhaps, she will say :
“ Come, now, here ’syour auntie waiting to see you.”
“ Here’s your sister.”
“ Here’s your father’s sister, and so on through a whole
list. Then she will say, as the relatives and friends do
not seem a draw :
“ Make haste, the bramble fruit is ripe. The guiebet
flowers are blooming. The grass is waving high. The
birds are all talking. And it is a beautiful place, hurry
up and see for yourself ! ”
But it generally happens that the baby is top cute to be
tempted, and an old woman has to produce what she calls
a wi-mouyan—a clever stick—which she waves over the
expectant mother, crooning a charm which brings forth
the baby.
Mrs. Parker prints other such curiosities of
aboriginal custom ; and, since she has the woman’s
view, one sometimes gets from her book a light
and a leading unobtainable from the more or less
methodical discourses of mere men.
MEMORINDA
L. E. writes of George Moore :
George' Moore’s return to London will cause little
surprise in Dublin. George was never taken quite
seriously in Dublin. He made some fine, large pro-
nouncement on the impossibility of Empire ; showed how
art was out of the question in London ; and predicted
great things for the Irish literary movement. But the
trouble was, George had no definite place in the mo\
pent. He had lived too long abroad, had been too muc
influenced by Paris, to feel the atmosphere and ideas c
young Ireland.
The reason George sa3's there is no literary tnoveme
is chiefly because he isn’t in it. George is an Engli
writer, or perhaps a French impressionist; but he has
never'been an Irish writer. Now young Ireland demanc
Irish writers as it demands Irish thought, Irish industrie
Irish ihstitutions, Irish everything.
In conjunction with a relative of his, Edward Marty
George once took a prominent part in an Irish theatr
They produced plays, chiefly by George and Martyn, wit
an occasional European masterpiece ; and George wa
stage-director. That theatre ceased. George knows as
much about the stage almost as any man living, but
wasn’t a successful stage-director. Then the ne
National Theatre sprang up, run chiefly by Yeats, Lac
Gregory, Douglas Hyde, J. AI. S.vnge, and the Fays. Th
theatre had totally different aims from those propoundec
by Moore and Martyn. It threw off all foreign influence
Paris as well as London, the Theatre Antoine as well as
Her Majesty’s. It restored speech to its ancient rights • anc
In verse-plays the mimes chanted instead of talking prose ;
it did away with garish scenery and costumes ; and
abolished the conventional histrionic devices. The ne
methods were introduced by Fay, who was manage
stage-director, teacher, and chief actor of the company.
The coming dramatist, J. M. Synge, George neve
understood ; anyway, for many months he would neve
venture an opinion. Synge writes extraordinary plays o
peasant life ; full of curious, ironic ideas, and with a mos
vivid and impressive speech. But he breaks all the know
rules of drama. Instead of the old “ Clash of will ” bein
the leit-motif, it’s rather characters being blown aboil
by circumstance—a “drama of drift,” as Moore describee
it. Another wonderful writer, poet and dramatist,
Padraic Colm, who in another ten years should be a leade
of Irish literature. He is a folk and ballad poet, with i
more modern outlook than Yeats, and with as much t
say probably as anyone writing in English. Personalitie
like George Russell, “ A.E.,” mystic, visionary, poet anc
painter ; Douglas Hyde, poet, critic, practical organiser
Lady Gregory, Yeats and others are all intimately con
nected with the new movement.
But George is not. He stands aloof, and makes remarks
and about a hundred wild young Fenians talk back
George’s great reputation doesn’t impress them a cent
They caricature him good-naturedly, and they won’
accept him as an Irish writer, far less as a teacher o
vates. They even quote extracts from his “Flowers o
Passion.”
Then George writes letters to the papers finding faul
with everything ; it is only a little weakness, but it bring
down many storms on his head. Someone calls round
quietly and advises George to make a few remarks on some
burning topic. George walks into the trap. The storm
bursts, and George’s conscience is pricked. Someone calls
round again and asks with mild surprise why he did it
“lam a child,” says George. Then making a dramatic
gesture of despair, he adds: “Why’did God create the
world?”—his favourite expression.
The Magazine of Fine Arts (Lond., Ncwnes
Is. net) improves as it goes, and the third number is as
a whole the best of three. The frontispiece is an
exceptionally good example of colour-printing, the
light and air in a picture of Van der Meer’s being
remarkably well preserved. Leading articles deal
with the English landscape painters, Orome and
Gotman, and with Poussin ; both are freely illus-
trated. Possibly an extravagant space is devoted to
industrial and decorative art—which covers such a wide
field that it seems to need a magazine to itself. And,
personally, one would like a new magazine to be less
occupied with reiterating the excellencies of classic
and English masters, many of them discussed fully
in text-books. One wants a maga. to keep level with
the current of European art, to illustrate the more
modern and most modern painters rather than the
ancients. We are weary of hearing Velasquez, for
example, called the Just, and would gladly ostracise him
for a year in order to be better acquainted with Boecklin,
for example. Perhaps The Magazine of Fine Arts can
assist us : meanwhile one must adfnit its liberal gift for
one-and-threepence.
Paul Lawrence Dunbar, dead at only 34 years,
won some American celebrity as a writer of verse. He
was a negro ; and the wonder was not that his verses
were tolerable, but that a negro should have written
them at all. Yet one has always remembered this little
piece:
They please me not—these solemn songs
That hint of sermons covered up.
, Ti.s true the world should heed its wrongs ,
But in a poem let me sup,
Not simples brewed to cure or ease
Humanity’s confessed disease,
But the spirit wine of a singing line,
Or a dewdrop in a honey cup.
In London on Feb. 10 the Court of Appeal,
L. J. Vaughan Williams presiding, decided in Plymouth
Mutual Co-operation Co. vs. Argus Printing Co. that defend-
ants were not bound to disclose the name of the writer of
an alleged libel on plaintiffs. “ There was a rule,” said
the President, “that no interrogatory should be allowed,
the answering of which would be oppressive to the person
called upon to answer it, or where it appeared to the
Court that the real reason that the question was asked
was for purposes outside the purpose for which the ques-
tion was ostensibly put. In suehja-ease tire Court cer-
tainly had discretion to allew"or refuse the question.'
The authorities showed, with one exception, that the
Court had refused to allow such a question as this to be
put.”
In another case tried before Mr. Justice Law-
rance, W. Collins sued the late proprietors of The Stan-
dard for dismissing him without notice from the sessional
Parliamentary staff. Plaintiff held that he should have
received notice before session concluded that his services
would not be required during the succeeding session. De-
fendants contended that sessional reporters were not
members of staff, hence their employment
terminated of itself with every session. The jury found
that plaintiff had proved notice customary, and gave him
13SL damages.
A.G.S.


RABBIT
WANTED.
Also KANGAROO,
OPOSSUM, &c.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd—Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
And ail Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., l«-
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS, The Sydney Sports Depot.
sr-
-0
H
B
<1
H
e/3 o
_j
0
M
m
4
m
H
O fi
o
is
1L
7?v
0
p
fi
rv^*
All Balls Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
RUGBY or ASSOCIATION.
Postage on Men’s Football—N.S.W., 6d ; Inter-State, Bd.
No, I—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match 11., Hand-sewn .. .. 9s 6d
No. 2—Nicholson’s “Royal Special” (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match II 7s 6d
No. 3 is an exceptionally strong, useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, but suitable for practice.
The “ Nicholson ” Royal Special Match Ball is guaranteed the best value on the market, made from Selected
Crome Leather, Hand-sewn, in accordance with the N.S.W. Rugby Union's specifications, and fitted with
best quality Imported Red Rubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match 11., Hand-sewn .. .. .. 12s 6d
BRYAN'S “Grasshopper” Match 11., Hand-sewn .. .. .. 13s 6d
“A.N.A.” Special Match 11., Rugby only 14s 6d
SYKES’ Match 11., Special Value 7s 6d
“ALBION” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 11s 6d
“RIVAL” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 10s Od
“DIADEM” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 13s 6d
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE” Match 11,, Association only, Buttonless 15s Od
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4<1.) .. .. .. 2s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 2s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) .. .. .. 3s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postag’e fid.) .. .. 4s 3d
Solid Hide, Match 11. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
ASSOCIATION each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4cf.) .. .. .. 2s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 3s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) 3s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) 4s 6d
Solid Hide, Match 111. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value (Postage 3d).
■ No. 1, Is 9d each. No. 2,2 s 3d each. No. 3,2 s 9d each.
Football Bladders (imported)—Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
Each.
Is Od
Is 4d
Is 7d
No. 1 (Postage 2d.)
No. 2 (Postage 2d.)
No. 3 (Postage 3d.)
Each.
No. 4 (Postage 3d.) Is XOd
No. 5 (Postage 3d.).. .. .. ..2s 3d, 3s 3d
No. 6 (Postage 3d.) 2s 9d, 3s 3d
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
SHIN GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.) .. .. . .. .. Is Od pair
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) .. .. .. . ~ .. .. Is 3d pair
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) Is 6d pair
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.) 2s Od pair
Gold Cape, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) .. .. .. .. ... .. .. 2s 9d pair
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather straps (Postage 4d.) 3s Od pair
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 4s Od pair
Same as above, larger size (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 6s Od pair
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is ; Inter-State, Is Bd.
Best Quality English made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Bugby
Extra Quality English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair ..
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps, with and
without ankle pads, per pair 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
10s 6d
14s 6d
13s 6d
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each.
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 2d),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6d each.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post. 2d), 3s 9d.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
Mi ok
Simmons ,
mm
Brass
Inflators.
BRASS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d) .. .. .. Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d each
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb.
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
RIFLE
'THE MAINE*
Pine
c Sheu/mj) Pifle ft parr.
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Ban el, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extia Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2flb
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or Y
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Re Tl n s t ? n /? S Rifle > New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3Mb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s Sd .. .. .. .. .. . ..
13s 6d
18s
16s
CONICAL BALI
Winchester
1904
Model.
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22' short or long-rim lire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
25s
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “Little Kragy’ 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight it required 6d extra, length over all 36in.,
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s Sd Inter-State).
21s
Stevens
“ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.U.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
u ;der lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4|lb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W.
3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. ..
£1 10s
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post,, N.S. W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£2
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d '
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d ..„ .. .. ••
35s
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W ~ 2/9 ; Inter-State, o/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s Od N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
“The Reliable,”
£6 12S 6d
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMWIERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved,
E 2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
MICK SIMMONS.
£l2 12s
Remittance ansi Freight must accompany Order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary 7: Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &e.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“REPEATER”
SMOKELESS POWDER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Carefully inspected shells, the best com-
binations of powder, shot and wadding,
loaded by machines which give invariable
results are responsible for the superiority of
Winchester “Repeater” Factory Loaded
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cartridges.
There is no guesswork in loading them.
Reliability, velocity, pattern and penetra-
tion are determined by scientific apparatus
and practical experiments. Do you shoot
them ? If not, why not ? They are
THE ONLY CARTRIDGES TO SHOOT
15he PLUM.
G bntlemen, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of. edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of vears, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ Plum " Razor Strops, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
"Razoleo” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
Prick-
'Single
Single
Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10 6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Razor, in ivory handle, 15 -, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30 -
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op the World.
Ple&ie add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
tole Rganta— CßAlC & AITKEM, 654 CEOBCE STREET, SYDKEV..
m
V
y
m
m
ENO’S
FRUIT
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Capsule marked ENQ’B 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. G. IDNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON. ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Speeifle Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Weak Men
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cux>e the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Los*
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,]
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
rm
SekcllorH^L
from all n
Granpweras
<MLOU4NI
Sidnor
TIjYfIWNyYmS
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin, and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL «
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George SU
SYDNEY,
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barters
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Price:
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure the, are CARTER’S
Leichhardt Testimony
Every Locality sends its Tribute.
The Case of MRS. A. YOUNG.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us hy
Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder :
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. Truly the time does fly. It doesn fc
seem half so long ago, for everything is as fresh in my memery as though it was only yesterday.”
“Were you experiencing any physical pain ? ”
“Oh! don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head? I hope not, for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect upon me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and as for the feeling in my
eyes—well, they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate,
melancholy days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the
world, and I think I had occasion to be in view of the fact that the outlook was so black.”
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote?”
“They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it, and if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted —as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die —yet, when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dozed off the dreams I had were fearful.”
“And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for you?”
“No, unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good. Clement’s Tonic it was,
and the best remedy I ever had in all my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of every-
thing else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the
base of my infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told
you, I must state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually
afraid to stay in my own house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about
things that I imagined were going to happen. Trouble was always hanging over me, and I
couldn’t get the idea out of my head—not until I had been taking Clement’s Tonic for a space
of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding over such silly things, and my mind became
as happy as the day. Oh ! it was wonderful what an altered woman Clement’s Tonic made me.
Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy and cheerful as possible—nothing
frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It i 3 because I know so manv nervous women that I deem
it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clement’s Tonic is for that complaint, though, for that matter,
it was equally beneficial to me in other ways. I used to get pains down the small of my back
and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of my heart, which made me think
that something very serious was wrong with me there ; but Clement’s Tonic showed itself to be such a
pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it to all sufferers. Its regulating influences
on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound and peaceful, the same remedy was
the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it months before, for plenty of people
told me what a grand medicine Clement’s Tonic was. The least I can do is to assist my neighbours
to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clement’s Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements —which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; ahd I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900. (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, H. EVANS, J.P.


A’
a;
m
Do not envy I
the beautiful!
hair of others,
but possess it
yourself. Some
are born with
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none
have '•< thrust
upon them.
Those who ac-
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the
discovery that
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
remedy is
flyer's
flair Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Eoyal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIB AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:— "You can wear it fox
night dresses all the year round."
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
For Sunburn
n f. pAff'SZ
UI tjAJi C
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
I
/
anm
the careful housewife
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of “ BONNINGTON’S
MOSS ” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
BONNINfiTON’S IRISH N|OSS
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
%
WATCHES
The best watches
that can be con-
structed.
All guaranteed.
For sale all over
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A.
L.l. FLEQELTAUB
ROYAL JEWELLER - - - -
HOROLOQIST,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT.
Exceptional Value |
Gun Metal Watch * v/4^
Post Free Everywhere.
With our Guarantee of Accuracy for years.
96 King St., Sydney, n.s.w.
9
/m
mm
/
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
Evolution and Mechanics: 2905 A.D.
We are the heir? of the centuries, and have come
in pride to our own—
The harvest upsprung from the fruitful seed that
the generous past has sown ;
And we say of that Past, “ In those dark, dead
days how little, alas, was known ! ”
(It is recorded, and wise men say, when they set
their machines to talk,
That men of the past had things called legs, and
actually used to walk !)
We are the heirs of the centuries, evolved in suc-
cessive waves,
To that which we are, from what men were, when
they dwelt in their dingy caves ;
And we look with contempt on the years that lie
’twixt us and those primitive knaves.
(And we listen, amused, while the Talkophone
doth tell of the hirsute crew,
Who lived upon food, and had things called teeth,
and actually used to chew !)
We have come into our heritage of engines won-
drous and dread ;
We’ve no use at all for. such things as limbs,
and little or none for head—
The men of Past Ages invented Machines ; we're
the men the Machines have bred.
(It is recorded of men of the Past—the statement
sounds wondrous queer—
That they actually used to have lungs and breathe
the thing they called atmosphere !)
MAORILAND.
SINCLAIRS. CLARK.
Punishment.
Love ! thou wert fair, and I was swift to tell,
With golden word,
Thee of thy loveliness, and then there fell
On our twin souls
The curse of love ; we knew of Heaven and Hell,
And more beside.
Beneath the bonds that love alone can bind,
Our hearts were held.
Though each sweet sin left stain of sin behind,
We saw it not,
For we were blind as only love is blind.
And so it is,
When earth and sky and sun and moon and star
At last recede
Into that vast unknown whence all things are
And are no more,
It is decreed that we must wander far,
Unaged of time,
With that gaunt ghost we once named Love, to
guide
Unwilling feet,
Across the voids of air, through all the wide
Wan wastes of space ;
And there will be no guise of flesh to hide
Our nakedness,
And each fond kiss we kissed will be a spear
• To stab our sides,
And each sweet sin, in earth-life deemed so dear,
A flame of fire,
And we shall know no hate, no hope, no fear,
But only pain.
N.S.W.
EDGAR HEANE.
A Woman.
What were her eyes like ? Have you seen the
spears
Of grass trees, tipped with velvet soft and
brown,
Yet lit with little flashing lights as when
The sun, thro’ ripples, filters slowly down
And loses in the drifting weed, a glint
Of the immortal brightness of the skies ?
Velvet as grass-spear tips and golden as
The lost sun flecks, the wonder of her eyes.
What was her mouth like? Have you seen the
sun
On thund’ry nights blood red behind the range
Splashed where the cloud banks gather pile on
pile,
Sullen, yet full of magic and of change ?
The loves of gods that flame about the sky
Ere all the brightness o’er the world-rim dips,
Burning a man’s heart up with the ripe glow,
And all the scarlet promise of her lips !
What was her throat like ? Have you seen the
sheep,
Fresh from the waters of the still wash pool.
All the stains gone, the yellow yolk washed out,
Leaving the purity of virgin wool ?
Or like a white crane’s feather on the swamp,
By moonlight blue. Or lily buds afloat.
Take something from them all, the whitest white,
Crossed by blue veins, and there you have her
throat.
What was her shape like? Take a slim young
pine,
Straight, strong, and growing on the mountain
side ;
Add the firm curves of a fair woman’s breasts,
Soft as white froth upon a racing tide.
Take a tall pine tree, swaying to the kiss,
The fickle loving of a scented breeze,
And join to that the easy swinging grace
You find in sweeping, drooping myall trees.
What was her hair like ? Have you seen the corn
On the selection in the harvest time,
When the harsh challenge of the cockatoos
Shrieks through the patches of the stunted lime,
Red gold aarainst the dry stalks hanging down ?
That, of a warmer color and more rare,
Powdered with gold dust filched from hidden
claims
That miners dream of ? —and you have her hair.
What was her love like ? A white woman loved
A conqueror in Egypt long ago,
And when he died she hid a little snake
Close-nestled to her body’s lines of snow.
Once in a thousand years such women are ;
Their paths of love have ever thorny proved ;
So, just because love was no more for her,
She sank and died—that was the way she loved.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


A Fortune for TJ - A Fortune for 1/
£lOOO for Is
f FIRST
t Great Prize
{£looo for Is
Or 12 Months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or eight months for two,
And 129 Other Important prizes, ranging in va!ue from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours Great Jubilee Art Union.
50 YEARS : THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR- —50 YEARS.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia,
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted to any
person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from the Local Agent, if any, or send stamps (with exchange added), Postal Note, or P. 0.0., direct
to the representative, Flinders Buildings, 312 Flipders-street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a
chance in this _ _ _ ~ „
Great Art Union, 22 for i£l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing- 14th May, 1906.
WS~ BE SURE to TRY YOUR LUCK. TPf
THEO. W. lIEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
»Send 355. for this .g
Medical Battery.
WE send away hundreds of
these Batteries, and have
never received one word of com-
plaint. Use this Battery instead
of your electric belt, and note
the difference !
Wherever electricity is required,
this Battery will give abundant
satisfaction. It is good for all
nervous disorders.
JZ?
Price 355.
Free.
We will refund money in an]
case of dissatisfaction.
NEW N? 4 HOME
m edical apparatus
WITHDRT BA TTERy
i
:
SSSI
;- - '
ISalßlsi
ft!®!LiM
. . :i
=?§s
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
‘MY OPTICIANS
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
High-Class Tailoring Department.
Men’s Tailor-Made SUITS,
5Mg- first-grade work,
In . . .
Pure Wool Worsted Serges or in Indigo Serges
63/
THE
■ SUIT
ORDERS EXECUTED PROMPTLY AND WITH THE UTMOST CARE.
iu€it onenina for the AUTUMN SEASON. —A Choice Assortment of
NEWEST PATTERN TWEEDS and WORSTEDS, all Shades and Weights, and
of Tndigo Fine Worsted Twill Serges, in AUSTRALIAN MAKES—from Queensland, New South Wales, Victorian
and Tasmanian Mills, as well as from Oversea. .
SEND FOR PATTERNS and PRICES, SELF-MEASUREMENT'FORMS, and-for our Autumn and Winter
Catalogue of Fashion, all of which will be forwarded POST FREE ON REQUEST.
NEW GOODS
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
THE...
Nindooimba
Dairy
Farms
Adjoining
TABRAGALBA, Albert River,
Queensland.
Estate
The First Section,
The Kerry Paddocks,
6092 acres
In areas from 778
to 1223 acres.
Situated 51 miles from Brisbane, 4 miles from Beaudesert Railway Station by good
level road. Rainfall, 43fin., well distributed. Splendid water from Albert River and
Kerry Creek. Considered the best Dairying and Agricultural land in the famous Albert
District, having alluvial lucerne flats nearly a mile wide.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION
At Beaudesert, on MONDAY, 7th MAY, 7906,
At Three o’clock.
Magnetic Terms : One-Tenth Cash, Balance to 20 years
At 3 per cent.
Illustrated Pamphlet to Isles, Love & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE,
TORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month—keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head_Ofßce, 13 Phillip St., SYDNEY.
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
m
w,
m
Ml
Ws
SSL
wm
iki
%
m
HU
v«
'A'T.
f
feli
u
m
I
TT\
Wl
■
.
s»2S
For Handsome Buildings—whether home,
office, warehouse, or church —architects
are specifying the genuine
RUBEROID BOOFIHC
RUBEROID may be obtained from all merchants, builders’ iron-
mongers, and country storekeepers throughout Australasia.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 13C3.
THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1906.
Pbiob 6d.
THE BRUISED FEMALE.
It is nearly two weeks since State Premier Carruthers and
Bruce Smith and George Reid and the Daily Telegraph man and
George Pile and his dogbave discovered any “grievous injury”
done to N.S.W. by the Commonwealth.
Carruthers : “Can’t say I really see any bruises on the
back of the injured and downtrodden lady ; but there
must be some. Elidn’t | hear her hollering ‘Murder!’
last night—at least, I hollered myself, and said it
was she.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Ihe Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can haw. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every Week for a year.
Cheques, I)rafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to W illiam Maci,kod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
[ana, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscript ions, advertise-
etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for . “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
JThe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return ft ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in JtlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS,
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs, Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No, 1 Broad-street Place,
South Africa, —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt, —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. —Braver and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x llrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ffiuTsxzlZelz/7i.
THURSDAY. MARCH 29, 1906.
AN AUSTRALIAN MARITIME POLICY.
Australia is destined to be a maritime Power if
it is to be any Power at all. The sea washes
practically every important city that it possesses.
A narrow coast fringe shelters now about nine-
tenths of its population, and will always shelter
by far the greater proportion, since all the best
land, and all the best “ growing ” climate is on
the coast. From Cape York, past the rich sugar
lands of the Queensland coast, the sugar, maize,
and pasture areas of the N. S. Wales coast, the
Monaro tableland, the rich Victorian and South
Australian belts, the poorer but still usable
Westralian fringe, and the tropically luxuriant
North, practically all coastal Australia is capable
of closer settlement. Beyond that narrow ring,
like the circle of an atoll, the country presents
poorer possibilities of soil and climate. It is its
rich sea frontage that makes Australia’s great
possibilities, and, when future growth comes, it
will be on the trade organisation, and defence of
its seaboard that will r largely depend the pros-
perity of the factories and farms of the Common-
wealth. We must become a maritime nation, if
we aim at full nationhood—a people rich in mer-
cantile marine, ship-yards, navy, and fishing fleet.
No date, therefore, is too soon on which to build
firm the foundations of a sound sea policy. Such
a policy, to be four-square and complete, must
provide
1. That Australian trade should he carried on by Aus-
tralian-built and Australian-manned ships.
2. That the Australian mercantile marine should be
defended by an adequate Australian navy and should be
organised to assist that navy with vessels and sailors as
need arose.
3. That the conditions of food, labor, hours, and discip-
line on Australian ships should be such as a free Australian
citizen may accept.
Such a programme is short in words but vast in
scope. Its full acceptance involves radical depar-
tures from existing conditions. Yet not an atom
lens can be accepted with safety. To the sea
Australia must look either as its chief menace or
itn chief guard. Holding an island continent, the
<A mimonwealth may defy any attack if the sea is
safe; it may have to fight for its life at any point
if the sea is commanded by a foe. Without a bold
maritime policy nationhood to us is impossible.
And when the various links of such a policy come
to be considered they are found to be so inter-
woven that it is always difficult and sometimes
impossible to put one part of the programme
into effect apart from the others. To seek
to. establish humane conditions on Australian
ships is absurd if foreign ships may then
come and with cheap competition drive the local
ships out of the running ; therefore the Australian
shipowner must be protected. And if the Australian
trade is secured for the Australian shipowner, it
is reasonable to expect that he should, in return,
give preference of employment to Australian citi-
zens, co-operate practically in the work of defend-
ing the ships which he owns, and the coast on
which he trades, and agree to help the country
which helps him by having his boats built in Aus-
tralia. How far does the report of the Royal
Commission on the Navigation Bill, 1904, satisfy
the demand for a legislative policy on those lines?
* * * *
Not completely, it must be admitted. It was,
perhaps, not possible for the Commission to take
so wide a view of its inquiry. Its scope was,
practically, only “to inquire into the Navi-
gation Bill, 1904,” and that Bill did not cover,
for instance, the question of Protection to
the ship-builder. The inquiry was further
hampered, in a measure, by the fact that,
on some of the questions arising out of the ship-
ping trade, fully effective legislation can only be
arrived at after consultation with the British
authorities. But within its limits, the Commisson,
under the chairmanship of W. M. Hughes, has
done valuable work. This has been summarised
by him (he has the advantage of being both a
barrister and an expert in shipping matters) in a
Draft Bill, which, if enacted, will secure sec-
tion 3 of the above suggested maritime policy and
partly secure section 1. In a sentence, the Com-
mission recommends elaborate provision for
fair wages and conditions on the Australian
coast, and the almost complete Protection of
the Australian coastal trade for the local
shipowner. It is gratifying to see the Laborites W.
M. Hughes, R. >S. Guthrie, and H. de Largie
at one with the Protectionists L. E. Groom and
S. Mauger in making these proposals. Naturally,
however, the Freetraders G. B. Edwards, W.
Knox, J. Maofarlane and D. Thomson object to
this Protection of Australian shipping, and in a
minority report argue that to reserve Australian
coastal trade for Australian owners will be to
abandon the Australian producer to misery, it
being, of course, impossible, according to the party
with the importing disease, that the Australian
should be able to carry his produce about without
the help of the foreigner.
* * * *
Considering it more in detail the report dealing
with the conditions of labor in the shipping
industry suggests these improvements
Allowing more sleeping space to crews ; improving the
ventilation and lighting of forecastles ; providing bath-
rooms.
Adopting a fixed minimum scale of provisions ; certi-
ficating competent ship’s cooks, who are often now very
children of Belial.
Giving the seaman legal claim to two-thirds of his
wages when he has earned them; making provision
against “crimping,” “shanghai-ing,” and the swindling
of sailors out of their wages.
Fixing a scale to prevent the under-manning of vessels,
and making provision against the employment of ineffi-
cient men.
There are also suggestions for improving the treat-
ment of passengers, for securing more efficient
pilot service, etc. The Protection suggestions of
the Commission are :
That the coastal trade of the Commonwealth be reserved
for ships on the Australian Register (which, as regards
wages and conditions of labor, would be under the juris-
diction of the Federal Arbitration Court), or ships which,
because they conform to Australian conditions, are
licensed to trade on the Australian coast. An exception
is proposed in favor of British mail steamers that they
should be allowed to carry passengers between Perth and
Adelaide.
That subsidised foreign ships be prohibited absolutely
from participating in the Australian coastal trade.
Other sections suggested provide for the safety
of ferry and sea-going ships. As an appendix is
printed Mr. Hughes scheme (the idea of which
the Commission endorses) for the formation of a
naval reserve. The leading features of this
scheme are to offer cash inducement to shipowners
to train boys from 14 to 18 as naval reserves ; to
provide for the annual training of these lads in
gunnery and torpedo work; and to enforce the
same annual training on all seamen employed on
Australian registered ships.
* * * *'
It will be seen that the Commission has covered
much ground, and if its proposals are put into
effect this much will have been gained, that the
Australian coastal trade will be protected against
cheap labor competition, and the sailors engaged
therein will work under human conditions. But
the “defence ” proposals should be ampler. Not
only should the register of Australian ships pro-
vide a naval reserve of men; it should also be
called upon to keep up a number of convertible
cruisers (in return, of course, receiving subsidies).
And no maritime policy can be reckoned complete
unless it provides for the adequate Protection of
the ship builder. Under the American shipping
law this takes the form of absolute prohibition,
by an enactment that only American-built vessels
can engage in American coastal trade. The
example should be imitated here, after sufficient
notice to the shipping cos. to obviate any hardship.
In its early days, Australia had a ship-building
industry. It has to-day the material, the engines
and, to some extent, the men to build steel and
iron ships, if the industry were encouraged by
Protection. And what men are lacking could be
brought here within a few months. Were the
Australian shipping cos. now informed that, after
completion of present orders in hand, no ship
built abroad would be allowed to engage in the
Australian coastal trade, within six months there
would be another thousand men at work in Aus-
tralian shipyards. Quickly a business, which sends
abroad at least £1,000,000 a year for ships, would
be translated to Australia. We want that work.
It is necessary for our economic prosperity. It is
vital for our national defence ; for no nation can
hope to keep a navy which cannot build a navy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Acquitted.
Last week there was perpetrated the tenth or
fifteenth or twentieth large happy joke (it is
impossible to keep count of all the large happy
jokes) in connection with N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment scandals. William Patrick Crick was
acquitted. The jest really didn’t lie in the fact
that he was acquitted—that is a thing that may
happen to any man—but in the manner of it.
The charge made against him was that, as
Minister for Lands in N.S.W., he had received
bribes or gratuities or improper payments from
land-agents, and Peter Collinson Close, a large,
sleek, well-fed-looking gentleman, formerly of the
firm of Hill, Clark and Co., testified before
the Lands Commission, after receiving an
indemnity, that he was the land-agent who
paid the money. This seemed, on the part
of Peter Collinson Close, a painful round-
ing on his friend, and hard-hearted people
talked of another Peter and a rooster;
but Peter Close was in a tight place.
In fact Peter without the rooster was in
almost as tight a place as was Peter with the
male fowl. On the strength of this elaborate con-
fession, backed up by some report that certain
notes bad been traced to W. P. Crick’s bank
account, the ex-Minister was tried last week. It
was a very unusual trial. If W. P. Crick had
been acquitted as the result of a brilliant defence
it would have been an ordinary event, but he was
acquitted without any defence. The matter
never got so far as a defence—it sometimes
happens that very interesting things are said in
the course of a defence, and the public lost these
interesting things. Despite the importance of
the case Attorney-General Wade didn’t appear
for the prosecution. That was conducted by
Shand, K.G.. who was adviser to Peter Collin-
son Close before the Lands Commission. Shand,
K.C., opened with a roar and concluded like a
faded pencil remark seen in a dim light.
Mr. Close simply said that there was no
arrangement whatever between him and the then
Minister for Lands to share the proceeds of
land agency. He had made a payment to
Crick, but then lie had made many payments to
Crick, whose business was in his firm’s hands.
Anyhow, “ it was his own money, and he could do
what he liked with it.” In fact, Peter Close,
who was open last October, was shut again. No
very serious attempt seemed to be made to re-open
Peter —in fact, tbe prosecution appeared quite
satisfied with him as he was. No further witness
was called, but a rumor wont round like a footless
ghost that the alleged identification of certain
notes had proved a mistake. In fact, everything
seemed a mistake. The “Crown” didn’t even
wait for the Judge to rule that the prosecution
had failed ; it threw up the case itself—threw it
up so high that it never came down again. There
was no chance for W. P. Crick to rise in defence
of his character, and wipe the floor with bis
traducers, and possibly bring in interesting side-
issues while doing so ; he was rushed out in such
haste, without a blot on his reputation, that he
had hardly time to gather up his papers as he
went. If he had been a drunk who was being
ejected at the side door after proper drinking hours
he could hardly have been got rid of more suddenly.
He had hardly time to admit his own complete
innocence before he was in the street. A few
days have gone by since then, but there is no
news of any inquiry into what certainly looks like
a serious discrepancy between Peter Collinson
Close last October and the same man this March.
And now the public would like to ask, in a* dazed
sort of way, what was the good of Peter’s
amazing allegations before the Lands Commission
(if they weren’t all a dream) ? Also wby was
Crick proceeded against at all if the whole busi-
ness was only an airy jest ? Didn’t the blessed
and wonderful “Crown” know that its chief
witness was a broken reed and a fallen prop, and
if it didn’t why didn’t it ? And, above all things,
when matters are so easy and simple as all this,
why is Nicholas Willis wasting good Australian
money in battling with a poor, dusty, second-
hand court in Natal? Why doesn’t Willis come
back and be acquitted, and let everybody be at
peace—from the Cariiuthers Government down-
wards ?
+
Advice from England.
There are times when The Bulletin feels good
towards Senator Playford, Australian Minister
of Defence, and there are other times. In his
official capacity it is difficult to feel really good
towards Senator Playford, though his limpness
in that capacity may be more the fault of bis
colleagues than his own. In a recent inter-
view Mr. Playford expounded his views on
defence, which views seemed to consist chiefly in
waiting for advice from England. It would be
interesting to know what is the exact value of
advice from England on Australian military mat-
ters. On the face of things one would say, in most
respects, just about nothing. TheaverageEnglish-
inan knows wonderfully little about our immense
distances, our difficulties of transit, our droughts,
and the other side-issues which would make up
so much of the great aggregate military problem
of Australia in time of war. And then England
hasn’t even solved the question of supplying itself
with what it considers an efficient army to defend
its own islands, yet it has 40,000,000 people from
whom to gather the army, and the 1 area to be de-
fended is not much more than one-third the size of
N.S.W. It was England that reckoned that in-
fantry, not horsemen, were wanted in the Trans-
vaal and the Orange Free State ; and it may give
Australia equally good counsel as to what is
wanted in this country. But to come down to
a concrete example of this patient waiting for
advice from England, consider this sentence from
Mr. Playford’s statement :
If we are going to re-arm the forts we must first deter-
mine the character of guns we are going to use, and that
will depend upon what sort of an enemy we are likely to
have to meet. That is where the advice from England
will be valuable. If we have to expect battleships, we
shall want 9.2 in. or 12in. guns; if only cruisers, 6.2 in.
guns may suit; or if unarmored cruisers, even 6in. arma-
ment may be sufficient. The thing is to fix upon a basis.
General Hutton laid it down that we need not expect a
raid by more than 20,000 men, and to meet that he pro-
vided for 25,000 on a peace footing, and, I think, 39,000
on a war establishment. That should be ample as far as
men are concerned, and so far as the land forces are con-
cerned, I have no fear.
Now England isn’t a prophet to tell, any more
than we can tell, whether the attack, when it
conies, will be from battleships, or armored
cruisers, or unarmored cruisers. It can’t tell,
either, whether the attack is likely to be made
by vessels with turbines or with twin screws, or
whether the balance of probabilities lies in the
direction of the hostile commander’s name being
Von Beknstorff or Von Oberndorff. We
might get the most weighty and well-considered
military and naval opinion in all England to, the
effect that the balance of probabilities was in
favor of our being attacked by Von Oberndorff,
and after we had carefully put up the kind of
gun that seemed best calculated to scare away a
man named Von Oberndorff we might be
attacked by Von Schulenburg, and find that our
name was what is coarsely described as Mud; In
a case like this it is folly to ask advice from Eng-
land, or from as to what is the very
smallest and weakest and poorest defence that we
can possibly hope to scramble through with. We
want every port that is of any value abundantly
protected with guns that can argue with the
biggest ironclads going, and if the things that
come should by any chance be mere cruisers,
these guns will make all the greater mess of the
cruisers. And even if it is the opinion of England
that we need never expect to be attacked by
more than 20,000 men, that opinion, however
carefully considered, may be wrong ; and
seeing how much we would risk if it were
wrong, it is best to be ready to argue
the point with an invasion of CO,OOO men.
or more. In fact, if the enemy were able to
select his own point of landing, we might easily
require 150,000 trained men in order to be reason-
ably sure of having 20,000 of them at the right
place at the right time. This fact may not strike
England, for in England distances are short, rail-
ways plentiful, and concentration easy, and the
coast is defended by the biggest fleet on earth ;
but it should strike us. The case is not one in
which we want advice from England ; it is a case
for using our-own local common-sense. And
while Australia is wondering at great length
whether it will arm itself against an attack by
battleships or armored cruisers, or unarmored
cruisers, it has hardly six guns that could really
argue the point with a good gunboat.
*
The British Yeto.
There is a quaint and clamorous hypocrisy in the
shocked aspect assumed by the Tories, and by
many people who were not supposed to be Tories,
about the attitude of the new British Government
towards the Chinese question in South Africa.
The Bannerman Ministry has announced that it
proposes to give the new South African colonies
local Parliaments of their own, and thus put them
on the same footing as Canada, Australia, Cape
Colony, Natal, &e. But it added, through the
mouth of Under-Secretary Churchill, that, if the.
new Transvaal Legislature used its power to pass,
laws providing for the introduction of more.
Chinese labor into the country, these laws would;
be vetoed. That was all it said, yet the whole.
Tory community professed to fall down insensible,
with horror at the unprecedented and outrageous;
nature of the remark. The Transvaal papers,
(controlled by the mine-owners) called Churchill’s
statement “a gratuitous insult to every self-
governing colony,” and things of that sort. The
Times op Natal reckoned that the proceeding
was “rotten and vicious.” The Cape Times
hinted openly at secession in these words:—
If Mr. Winston Churchill’s mischievous threat to in-
terfere with the Transvaal Government in its ultimate
decision in regard to Chinese labor is anything beyond
stag:e thunder, in a few years no colonial will be able to
resist the proposal to “ cut the painter.”
And even in Australia some influential papers
were moved to considerable grief over the matter
—it is difficult to say why. Melbourne Age,
which seemed to feel worse than most of its con-
temporaries, blistered the Bannerman Govern-
ment in a leading article, arid said that the people
of Australia read the statement of Under-Secre-
tary Churchill with “a feeling of shame that
any British Minister should hold such language
about self-governing dependencies,” and made
quite a number of large, sloppy pronouncements
to the same effect. All this righteous indignation
reads like a curious hypocrisy. Everyone knows
that the British Government claims the right to
veto Acts passed by “colonial” legislatures.
The anti-Japanese legislation of British Colum-
bia was vetoed. So was the Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill and the first measure
restricting colored immigration in N.S. Wales.
The Commonwealth Government received a broad
intimation that its anti-crilored-immigration law
would be vetoed unless it was built on certain
lines, and it is to this veto that we owe our un-
satisfactory Education Test. The British veto
has been with us all the time, and Toryism highly
approved, of it while it was being applied to laws
for keeping out Asiatics. But now that Toryism
in general receives notice that the veto will be ap-
plied to a law for letting in Asiatics a change
comes over the aspect of things. The British veto
now becomes new and unprecedented. The mine-
owners’ press reckons it never heard of any such
thing before, and professes that it always under-
stood that “ colonial ” Legislatures could pass any
lavvs they darned well liked. It reckons that the;
thing which has existed all along is a sudden in-
novation, and a fresh outrage, almost sufficient to
justify secession from the empire. The pretence
is so pitiably thin that it is hard to imagine an in-
fant being taken in by it, yet some large, sober
daily papers in Australia —where we ought to
know all about the veto;—have discussed it quite
gravely, and decided that the whole business was
a grievous departure from the noble old British
traditions of freedom, and such like.
♦
What is a Surplus?
Pleasant to notice the Tory party steadily iden-
tifying itself with the policy of dishonesty. In
Victoria the Argus barks angrily at Premier
Bent because he proposes to take the opportunity
of improving finances to reduce the public
debt, and it suggests that he should instead reduce
taxation. Sydney D.T. (22/3/’O6) takes up the
same text on which to preach to Premier Carru-
thers, and hints that, since there are revenue sur-
pluses now, the time approaches to reduce taxes.
It certainly has the decency to suggest that the
floating deficit, which has stained N.S.W. public
finance for many years’ should be first wiped out.
But after that there should be no reduction of the-
public debt, no attempt even to apply revenue-
surpluses to public works. With increasing pros-
perity the debt should be increased and taxation
reduced. To give the dishonest argument in the/
paper’s own words :
If, under those circumstances, the taxpayers were still to
be obliged by the needs of the Commonwealth to provide-
the State Government with such a large excess of re-
venue, it would then remain for Mr. Carruthf.rs to carry
out some of the promises made previous to Federation,
when the people were told that if they had to bear an
unnecessary burden of Customs duties through the
operation of the Braddon clause, they could get relief by
the remission of taxation in other directions. As long as
we have an old deficit covered only by paper, of course
there is no real surplus ; but after this is got rid of, if the
Braddon clause is to stay, a large part of the direct taxes
now being levied on the New South Wales people cer-
tainly ought to go.
If the Tories and their press supporters will only
commit themselves deeply enough to this pro-
gramme, there will be some hope of the Demo-
cratic party coming to a sturdy resolution not to
reduce taxation whilst there is a penny of debt
owing. It is an inherent absurdity to talk of a
“ surplus ” when the State owes the full value of
eyery public work, productive and non-produc-
tive, within its territories; when it further owes
vast sums which were spent in revenue extrava-
gances, and which are represented by no assets at
all; when, year by year, it devotes to revenue
purposes all the income it gets from the sale of its
public lands ; when it still borrows money, not
only for productive works, but also for unpro-
ductive works a*id patches and repairs; and
when it doesn’t write off a penny for depreciation
of its loan works. As well might a prodigal—
who has mortgaged his estate ttr the "hilt,
who has further incurred a vast unsecure 1 over-
draft, and,who, in addition, through the I I n incss
of his creditors, has been allowed to sell \car by
year large proportions of his mortgaged land's-
and use the proceeds for current expenses—
talk of a “surplus” if at the end of the vear he
finds a few pounds in one of his pockets.’ There*
can be no real surplus, and consequently no honesty


reduction of taxation in N.S. Wales until:
0) Borrowing has absolutely ceased. , ,
(2) All debt not represented by reproductive assets has
be (3) All'revenue got from the sale of Crown lands is de-
voted to permanent and reproductive works. . ,
(4) Ample sinking-fund provision is made against the
debt which is represented by reproductive wol * s - f
(5) Effective provision has been made in the> shape of
contributing to Federal naval and military defence for
the insurance of the State property against attack.
Even if all these things had been done and the
State’s revenue still showed a credit balance, it
would be more honest, and in everyway desirable,
to use the balance as an extra contribution to the
sinking-fund, and not to talk of reducing taxation
until the last pound of debt has been paid on. lo
talk now of reducing taxation because _ ot a,
“surplus” is criminal dishonesty. But it is talk
which comes appropriately enough from the lory
Party which is responsible for the greater part ot
the debt burden.
Tlis Lands Scandals.
Under the skilful guidance of the reigning
Ministry the N.S.W. Lands Scandals gradually
work to their desired end. Perhaps by some
chance the present proceedings in S’Af rica against
W. N. Willis will actually succeed in bringing
that much-desired gentleman back to Australia.
But in view of what has passed it doesn’t seem
very likely. And, failing that, there is a practical
end to the Lands Inquiry, and the country can
grin and bear its loss of £500,000 or so, without
even the consolation of knowing that there has
been any warning registered against such
evil-doing in the future. No other end
could have been reasonably hoped for when
Parliament insisted on leaving the investigation in
the hands of the present Ministry. The only
course-promising satisfaction was a full and merci-
less inquiry, but such an inquiry would have
shown that certain members of the State Ministry
were concerned in the scandals —not of necessity
criminally concerned, but in some cases not credit-
ably concerned. It would have shown a group of
members of Parliament in the same plight. And
so a full inquiry was, as a matter of ‘ ‘ practical
politics,” impossible. The smothering of the
scandal is part of the price N.S.W. pays for
having a “Liberal and Reform” Government.
4
The Spy at the Breakfast-Table.
It is pleasing to note that, in various law-suits
before the Australian public within the last year,
the witness who has appeared as the spy at the
breakfast-table has not had much encouragement.
Social life would begin to become impossible if the
eye of favor fell on the informer who listens, with
a view to future “ proceedings,’’ to what his friend
or his guest, or his host or his club-fellow, says
when he is under (as he thinks) a friendly
roof tree, has got into his conversational
dressing-gown and slippers, and reckons that he
can stretch his tongue at ease. There are times
when we must have freedom of talk or civilisation
begins to fail and our steps are turned backward
to the primitive troglodyte life when man gnawed
his dinner in guarded seclusion because it was
not safe to do otherwise. Citizen Branton, in
business hours discreet, cautious, a sentry ever on
his mouth, gets “home” from the city—to his
club, his mess, or other privileged haunt equal to
a home, if not to his actual domestic hearth—and
reckons at once that guard can be relieved and dis-
missed for the night. He is among friends, or at
least acquaintances, not informers—among people
who will play the game by social and not legal or
business rules. His tongue may wag a little ; he
can neglect to weigh every word in the scales of
caution before utterance. He may take off his
collar, so to speak, and roll in the grass or on the
carpet. He doesn’t think of spies because it is
“home,” and if perchance a vagrant thought
suggests caution he dismisses it promptly. To
carry tittle-tattle outside would be an unutterably
mean thing, searing the offender with the
brand of scorn—an impossible thing. Also Gadly,
a discreet young buck in ordinary, plucking the
roses and saying nothing to bring scandal against
the kindly gardens that grew them, is apt to
unbutton his mind a little at breakfast now and
again with a chum. (There is something about
breakfasting with a man which suggests hospitality
as pure Arabian as the coffee.) That anyone
should carry such breakfast hints to the news-
papers or the law courts seems incredible. Yet it
has been done now and again. But, fortunately,
Public Opinion is prompt with its lash to restore
the old feeling of confidence. The house spy or
the club informer is admitted to be a fact, but a
monstrous fact, to be viewed with abhorrence, and
to be cut off from the social life of which
he is unworthy. Thus civilisation guards itself,
and must guard itself, for if there were no circum-
stances of privilege, men would meet only on
terms of armed neutrality, and life would drift
back to savagery. There are, of course, no abso-
lutely definite rules on which conduct in this
respect can be guided. The average man or
woman of decent taste knows, instinctively, how
not to be a spy or informer. But for those who
ask it, there can be suggested one guiding rule :
If your neighbor speaks under circumstances which
he thinks private, respect what he says as a con-
fidence and do not repeat. And add to
this : When in doubt, shut up. It may
be objected that this would give more
privilege than is fitting to a slanderer who uses
home or club or dining table as a means to dis-
seminate falsehoods. But the objection falls to
the ground when it is remembered that you may
silence where you may not repeat. If Branton,
over the food, speaks of Carlwell slightingly,
and you know Carlwell and do not believe the
slight, you have the social right to object, and if
your objection be ignored, to threaten to publish
unless it is respected. Privilege depends on tacit
agreement. Anyone present may, by a warning,
break it and leave all present to continue their
conversation at peril of its consequences. What
may not be honorably done is to listen under the
white flag and then to break the truce by outside
disclosure.
« .
How to Make the Bees Hive.
In a letter to Premier Rason (W.A.), Prime
Minister Deakin states at great length a proposi-
tion purporting to be the basis of ai'scheme for
attracting immigrants to Australia. The letter,
containing something like 2500 words, is’peculiarly
Deakinesque in its composition. As a literary
effort it would easily take first prize in an essay
competition. The alleged proposals which DeAkiN
puts forward are preceded by an elaborate preface,
and followed by a poetical conclusion, in which
he mentions that “people of our own race, hiving
from their ancestral islands, are seeking new
homes within the empire.” If it be not sacrilege
to cut down such a beautiful effort of Alfred’s
brain and Alfred’s typewriter, the “policy”
(occupying a column and a-half in the daily
papers) appears to reduce itself to this :
(X) The need for immigration becomes increasingly
urgent every year. >:
(2) The Commonwealth is “ practically ” barred from
independent action, X>ecause the lands of Australia are
not “ in its possession.”
(3) Combined action of Commonwealth and States is
necessary.
(4) The Commonwealth is prepared to establish a
London office to refute slanders on Australia, and to
advertise Australia in Britain. (Why not simply appoint
that long-postponed High Commissioner?)
(5 and 6) Remarks to the same effect, with quotations
from the Agents-General.
(7) (see also 2) The Commonwealth has not control of
the land, “ which to-day is the magnet attracting popu-
lation to new countries.”
(8) “Though in the older States private ownership is
supreme, they are all, in an important sense, the land-
lords of Australia.” This statement is highly Deakinesque.
(9) The Commonwealth will recommend—(a) the adver-
tising of Australia; (6) the subsidising of immigrants
with cheap passages; (c) the establishment of bounties
(“ if expedient ”) for rural industries.
(10) Deakin wants from Rason an early and affirmative
reply, conveying the stamp of his approval, qualified as
he thinks fit.
(11) The vigorous and enterprising people of our own
race are hiving from their ancestral islands. Hither let
them hive.
It is wonderful what a lot Prime Minister Deakin
has managed to leave out of that column-and-a-
half of poetical proposition. Carefully examined,
it looks like a careful evasion of Watson’s pro-
posed land-tax, and an anxious avoidance of the
question of a High Tariff. In the older States,
Deakin confesses, private ownership is supreme.
Upon that scandal of private ownership the Com-
monwealth can operate with power as unlimited
as that of any State. In Victoria, for instance, it
is not to the 13,000,000 acres of unoccupied land
that settlers can be attracted. Those 13,000,000
acres consist of 6,500,000 acres of Mallee lands,
which are subject to fearful droughts, nearly
1,000,000 acres of goldfield lands, nearly 3,500,000
acres of land classified as “ pastoral—large areas,”
and 1,800,000 acres of “grazing lands,” while less
than 14.000 acres are classified as “ good agricul-
tural or grazing land.” It is in the 26,000,000
acres of private lands—held largely in huge
estates—that Victoria’s possibilities of settlement
lie. The position is somewhat similar in the other
States. And it is just here, where the States have
refused to tackle the problem, that the Common-
wealth should exercise its unfettered powers of
forcing the land into occupation. Note, also, that
Deakin omits reference to any other kind of
immigrant than the agricultural one. “ The
land,” he says, “is the magnet attracting popu-
lation.” According to Deakin, no one but the
British farmer can contract the habit of hiving
from his ancestral home. Yet workmen flock
into America to labor in mills, factories, and
shops, and never own more land than sticks to
the soles of their boots. A High Tariff and a
progressive land-tax—the two things most neces-
sary in Australia to-day, and the two that Deakin
doesn’t mention—can be achieved by the Com-
monwealth without any long poetical epistles to
blundering State Premiers. Swarms will come
fast enough from ancestral hives if Deakin and
the Federal Parliament will have resolution to
find work and land for them to swarm to.
A Study in Evolution.
From an enthusiastic Labor man :
The evolution of a true and complete democrat, coupled
with a close observation of the remarks that his alleged
comrades aim at him whilst on the way, makes an in-
teresting study. Many queer things happen to him in
the earlier stages, but it is later in life, when he is ceasing
to be a mere politican, and is becoming a statesman, that
the more noteworthy manifestations occur. At this in-
teresting period, when the democratic chrysalis Ceases to
be inanimate, and spreads his mental wings for broader
flights , of action, the microscopic insects, who thought
that he was a right-enough sort of fellow while he lay in
his cocoon, suddenly discover that he is a poor lot,
who cannot be trusted. They conclude that he has
worked some sort of a swindle, because he
does not remain a pathetic grub, like themselves.
A few of us knew J. C. Watson as an energetic trades-
unionist. Later, he got into the N.S.W. State Parlia-
ment, and did good work there. Still later, he obtained a
seat in the Federal Legislature ; and, because of the good,
reliable reputation he had earned, he was made leader.
At the end of the third session his reputation stood still
higher. Australia now began to know him, to like him
too, and many began to like the party merely for his sake.
The elections occurred, and the Labor party gained
largely. When Parliament resumed business, Watson
again appeared as the trusted leader. Ultimately the
party had a difference with Deakin, and Watson became
Prime Minister.
Few Australian Governments have ever occupied a more
difficult position. The situation required consummate tact,
and unremitting labor, to enable that administration to
last a day. Yet, thanks very largely to Watson’s tact
and downright hard graft, the Labor Ministry held office
not for days, but for months, and the standard of depart-
mental efficiency and Parliamentary management set by
its chief was very high, and the country no longer looked
with dread upon a Labor Government. Events went on,
however, and a new and deplorable Government came m.
Because it was shifty, programmeless, purposeless, unre-
liable, and in every way unsatisfactory Deakin and
Watson brought their parties together and threw it out.
Deakin again became Prime Minister, and Watson could
have had any portfolio he pleased. But he took none ; he
gave the Government support, and his party showed no
sort of dissatisfaction with their chief.
During the recess, Watson—whom all Australia by this
time admires —has made an important announcement.
He has declared himself as being in favor of Federal land-
taxation, which is urgently required. Deakin also favors
it; and, all being well, there is a prospect that the two
parties may practically join forces at the coming - elections.
If that occurs, then it is almost certain that a great
Progressive victory will be scored this year and large
essential parts of the Labor programme will be nearer
fruition than ever they have been. But just at this
juncture the small, sightless insects previously alluded to
begin to make their small voices heard. A few Labor
papers—not Torypapers — reckon that Watson is a traitor
or something, and ought to be politically executed.
Barrier Troth makes these depressing remarks :
“ Ever since J. 0. Watson tasted the brief joy of the
Prime Ministership he has been an unsettled man. His
Liberal-Laborism and his unfortunate faculty for seeking
alliances with men who have been consistent opponents
of Labor, brand him as a dangerous leader. The time is
looming in the distance when John Christian Watson
will cast Labor aside and drift into the camp of the
Shandygaffers. He is more of a Shandygaffer now than
solid Laborite.”
This miserable sort of thing ought to be squelched with a
firm and unmistakable squelch. Truly, the profits of
politics are small. The financial remuneration is micro-
scopic ; and the thanks of the party that one struggles for
may be counted with the things that are invisible. The
allegation that Watson— thoughtful, reliable, high-prin-
cipled and earnest Watson— is a “ dangerous leader,’ is
at once stupid and absurd. Coming’ from a rabid Tory
rag, one might despise such foolish remarks. But when
a so-called Democratic paper starts abusing the leader
who has done so much, and who ardently desires to do
more, for Democracy, it is time to think. There is no
need to fear for Watson ; what there is reason to fear for
is that “ the time is looming ” when the narrow-minded,
fanatical newspaper-spokesmen of a section of the Labor
party will become as intolerant as the Jacobins became
in France.
■ $
Butter Fat, Land Taxes, &c.
Gutting it up roughly, N.S. Wales butter brings
a penny per lb. more than Queensland butter, and
the best Victorian butter brings a penny per lb.
more than the average prime N.S.W. grease.
This best Victorian butter, which stands at the
very apex of the pyramid that is built upon the
placid Australian cow, is worth, as a rule, practi-
cally the same as Danish butter—a fraction less
sometimes ; but generally about the same. That
is to say, only a comparative speck of Australian
butter is worth as much as Danish ; and thereby
hangs a tale and the usual moral. Denmark is a
small country—so small that when the patriotic
Dane leaves it for awhile he takes a photograph
of it to carry in a locket. It is yery largely
given up to cow; and when one man’s cow
bellows, all Denmark bellows back. This exchange
of bellows is not put forward as a matter of im-
portance ; but the close subdivision of the country
which makes it possible is important—it probably
has most, if not all, to do with that extra 2d. per
lb. which the Dane gets compared with the
Queenslander. For it means that the Dane, after
every milking, can easily and swiftly take the
milk to a depot; betakes the milk, not the cream.
The Australian, who, except in rare cases, couldn’t
hear his neighbor’s cow, even if it bellowed
like a fog-horn, has to put his milk through a
separator ; and as often as not, as it doesn’t pay
to carry a very few pounds of cream in the bottom
of a can over three or four or ten miles to the
nearest factory, the can is kept till it is full— ;
and the bottom layer isn’t exactly fresh cream
when it is turned out. Still it all goes into the
churn. Moreover, in the jolting over long, rough
roads, the fat globules become broken in some
way, and that affects the butter some more;
whereas the Dane’s fat globules, being delivered
in the original milk, are not reduced to squash.
Hence the Dane gets Is. where the Queenslander
gets 10d., and the N.S.W. farmer lid.; and only
the rare Western district (Victorian) farmer, who
pursues the Danish plan, gets the Danish price.
So this hustling of people off on to third and
fourth-rate country, where of necessity they must
spread themselves over wide areas, hits with two
fists at once —it reduces the value of the product,
and it necessarily enhances the cost of production,
through cartage, losses, &c. Which, even from
the cow-puncher’s own point of view,, is another
reason for that Federal land-tax, which shall open
to him the most suitable lands —and the most
suitable lands for his purpose are the richest lands ;
the lands whereon he can crowd the greatest
number of cows to the acre. Until they are occu-
pied Denmark gets a start in the race for Britain’s
butter trade.
■ C 1
The Misgovernment of Papua.
The duty is clearly laid upon the Commonwealth
to inquire much more fully than it has done into
the state of affairs in - Papua. The recent pro-
ceedings . in connection with Richmond, the
Surveyor-General, are merely a straw that shows
how the tide runs. Richmond appeared in the
matter as the accused—a man occupying the high
office of Surveyor-General and member of the
Executive Council charged with insubordination.
But if Richmond had not been also an accuser, it
is hardly likely that he would ever have been the
accused. Further (and this is the point that must
win for him a thorough inquiry from Australia),
it seems that he would never have been an accuser
but for his loyalty to the Commonwealth.
He is an Australian, a man who for years
did good work in N.S. Wales; and as an
Australian, anxious that the Commonwealth’s
first venture in colonisation should succeed, he
found that he had to make an awkward choice. He
had to be, he thought, disloyal to the Common-
wealth and loyal to certain of liis colleagues and
one or two of his superiors, or loyal to Australia
and guilty of “insubordination.” He preferred
to be “ insubordinate.” This may have arisen out
of pure cantankerousness ; on the other hand, it
m.av have arisen out of a firm and j ust conviction
that some of the Johnnie administrators and
their toadies were running the young colony into
disaster —as that other loyal Australian, the
unfortunate Judge Robinson, also believed. The
same thing happened on a much larger scale in
S’Africa; before the war, General Butler was
brave and patriotic enough to set himself against
the S’African oligarchy, and warned Britain of
what was ahead. He was execrated, recalled, and
hidden; but the other day they produced him
again, this time to go back to S’Africa and
confidentially advise the Government on all lqcal
conditions. Richmond in Papua may be right
or he may be wrong; the whole point is that
he is one of the few Australians who. are in high
places in the colony, and that out _ of what he
conceived to be loyalty to Australia he made
.charges (as a member of the Executive Council)
against a section which is not Australian ; and
Australia is bound therefore to see that he at
least gets fair play. It is not only the charge
against him that has to be inquired into ; there is
also his charge against others—some of thcm m
the highest places—and that seems to have been
wholly ignored. It will be a monstrous thmg
if Australia should, for want of a full and fair
inquiry, allow a loyal Australian to be punished
for no other offence, as it may prove, than a
loyalty which gave him the courage to make cer-
tain unpalatable accusations— including, by the
way, one which related to the destruction of public
documents for the purpose of hiding neglect ana
incompetence.
.♦
The Tale of “ Brisbane Telegraph.”
The Brisbane Telegraph is an enthusiastic and
rather thick-headed Tory paper—pro-Kanaka, pro-
miscellaneous nigger, pro-land monopolist, anti-
White Australian, Freetrade, and all the rest ol
the Conservative box of tricks. Yet while the
Telegraph cries bitterly in its leading columns
for the Chinaman and the Hindu, strange un-
canny statements crawl at times, caterpillar-wise,
into its news department, and these statements
bark bitterly at the journal’s alleged principles.
Here are three recent samples :
A wholesale exodus from the country (Natal) is taking
place, and Mr. Cowley has been passing through quite a
busv time in being interviewed by individuals who are
looking abroad to Australia for a sphere of existence, etc.
Natal is the misguided British colony which took
to importing Asiatics as cheap labor, and is now
staggered to find that they outnumber the white
population, and are absorbing all the business of
the country, and elbowing John Bull into the
Indian Ocean. Next item :
Mr. C. J. Lock, civil engineer, of Singapore (formerly
general manager of the Raub Cold Mine, in the Straits
Settlements, and for five years connected with the Luck-
now-Wentworth mine, in New South Wales), was a
passenger for Sydney by the steamer Airlie, which arrived
at Pinkenba this morning from Singapore, via ports. . . .
Mr. Lock stated that he represented two or three London
combinations interested in Australian mining, and who
were anxious to invest their money in tin. He said a
good deal of money already had been sunk in gold mining
in the Malay States, but gold mining in those parts was
in a somewhat hopeless condition. . . . Under British
rule they (the Chinese) did as they liked. The result was
that the Chinese gradually were overrunning and taking
possession of the whole of the country and driving Butish
merchants out.
Third item :
Mr. Love states that the market is the dullest he has
ever experienced .in India, due partly to over-competition
in horse-dealing', and partly to the advance of native
education, the Hindus taking the place of white men who
held good positions at good salaries. As an instance of
the advance of education, Mr. Love stated-that his own
kitmagar, or groom, expected his son shortly to be a
barrister.
This is a disastrous sort of reading to find in a
pro-nigger paper. The patient Hindu and the
mild, gentle Ohow are always recommended to
us as “cheap labor.” But they don’t remain
“cheap,” and they don’t remain “labor.” After
a little spell of laboring on a more or less cheap
basis they develop into hawkers, clerks, em-
ployers, shopkeepers, merchants, agents, solici- r
tors, barristers, or property-owners, and begm to
shunt out not only the white laborer — f who
doesn’t matter at all in the view of the Tory
personage—but also the rich white Tory himself.
The Brisbane Telegraph sees this fact occa-
sionally with its starboard eye, and then it
publishes facts like the above; but it writes
its leaders with its port (or wall) eye,
which doesn’t see anything. Still, it does
good service unintentionally by printing
the wail of the British merchant who is
being shoved over the edge by the Chow trader;
and the cry of the British mine-owner who wants
to invest his capital in White Australia because
its investment in the brown and yellow Malay
country is “ hopeless ”; and the weep of
the white citizen who wants to get away from
Hindu-infested Natal; and the dirge of the rich
liorse-importer who is bumped out by Hindu com-
petition, and is insulted by finding that the son of
his black minion is of the same profession as
Bruce Smith. These things hit the Tory on his
tenderest pocket-book, and it is when he is struck
there that he begins to think.
Tait’s Kailways.
After listening for many weary days to the varied
and various opinions of alleged experts, as to the
state of the track, the ditto of the engine, the
speed thereof, etc., etc., the Gembrook (Vic.)
Hail way Disaster Inquiry Board wound up by
listening to one or two genuine experts who threw
some concrete facts at it. The first was an ex-
engine-man who had driven the disabled locomotive
from the time the line was ballasted till he retired
in 1903. He swore that the machine had habitually
jumped the rails when running—as on the day of
the smash —bunker first. He had reported these
casualties three times, but the department’s ..
fitters didn’t consider the matter serious. On
the third occasion the fitters raised the engine
body so as to give play to the springs; previous
evidence had shown that the same engine-
body was down again, and that the springs
had no play. The next witness was Abraham
Baxter, contractor, who admitted having built
over 2000 miles of line; having thoroughly in-
spected the Gembrook line, he opined that it was
not in good working order. In fact, he said, it -
would take 20 men three months to make it safe.
Ten miles an hour was what he would allow for
the maximum train speed, in the line’s present
condition, in place of the departmental
fifteen miles. The rails were not properly
curved, and if a fish-plate were loose—
and he had noticed several so—an engine would
be fairly certain to jump the rails. Also, the
check rails on the curves were from 2|in. to 3lin.
away from the running rail, which meant that
they were absolutely useless, 2£in. being the
limit. He said plainly the line had been starved,
and that it required 12 men, instead of the six
allowed, to keep it in order. Baxter further opined
that, judging from his own personal experience
of railway smashes and from the damage done to
the Gembrook engine, the train could not have
been going more than 12 miles an hour. Then
the ganger in charge of the line admitted that in
conversation he had owned up that “ the line was
in bad order, but if he said so he knew what the
result would be.” Just about here ap interested
public recollected, that Commissioner Tait,
after inspecting the scene of the trouble, had
found himself not guilty, and had declared
the wreck due to excessive speed; where-
fore his appearance in the box, when
Baxter was finished, was eagerly looked for.
But no one called him —which was a great pity.
Tait’s appearance under cross-examination might
have been more exhilarating than his aspect when
he sat on Prince’s Bridge platform the night of
the smash, smoking his eternal 'cigar, while
anxious relatives tore round in a vain endeavor to
find out how many were killed.
The 999 Years Lease.
The recently-published wail of a disappointed
immigrant to Maoriland was calculated, if he
heard it, to make old Lands Minister “Jock”
McKenzie turn over three times in his grave.
Australian.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
I was a kid Australian-born, and an Australian
eow
Gave forth the milk at night and morn that stilled
my constant row ;
In our back-yard Australian fowls I chased with
little hurt,
And ate amid my youthful prowls much good Aus-
tralian dirt.
Now I’ve grown up I mean to stand upon Austra-
lian feet;
I want to buy Australian land and grow Austra-
lian wheat;
Across Australian nags to hurl Australian saddle-
trees,
And meet a sweet Australian girl beneath Aus-
tralian trees.
And when our lives together go, our duty will be
then
To help Australian kids to grow to good Aus-
tralian men ;
And while each young idea shoots as to its school
it goes,
They’ll wear Australian hats and boots, and strong
Australian clothes.
They’ll learn to drive Australian ploughs, to ply
Australian pens,
To send Australian sheep to browse (their own,
not other men’s),
To make Australian vessels run steel-armored to
the fight,
Or lift a long Australian gun to keep Australia
white.
And when I die —for all men must attain that
final goal—
I’ll bid them burn me into dust with hot Aus-
tralian coal,
Or in Australian timber let my endless sleep be
sound
With over me six blessed feet of dry Australian
ground.
VIC.
P.V.


-a
SHE KNEW A GOOD THING.
“ Surely , May , you don’t smoke ?”
“ Only Gallaher's Cigarettes, ma’am,”
COLD
PLATE
and
TWO
FLAKES
Tobacco
And
CIGAR-
ETTES
ARE T7i |=
best
The great idea of McKenzie’s life was the lease
in perpetuity—a lease for 999 years without any
increase of rent in all that time. Such a lease, if
it had been granted in the time of the Roman
emperor Constantine VIL, would still be going
strong, so the idea looks a very absurd discounting
of the great future. But “Jock” McKenzie
was thinking so much of the “ poor settler ”
whom he wanted to preserve from eviction —his
ideas always went back to the evicted crofters
whom he knew in his childhood in the Scottish
-tt^&nlands— that he failed to see things. He
didn t realise that his “ poor settler,” as the value
of land went up while the rent remained
stationary, might easily become a rich settler
in ten years, and grow inside half-a-century to
be just as bloated a landlord and as hard
non evicter as any Highland laird, for a
J 99 years lease at a nominal rent is, for
all practical purposes, as good as a freehold. The
settler who expressed his anger, the other day,
reckons that the curse of landlordism has already
come home to roost on top of the 999 years lease.
A man who had taken up 34 acres under this
tenure demanded £4OO as the price of his lease—as
the unearned increment in fact. Yet it was not
land that had been improved in any expensive
way ; it was mere grass, and the owner can’t have
have had it for more than 15 years at the outside,
and with the increase of population the value may
continue growing for another GOO years or more.
Quite possibly, before the next 984 years have ex-
pired, the lease of that bit of soil may be changing
hands for £20,000, or it may be sub-let at 200 or
300 times the paltry rent that the State gets out
of it- M'Kenzie meant well, but he never realised
that he was simply creating a new race of land-
lords and rack-renters. The State is just about as
badly “had” when it lets land for 999 years at
the rental value it carried in (say) 1895 as if ic sold
‘in ( i at its cash value in 1895. Of course,
there is the saving clause that the State will get
the property back in the year 2894, but Maoriland
may be blown off the map before then.
♦
One thing most witnesses in the inquiry into the
Oembrook (Vic.) railway smash agree about is that
the number of men kept to maintain the line was
too few, and that, in consequence, the road was
full of faults. Chief-engineer Norman told the
Court last week that he had fixed the number of
permanent-way men at 16. Then the new Com-
missioners (Tait and co.) were appointed. They
inspected the line, and, in pursuance of Tait’s
grand policy of economy, the number of men was
reduced from 16 to six. That was one item in the
story. Here is the evidence of the man who drove
an engine on the road that was kept in repair bv
six men :
X got dog-poor before I left owing to the worry of goinc
around the curves. I would sooner drive to Healesville
and back for a day’s work than from Fern tree Gully to
tTenibrook and back. For a start there is a one-in-th'irty
grade for about two miles. It’s a worry to get up that
hill and keep enough steam and water in the engine to
take it up. Then there is the worry of regulating the
speed on the down grade so that it would not be danger-
ous. It is a constant worry from start to finish. °
♦
The Commonwealth invites disaster in its pro-
posal to appoint a solicitor to watch over its
interests in Sydney at £4OO a year without the
right of private practice ! Sydney is the head-
quarters of the opposition to the Federation,
and the chief fortress of the swindling
importer and of the lying slanderer of
the Commonwealth two closely associated
classes. In Sydney the Commonwealth has to
face more chances of litigation than in any other
centre of its authority, and, owing to the
steady efforts of the daily press to prejudice
against it the people from whom juries
are drawn, and. owing to the extraordinary
(perhaps unconscious) prejudice of the Supreme
Court against its authority, it needs to be repre-
sented there by the very highest legal skill. That
is not obtainable at £4OO a year—the salary of a
good law clerk. The Commonwealth should, if
there is work enough available to take up a man’s
full time, seek out the best solicitor obtainable
and pay him liberally ; if the work is not such as
fo engage a good man’s full attention, it should
pay enough to secure a half or a quarter of his
fime. The man who can be obtained for £4OO a
feyear iqust be a junior o,r a very bad incapable. If
is a juiiior he will gather knowledge at the
mmoqwealth’s expense and leave his ill-paid
Federal job- if be is an elderly or middle-aged
incapable lip will remain, and cost the Common-
wealth a great deal of money by his incapacity.
■ «
Labor choice for Senate candidates in Victoria
has fallen on Bob Solly, T. Tunnecliffe, and
Stephen Barker, J.P., who were picked by pre-
ferential ballot. Solly, a Richmond working-
man, is the only one of the three in the State
Parliament. He is one of the members repre-
senting the railway servants. Tunnecliffe
sat for West Melbourne after Dr. Maloney left it
to empty Malcolm M‘.Eacharn from the House
o\ Reps., but when West Melbourne was oblite-
rated at the time of the reduction of the State
Parliament;, absentee votes enabled coal-boss Boyd
to. beat Tunnecliffe for the Melbourne city seat.
Stephen Barker tried once to get into the Legis-
hvliye Assembly, and twice to. get into the Senate.
He is a hoary old Labor organiser (for six years
secretary of the Trades Hall Council) and is fond
of signing himself “ Stephen Barker, J.P.”
None of the three is first-class and only one is good
second class, and the best of them will be a poor
substitute for Styles. r
*
Nurse Dam is going to marry Mr. Damm
at Cairns (Queensland).
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Centenary Hall Holman-Reid Debate.
Theatre Royal Lady Audley’s Secret.”
Criterion “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Her Majesty’s “ Paul Jones.”
Lyceum Hall Living London (moving pictures).
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirth’s Circus.
Of. Ivkw Railway St’n. Martini’s Buckjumping Show.
Palace Theatre West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Theatre Royal “The Fatal Wedding*.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Andrew Black.
.
Sydney sighed for the Broughs. “ Oh, if
we could only have those dear people and their
dainty, plays again ! Such perfect taste, you
know.” So the Broughs came and brought their
dainty plays to the Criterion with them. And
one of them, as dainty as J. M. Barrie knew how
to build, was a beautiful satire upon the sort of.
hypocrisy which makes tongues wag about “ the
dear Broughs ” when they aren’t here, and keeps
tne owners of the wagging tongues at home when
the dear people ” take them at their word and
come, bringing the dainty plays with them.
That keen, delicate, flashing satire of J. M.
Barries lasted just , a fortnight, and appar-
ently had exhausted its public some time even
betore that brief period was over. Then Messrs.
Brough and Flemming decided to give the public
something of another sort, and it arrived on
Saturday night—“ Dr. Wake’s Patient.” This,
tlioug-h billed as comedy, is just good, plain, clean
melodrama, with the usual bloodstains left out
(the only gore is on my lady’s arm where the run-
away Buller threw her and kicked her), and with
the ‘comic relief ” less of a playful elephant than
melodrama usually makes him. Mostlv in melo-
drama a safe rule of conduct is to give your brain
a complete rest in the first act, what time the
villain (or P ate, stalking as an unseen desperado)
is mixing up the broth. That rule holds good here
Gerania, who is the daughter of a duke or some-
thing gets spilled into a ditch by Buller, already
introduced. They cart her into a farm-house;
and there happens to be Dr. Wake, a young
nerve-specialist, who is rising in London as fast
as the price of elothes-pegs when a trust looks in
on the clothes-peg industry. These old farm-
people are Wake’s doting parents, and he has run
up to see them, Gerania has had her arm cut;
the doctor binds it up, talks to the flower while
she is recovering from her gutter-shock ; and
then, as he is upstairs brushing his hair
txerarnas haughty ma and pa call in and
take her off. Nobody knows anybody, and
in less than five minutes it’s all over; yet the two
have fallen desperately, hopelessly, in love; and
they spend the next act explaining that they'
would give the world to know who the other is
and where the affinity is to be found. The ditch
is in Devon, and that would seem to be a good
place to make a start from; but these stupid
people must go turning London inside out to find
out who they are, and they ask the public to sym-
pathise with them when they fail. It is much too
thin—and yet it is either this or “Little Mary ”
ihe public, of course, prefers “ Little Mary
such a dainty thing, you know. But it pays to
see this. lor “Little Mary” its affection is, so
to speak, purely platonic.
* * « *
Yet there is a fine thread running through
Dr. Wake’s Patient ” —the admiration, the affec-
tion of Dr. Wake’s farmer-parents for their
Barley-street doctor-son, and his loyalty to them.
Of course, the doctor catches his Gerania; but
the root and stem of Gerania’s family-tree shiver
and shake at the bare thought of a family connec-
tion with the farmer and his wife. Then the old
farmer brings out the family Bible, and proceeds
to swear that, so that they shan’t be the impedi-
ment, he and the mother will go off to Australia
or some other part, where the sun doesn’t shine
And then what could our old nobility do, even if
mother does wear vast green bows under her chin ?
1 will be proud to give my daughter to your
son says the Earl. Loud applause from the
gallery—these earls are a bit of all-right in the
end, after all.
* * * 4
Tfie acting is far-and-away better than the
piece. Mrs. Brough makes one of her few appear-
ances, and gives character to the Countess. Flem-
ming s farmer Wake—the heaviest part—seems an
unequal performance, and far from his best. The
Berald says lie was a Somersetshire farmer • the
play puts him in Devon ; Flemming sends him to
tocotland—perhaps in compliment to his front
name of Andrew. But, apart from the dialect, the
oldmans caperings in the third act seem much
overdone. Garter Pickford does well as the
doctor; and Miss Beatrice Day better than well
as Gerania; and the smaller parts are filled with
tar more satisfaction than usual. As befits what
is essentially melodrama there are musical accom-
paniments in the tenser moments of the plot • but
are vocal—provided by the Meistersingers
tiom behind, and, alas, they are mostly wasted.
*** * -
When a co. gives itself up to melodrama
of the “ Wehr-Wolf of William-street” type the
public naturally learns to forget that its units can
do anything else but wade through weird mechani-
cal plots trimmed with blood. There is a demand
for such melodrama, just as there is a demand
for ‘ Deadwood Dicks” in book form, and the
most objectionable kind of demand always finds
some one to supply it. But it is not always a fact
O. R. IRELAND, THE VETERAN ACTOR.
Photo, by Sears, Melbourne.
that the companies organised to meet the
craving for Dead wood Dickism are capable
of that and nothing more. Production during
the, week of “Camille” by William Ander-
S •9°y, . Sydney Royal, - proves that.
Camille is one of the “classic” dramas
of the day— not a very wholesome classic
perhaps, but still a test by which great
actresses are content to be judged. And Ander-
f/' n ’ s production is in every way respectable,
dhere is a fair standard of merit throughout, and
if the early acts are played in a rather high melo-
dramatic key, this is atoned for by a very notable
repression in the last, where there is often a ten-
dency for the lead to cough a passion to tatters,
the acting is assisted by good mounting and
dressing, the latter being really excellent.
* * * *
“ Camille ” has always to be judged by its
one character. The other players excite no real
interest. The sentimentality of Arniand Duval
makes no very direct appeal to an audience’s
sympathies outside of France; for whilst the
woman is typical, cosmopolitan, the man who
makes the rather pitiful “hero” is essentially
1 ansian and very little human. Nor does the
“heavy father ” nor the Count de Var.ville make
any better claim to sympathy. But “Camille”
is of the world feminine—an exaggerated type,
a hectic phase of womanhood, but withal
a woman comprehensible by any civilised
people which has modified the zenana and the
slave market system of dealing with the female to
that of the “ woman of pleasure ” and t l 'c “ bijou
villa: ’ Camille, as pictured by Miss Duggan,
suffers early in the play from melodramatic tradi-
tion, and this shows notably in the country life
scene. But as the plot progresses, Miss Duggan
gets into the heart of the play better, until the last
scene, wherein, keeping well within herself, she
acts admirably. To-night (Thursday) sees the
last of “ Camille, ” which will be followed by the
great weep drama, “ Fast Lynne ”; subsequently
‘ Lady Audley’s Secret,” as dramatised by Mr.
Fdmuiid Duggan, will be played.
* * *
The Victor Daley matinee will take place
at Sydney Royal, on Friday afternoon. Quite
apart from the object, the show should be
worth twice the money. Not this year or last, or
in any year that the oldest inhabitant can
invent, have so many people so well-known in
music, art, and literature been represented by
something or other at a single performance.
Fvery theatrical co. in Sydney has been levied
upon by George Lauri, Philip Lytton, and
Fdwin Geach, the managers; and the souvenir
book is the work of Daley himself, Lawson,
.Brady, Eoderic Quinn, Le Gay Brereton among
the poets, and “Hop,” Lindsay, Sou ter, Leist,
laylor, Sass, and others among the artists.
* * *
The J.C.W. Comic Opera Co. begins a
season of resurrection at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
on Saturday—unless it can be said to have begun
the season three weeks ago, when Lauri com-
menced to blow the fluff off the customers in Mr
Hooley’s emporium. But, anyhow, there are
better in the box than “The Shop Girl” ; and, to
begin with, “Paul Jones” will be bidden to co’me
forth after lying among the dust for four years.
All the old features of tuneful Paul will be pre-
served, and some new features will be sewn on
wherever the old ones look the worse for wear.
** * *
At Sydney Palace, London continues to
Live with great vigor and not so very much flicker
through the medium of West’s pictures. During
this week, “In Sunny Ceylon,” a brilliant series
of studies made in the green damp isle that looks
like a splash at the foot of India, will let the
audience know what it misses by having no travel
money. The Martinenga girls, Miss Sara Hendy,
Mr. Hayward, and Mr. Fred Mills uphold the
interest of the Brescian part of the programme.
* * * *
The. Tait brethren—or some of them—will
during the Easter week open at Sydney Lyceum
their moving pictures of “Living London.” As
scientific proof that London is still alive, these
pictures are recommended to young and old.
** * *
On Monday night, at the newly-estab-
lished Sydney Club m Pitt-street, Mr. Fred.
Broomfield inaugurated a course of lectures on
popular subjects, by various speakers. Speaking
on Australian National Defence and assisted im-
migration, he insisted on the purity of a white
Australia, but a white Australia which
should include all the clean staunch Aryan
races of Europe. Men, not acres, was
his motto; and peasant proprietors, not
serfs, was his proposed method of getting a nation
of pledged defenders. He deprecated an exclu-
sively Saxon population of this land, because it
would exclude many splendid elements we could
not afford to lose.
** * #
Wirth’s Circus opens with its city of snow-
white tents, as mentioned in the advertisement,
at , Alfred Park, Sydney, on Saturday. When
all the tents are laid out, it expects to look like
the army of Xerxes come to take Sydney, only
this tented host will be lit up with electricity,
whereas Xerxes invaded Greece with candles.
Wirth Brothers come this time with seven shows
combined, and the circus, the museum, the wild
animals in the arena (same as when they toyed
with the bones of Mercia and Julius Superbus in
Kome), the equine paradox, the zoo, the hippo-
drome and the herd of elephants are all thrown in
without extra charge. There is something tre-
mendous about the firm that throws in a herd
of elephants in that off-hand manner. And
Wirths are always growing. A time will yet
come when the firm will throw in a whale
with one hand and think nothing of it.
** * *
Except that at the end of this week the
three people who have been playing football and
other games on bicycles will move out and the
“Radium Girls” will move in, the Tivoli pro-
poses to be next week much the same satisfactory
old Tivoli that it was last week. Who the
Radium Girls are The Bulletin doesn’t know for
.certain, but the name sounds as though this
paper’s honest red cover might have to blush at.
something before the week is out.
** # *
Inasmuch as the firm of Meynell and Gunn,'
is young and hopeful, and everything young
deserves a chance to endure, the success of “The-
Ratal Wedding” at Melbourne Royal may be-
remarked with a broad grin of satisfaction. These ■
are crowded houses at the Royal thusfar, and>;
some people appear to take the astounding melo-
drama quite seriously. -It is very astounding,.nok .
in a hair-raising Andersonian way, but in its con-
sistent indifference to probability. Orthodox
shockers such as “The Leg at the Skylight” or
“ The Vilest Wretch on the Loose” have grains;
of reasonableness in their composition. “The
Fatal Wedding,” which pretends to be a domestic
story, is a simple tale of foolishness from the rise -
of the curtain till the fall thereof. Two common-
place married people in comfortable circumstances ;
are divorced through the absurd machinations of
another woman and her accomplice, the other.-
man, who is to receive 20,000 dollars on the day she ■
marries the successful petitioner in the suit. After r
the divorce has been achieved, under impossible :
circumstances, the wife purloins her two children i
from her former home, and goes into hiding in a *
garret, whilst the other woman takes up hen-
position as caretaker to the deceived peti-
tioner. Then comes a lapse of eight years.;.
All that time the villain lady has been i
trying to bring the petitioner to the point of f
matrimony, and the wicked co-respondent has-
been whistling for his 20,000 dollars. During the <
lapsed period little Jessie grew up to be a comfort -
to her mother, and presently, when she is re- -
captured by her long-lost father, Jessie proves -.
the good little angel of the piece, through whose,;
endeavors the villain lady tries to remove the co-
respondent, and he, in his turn, lays her low att
the fatal altar just when her patience seems aboutt
to be rewarded.
* * * *
Miss May Congdon and Charles Vane-
came all the way from England to impersonate
the divorced couple, and they get a measure of
sympathy on that account. They have a polite-
comedy manner. The lady fails gracefully to
meet the ridiculous requirements of her part
in a true melodramatic spirit, and the un-
happy Vane appears to more natural advan-
tage on the programme than on the stage.
A photo, of him, looking calm and beautiful
in an elegant frock coat, appears on the pro-
gramme underneath a tailor’s advt. Miss Dina
Cooper, as the villain lady, received a week’s
warning of an unfavorable notice in last Bulle-
tin, but the court is now disposed to take a
lenient view of her acting, which is weakest about
the head and shoulders, and strongest in the cos-
tume department. Miss Singleton (late of the
Musgrove Co.) and Tom Cannam are the wildly
farcical comedians; Herbert Leigh is the evil
“man about town,” the sort of man usually
• associated with samples in a buggy ; and C. R,
Stanford distinguishes himself as an amiable
Dutchman, who supervises the children’s cor-
roboree in the second act. Little Maisie Posner
and the crowd of incidental juveniles can be
trusted to keep the show prosperous for four
weeks. They take The Fatal Wedding-cake, so
to speak. And the wedding scene is so wisely
arranged that the suicide of the vanished man
about town appeals to one’s imagination, and his
corpse can be pictured lying in a side aisle of the
tabernacle with a bullet concealed about its per-
son. One gets a good deal of pleasure from pic-
turing that corpse.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the peni- _
tent burglaress has run her course, and an out-
break of revivals will keep the co. busy until; j
Easter, when “Dorothy Vernon” comes to
hand. “L’Aiglon”is occurring just at present.
On Saturday (31st) the popular woes of Romeo ,
and his reckless young woman will be set forth
with due regard for scenic detail. Miss Brune is .
to have a new Romeo this time. Thomas King- .
ston has returned to Australia after a few years’
absence, and he will make his first re-appearance.-
as the person who plunges Juliet’s family, into,
mourning.
** * *
Only a few more nights of “ There- and
Back” remain open to that rather estimable
comedy at Melbourne Princess’s. The harmless
husband who formerly ogled a stage-lady and
thought himself a sad dawg is a stale joke these
it is true, but the character contrasts in
“ There and Back ” are very effective, and the two
Scotchmen presented by Cambourne and Gregan
M‘Mahon put some new life into the old situa-
tions. They will impart an aroma of whusky
to the proceedings until Tuesday next.
Ihe theatre has been engaged for Wednesday
night by Mrs. Freeman Nott, who boldly
announces her intention to lead a “company of
amateurs” into “The Wilderness.” This one-
night performance of the romantic play aforesaid
will be in aid of the local Women’s Hospital, and
the efforts of an active and intelligent manage-
ment have already guaranteed a large financial
result. A revival of “The J.P.” closes the pre-
sent company’s season on Friday night. Miss
Beatrice Miranda’s operatic show is fixed for-
Saturday.
-* * *
Andrew Black, who has been described, by -
typographical error, as “ the legitimate successor
of hanlcey,” will appear at Melbourne Town Hall
on Thursday and Saturday. “Sankey” stood for -
Santley in the advt. Mr. Black is the notable
baritone singer who lately started his Australian
tour at Adelaide because the Melbourne hall was
in the hands of the carpenter. He will be sup-
ported by a fine reputation and two instrumental-
ists, the same two who appeared with Miss Maggie
Stirling last year—viz., Miss Ethel Sinclair,
violiniste, and Adolphe Borschke, the intensely
ladylike pianist who, seemingly, is entitled to .
wear trousers.
** * *
At the Melbourne Opera House a clever,
unpolished turn by The Carmos was added to the
bill last Saturday. Carmo, feminine, balances
herself frequently on the head or shoulders of
Carmo, masculine, a small young man who can’t
reasonably expect to rival Cinquevalli as a stromr-
man juggler. All the same, he juggles skilfully,


The Hon. Alfred’s emigration suggestions
seem merely another outbreak of amiability
without any kick. Ideas that have any real
progressive grip and the moving spirit of enter-
prise in them, are inspired by the best brand—
D.O.L. Whisky—every time. Anyone looking
at Deakin can see that his imbibations of D.C.L.
are unhappily rare. There’s no moving spirit in
his personality. He's too sweet.*
Captain William John Whaites, who
crossed the bar at Burwood (Sydney) the other
day, did'much useful pilot work along the N.S.W.
coast. In 1891 he took his whaleboat crew out
through a hair-raising storm, and brought off the
crew of the Helena Davis, piled-up on Nambucca
bar. He retired from the pilot service in 1902.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe, during the last quarter of a
century, has confirmed the .value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
and leaves the impression that he is an excellent
workman but a poor artist. Miss Raymond, the
brass instrumentalist, and her husband who
warbles from the orchestra, are passing hence this
week.
*# * *
The “Sindbad” pantomime at Adelaide
Royal is running like the two-year-old it is. The
mounting is sufficient though not sumptuous, and
some of the turns, especially the knockabout acro-
bat business, are very clever. Mane Campbell is
quite the most girlish Principal Boy within
memory. This year, in the “March of the
Nations,” Japan enters to mild applause some-
times without a “hand” at all. Last year she got
all the bouquets ; but the public fancy is fickle.
The Town Hall has broken out again with films,
chiefly thosesupplied by a photographer.Or ° ® ee ™ s
to have been providentially placed at Napoleon s
elbow at every moment of importance from that
hero’s boyhood to his death.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Miss Beatrice Miranda, it seems, is not going to Europe
with the idea of following the footsteps of her elder
sister Lalla on the continental stages. Lalla Miranda has
for years been a prima-donna in Italian and French opera
in Belgium, Holland and France, and—for a season—at
Oovent Garden. Sister Beatrice will go to London, with
a view to getting engaged for one of the leading English
opera companies, in which there should be an easy
opening for an artist of her ability. At present the
Melbourne girl has every qualification for a career, except
robust health Her fine soprano voice needs very little
finishing. She is tall and graceful, and a winsome
actress—a prima-donna who fills the bill. Although she
has had no stage experience to speak of, Miss Beatrice
Miranda has nothing obviously amateurish in her style.
She is a born artist, like her sister. But her constitution
wants building up.
A baritone who was once well-known in Melbourne, and
who is now well-known in England, is.a man with a large
nose and a sudden temper. Once in his early days he was
rehearsing as Faust, with a German conductor of still
worse temper than his own. Faust, going down to perdi-
tion, stuck in the trap-door. “Vy does he nod go
down ? ” cried the German, who had been growing more
and more soured through the performance. “Vy does he
nod go down? Does his nose stop him? If Mephis-
topheles and six other devils had not hung on to the
baritone there would have been murder done in the next
five minutes.
Detective Christie, of Melbourne (the lean, hard citizen
who looks after things at the Customs, and expects that
every importing man each day will pay his duty), has just
been presented with 100 guineas and a lot of “ guff ’ in
consideration of his services as a charity show
manager. Christie undoubtedly deserves much credit
for his connection with police carnivals which have pro-
duced large receipts at a comparatively small cost in ex-
penses. One or two of Christie’s satisfactory balance-
sheets reflect discredit on the management and business
principles of other amateur charity showmen. All the
same it must be admitted- that police entertainments are
neither merry nor wise. In fact, they ought to be
severely discouraged. - Melbourne is left unprotected for
hours whilst hundreds of policemen are fooling around at
the Exhibition Building.
George Coppin’s “positively last” appearances were
the subject of many jokes in Melbourne. On one
occasion the editor of a weekly sent him a proof of the
advertisement of his 3rd or 30th farewell appearance,
and wrote a note @n the margin : “I think you’ll find this
matter all right. We keep it standing.”
Basso Watkin Mills, speaking in England of his tour
through Australia and Canada, gives great praise to a
song, “ Peg Away,” written by a son of Frederick Bevan,
singing’ teacher at Adelaide Conservatorium. Among the
would-be vocalists whom Mills was requested to hear, he
mentions a Canadian Mayor who insisted on singing be-
fore him in his robes of office. It is pleasing to know that
Australia hasn’t a monopoly of the remarkable Mayor and
the J.P. who bounds like a baby goat on the mountains.
Gone to her long home, Gunny Shah, Wirth Brothers’
first and best elephant. She died at Narrogin (W.A.),
from ptomaine or, other poisoning. There was a post-
mortem, but the doctor had only overhauled one or two
bushels of the contents of Gunny’s stomach when the
mail left. The funeral took place at 2.30 a.m., three
other elephants being pall-bearers. It is intended to
place a stone over the grave if a sufficiently large one can
be found. Gunny Shah was a kindly, industrious, careful
and popular beast, who unloaded the animals’ cages off
the railway trucks without dropping the lion or spilling
the boa-constrictor all over the place, and it is hoped
that her spirit has taken its trunk to some spot where
the treetop is green, and the river cool and fresh, and the
grass pleasant to roll upon.
“The Lad” : We’ve heard and seen much of Skuthorp
and Martini. What’s old Mick Fenton and his troop
done? Fenton is every inch as good ; so is his daughter ;
so is his bucking bull. Mick is genuine. He’ll give a quid
to the man who sits his bull for five minutes, and will
hold his coat into the bargain.
“ J.A.C.” : Stated (B. 22/3/’O6) that Maud Beatty has
married a police official in Manila. It may run in the
family. Her father was a policeman before he became a
hotel and theatre proprietor.
It might interest Dan Barry and other purveyors of the
bellowdrama to know that the cover of Tire Bulletin,
placed across three horizontal pieces of wood with a
lighted candle behind, makes an excellent glowing fire,
before which the exiled Countess Hackenkoff may sit in
her snow-mantled castle and await the coming of her
lover. If the dinner-bell is gently rung outside, to sug-
gest the approaching sleigh, it lends additional effect.
“ Edyson ” : There’s a lesson and a moral in the per-
formance of “ There and Back,” at Melb. Princess. The
company is the Strand Theatre Comedy Co., the leading
features are imported, and their importance and high
abilities are insisted on in large black letters in all the
printing. You go to the show, and discover that the one
feature of the performance that is truly delightful and
deserving of hearty commendation is a small, tired, old-
time Scotch hotel-waiter who fills the second act with
true pawky comedy, and the waiter is personated by
Fred Cambourne, an Australian actor who, to my know-
ledge, has been appearing for years past in a score of Aus-
tralian companies, usually doing the small, unconsidered
things. In “ There and Back ”he gets a show, and his
Robert is an effort of pure, human humor. The charac-
ter is minutely considered, well-understood, and admir-
ably pictured. Cambourne makes the second act a burst
of merriment, and if Robert were spread over the whole
show it would make a pile of money. It would be a wise
move on the part of the proprietors to pay some fairly
funny literary person to twine the meteoric Robert freely
through the other acts, for the stars of the company are
small potatoes—and just about as humorous as potatoes.
“ S.” : The late George Coppin seems to have been an
ideal exponent of an old school of comedy—the
oleaginous, smooth, inert style, as contrasted with the
crisp, gymnastic, alert methods in which the new gener-
ation delights. Probably George was really a good actor,
but he was my keenest disappointment. My fathers,
mothers, aunts, uncles, and other elderly relations had
been in the habit of talking George Coppm at me, till I
cultivated an expectation transcending the bounds of
human possibility. Then I saw George Coppin in one of
his numerous “ absolutely last appearances,” and on the
floor of that theatre perished my respect for the judgment
of my elders. Thinking of it now, Ido not doubt that
George was good in the vein beloved of my fathers, but
he could not make me laugh, his unction did not tickle
anywhere. Yet the old men and the old women were
roaring again. The professional passing of George Coppin
eclipsed the gaiety of a generation ; but another gener-
ation had come that wanted another gaiety.
An interesting advt. for George Ireland’s one-night
appearance at Melb. Princess’s is a programme (printed
on white satin with lace trimmings) of a dramatic enter-
tainment given by Melbourne Garrick Club fifty years
ago, in aid of the local Orphan Asylum. The Garrick
Clubsters seemingly treated themselves as persons of
great distinction, and the beauteous programme looks
like a souvenir of a royal wedding. The play was “ The
Hunchback.” George Ireland, then an aspiring amateur
of 19, took the name part (Master Walter), and two other
surviving members of the cast were Dr. Neild and James
Smith, dramatic critics in after years for the Austral
Asian and Argus. A satin programme, half a century
old, with the names of three live citizens printed thereon,
is a rare relic.
Grossmith, jun., who was in Australia with the Gaiety
Co., has a pretty wit. Bernard Shaw said: “I have
only deigned to go to the Gaiety twice, and once was on
business.” Grossmith: “ For a rejected manuscript?”
Melbourne people find Maud Chetwynd a fattened and
improved actress. In comic opera Miss Maud was as
spare as three twigs ; in comedy she is a plump and
pleasing person, and her work as the voluble wife in
“There and Back ” shows that with experience she will
be a breezy comedienne. Possibly it was the dancing
that kept Maud trained fine, although “ serio-comics ”
complain bitterly that dancing is awfully fattening,
“ One of the greatest plays of modern times,” so runs
the truthful advt., of “The Ugliest Woman on Earth,”
which is being produced in Glasgow, Scotland. Should
be a welcome addition to the Bil-Andersonian repertoire.
Melbourne’s Lord Mayor is about to call a meeting to
consider the matter of raising a fund for the further
musical education of Mrs. Doubleday’s gifted daughter,
Leila. Little Miss Leila is equally promising as a
violiniste and a pianiste, and when she next comes before
the public to show cause for her being boomed, the
critics are pretty certain to disagree on the question of
which instrument she ought to prefer. The child herself
has a bias towards the violin, although she puts in a lot of
enthusiastic work at the piano. Hugo Heermann, hear-
ing her play last year, advised that she should be sent to
Germany for violin study. He predicted great things for
her, and argued that the stringed instrument offered a
girl the better chance of distinction as a platform artist.
But Heermann is a violinist. Paderewski would probably
vote for the piano in Leila’s case.
“Hamer”: Once Christmas and Easter were times
when the travelling pro. revelled in fat, plenty and full
salary, and faced his hotel landlord with the proud smile
of one who pays. Cheap railway fares have altered that;
and most of the shows that went out for a Christmas har-
vest last year struck a bitter, unseasonable frost and
filled their stomachs with the whirlwind.
“ T.D.” : Australian singers may take heart from the
fact that concert directors are coming to the conclusion
that there isn’t enough money to be made out of the old
plan of taking full concert parties out from England.
The curse of the musical profession in the big Australian
cities, so far as performers themselves are concerned, is
the frequency with which big stars arrive there, sur-
rounded by smaller satellites, who not only mop up all
the money for the concerts for which they originally
contract, but also get the best oratorio engagements, and
demand fees that exhaust the funds of the societies and
leave nothing for the local performer. An Australian
manager now in London has just confessed to me that he
is “ full up” of the complete concert party business ; the
steamer fares to and from Australia and the subsequent
expenses of train travel are so great. “ One star is all I
mean to take out for the future,” he said, “ and if I can
manage to get the right sort, audiences will have to be
content with recital programmes, with perhaps a violinist
or somebody thrown in. If we want supporting artists
we’ll pick them up as we go along.”
The success of the Andrew Mack co. was accountable,
no doubt, for the Williamsonian engagement of another
sort of American Comedy co., which will start an Austra-
lian tour at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), some time in May. The
“ star ” this time will be Willis Collier, and he is to bring
his own people and pieces with him.
MISS KATE ROONEY.
A late photograph.
Some strong evidence of a growing improvement in
musical taste is supplied by A. P, Sykes, the gramaphone
agent in Melbourne. The great demand nowadays, says
Mr. Sykes, is for records that would have been caviare to
the majority of gramophone purchasers (and their friends)
a few years ago. The improved production of the records,
which is now a very fine art, may be partly responsible
for the greater appreciation of high-class musical
“turns” from the Gram., hut doesn’t explain why
the old “comic pieces,” and trumpery ballads—also
better produced than of yore—are losing their charm for
the public. The trade in guinea and half-guinea records
(large size) has increased in greater proportion than the
sale of the cheaper lines. A Melba operatic number,
Gounod’s “Ave Marie,” sung by Melba to Kubelik’s
violin accompaniment (a beautiful thing), a solo by
Tamagno or Caruso—all these good things are snapped
up as soon as they come to hand. In fact, they have
been bespoken by customers in town and country.
Melba holds her own as the gramaphone prima donna.
All the beauty of her voice is preserved, and
her trills come'“off the plate” like bird-notes. But
there are others, of course. The Russian songstress
Madame Michalowa has a singularly incisive sweetness in
her tone, and you get her “ Laughing Song ” from the
gramaphone as though she were on the spot. Among
the new singers Andrew Black (under contract for Aus-
tralia) is remarkably effective—a grand baritone voice
and an enuciation perfectly clear in its machined state.
John Harrison, a lately-discovered English tenor, is
another striking gramaphonester. Harrison was found
in a cotton mill five years ago. He had had no musical
training up to then, but he is already a platform star,
and he sings “The Holy City” (with orchestra) ever so
much better than it deserves to be treated.
“ N.” : We hear much of the £5O-a-week salaries earned
by Australian actors, dancers, swimmers and other show-
people in London, and I only hope the yarns are true. But
there is one thing which the average Australian at this
end doesn’t know of, and that is the toll exacted by the
London theatrical agent. In very many cases the actual
artist receives only a percentage of his nominal salary, the
balance going to a stout, be-diamonded Hebrew gentle-
man who engineered the billet in the first instance. An
Australian man or woman turns up in England, spends
ten or twelve weeks hanging about stage doors without
getting the ear, or even the eye, of the great persons who
boss the shows ; and, to avoid the workhouse, finally seeks
the agent. If the applicant is young, good-looking and of
the female sex, the agent will possibly try to make terms
which are not wholly on a cash basis. If otherwise, after
satisfying himself that the artist is a profitable spec., he
will prepare a contract by which he personally
contracts to pay the artist a salary, perhaps as
low as a couple of pounds a week for a term of,
perhaps, three or five years. The stranded . Aus-
tralian without a proper meal for a week, jumps
at the terms, and in a few weeks finds that he is being
starred as a living wonder by some management which is
paving the kind agent £2O or £3O weekly. A protest
will be met with a shrug of the shoulders. “ Ith all
right, me boy, your skvealin’. You vos de success. Now
I "gets der twenty qvid for you, but look at der
udders. I’ve got ter keep a dozen udder artists, I can’t
find a job for anyveres.” The pitiful stories told by the
poor agents as they stand on the kerb waiting for their
motor-cars make the artist walk borne feeling ashamed
of himself as an impostor taking advantage of the
generosity of a big-hearted philanthropist.
Mrs. Brown Potter has been discharged from the Bank-
ruptcy Court. Debts were proved at £12,000, and the
assets realised £1513.
Frank T. Bullen is to arrive at Adelaide by the Omrah
on April 16, to start an Australian lecturing tour. The
lectures will probably be supported by the righteous, as
Bullen is an ex-sailor-man, guaranteed to never use cuss-
vocabulary, and he frequently ballasts his otherwise
readable sea books with pious experiences. Mr. Bullen
“ found grace ” at a Maoriland revival meeting, and after-
wards converted most of the other members of his crew
at least that is the story.
Beerbohm Tree : “ According to some newspaper re-
ports an actress is a lady in trouble, but I would define an
actress as a lady who speaks in a stage play.”
During Bernhardt’s last season in Constantinople, the
censors forbade the production of “ L’Aiglon,” the por-
trayal of royal personages on the stage being considered
derogatory to the Sultan’s dignity.
“ T.O’F.”: There ought to be a Society for the Protec-
tion of the Competition Infant. In a great number of
cases the children have absolutely no wish to be stars of
South-street or the other haunts of the competition, but
foolish fathers and mothers force them to enter. Some
miserable youngsters I encountered in a boarding-house
are typical. The parents were continually impressing
their offspring and others with the alleged fact that they
were taking boarders and denying themselves in all ways
merely for the sake of bringing out the children’s talents.
I don’t believe they had any talents to bring out. Still,
the poor little wretches were never allowed to stay away
from school (some of them had certificates for attending
without a break for an incredible number of years), and
when others were playing they were “taking extras” in
school, or trotting around to outside teachers of all sorts
of “ accomplishments.” I was forced out of the house by
the noise of their frequent practice, but I note in the
competition reports that the harassed kids still enter
regularly in most classes for which they are eligible, but
hardly ever get anywhere near the winning post.
Bruce Smith last Monday told a small
gathering at Burwood that “the high type of
mind had not shown itself in the Federal Parlia-
ment.” Well, perhaps it hasn’t. The B. Smith
type of mind has shown itself, but no one would
call that high.
Victorian Railway Department suggests to
the amusement-seeker for the Easter Week a spell
of fishing on the Gippsland Lakes. If the attrac-
tions there are half as attractive as the picture
illustrating them, a rush to Gippsland is in order.
Those who have not fixed plans as yet for Easter
should certainly drop a post-card to the passenger
agent, Victorian Railways.
Spruce Myth, at a woman’s (“ Bee ”) poli-
tical meeting at Parramatta last week (which
meeting was opened, as “Bee” meetings are there,
with prayer), told his hearers that if Christ could
come to New South Wales now the Labor party
would deny Him admittance into the State. It
is a pity that desperate liave-beens are driven to
such wretched irreverences. Does Smith want to
argue that the Redeemer would be subjected to
the education test and could not pass it ?
Thirty-seven out of the 49 publicans of
South Brisbane (Q.) met the other day and
solemnly resolved to obey the shut-on-Sunday
law. Now the public doesn’t know what to make
of the other 12; one section calls on the Home
Secretary to prosecute the dozen who “ openly
express their intention of defying the law,” while
another section holds up the 12 as such inherently
law-abiding citizens that they never dreamed that
a pledge was necessary. It seems a pretty tough
job for a Brisbane Bung to escape being misunder-
stood.
Under-Sec. MacFarlane, of N.S.W. Lands
Department, who was “relieved from duty in
order that he might give his attention to the
Lands Commission,” is still relieved ; and Robert
McDonald is in his chair. McDonald was Mac-
Farlane’s predecessor as assistant U.S., but
quietly retired “on account of his health,” and
accepted a billet as second Western Lands Com-
missioner. It has been found quite possible for
wo commissioners to attend to western lands (the
bulk of the work has been done), and Mr.
McDonald’s health is now much improved. His
trouble seemed to be mainly that he could smell
things a long way off.
Just as this issue goes to press another
wrong has been done to the Ma State. One of
the reasons assigned by the anti-Federal papers in
Sydney against an Australian capital on Monaro
was the awful amount it would cost Victoria to
build a line connecting that capital with Mel-
bourne. They were quite sorry for Victoria, and
shed tears. Now Premier Bent has been looking
at the country, and thinks he can build the line
up to the N.S.W. border and make it pay. And
his proposal that Victoria should build a railway
with its own money, through its own territory, to
its own border has moved the Sydney anti-Federal
press to shrieks of rage, and caused the Evening
News to depict Bent as a tramp stealing N.S. W.’s
fowls.
A yarn from Melbourne :
It happened in Melbourne last week, just in time
for an evening newspaper report. A sculler con-
trived to upset his craft on the Yarra close to
Prince’s Bridge—the finest site in Melbourne for an
aquatic sensation. Actor Scarlett (of Bland Holt’s
co.) and a friend chanced to be launching a two-
oared boat from the neighboring sheds at the very
moment when the skiff capsized. In, a loud melodrama
voice Scarlett called upon the mysterious stranger in the
water to state whether he could swim, but the stranger
preserved a diplomatic silence. Whereupon Scarlett, with
all the promptitude of a Bland Holtian in an emergency,
plunged his oars into the stream and rowed forth to the
silent bather. This was only the beginning of a dramatic
situation. Somethingmore wascalled for. The stage seemed
to be waiting for Walter Baker, but in place of that time-
honored hero there came Professor M’Cormick, the high
diver at Prince’s Court. Providence had prompted the
Professor to go strolling over the bridge what time the
member of Bland Holt’s co. was piling up the agony
below. The Professor sprang upon the parapet and made
a lovely dive—as pretty as an advt. picture—into the
murky Yarra. Another moment and the gallant fellow
had grabbed the fortuitous object of rescue, and was
swimming with him towards the actor’s life-boat. Then,
in the words of the first newspaper report, rescuer and
rescued modestly disappeared from view before further
“ inquiries could be made.”
This incident recalls to mind the dive of “ the heroic
Johnson ” from London Bridge long ago. Somebody fell
off a steamboat. A man dived from the bridge and
dragged the live body ashore. An excited parson
bustled about the bridge, crowded with people at
the time, and took up a silver coin collection
on behalf of the dauntless unknown who had made every-
body feel so proud to be an Englishman, it being imme-
diately assumed that only an Englishman (with a large
capital E) could do this daring deed from the noblest of
motives. The hero giving his name as Johnson—plain,
unpretentious Johnson —got quietly away with the silver
offering, bub he couldn’t escape the glowing eulogies of
next morning’s London Daily Telegraph. The D.T.
sang praises to Johnson’s name in the leading article. It
described him as one of the grandest specimen causes of
England’s greatness, and made many heated remarks to
the effect that the Empire would endure as long
as the race of Johnsons held out. Then the cruel
truth came to light. Johnson was a provincial
“ champion ” diver who had come to London to make a
splash, and the bloke who fell off the penny steamer was
his colleague. The colleague was in the “ human frog’
line of business, consequently when he fell off the boat he
was able to stay along time under water without suffer-
ing inconvenience, whilst friend Johnson made a thrilling
display of difficult v in discovering where he had got to.
“ You’d ’ave larfed,” said the amphibious creature, telling
the story to his pals in after years ; “ you’d ’ave larfed to
’ave seen me and Johnson winking at one another undei
the water.”
Arthur Rutledge, knight, K.C., and ex-
Attorney-General, has accepted a District Court
Judgeship in Queensland. A knight on the minor
bench is rather rare, but Rutledge is 63 years old,
and a political back number, and is thankful tor
even a pale streak of luck these days. The new
Judge was called to the Queensland Bar in 1878.
He is a native of New South Wales, and is a
brother of Parson Woolls Rutledge, the man who
waves the blanky shirt on July 12.
Palmerston, North (M.L.) has had a
tragedy. The woman who was not married to
Dick Murfitt shot him and then herself —this
according to her own confession. Dick Murfitt is
dead, but though the woman is near her end in
any case through an incurable disease, “ the
doctors have every hope of her recovery.” It
sounds as if they hoped she would recover in time
to be hanged before the incurable disease kills her,
or else that she will get well in time to die incur-
ably in gaol. It requires somebody who has
studied the art of expressing things nicely to send
cablegrams about the expected recovery of a
dying woman who has the corpse of Dick Murfitt
on her conscience.
The trouble was the old one of the short-
skirted damsel with the improper story. Her
mother assured the Melbourne Sessions that her
daughter had never been guilty of any impro-
priety. Then, thus certificated, the young lady
lifted the white flower of her blameless life into
the box and explained that as she was casually
strolling over Prince’s Bridge one _ December
afternoon, the accused introduced himself and
desired her to go for a walk, She went —to St.
Kilda. Later they returned and strolled round
the city, finally meandering out to the young
man’s home at Brunswick at 2 a.m. There she
climbed through his bedroom window, and climbed
out again at 7 a.m. It was an amazing and
very peripatetic tale; but it began to ha.ve
a somewhat veracious look when the police
swore that the damsel had minutely and
correctly described the appearance and posi-
tion of every article of furniture in accused’s
bedroom. Accused swore he had been too drunk
all that day to remember anything save that he
had gone home on the tram very late and very
unsober, and that the gripman had helped him off
the dummy. The gripman remembered the very
unsober person and fixed the time at 11T5. Also
the accused’s next door neighbor deposed to having
heard him at 11'30 accusing the key-hole of being
disgracefully drunk. Thereupon the jury took
only five minutes to reject the girl’s tale, and the
unsober gentleman was discharged. But there
was a wealth of detail about that tale that makes
one wonder what would have happened to the
accused had he not been drunk enough to he
assisted off the dummy. Somehow upon this
occasion the court omitted its usual caustic re-
marks upon the curse of der-rink..
An outwardly respectable Melbourne
pressman, who seems to have had an extensive
acquaintance with a very shady character, writes
this ■
The Great Timekeeper has counted ten over the Mel-
bourne notoriety, Billy Buck. Billy was famous through
his persistent hobby of stoushing policemen without pro-
vocation ; but he had other claims to fame at one time.
He was alleged to be the son of an English parson, and
was undoubtedly a man of fair education. He arrived in
Australia fifteen years ago, got thoroughly drunk on
entering the Heads, and stepped off the mail boat at
Port Melbourne pier, announcing that he Would make
“ these colonial peelers know an educated English gentle-
man when they saw one.” Billy straightway commenced
operations on a iunky constable on duty on the pier ; but
the blocky person in blue was no other than the redoubt-
able Waldron, and Billy was dragged off, seemingly by a
devastating whirlwind, to spend his first night in
Australia in Port Melbourne watchhouse. Within a few
months he became one of the institutions of Bourke-
street, being regarded by the Bats Push as the standard
of refinement and culture.
Billy was a boxer fcr a time. He claimed, on arrival,
to be the amateur champion of England, and patriotically
reckoning - that a mere colonial pro. should be dead meat
for a scientific English amateur, he consented to shed his
amateur status and take on Paddy Slavin, who was just
then aspiring to higher things. Billy came forward at
the crash of the gong, Slavin swung his fist just once,
and Billy was 18 minutes coming to. The fight was the
shortest on record, and Billy ever afterwards restricted
his attentions to the police.
Consorting daily with a crowd that lives almost wholly
by taking anything that isn’t nailed down, Billy was
never so much as arrested for theft or swindling. He had
the respect for property and the contempt for the person
which should make his name revered by every Employers’
Federation in Australia. He served several sentences ;
but all for assault. On one occasion he was defended by
barrister Coldham, and the jury disagreed. When the
next trial came on, Billy had no money to pay a lawyer,
and conducted his own defence. “ I will come, your
Honor,” he said, “to the points referred to at the last
trial by my learned friend, Mr. Coldham.” Justice Hodges
frowned severely, but Billy continued with the utmost con-
fidence, until it approached midday. Suddenly he paused,
after the manner of counsel, and, glancing at the clock
remarked suavely : “ Perhaps your Honor will say that
this is an appropriate time for the adjournment.” Hodges
scowled. “ Get on, sir ; get on,” he ordered. Billy was
unabashed, and went on to explain his presence in the
place w'here the assault occurred. “ Perhaps,” he said,
“it will be contended that, as a married man, I did
wrong in entering a house of that description. No doubt,
gentlemen Of the jury, that view is correct. But which
of us, I ask you, keeps within the strict tram-lines of
moral rectitude ? Let him who is free from vice cast the
first stone.” The jury found Billy guilty, and he got two
years.
One night Billy and another tough member of southern
society set out to bash a policeman with a bottle. Billy’s
friend wielded the w'eapon with such effect that a splinter
of glass rebounded off the skull of the constable and
lodged in Billy’s eye, finishing its career. The police
magnanimously omitted to charge Billy on this occasion,
but it was not long before he assaulted another “ cop.”
and found himself back in gaol.
On another occasion Billy was encountered one morn-
ing covered with blood and looking as if he had been
tackling Jeffries and Squires in the one ring. “It was
this way,” explained Billy. “ I was walking home from
St. Hilda after the last tram last night, and somebody
bumped into me. I said ‘ Excuse me,’ courteously, but
he bumped me again, so I landed him one. Then it was
what-ho, she bumps. I got a terrible doing before I knew
what was the matter. You see, I thought I was fighting
a man. How was Ito know- he was a horse ? ” Billy was
supposed to make an unostentatious living as a book-
maker’s clerk, and the fact that he was never known to
slay his bookmaker speaks well for that gentleman’s
agility—and for his “mozzle.”


Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
NOT WHOLLY SUBJUGATED.
DADDY: " Come here, you young rip; your
mother says I’m to give you a hiding.”
SONNY : “ Well, you don’t have to do everything
she tells you, have you?”
A game of dominoes was the usually pacific
employment over which the Raven-Singer shoot-
ing case, involving serious damage to three per-
sons, arose in Sydney last week. Tragedies on
the bowling-green may yet be possible. Was
there ever a shooting affray on a bowling green?
John Bennett, owner of Brush Farm,
Eastwood, recently resumed by the N.S.W.
Government, has just vainly sued the State for
£14,000 odd. In the ’nineties the Chief Secretary
of the day first took over Brush Farm, situated
near the romantically-named Kissing Point-road,
and not near anywhere else in paiticular. He
wanted it for a boys’ reformatory, and he paid
£5OO a year for it on a long lease. This was before
the days of economy, and the general idea at
time was that Bennett had seen the Government
coming. At the end of the term the property was.
resumed, and the handsome sum of £6633 offered,
a nice capital cost to saddle a small institution
with. The owner, however, cried out for more
than double, but an unsympathetic jury jumped
on his claim, leaving him to pay his costs out of
the £6633.
* * * *
Brush Farm is historic in N.S. Wales. It.
has been connected with many of the early
colonists, the Marsdens, the Lawsons, the For-
sters. Ex-Premier William Forster spent his.
boyhood there. From there Lawson, Blaxland,
and Wentworth started on their trip across the.
Blue Mountains in 1813 ; and on the estate is the.
grave of George Barrington, the notorious pick-
pocket, who died in 1805, having filled for some,
years the office of chief constable at Parramatta.
* * * *
Justice A’Beckett, of Victoria, solemnly
objected, the other day, in Melbourne Criminal
Court, to a solicitor for the defence signalling to.
the prisoner whether he should challenge jurymen
or not. The papers thereupon wasted much space,
in alleged funny remarks about tick-tacking ; but,,
however funny it may seem to the papers, there is.
a very serious side to the matter as regards the.
prisoner. The man in the dock has the right to.
challenge only 15 men. The “ Crown ” can Standi
aside as many as the prosecutor pleases. The.
man in the dock has hardly any chance of dis-
covering whether the jurymen are likely to give
him a fair chance or not, so he employs a solicitor,
and the solicitor is supposed to try to dis-
cover this. The “Crown” never misses,
a chance. The jury panel is always
sent to the detective office, and read over by the
inspector in charge, in the presence of all the
detectives. If any man knows anything about
one of the proposed jurors which leads him to.
fancy that juror would not cry out at the top of his.
voice for a conviction, he speaks up and the
matter is noted. Then the Crown Solicitor, or
Whoever instructs the prosecution, uses this in-
formation to guide him in standing aside jurymen.
Yet A’Beckett would ask the man in the dock to
exercise his limited right merely by a hurried
inspection of the juror’s countenance. What
would his Honor say if he were in the dock ?
* * * *
Last week, while the petty spites and
squabbles of the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
were being investigated, Mr. Fehon (Third Com-
missioner) got a chance to explain how Mr. Knee-
shaw (the tramway manager, and the unpleasant
witness who says he saw Second Commissioner
Kirkcaldie opening First Commissioner Oliver’s
drawer) came-into the Service :
The President: Now, as to Mr. Kneeshaw. Where did
he come from ? Is he an importation from England ?
Mr. Fehon : When I was in Maoriland, some years ago,
I saw him in charge of some exhibits there, at the
exhibition. I took a fancy to him. Mr. Eddy had also
seen him, and subsequently, on my suggestion, he was
brought over here.
From reading that, the casual individual would
imagine that Kneeshaw was a sort of attendant
at an exhibition, and that the great Fehon took
pity on him, and raised him up as a Babylonian
king might raise up a slave. Kneeshaw, as a
matter of fact, was chief auditor on the
Maoriland railways ; he ranked next to the Com-
missioners and was well in the running for
the appointment of Chief Commissioner when
it should next become vacant. In the Maoriland
Exhibition year he spent a portion of his holidays
organising the exhibit of railway machinery and
appliances, being the kind of enthusiast whose
idea of a holiday was mostly to leave off work and
carry bricks. The statement of Fehon was true
enough, but it was a remarkable instance of how
the. truth can be used to leave a very erroneous
impression, and.it doesn’t suggest Fehon as the
very easy or pleasant man to get on with that lie
lias been so frequently telling the Commission
he is. • '
<- * -ic
Jimee (N.S.W.) hospital is a fine example
of how such an institution ought not to be run.
Some time ago the committee dismissed an
honorary medical officer for “an infringement of
a regulation”—real reason was insectarianism.
The public stood to the dismissed medico, and, in
a petition.bearing over 1500 names, demanded his
re-instatement, but the committee rejected the
petition. Next act was the poisoning of a woman
in the hospital. Evidence alleged that the matron
had been’ “ bottling off ” liquid strychnia and
didn’t wash the measures. A nurse came along,
put a dose of cascara into the poisoned measure,
and Mrs. Gardner received the fatal draught. A
coroner’s jury spoke of the “gross negligence” of
both matron and nurse. The latter resigned, but
the other hung on. Now a hospital sub-committee
brings in a report “exonerating” the matron.
It seems to be the duty of the Board of Health to
have a good look at Junee hospital.
Memories of the Commonwealth celebra-
tion scandals in N.S.W. Chief-Secretary’s Office
were revived in the recent Kitching v. McDonagh
case. The former, an ex-Government messenger,
sued Dr. McDonagh for £75, part losses incurred
in financing a theatrical venture, and was beaten.
Kitching, an insignificant little man with no
apparent individuality, acquired such an influence
over the Minister, the Under-Secretary, and other
chiefs in the Department, that at the celebrations
he practically held a similar position to that occu-
pied by George Jenkins when the Duke visited
Melbourne. But while George was content to
wave his hand and preserve his dignity in a “ do-
the-thing-properly ” attitude, Kitching’s devious
methods lost him his billet, which he modestly
estimated as worth, with pickings, £5OO a year.
The Judge in the case, last week, made some
caustic remarks on the Administration which
allowed a Government messenger to run a Com-
monwealth celebration. But while, perhaps, the
£5OO a year time is over, the billet of head messen-
ger in a Ministerial department still has its com-
pensations. The tip from the man who must see
the Minister and who won’t dance attendance on
the mat, is always with him, and “ there are
others.”
* * * *
In a recent trial before N.S.W. Chief Jus-
tice Darley, that gentleman went somewhat
out of his way to belittle the messengers in
the public service, whom he described as akin to
menials. The old Tory class to which Chief Jus-
tice Darley belongs considers that any man not
privileged to attend a levee is either “a trades-
man ”or “a menial.” The legend “ Tradesmen’s
entrance ” on the side gate of a snob’s villa pro-
claims loudly the Conservatism inside.
LITTLE MARY AGAIN.
HE : “ We can’t get married on £3OO a year.”
SHE: “ Why not! That’s enough to dress me.”
HE: “ Yes; but we’ve got to eat.”
SHE: “ Oh, yes; always thinking of your stomach."
“P.” ; In the Crick case in Sydney, the
other day, when defending counsel G. H. Reid
called his client “the prisoner,” Justice Cohen
pulled him up short with the remark that a man
on trial was “the accused” until he was found
guilty. Some time back, in a country Circuit
Court* I heard Divorce Justice Simpson chide
defending counsel in a criminal case for calling
the man in the dock “the accused,” instead of
“ the prisoner.” “ He’s the prisoner at the bar,”
said Mr. Simpson, reprovingly. Perhaps this
distinction doesn’t matter much to anyone, but
the fact that it exists argues a big difference in
character between those two Judges.
* • * *
The historical accuracy of the Herald is
like the peace of God, beyond all understanding.
Grandmother reports that at the Jubilee service
in St. Philip’s Church, Sydney, there was used
the identical Bible brought out in the ship Samuel
Johnson, and employed on the occasion of the
first service under the big tree in Macquarie-
place (?). As a matter of fact, there was no
vessel in the first fleet named the Samuel Johnson,
but the first parson was Richard Johnson.
* * * *
The National Gallery boom in Melbourne
Argus—it began with the Twelve Best Pictures,
and continued in columns regarding Hunt’s garish
“ Light of the World”—has broken out in a vexing
form. Correspondents are now discovering pic-
ture problems—whether the man in Dicksee’s
“Crisis” is, a doctor or a husband, whether the
checkmate in Webb’s painting is according to the
rules of the game, whether the ewe in “ Anguish ”
is a four-tooth or a six-tooth, whether Longstaff’s
bush-fire was caused by rabbit phosphorus or
wax matches, and so on. It is impossible now for
an artist to paint a cave without a question arising
whether the autochthones of the land used it 4000
years ago as a kitchen or a seminary for junior
priests.
* * * *
“S.R.”: “Hisc” (B. l/3/’O6) asks : “Is
there never a song of Australia ? ” No, there is
not, and will not be until Australia has been tried
in the fire of national ad versity. A national anthem
is a flower which has been watered with the blood
of a people. When Asia’s alien hordes break in
battle shock upon our shores, when smouldering
ruins mark where once our cities grew, and our
manhood is dyeing the mountain and plains with
its blood, then will Australia’s National Anthem
be sung around the camp fires, as the Boers sai g
their “Volkleid.” And when our time conn s
may we put up as grim a struggle as did the Boer
farmers !
* * • *
Touching the eight-hour man’s inhumanity
to man, a complaint comes from a dispenser at a
Melbourne friendly societies’ dispensary :
These dispensaries are owned and conducted by the
labor classes, who, in no circumstances, would work moi e
than 48 hours per week themselves—why, then, shoulu
these eight-hours sweaters work us poor beggars from CO
hours upwards? What with night work and Sunday
work, my hours average over 100 per week.
To which one might reply that the eight-houi s
principle is not less justified in the breach than
the observance. A dispenser of medicines is in
the same boat as the doctor who prescribes them,
or any other kind of professional man who lives
by other than manual labor. But if the dispensers
want to leave the professional boat and get into
the unionists’ swim theie is nothing to prevent
them. The Law will help them who help them-
selves.
• * * *
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade’s want cf
precision in the use of words, where exactness
means everything, makes him an impossible
authority on his own Liquor Act. In attempting
to explain that travellers have a right to obtain
food at hotels during hours when the sale of drir k
is prohibited, he proceeded, according to a Herald
report:—
The Full Court had already decided that a person may
he on licensed premises after closing hours quite law-
fully, and consequently, if it was established that a per-
son was simply having a meal at an hotel on Sunday, and
was not drinking or intending to drink liquor, he could
show that he was there with a lawful excuse.
How can a person show that he is not intending
to drink liquor ?
“Brumby”: I
tumbled the other night
into the boss coffee-
stall of Sydney. It is
entered by a close-
fitting door in the face
of a big advertisement
hoarding. Here the
two-up habitue and
“ sport ” from the
hazard schools fore-
gather, together with
the ferret-eyed prowler
with the flash appear-
ance, and the casual
Johnny having a night
out. The fare is rough
and mostly good. A
favorite dish is a “set
uv smalls” —two small
Scotch pies with vege-
table trimmings —or
curried tongues. Inhere
is seating accommoda-
tion for about 50 people,
and a staff of about
eight men is hard at
work all night —or
rather until the two-up
schools close —which is
between 3 and 5 a.m.
Usual subject of dis-
course is horse or pug.
Orders are given in
shorthand. A hungry-
looking “ bloke ” enters
and calls for “ a set, an’
boiled ’n black.” He
wants pies, boiled pota-
toes, and coffee without
milk. Occasionally
there’s an argument,
and a plate of “stoo”
goes hurtling through
the air, and a pair of
drunks roll across the
table in “ holts,” dis-
turbing the butter and
causing the cheese to
scuttle under the stove
for safety. Now and
again a party of frisky
outlaws try to leave
without paying. Then
the proprietor marshals
his eight followers, and
either gets the money
or a black eye. Some-
times he gets both. The
melee is well worth the
price of the supper.
The assistants are well
up to their work, and generally succeed in uphold-
ing the dignity of the firm in a worthy manner.
* * * *
A weird yarn comes from Maoriland. One
of the parties that went out to prospect the wreck
of the Elingamite took with it a newly-designed
apparatus, constructed on the principle of a
diving-bell. When the machine was lowered into
the depths, the air-pumping apparatus was turned
on full blast, and the astonished diver was sud-
denly struck by a tremendous gale and blown
against the top of the cage, where he was unable
to reach the valve so that he might let the surplus
breath escape. He signalled desperately to be
taken up. and the man in charge above mistook
the signal, and yelled that the diver was suffocat-
ing, and ordered his minion to pump like grim
death. The pump was driven at top speed, and
something like seventeen cyclones struck the man
who was being pressed against the roof of his
cage. The effect was as though he was being
slowly suffocated by a tremendous gale blowing in
his face and pouring into his lungs so fast that he
could not breathe it out again. What agonies that
man endured are better imagined than described.
At last, receiving no further signals, they brought
him up and found him unconscious. Eventually
he recovered, but it was a narrow shave.
NO MORE OF THIS SORT OF THING.
The exhibition of the picture, “ The Light of the
World,” attracted a record a ttendance of visitors to the
National Art Gallery yesterday afternoon. . . . The mule
pictures that were in juxtaposition to the picture, and to
which various correspondents have taken exception, have
been removed, and now a blank space on either side
serves to concentrate the thoughts of even the secular
spectator upon the masterpiece.
A rabbit-brained correspondent has been
trying to convince S.M. Herald that the rabbit
is of more use to Australia than the sheep. His
main argument is that rabbits by burrowing do for
the interior what worms do for the coastal dis-
tricts—conduct the water into the ground.
Finally, he throws the responsibility of selecting
bunny upon Nature, and triumphantly says :
Nature dictates that air as well as water must get to
the root of vegetation to ensure good growth, and in wet
enintryhas provided the worm for that object. What
is Nature’s provision in dry country, where the worm
c innot live, if it be not the rabbit ?
The correspondent does not explain why Nature
put half the globe between the rabbit and Aus-
lia, leaving it to an irresponsible idiot to bring
bunny here. But perhaps he is only dragging
Granny’s venerable limb.
* • •
*
There seem to be almost as great possi-
bilities about Bent’s new motor-’buses as about
Tait’s narrow-gauge railways. The other night
a defective kerosene-tank started leaking, and a
blazing motor-’bus streaked half-way down
Chapel-street, Prahran, before blistering paint,
and cracking windows, and lo%i applause from
the audience warned the driver that something
untoward was happening. With the usual luck
of Bent’s department, it happened that the
machine held no passengers at the time. If there
had been any, they would have been fried
THE TOLLOPHONE SYSTEM.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
The Postmaster-General proposes to limit the number
of calls allowed to each telephone subscriber, extra calls
to pay a halfpenny toll. The reason for the proposal is
that the ’phone is now used largely for frivolous conver-
sation, — News item.
’Tis a model regulation,
With the double-barrelled view
Of curtailing conversation
And increasing revenue.
Yet I have some hesitation
In according approbation,
For it gains the execration
Of a few—
One or two.
Yet I think it only proper,
When you want to talk a lot,
You should drop another copper
In the slot—
Why not?
But it’s causing consternation,
And there’s trouble bound to brew,
Through the P.M.G.’s dictation,
Which is something very new !
It might be the ruination
Of a promising flirtation !
Most unpleasant situation,
Say, if Loo
Spoke to you,
’Twould be scandalous to stop her,
When her love was growing hot,
Till She dropped another copper
In the slot —
Great Scott!
Let’s suppose a conversation :
“ Susie, darling, is it you ?
1 have got an invitation
For to-morrow, to the Zoo !
Yes ! His father owns a station !
There is no exaggeration ;
I’ve the surest information !
And are you
Coming too ?
Why ” but here she comes a cropper !
She is cut off like a shot
’Cause she didn’t drop a copper
In the slot—
Hard lot 1
Or supposing a relation,
Or a friend, had got a clue
On the racing situation
And should telephpne to you :
“ It will make a big sensation
If it gets in circulation,
So I send the information
Just to you,
It is true !
They are ‘ stiffening ’ The Hopper,
And the ‘ monte ’ for the trot
Is •” Great Oiosar ! not a copper
For the slot !
What rot!
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
A Fitzroy underclothier advertises “Trous-
seaux on time payment, from sixpence per week.”
You buy the furniture on time-payment, owe the
rent, get the trousseau at 6d. a week, and then
get married for half-a-crown and live happily ever
afterwards.
SUN PROOF SER6€~
My Guarantee goes with Every Serge Suit that
neither sun nor sait=water can affect it.
Absolutely Fast
Indigo Dye Jp 4
SERGE, vSUITvS tS*
Patterns, Plates, and Measurement Forms, POST FREE.
R. C. HAQON, Merch ™l Tailor>
129 King Street, SYDNEY.
The Melbourne case of grazier Davidson,
who charged a naughty Maudie with stealing his
watch and chain in a Lonsdale-street temple of
Venus, has ended in the utter discomfiture of that
lamentable old land-owner. Davidson, it seems,
is in the habit of travelling around on a motor-
car looking for excitement, and when he seeks it
in Lonsdale-street he surely finds it. At the
temple in question he shouted champagne for the
goddesses, and because he had taken the pre-
caution to leave his money at home, Maudie
wouldn’t let him go until he left his watch and
chain as security for payment of the bill for
liquor and other luxuries. At least that
was her story. When the bill turned out
to be £35 he complained to the police, on the
ground that the demand was excessive, and he
had not been a consenting party in the retention
of his timepiece. Justice A’Beckett refusing to
submit the grazier’s story to a jury, Maudie left
the court with her gaudy friends, whilst the
prosecutor was left to feel sorry for having
yelped. In the bagnio, as in the gambling den,
all the fleeced ones are fools, but some of the fools
are sports, who pay and look pleasant. Better to
be a cheerful sport in your own right than the
mere snivelling sport of the spoilers.
* * * ♦
Much has been said lately about the
wretched quality of Brisbane’s water-supply, but
the towns supplied from Malmsbury reservoir
(Vic.), including Bendigo, could probably give
Brisbane a fair start and a beating in this respect.
Hospitals in the Bendigo district are at present
overcrowded with typhoid patients, and anyone
attempting even to wash in reservoir water cannot
fail to smell the reason. A strolling dramatic
company put up “Macbeth” in a local township
a few nights ago. When the sleep-walking Lady
Macbeth remarked “Not all the scents of Araby
could sweeten this little hand,” a solemn voice in
the audience commented: “It must have been
washed in Malmsbury reservoir.” The assertion
came too near the truth to raise a laugh.
* * * *
Christchurch, the only Maoriland city
which didn’t elect a teetotal licensing committee
and go in for the 10 o’clock closure of public-
houses three years ago, has fallen away. The new
committee is prohibitionist, and includes three
preachers. Consequently the International Ex-
hibition people, who wanted a bar on their
premises, have just about as much show as a
QUITE SOLVENT.
SHE: “ But you haven’t enough money to marry
me.”
HE: “ Oh, yes, I have. The Registrar’s fee is
only 10s.”
baby devil that has lost its feeding-bottle in
perdition, and evening visitors to the great show
will have to run hard to reach the hotel before 10.
Dunedin, on the other hand, has gone back to the
grog-barrel, and is wearing beer-leaves in its hair.
The old licensing committee which turned off the
liquor at 10 has been replaced by a crowd which
sympathises with the down-trodden public-house,
and the 11 o’clock system will be reverted to.
But Mr. and Mrs. Pub wore themselves to a
shadow over the election, and now that they have
won they are almost too weak and exhausted to
pull a pint of beer.
A SAVING CLAUSE.
MISTRESS (sacking an incompetent): “There, Mary Jane, I’ve given you a very good
reference. I’ve stated that you boil water extremely well.”
“ Adelaide ” : “ Bathing on open beaches
in any part of Australia is gambling with death”
(B. l/3/’OG). You can safely except, at any rate,
Adelaide’s 16-mile stretch of sand. It is alive
with bathers, from end to end, every day in sum-
mer ; there are only two enclosed baths in the
whole stretch, and vve have worried along now
for nearly 70 years without ever having a shark-
bite. Thus, if a gamble, it is one with long odds
on safety. Sharks are seen, and occasionally
hooked, from the various jetties, but they don’t
seem to have any vicious instincts. At any rate,
men bathe off these same jetties every morning.
And, as I said already, 70 years is a long, long
gamble.
“ Quidam ” : Vic. railway man Tait’s
action in changing the name of Sydney Flat, the
station that is about one engine-snort from
Eaglehawk, to “Sydney” is foolishness-
plain, howling, Canadian foolishness of
the worst Bluenose variety. Haven’t
we got enough duplicate names in
the Commonwealth already ? If
the great, important, sudden,
flurried man hadn’t time for
“Sydney Flat,” why didn’t he
call the place “Flat”? Any-
how, who gave the Bluenose
person authority to go round
re - christening Australia
generally ? His business
is to keep the old hot-
potato can he calls an
engine moving, and to
catch his runaway trucks.
By the time he has re-
named Porepunkah as
“Punk,” and changed
Warracknabeal to
“Whack,” and has abol-
ished Buttlejork and
Dunbulbalane there will
be no beauty or pictures-
queness left in the land.
* fr *
According to well-
known Sydney doctor J.
B. Nash, in the year
1904 there were 1195
deaths from consumption
in the State of N.S.
Wales. Any other disease
with such a death tally
would be fought with
every known device. But
we’ve learned from Eng-
land to be strangely
tolerant of phthisis. In
that foggy land phthisis
is a sort of national
institution, the entirely
respectable disease which
the young lady “ crossed
in love ” acquires and
dies from in a beautiful
resigned pallor. But in Aus-
tralia —sunny,- eucalyptic Australia
—consumption is out of the natural order of
things. There should be no phthisis in this land,
and with energetic effort it could be banished as
completely as sinall-pox. *
4 Diomed ” : Beautiful, drowsy Adelaide,
wilt thou ever wake ? Having just returned from
W.A., I could not help being more impressed with
your unearthly slowness. Kalgoorlie (11 years
old) has its up-to-date electric cars with barely a
30,000 population. Fremantle also (20,000 in-
habitants). Yet Adelaide is still prodding the
same old mokes up the same old streets, in the
same old sleepy style, dragging the same old pie-
stalls at their heels.
Finn (military inspector-general) and
Ricardo (Vic. commandant) simultaneously issue
minutes dealing with rifle shooting. From these
it appears that Australian riflemen have pro-
gressed little beyond the habit of shooting at a
large black spot on a large white target at short
ranges. Finn finds whole corps which have never
fired a shot at anything more than 600yds. away—
though in war the rifleman is expected to pot at
things a mile off, and his rifle carries 3500yds. As
for shooting at moving targets—-or dummy figures
of men, horses, or artillery—at long or unknown
ranges, it is so* spasmodically done that clubs and
corps which practise it are regarded as eccentric.
When Australians go to war, the enemy will be
expected to wear white canvas suits, with large
black blobs of paint on their chests, and to stand
perfectly still on top of a rock. Then the
Australian soldier will call for his vernier and his
little wind-flags, and carefully kill his conspicuous
black and white foe at the rate of one every two
minutes.
* » » *
Ifc continues to be the mild amusement of
N.S.W. Di vorce Court Justice Simpson to brow-
beat the District Court Judges. Last week it was
casually mentioned that in the suit Gilligan v.
Grilligan, heard before District Court Judge Gib-
son, that judge had amended one of the issues,
Whereupon Mr. Simpson :
If what you say is correct, I have to inform you that a
District Court Judge has no power to do anything of the
kind. I have said before, and I say it again, no District
Court Judge has power to amend an issue; in fact, he
cannot interfere in any way with the jurisdiction of the
Divorce Court. If such a course is allowed to continue
it will certainly lead to trouble. In this case the District
Court Judge has added something to the findings with
which he had nothing to do, and I repeat it was wrong
for him to do anything of the kind in this matter.
If the High Court Judges were as rude as that to
Mr. Simpson, what a fuss the State-frights crowd
would make ! It is, of course. Justice Simpson’s
business to keep the divorce law straight. He
should, however, be civil about it. But he seems
obsessed with the idea that no power on earth
can decide as to whether Mrs. Smith eloped with
Jones, or Robinson has really deserted his missus,
but J ustice Simpson.
* * * *
From the current “ Deadwood Dick ” in
Sydney Telegkaph
“ I’ll see to that, Mr. Lennard. I know my chaps, and
if there’s one or two bad ’uns among- ’em, they’ll get paid
and shifted. But they’re mostly a gradely lot of chaps.
I’ve been picking ’em out for t’ last five years, and there
isn’t a Trade Unionist among ’em. We give good money
here, and we want good work and good faith.”
The paper’s deplorable politics intrude even into
its confessedly fictional department.
The unhappy dog-at-large in Melbourne is
to have one of his refuges tsken away from him.
Hitherto the unattached yelper has had two ways
of escape from the kick of contumely and the tin
can of the wandering boy. One was at the Cor-
poration kennels, beside the Morgue, where doggy
had a chance of finding a purchaser at auction,
and failing that he met with a painless death ; the
other was at a Lost Dogs’ Shelter in East St.
Hilda, where Roman Catholic Sisters of Charity
tended him until somebody accepted or bought
him. Now the church sanctuary is to be closed,
partly because the sisters want the ground and
buildings to teach children in, and partly because
the public subscriptions are too small to keep the
scheme going. Henceforth, the dog-errant must
take his chance with the Corporation.
A LOVE SONG.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
Your eyes looked out with a wonderful scorn
On the Old Year’s chariot cars,
And you came in the hush of the beautiful morn
Down a mystical staircase of stars —
From a mystical stairway of dazzling shine
You stept o’er the heads of the bills,
And the sunshine swept like a flood of wine
O’er the heights and the fields and the rills.
You were born of a bloom in a planet of bliss
In a musical world set apart,
You were wakened to life with an exquisite kiss
As you slept in the mother flower’s heart —
You came flushed with the dawn to a planet terrene,
You were filled of the fire of the sun ;
You were robed of a cloud and a halo of sheen
From the moon and the Pleiades won.
Your lips are attuned to a marvellous mirth,
And your smile is the smile of the sky.
You’re the Salt and the Sweet and the Dream of the Earth
And the Light of the Earth is your eye.
And we lie in your arms that are white as the moon
, In those balmy, luxurious nests.
You will warm us and lull us and sing us a-swoon
With the beat of your bountiful breast!
TAS.
C. L. RANDALL.
HIS SPINE PARALYSED.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ A few years ago I was a helpless cripple,
paralysed by Locomotor Ataxia. To-day I am
strong and active and in perfect health. And the
sole credit for my cure goes to Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.”
This is the simple, sweeping straight-forward
statement of Thomas Bradley Weeks, of Helena
St., Eastgrove, Goulburn, N.S.W. The facts of
his marvellous case are known to his neighbors,
among whom he is universally respected. He has,
moreover, backed up his words by a solemn oath
before the Mayor of Goulburn.
“ A terrible heat wave, one February, knocked
me clean out and left my spine half paralysed.
I was building a truck yard at Yarra, near Goul-
burn. At nine in the morning it was 109 degrees
in the shade. Two days later I could not walk.
For over a year I was only able to shuffle about
the house. All power of movement left my legs.
Once I sat down, I could not get up. If I coughed,
I would fall to the ground. My muscles had no
strength. My spine was paralysed. Sharp,
shooting pains shot through my legs and thighs.
In a few months it was plain that I had that
terrible disease, Locomotor Ataxia.
“ People tortured with Rheumatism came to
see me, and when I told them how I suffered,
they said I had the same disease as themselves.
When I told others about the sharp, shooting
pains down my leg, from my hip to my heel, they
said I had Sciatica.
“But I knew that I had worse than either. I
knew I had Locomotor Ataxia, and the doctors
say that that is the most painful disease in the
world and absolutely incurable.
“For a year-and-a-half I was a confirmed
invalid. Month after month, I lay in my bed—
unable to work or even to walk. My spine seemed
to have lost all its power. It was decaying with
Locomotor Ataxia. In three months I lost three
stone in weight. Then, after two of the best
doctors had a go at me and failed, I started Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I read how
they had cured a Sydney man named Jarvis of
Locomotor Ataxia by building up his spine through
the blood—and that is just what they did for me.
Three boxes worked wonders. Of course, they
didn’t cure me in a week or two. I wasn’t silly
enough to expect that. I had made up my mind to
give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a fair trial if I had
to take fifty boxes. From the first, however, they
gave me a wonderful appetite. I must admit that
that was the only good I noticed from the first
four or five boxes. Then I began to sleep soundly,
and my nerves grew stronger and steadier. By-
and-bye, I could feel the new blood in my veins,
warming me up and making me feel better in a
dozen ways. Then the shooting pains were not so
bad. Little by little, my spine grew stronger.
I got better control over my nerves' and muscles.
The life came back to my paralysed legs and back,
and I could walk about slowly. From that on, I
improved rapidly. At last I stood completely
cured !
“Eight months after my cure, I walked 110
miles in four-and-a-half days—not a bad record
for an old fellow over 60. And the best of it is
that lam cured for good. It is seven years now
since Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills drove the Loco-
motor Ataxia out of my system—and I have
never had a sign of it since.”
When Dr. Wiliams’ Pink Pills raised Thomas
Weeks to health and strength after he had been
paralysed by Locomotor Ataxia, it is no wonder
they cure common ailments like anaemia, indi-
gestion, biliousness, headaches, backaches, kidney
trouble, liver complaint, nervousness, neuralgia,
rheumatism, and the secret illnesses of girls and
women, whose health depends upon their blood.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all these because
they strike at the root and cause in the blood.
They don’t bother with mere symptoms. They
don’t act on the bowels. They do only one thing,
but they do it well—they actually make new blood.
That is the secret of their success.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are widely imitated so
you must be sure to get the genuine—the kind
that cured Thomas Weeks. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, or sent, post free, by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, 2s. 9d. a box,
six boxes 15s. 3d.


Bookkeeping and Accountancy. Preparation for all
Examinations Shorthand, Electrical Engineering, etc.
“ HOMii STUDY,” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGF,
MOORE STREET, STREET. [ll
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Workers’ Compensation Act in Queensland
is causing' some trouble. At Gympie, and probably in'
other parts, an attempt is being made to straightway
pass the cost on to the employees ; and that sort of thing
means, in most cases, that the employers hang on to a
bit for themselves, just as, when banks have to put up
the rate for deposits \ p.c., they promptly put up the
rates for overdrafts a full 1 p.c. Charters Towers em-
ployers have had a fund for some time ; now they are
forming a co. to put the matter on a proper
basis, a,nd Ipswich employers are doing the
same thing. Meantime the Government is being
asked to consider the alleged excessive premiums
demanded by the accident insurance co.’s, and to step in
and establish an accident insurance department of its
own. There is no reason why the Queensland Govern-
ment shouldn’t make a success of accident insurance just
as the Maoriland Government has done, provided it gets
hold of the right people to advise it —the Maoriland
Government already had an insurance department or-
ganised with the right people in it. But it will have to
listen to the cry against “ exorbitant premiums” with a
certain amount of suspicion. Workmen’s compensation
is a tricky business. When the present law came
into force in England the Ocean Accident Guar-
antee office, which had years of experience behind
it, drew up tables which had the same sort
of criticism heaved at them; yet within a couple
of years the Ocean found it was making a loss of
o/er £47,000 a year instead of the profit of £lOO,OOO
which the old accident business had been yielding. In
N.S.W. also, under the Miners’ Accident Fund, the num-
ber of “cases” per 1000 contributors has steadily risen
from 180 in the first year (1901) to over 170 at present,
and the cost per case has gone from £2 2s. 6d. to £2 11s.
4d. When the employer has to pay for injuries sustained
by his workman, he begins to find out how often his
workman is hurt, and the cost shocks him so dreadfully
that he is inclined to talk about extortion. As before
mentioned, that talk must therefore be regarded with a
good deal of suspicion. If, however, the employers are
so dead-sure that their service isn’t a risky one, then the
simple way to dodge the existing co.s’ alleged extortion
is to themselves put up money enough to cover their own
risks.
• * * »
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide—each has
now its large co-operative store ; and their trading
results for the past six months have been published
within the last week or two. The Adelaide society (the
only one to which the name “Civil Service” is not
taggbd) is the oldest; it began in a very small way 38
years ago, and has worked on almost the original lines
ever since. It sets its face against big profits ;it claims
to get its prices so close to cost that nothing is left
to distribute even as bonus ; in its old-fashioned way it
says that the idea of putting on profit to take it off again
is rubbish. It has no fixed capital; the shareholder
drops in his £, which is called either capital or loan
(there is practically no difference between the two), and
when he feels inclined he can give notice, and in a few’
days he can draw his money. The other societies are
joint stock co.’s pure and simple ; that of Sydney is nearly
35 years old, that of Melbourne nearly four. These facts
have considerable bearing upon the last six months’
figures that follow :
Adelaide. Melbourne. Svdney.
Capital .. .. .. £59,353 £22,473 £13,884
Reserves .. 1,576 334 24,957
Receipts 45,544 52,986 104,062
Working expenses •.. 7,301 8,766 15,667
Do. p.c. receipts .. 16'0p.c. 16'5 p.c. 15'06 p.c.
Profits £3,127 £2,661 £9,815
Do. on turnover .. 6'7p.c. s'Op.c. 9-5 p.c.
Dividend (per annum) 7f p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c.
Purchasers’Bonus .. 2J p.c. 10 p.c.
Dividend and bonus .. £2,360 £1,711 £7,804
Debts to public .. 4,545 39,426 13,072
Besides the working expenses shown above, the Sydney
society ordinarily pays about £470 per half-year as bonus
to its employees. On monthly accounts a bonus is also
paid ; but this is regarded as an ordinary trade discount,
and deducted from profits.
As to the working expenses of these societies, it
is obvious that if, say, the Adelaide society cuts down the
price before the sale instead of after it, the percentage of
working expenses in proportion to cash receipts will be
larger than if the cash receipts were swollen by allow-
ances for heavy profits. Working expenses, apart from
this, are remarkably uniform ; taking into account the
size of its operations, and that another £470 has to be
added for employees’ bonus, the Sydney society show’s up
no better in this respect than might very well
be expected. The same society gives a 10 per cent,
bonus to cash purchasers. On the whole turnover, and
before allowing for depreciation and the employees’
bonus, the profit was only 9$ per cent. After making
these allowances, the profit was just under 9 per cent. ;
yet, in addition to a dividend, a 10 per cent, bonus is
paid. The cash purchaser saves numerous expenses, no
doubt, and the profits on his purchases are heavier than
the average ; but it looks as though in this case he gets
the fullest benefit from his cash dealings.
In addition to the Civil Service Society, there
are 19 co-operative concerns registered under the
New South Wales Act of 1902—0 r were at the date
6t the last return. Most of these are in and around
Newcastle ; Broken Hill has the society which is show-
ing the most progress; while, apart from the Balmain
and Northern Suburbs societies, those in and around
Sydney (except the Civil Service stores) are almost
exclusively friendly societies’ dispensaries. In this, as in
most other respects w’here co-operation is called for, the
miners appear to easily lead the way. And it is the same
in Victoria, where the Bendigo Co-operative Society is the
most vigorous institution of its kind in the State.
* » * *
The Equitable Life Office has considered a
proposal made to it by a leading Sydney accountant that
he should take over the management of the Society’s
affairs in certain parts of Australia. The system'of
“ farming-out ” districts is well-known to American life-
assurance organisation, and some of the heavy payments
made to certain officers and mentioned with surprise
during the recent inquiries, have resulted from it. In
Australia it has not, however, been attempted in a com-
plete form ; and, though the negotiations to introduce it
promised well enough up to a certain point, they
eventually fell through on questions of detail.
* * * V
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania (Hobart),
from the time when it took its courage in its hands and
wrote off £91,000 :
Dividends
and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Feb., 1900 £6,611 6 p.c. =£4457 £l5OO £654 £lOl 634
Aug., 1900 6,828 7 „ „ 5200 1500 128 101 762
Feb., 1901 7,502 7 „ „ 5200 1500 802 102’564
Aug., 1901 13,497 8 „ ~ 5943 5000 2554 105’ll8
Feb., 1902 8,640 8,, ~ 5943 2697 107 815
Aug., 1902 8,906 8 „ „ 5943 2963 110’778
Feb., 1903 8,788 8 „ „ 5943 2545 113’fi23
Aug., 1903 12,631 10 „ „ 7428 - 5203 118 826
Feb., 1904 11,646 10 „ „ 7428 - 4218 123 044
Aug., 1904 12,635 10 „ „ 7428 5207 128 251
Feb., 1905 12,791 10 „ „ 7428 - 5363 133 614
Aug., 1905 11,532 12 „ „ 8914 2618 136’232
Premiums on New Shares .. 8508 144’740
Feb., 1906 11,298 12 p.c. =£9450 971 877 145’ei7
For many years past the paid capital has stood at
£141,492; now another £B5OB has been got in (making
the total a round £150,000) at a premium of 100 per cent,
—which was an eminently fair arrangement, because
existing reserves represented practically 100 per cent, of
capital. Still, the 12 per cent, to which the dividend was
run up in the previous half-year—probably with the new
issue in view—is not justified by the look of the profit
column. Certainly for three or four half-years 12 p.c. was
much more than earned; but they formed an abnormal
banking period. On the basis of shareholders’ funds, the
recent return has been as follows (for the past half-year
the mean of the capital and premium has been added to
the reserves at the commencement of the term): —
Aug., 1902 .. £7 2 11 p.c. Aug., 1904 .. £9 11 0 p.c.
Feb., 1903.. 6 19 4 „ Feb., 1905.. 9 9 8 „
Aug., 1903 .. 9 18 0 „ Aug., 1905.. 8 7 7 „
Feb., 1904 .. 8 18 11 „ Feb., 1906 .. 7 17 10 „
The last four entries make the 12 p.c. dividend look very
risky ; even now, after making a small provision for de-
preciation of premises, only 8 p.c. of the profits are laid
by. Something of the cause of the shrinkage in profits
can be traced in this :
Feb., 1905. Feb., 1906.
Deposits.. .. £1,454,178 £1,591,553 Inc. £137,375
Notes, Bills, &c. 134,794 55,825 Dec. 78,969
Liquid Assets .. 571,618 716,265 Inc. 144,647
Advances .. 1,268,970 1,206,180 Dec. 62,790
Premises .. 30,919 30,971 Inc. 52
Deposits increased, advances shrank, and the result
shows up in a new item —“ Due from other banks,
£238,529.” Apparently even little Tasmania is shipping
off money to London and lending it there for 2 or 24 per
cent. And that money is put out at perhaps 6 per cent,
to furnish and run factories and things for the supply of
Tasmania among other places; after which Tasmania
wonders why it can’t keep its young men.
* * * *
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne): —
Investment
Ordinary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1896 .. £555 2 p.c. =£1476 £1662
1897.. 2742 4 „ „ 2953 1451 £2789
1898 .. 3005 4 „ „ 2953 1503 674
1899.. 2299 4 ~ ~ 2953 849
1900 .. 1066 1J „ „ 1107 808 819
1901 .. 2722 34 ~ „ 2584 946 306
1902 .. 2886 4 „ „ 2953 879 1006
1903 .. 2848 4 „ „ 2953 774 314
1904 .. 3255 4 ~ ~ 2953 1076 301
1905 .. 3427 44 „ „ 3322 1181 332
1906.. 3874 5 ~ ~ 3691 1364 552
The balance sheet shows practically all assets at their
present net market price ; hence the variations in the
investment reserve shown above. This, however, does
not apply to the £lO,OOO of Victorian 3 per cent, stock
and £22,400 of Queensland 34 per cent, debentures held by
the Governments as security, and all reckoned in at par,
which is substantially above present market value.
The reserves are very small, considering that the
assets run to over £77,000; but possibly there is
some sort of an internal fund, built up probably
out of only partially-earned commissions. At any rate
interest and commission are shown “ after providing for
contingencies.” Some such provision ought to be made by
every trustee co. ; for the current commission is frequently
insufficient, without the commission on the corpus of an
estate, to pay current expenses. But the existence of
such a fund in this office can only be guessed at ; and for
this and other reasons the published figures are not
enough to guide an investor. They show certainly that
the assets are a solid lot, but beyond that nothing very
definite. Still, that point alone will go a long way with
the man who is seeking a trustee.
* * * *
Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.’s New Zealand
Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.): —
Written To Re- Ra-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901.. £30,593
1902 { £2 > 747 7 P- C - =£13,549 £2554 17,237
• ’ | Premiums on Shares issued £1527 18,764
1903 / 14,941 7 p.c. = 13,649 1292 20,056
' - \ Premiums on Shares issued 209 20,265
1904 / 16 > 479 7 P- C - = 13,683 2000 796 21,061
' ’ \ Premiums on Shares issued 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 { 16,250 7 » ” 13,751 2499 25,357
‘\ Premiums on Shares issued 174 25,531
The directors forecast a desirable change in the form of
the published accounts. At present there are numerous
small reserve funds, which are grouped together in the
foregoing. It is now proposed to write off £2255
as a provision for bad debts (this from “Cus.
tomers’ reserve, £3501 ”), then establish one formal
reserve of £22,000, and carry the small balance for-
ward. At the same time apparently a “land and
buildings depreciation account,” £1303 will disappear—
premises will be written down by that much. Deprecia-
tion has been dealt with hitherto in two ways—by direct
writings-off (£5697 from buildings, &c.) and by a depre-
ciation fund (£1303). The plan is perfectly sound so long
as the latter fund is kept as a reserve against depreciation
not yet arrived ; but latterly it hasn’t been certain What
the fund was in this case—and in a good many others,
too. As a rule, this is the weakest spot in balance-sheets.
The creation of a formal reserve is all the more neces-
sary because the co. has been unwisely passing new share
premiums through the profit and loss account, and has
included them in the balance out of which dividends are
paid ; and if a dividend exhausted the balance it would
simply mean paying part out of it out of capital.
The paid capital has now been brought up to the full
£200,000. But the increase of capital during the past two
or three years has not been followed by a reduction of lia-
bilities to the public ; on the contrary, on Jan. 31,1902, the
co. had £23,944 of deposits and open accounts, and now
it has £47,005. Something over £ll,OOO has gone into
stock (£151,453) ; over £lB,OOO has gone into buildings,
works, plant, &c. One satisfactory feature is that in
these three years book debts have'increased very little.
The stock is heavy; it cost £159,305, and has been
written down £7851. Obviously, in a concern like this,
very much depends on whether the valuation is right or
not. Three years ago £2554 had to be appropriated out
of profits in one act to provide for over-valuation at one
branch. But, assuming that the valuations are right, and
that enough has been charged against profits to cover
depreciation, shareholders’ funds last year earned just
about 7J per cent.
* * * *
The Australasian Mutual Live Stock Insur-
ance Co. (Melbourne): —
Deficit (good-
will not
Carried to reckoned
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, an Asset).
1899 .. £471 Nil £471 £1750
1900 .. 492 Nil 492 1258
1901 .. 519 Nil 519 739
Reserves.
1902 . . 758 Nil 758 19
1903 .. 771 Nil 771 790
1904 .. 839 Nil 839 1629
1905 .. 908 20 per cent. = £686 222 1851
1906 .. 1145 18 „ „ 686 459 2310
The paid capital is £3774 as against £3431 in the previous
year, 3d. per share (half the amount of the dividend)
having been called upon the 27,450 shares, which are now
paid to 2s. 9d. There is still 2s. 3d. callable ; and the
policy of increasing the paid capital is to be continued.
Progress of the little concern is shown hereunder :
1903. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Premiums .. .. £3719 £4294 £5519 £7568
Interest, &c 151 171 201 250
Claims, &o 2332 2746 3888 5635
„ p.c. of Premiums.. 627 62'5 70*4 74’4
Expenses 768 881 923 1037
„ p.c. of Premiums.. 20 7 20-5 167 137
But the accounts are presented in such a way that these
figures are worth very little, except perhaps those as to
premium income ; for instance, such absolutely dissimilar
things as claims, reinsurances, commissions, and return
premiums are lumped into one item—but stationery is
very carefully kept apart from postages ! But share-
holders are not likely to complain ; they see 23 per cent,
profit on their funds, and when a pot is brewing 23 per
cent., with the public probably standing round, share-
holders haven’t got much inclination to demand, that thb
lid be lifted.
* • • *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne):
Net Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1895 .. £22,001 Nil £22,001 £22,021
1896 .. 7,793 Nil 7,793 29,814
1897.. 12,131 Nil 12,131 41,945
1898.. 39,624 2} p.c. =£7,300 32,324 74,269
Loss.
1899.. 38,092 2J „ „ 7,300 28 877
1900.. 27,060 Nil i’si7
„ Deficit.
1901.. 11,967 Nil 10,150
Profit.
1902.. 3,847 Nil 3,847 6,303
- Reserves.
1903.. 15,023 2| p.c. =£7,300 7,723 1,420
1904 .. 22,329 5 „ „ 14,600 7,729 9,149
1905.. 19,605 5 „ ~14,600 6,005 14,154
From station improvements £3745 (about the usual
amount) has been written off during the year ; and the
improvements provided (£2830) have been charged to
capital account. For two years running 5 per cent,
per annum has been paid, which amounts to more than
was distributed in the whole of the preceding 10 years.
In 10 years the co. paid 7* per cent, altogether;
in the past two years it has paid 10 per cent. There is
something in those figures to think about. The man who
reckons that Australian conditions, so far especially as
the man on the land is concerned, are now normal, must
be a very cheerful optimist. The question is whether he
isn’t so much of a cheerful optimist as to be a cheerful
ass. It was just the same sort of “ cheerful optimism ”
which landed most N.S.W. and Queensland western
squatters in the appalling mess they got into, dragging
several banks after them —the A. J.S., for instance. They
plunged in on an absurd capitalisation during a time of
fatness ; and now the Governments are plunging in on
the same basis, and are aiding and abetting small settlers
to fall into the soup. That’s one lesson, anyhow, from
the Squatting Investment Co.’s record; and there are
others—for Treasurers and such like. Looking down the
first column in the table it will be pretty clear that the
business is a gamble ; and it is no use figuring upon it in
any other way.
* • • •
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd., carriers,
agents, &c., of Sydney and other parts; from the time
when £4OOO of the co.’s reserves was used to buy up the
special rights of “ B ” shareholders: —
Net Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves. serves.
July, 1901.. £7,288 34* p.c. =£9,519 £5,082
Jan., 1902.. 9,165 44 „ ~ 13,269 978
July, 1902.. 18,089 10 „ „ 3,395 £14,694 15,672
Jan., 1903.. 12,926 30 „ ~ 10,185 2,741 18,413
Tnlv 1903 ( 5,610 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2,110 \ oq -qo
July, 1903 \Unexplained addition.. 8,000/
Jan., 1904.. 2,840 10 p.c= 3,500 27,863
July, 1904.. {Writt e n < off”£13,000' 50 ° “ } 14 ’ 274
Jan., 1905.. 5,052 7* p.c. = 2,625 2,427 16,701
July, 1905.. 6,254 7* „ „ 2,625 3,629 20,330
Jan., 1906.. 6,593 7* „ „ 2,625 3,968 24,298
For practical purposes the figures of some of the earlier
terms shown above may be disregarded ; the profits then
claimed were fictitious, and things had to be subsequently
brought down to solid ground by writing £13,000 off re-
serves. Recent figures take the eye; the profits mean
£l4 12s. per cent, on capital (£70,000) and reserves—and
there are not many things of that sort about. As for
risks, note that debts due to the co. stood at £38,382, as
at July 31st, 1904 ; they had got to £59,957 on July 31st,
1905 ; and on January 31st, 1906, they had crept up still
higher to £64,463. All this may be perfectly good money ;
but, though the directors report that all bad and doubtful
debts have been fully provided for, there is no debit to
bad debts in the profit and loss account. Certainly
there are other ways of making provision. Stock on
hand represents £37,463 —and this also may be a risky item,
because it is probably stock for which the market is
erratic. Profits are charged with depreciation to the
extent of £260 for the last 12 months. As “business
premises, plant, and office furniture” stand for £lB,lOl,
this writing off doesn’t seem exactly prodigal. But even
if it isn’t, very fine provision is being made in reserves for
contingencies. •
* * • *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney)
Div. (10 p.c.)
and 10 p.c.
Net Bonus To Re- Re-
Profits. on Purchases, serves. serves.
July, 1900 .. £4720 ,£4834 £12,200
Jan., 1901 .. 6206 5237 £969 13,169
July, 1901 .. 5371 4953 418 13,587
Jan., 1902 .. 6322 5464 858 14,445
July, 1902 ■.. 5870 5576 294 14,739
Jan., 1903 .. 6862 6163 699 15,438
July, 1903 .. 5806 5938 15,306
Jan., 1904 .. 6829 6564 265 15,571
July, 1904 .. 6658 6451 207 15,778
Premiums on new shares .. ~ 6,880 22,658
Jan., 1905 .. 8195 7250 945 23,603
Premiums on new shares .. .. 7 23,610
July, 1905 .. 8410 7188 1,222 24,832
Jan., 1906 .. 8930 7804 1,126 25,958
The figures in the last line are to some extent approxi-
mate, an allowance having to be made for uncollected
bonuses, which usually amount to about 5 per cent, of
the total; and £470 is deducted from profits to cover the
usual bonus to employees. The progress made by this
society (which during the half-year has lost the service s
of Mr. Chalmers, for 20 years its general manager) is
partly shown hereunder :
Gross Proportion
Cash Profit on Working Expenses to
Receipts. Sales. Expenses. Receipts.
Jan., 1896 ..£41,372 £8,757 £5,470 13’2 p.c.
Jan., 1900 .. 67,521 15,997 10,158 15 0 „
Jan., 1903 .. 89,858 21,069 13,026 14’5 „
Jan., 1905 .. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15-2 „
July, 1905 .. 95,967 23,824 14,327 14’94 „
Jan., 1906 .. 104,062 25,738 15,667 15'06 „
The working expenses are irrespective of the variable
amount written off for depreciation and the bonus voted
to employees. The paid capital is £13,884, in £1 shares ;
and the formal reserve fund is now £24,000. The assets
are mainly stock (£35,990), furniture, &c. (£7900), and
customers’ debits (£7692). Unlike the Melbourne society,
this one has not gone into pawn to become its own
landlord ; but it has spent upwards of £7860 on extension
of premises, and though this item is being steadily
written off, it still stands as an asset to-the extent of
£6738. Apart from ordinary trade debts and customers’
credits (£11,086), the society owes nothing; there is an
overdraft of £2986, but it is counter-balanced by a fixed
deposit of £3OOO.
* *• * •
The Civil Service Co-operative Society op
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne), whose deficit to begin with
was represented by preliminary and flotation expenses :
Dividend Writ-
(s p.c.) ten To Re- De-
Profits. and Bonus, off. serves, licit.
May, 1903 £lO7l
Jari., 1904 .. £1450 £456 £994 77
July, 1904 .. 258 638 457
Jan., 1905 .. 1896 £1331 265 300 157
July, 1905 .. 1637 1441 215 176
Jan., 1906 .. 2661 1711 440 510 " 334
The society has been launching out vigorously during the
half-year, and has now accumulated the following
debts :
Debentures £10,731
Debenture loan .. .. 16,500
Sundries 12,195
Total £39,426
Its own paid capital is £22,473 ; so for every £1 of its own
in the business, somebody else (who usually charges in-
terest), has £1 15s. And this is the society that was
formed for the purpose of making the Victorian civil ser-
vice independent of the fierce dry-grocer who runs the
little store at the corner ! Of its own and the other
people’s money, £31,784 is represented by land, buildings
and fittings. No doubt the society would have to hire
land, and possibly buildings and fittings, in any case, and
would have to pay a landlord ; but when a three-year-old
co-operative society with a capital of £22,473, puts all it
has into pawn in order to blossom out into premises that
run into £31,784, there is a suspicion of swollen head
somewhere. One result is the call for prompt payment
of the outstanding ss. per share on the 30,000 share's ; but
that and all the outstanding accounts, if collected to the
last penny, won’t pay off the ordinary trade creditors
(£12,195, as shown above). Certainly, if things go on all
right, and no accident happens, and the directors don’t
allow themselves to be squeezed in to offering a bigger bonus,
in time the position will be all right; but the society won’t
be safe till there is a very much bigger reserve than it owns
now. A concern with £24,563 of perishable stock can’t
feel safe against over-valuation with a reserve of £334 ; it
couldn’t feel any too safe with a reserve of £3340, having
in view its other assets and the fact that it has pawned
everything to acquire them.
* ♦ ■* »
After paying £66,256 on account of the mine
fire. W-llaroo and Mnnntn. Conner 00. fS.A.I last year
made a profit of £51,364. Mine and smelting- costs at
Wallaroo (including everything but depreciation) ran to
£190,571. For this money 111,647 tons of lode stuff was
handled, and 13,415 tons of material was re-treated. The
whole was dressed down to 35,881 tons. Cost, therefore,
of mining, dressing, and smelting, including the purchase
of fluxes, was £1 10s. 6d. per ton. At Moonta, where
48,191 tons were handled, the costs workout at £1 17s. Bd.
per ton of ore. The ultimate extraction is not disclosed
(the ore is smelted with purchased ore, &c.); but by wet
assay the copper contents of the ore showed an average
of 2'B p.c. at Wallaroo, and 2 - 7 p.c. (nearly), at Moonta.
And it was from such ore, containing much less than 3
p.c. metal, 1500 miles from coal, added to tailings which
are being re-treated by leaching, that the co. made last
year a working profit of £51,354, after paying £66,256 for
special work. Yet Australia’s old friend, Daniel Demos-
thenes O’Connor, in his struggle to flatter the Yankees
into listening to his lectures, has been telling America
that this country knows nothing about the scientific side
of mining.
Still. Wallaroo and Moonta have always been
reckoned old-fashioned mines, worked on old-fashioned
lines, and without any of the hustle of Mt. Lvell (Tas.),
for instance. Compare the two mines’ figures for their
last year (giving Wallaroo the credit for its fire expendi-
ture) :
Profit. Written off. Dividends.
Wallaroo ..£117,610 ] £ 66 256 fire'} 2 i P- c -= £8 > 000
Lyell .. 363,740 17,785 7* „ „ 157,500
In last half-year (to Sept. 30) Lyell handled 214,345 tons
of ore, giving as an average I'4l per cent, copper, 0'470z.
silver, and 0'00350z. gold. ; and its costs per ton of ore
ran to 13s. 3d. and a fraction that doesn’t matter. But
Wallaroo and Moonta are gouging ore from great depths
now, and they have the cost of dressing ; though gradu-
ually more and; more stuff is being sent to the furnaces
straight.
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.) a few years
back went in for sulphuric acid production, and now
turns out over 100 tons per week ; last year’s total was
5312 tons. Cost has been got down very fine ; last year
the actual working costs, before making the co.’s usual
10 per cent, charge for depreciation, was 10s. lOfd. per
ton ; and even after writing off £lBO5, a profit of £3933
was made. But the co. contents itself with merely
turning out acid, which it passes on, at about 325. 6d.
per ton, to a subsidiary co., said to be largely John
Darling, to turn into chemical manures, etc. The profits
this subsidiary co. makes are not known ; they may be
very small, and that may be why the Broken Hill
Proprietary (of which John Darling is also a director)
silently dropped the same business. The co. talked
about it—even advertised itself as a manufacturer of
chemical manures; and then a great speechlessness fell
upon the directors with regard to the proposal.
-*■***
W.A.’s gold-yield for February was 142,4260 z.
the lowest for a very long time. For the first two months
of the year the total is 296,7310 z., or 22,7540 z. less than in
Jan. and Feb., 1905, and 41,7240 z. less than in the same
months of 1904. This falling-off is decisive, and the out-
look is anything but hopeful as comparatively little pros-
pecting is being done.
• * • •
Westralian divs. for the first quarter of the
year reached £513,575, against £460,450 for same period
of 1905. Oo.’s responsible are: Oroya, £90,000; Great
Fingall, £87,500 Boulder Perseverance, £70,000; Great
Boulder, £65,625 ; Kalgurli, £60,000 ; Associated Northern,
£52,500; Ivanhoe, £50,000 ; Sons of Gwalia, £24,375 ;
Hainault, £6500 ; Black Range, £3375 ; and Ida H., £2700.
* * * *
North Kalgurli has treated 425 tons of oxidised
ore from the north end of the mine for 168 oz. fine.
This means Bdwt. per ton, and, as it covers everything
(tailings and slimes included), it is very poor. The most
recent developments at the 1000 ft. level are also disap-
pointing, and as the mine has now been pretty well
tested, it seems hopeless.
• * * *
South Kalgurli is a splendid sample of various
sorts of management. Under one lot the co. became bank-
rupt on loz. ore; under another it is earning profits of
about £5OOO a month from Bdwt. ore. Every detail has
been worked out for economy ; once the ore is filled into
skips underground, it is carried right through automati-
cally. Manager Morgan deserves a lot of credit for his
share in pulling the mine out of the mud ; shareholders
might do worse than remember this when drawing their
first div. next month. Oo.’s main shaft is down 1200 ft.,
where a level is being opened up. The shaft is to be sunk
to 1500 ft., where in Feb., 1904, a bore cut a lode supposed
to be 14ft. wide and worth 40z., 345 ft. from the Persever-
ance and 90ft. from the Hainault boundary. If explora-
tion confirms the bore it will give a great fillip to deep
sinking, and will enhance the value of all three mines.
» * » *
North End, Kalgoorlie, treated, during Feb.,
950 tons for 3010 z., or 6 - 3dwt. per ton, over the plates,
and 400 tons for 2610 z., or 13dwt,, by cyaniding. The
slimes are being stacked for subsequent treatment. On
this return the co. is making a fair profit, but mine is not
being worked on a sufficiently big scale to give the best
results, and developments are backward.
• * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, after a silence of
eight months, has had 34 tons smelted for 1720 z. gold and
6380 z. silver. This brings the total to 517 tons for
8158 oz. gold and 37,9600 z. silver. The mine is now
equipped for deep sinking, and the main shaft is nearing
300 ft. A good deal of interest is centred in the result,
as the north end of the Golden Mile belt has up to now
been merelv scratched.
* • * *
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, although
not much heard of lately, has been quietly pushing on its
new main shaft, which is down 700 ft. The east crosscut
from the old shaft was pushed on simultaneously, and is
connected with the new shaft. In another month
Manager Johns expects to start opening out at 800 ft. to
probe tlie eastern lodes. A trial crushing from No. 1
yielded an average of 14* dwt. from 126 tons, and, from
No. 2, 224 tons averaged lSdwc. ; so the mine has a good
chance of becoming a regular producer. These lodes are
further east than any (worked on the belt, and, if their
development warrants it, the Brown Hill will sink a
shaft to exploit them.
* » * *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, has issued its
estimate of ore reserves as on Dec. 31. The figures are
103,000 tons, worth 31s. 6d. per ton. On June 30 the re-
serves were estimated at 87,000 tons, worth 365., since
when about 60,000 tons have been treated, so that develop-
ment has been kept well ahead of the mill. 00. has now 10
months’ work ahead of it, and is earning a profit of £l5OO
a month. Since acquiring the Golden Link, co. is work-
ing in that section ; and, as costs are now 265. per ton,
it may get ore there that was not worth the Link’s
while to erect a treatment plant for.
* * * •
Bay ley’s, Coolgardie, continues to open up
rather sensationally, where the tributors are working at
the north end. But the lode is very flat, which is a bad
sign in W.A. Co. is also short of funds, and all sorts of
attempts are being made to place the reserve and for-
feited shares in order to avoid a reconstruction.
* * * »
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is not likely
to resume divs. for some time to come. Working costs
during January are now given as 68s. per ton, and, as the
ore dropped back to 695. in value, there was a margin of
Is. per ton only, or £65. During Feb. the grade dropped
still lower to 6 : 65. per ton, which looks ominous. After
wiping off the debt incurred in paying the div. last Sept.,
the balance at credit is only about £7OOO. The current
high costs are due to the fact that the long neglected
developments are costing over 20s. a ton.
• * * *
Mt. Yule Syndicate (W.A.) has been formed to
work a gossan outcrop about 12 miles east of Broad
Arrow. Such formations are all the rage at present,
owing to the booming of the C.S.A., at Cobar. In this
instance traces of gold were found on the surface, and,
after sinking 9ft., several colors were visible, including
one coarse speck. The outcrop is 1200 ft. long and 60ft.
high, and is worth a trial.
* » * *
Great Tower Hill, Leonora (W.A.), is showing
up very well. During February it treated 5048 tons of 28s.
per ton ore for a profit of £2200. There are twelve
months’ reserves, and, as the lode is very wide, it is easy
to keep de\ elopments ahead of mill. This co. is a recon-
struction of all Whitaker Wright’s wild-cats, and is
equipped with the defunct Paddington Consols 40-head
mill.
* * * *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), must be
getting near the end of its tether. Since Dec., grade of


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc, Apply-r-
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The most repulsive, sinister figure in modern
society is the defaulting trustee, and he would have been
destroyed long ago by legislation had the public seen him
in his full bulk. But for every miscreant who is dragged
before the courts and punished for squandering the means
of the widow and orphan, unknown numbers escape, by
making some wretched and ineffectual attempts at
restitution. In all history there is no greater or more
horrible tragedy than that of the widow and orphans
suddenly reduced to abject poverty through a careless
or dishonest trustee. The usual procedure has been for a
man to toil and deny himself and thereby accumulate
sufficient to keep his wife and children in comparative
comfort. It is always the life-long friend who is appointed
trustee, because the wife is so ignorant of business. And
the life-long friend gets into difficulties, and gambling
with the money of the widow and the orphan drags them
down with himself. Sometimes, it is not even dishonesty,
just sheer “ bad luck,” which is another name for incom-
petence, which, strange to say, often goes with good
nature and the best of intentions. The only way to make
proper and reasonably safe provision for those we love in
the event of death, is to leave the management of the
estate to a strong trustee firm, like the Perpetual Trustee
Co., Ltd., of 2-4-6 Spring-street, Sydney. Its subscribed
capital of £1,000,000 is security that estates will not be
squandered, or misappropriated ; and the volume of its
business enables it to employ the best legal service, and
to find outlets for small amounts of capital which may be
left to it to invest for the best advantage of a family.*
■* -k -k *
Golden Bendigo.- —The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
# * » *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
« * « *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
begs to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will be advised in due course.*
• * * •
COBAR.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
* * * «
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Pull particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
■* ■* • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
The pumping difficulties which many mines
have to contend with sometimes develop into a scare which
tends to knock shares out of tITe market. The A, S.
Cameron Steam or Air Pumps, have saved many
precarious situations, by their ability to handle water,
even gritty or aciduous without fear of the pumps getting
out of order. Broken Hill Mines, the Mt. Lyell, and other
leading coys, have recognised the great value of Cameron
pumps in their simplicity, strength and durability under
all conditions, whether driven by compressed air or
steam. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne—the Sole
Agents—are continually supplying Boilerfeeding, Piston,
Horizontal, and Vertical Plunger Pumps from their
stocks. Mining requisites are specially catered for.*
* * * *
Important notice to mine managers and others.
The High Court having decided that the Wilfley patents
are invalid, the threats held over buyers of concentrators
for so long are idle. Having at very great expense fought
the battle of the mining industry against monopoly, we
look for a fair measure of support from mill owners and
others, whose sympathy we invoke. All we ask them to
do is to satisfy themselves of the superiority of the Card
concentrators and adopt them. The great merits of the
Card are now pretty well known, and the points of
superiority over every other Table understood. A new
booklet may now be had, giving the latest information
and evidence of its superiority. N. Guthridge, Ltd.,
263 George-street, Sydney ; Collins-street, Melbourne.
* * i
The Morning Herald (Perth), in its issue of
3rd June, 1905, in referring to the last annual report of
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
stated : —“ The management had the pleasing duty to
present a report which is a record of twelve months’ solid
progress, and which must be very gratifying to the large
number of policyholders both in this State and else-
where.”*
• • • »
From advices to hand we learn that the'Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
maintenance. It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all parts of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
“Upright” boiler. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Sydney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
•** * !
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
comer Collins and King Streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a 20 horse-power gas engine belted
to a “Ganz ” 12 kilowatts dynamo, a “Ganz” switch-
board containing all the controlling and measuring instru-
ments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The generating
machinery runs continually during the day time at its
full capacity and highest efficiency ; the surplus current
being stored into the battery; the latter supplies all
necessary electricity required during the night; the
battery forms also a substantial reserve in case of acci-
dents. Compared with the previous method of working a
saving of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant.
The contractors for this plant were The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh
Streets, South Melbourne, as sole agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.* - ‘ [3.]
* * * ♦
It is extraordinary that with all the rapid
advance made in recent years in mining appliances, the
gravity stamp mill, which is as old as the hills, should
still be generally used for crushing ore. At last its
supremacy is threatened by a new invention which will
effect a revolution in mill- equipment. This machine is
Richards’ Patent Rapid Economy Stamp Mill, which is
guaranteed to crush more ore in a given time, to consume
less power per stamp, and to save a greater percentage of
values than any Cam mill in the world. It strikes a live
blow of 200 strokes per minute, as against the 100 dead
drops of the Cam mill. All interested should study the
merits of this invention before laying out money in the
old style mill. N. Guthridge, Ltd., sole agents, Sydney
and Melbourne.
• * • •
Important Notice to Mine Managers and
Users of Concentrators. —In the recent action for In-
fringement Wilfley v Card the decision of the Supreme
Court of Victoria did-not merely refer to a Card top
which was altered without authority, but it did refer to a
Card Concentrator manufactured and worked at the New
Chum Consolidated Mine, Bendigo, under the supervision
and control of N. Guthridge Limited, and to a Card Con-
centrator exhibited at Long’s works, Footscray, which
was officially pointed out as the true Card construction
during the trial, and which defendant used for exhibiting
to customers and making tests, and on which they gave
exhibitions to witnesses for the purposes of this trial. The
Judge specifically decided that the substance, of the
Footscray table and of the No. 38 (New Chum Consolidated
Table) was the same as that of the plaintiff Wilfley and
were infringements. N. Guthridge Limited were ordered
to pay damages and costs, the costs were taxed and the
Sheriff seized the goods of N. Guthridge Limited in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, but as they were all claimed by the
receiver for the debenture holders the execution was re-
turned unsatisfied. Bankruptcy proceedings have been
instituted in the Supreme Court of N.S. Wales to wind up
N. Guthridge Limited. As N. Guthridge Limited are still
offering to indemnify purchasers, take notice that all
users of Card tables which infringe the Wilfley patent will
be proceeded against: The user is liable to an action as
well as the manufacturer.*
* * * »
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. IL B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * #
Recent reports from America show that the
Sperry Vanning Buddie is rapidly proving itself to be
greatly ahead of any other Slimer. In addition to its
great merits as a treater of slimes, it is a very simple,
strongly constructed machine, and very inexpensive in the
matter of repairs. In other slimers the cost of renewals
is a serious matter. Full particulars of this valuable
invention may be had from the Sole Agents, N. Guthridge,
Ltd. Sydney and Melbourne.
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereaah-st,, 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* ♦ * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Naw.*
• * * * -
The strength, lightness, durability ahd low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrmtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
ore treated has fallen from 635. to 40s. per ton, and unless
costs have been very materiallv reduced, co. must be work-
ing at a loss of £6OO to £7OO a month. Mining- in the Norse-
man district has all gone to the dogs, and, from present
appearances, most of the mines there will be dead and!
buried before the end of the year. The Norseman mine
and plant have just been sold for a paltry £4OOO, although,
in the early days many thousand tons were treated for an,
ounce average.
Sons of Erin, Higginsville (W.A.), has now-
been driven on about 200 ft. at the 80ft. level. All the way-
the reef averages 2ft. and is estimated to be worth, 202-
In the south end very rich stone has been struck 6 ewt-
produced 3190 z. The mine is being equipped with a,
6-drill air compressor, and a 10-head mill bought from, the-
Norseman, and should join the producers in June 6r July-
It is about 60 miles south of Ooolgardie, and water and!
supplies are very dear.
* * * *
What seemed just about certain from the first is
happening with regard to the Broken Hill fires ; the one,
at the Junction, which was reported actually extinguished,,
is still giving trouble, while the other one at thq B.H-
Prop. has been built in, and, like the other two old fires,
will be allowed to burn itself out. At present the southern,
section of the mine is blocked above the 650 ft. level-
If they can gradually come up to the 500ft-
level, not much harm will be done; if they
can’t it will cut off some valuable stopes. What,
little ore is left around M'Bryde shaft above 650 ft. gave
a large number of working faces (quite out of proportion
to the quantity of ore left); and the cutting-off of this,
supply will cause the big mine a deal of inconvenience.
The output may be maintained ; but it will have to,
scratch hard to do it.
Having listened to the tale of the bears, the-
market in a week knocked three-quarters of a million off
the value of the B.H. Prop., bringing the total value to,
£2,832,000. Then the reports from the mine became too.
strong for the bears to stand up against, and they
rushed in to cover. By the time they had finished, the
market value was up to £3,480,000 —all in a week.
Yet, quite seriously, B.H. Prop, shares are offered not as
a gamble, but as an investment 1 At £3,480,000 (725. 6d.
per share) the matter stands this way. Dividends for the
past two years have averaged £252,000 a year, and no-
thing more than that can be safely looked for. Chances are
that, even with larger zinc production, it will be less;
and the co. has been producing more or less zinc for
12 months, anyway. At £3,480,000, this means a return,
(on the past two years basis) of barely over 7 p.c.
And to earn that 7 p.c you have to use up.
your mine—you have to get divs. on the past two years
basis for 14 years before you get your money back.
After that, of course, it is all profit. But, even if the
mine lasts for ever, the return is only £7 Is. per cent.
London is still buying B.H. Props., and it
makes the market for Australia ; and The Bulletin
begins to feel sorry for London, if its intention with
regard to the stock, and the price London is prepared to
pay for it, are what they are reported to be. Presently,
unless a miracle happens, there will be a dull thud.
There aie mysterious whispers in the inner Broken Hill
circle that something unexpected has been found in the
north end of the mine ; but that end is a comparative
blank so far as it has been probed. Perhaps this fact will
be One of the first factors in the slump. When the slump
takes place, and J. Bull feels hurt, the Bewick-Moreing
people (if they are still on deck and going strong) will be
heard from. They would dearly love to get the B.H.
Prop.-into their hands ; but they are biding their time.
Meanwhile the love that exists between the management
and the firm, or a big part of the firm, is too great for
words—anyhow, for mere ordinary polite words.
* * * »
The Prince of Wales, near Gundagai (N.S.W.),
which John Howell’s people had in hand for some time,
but couldn’t make worth while, is in trouble again. Pre-
sent co. was formed in 1904 to take over the old mine,
and had an idea that it was buying, among other things, a
10-head battery and surface gear. Local people sub-
scribed £500; balance was put up in Melbourne. Capital
was, however, absurdly inadequate, and at the end of the
first half-year the co. was about £5BO in debt. Next half-
year £l5ll worth of gold was won at a cost of about
£1560 ; but a few calls were got in, so there wasn’t quite
such a hollow in the treasury. During the past few
months things have, got no better, and the gloomy figure
of the bailiff loomed up. After that other woes dropped
in rapidly ; part of the machinery that the local people
thought the co. owned is alleged now to have been obtained
under a hiring agreement; and if the Melbourne directors
believed half the things the local shareholders say about
their management, they wouldn’t feel themselves capable
of managing a prawn basket.
Crowl Creek, Shuttleton (N.S.W.), is in a poor
way ; general manager Armstrong frankly puts it that
the future “ depends on developments at the 630 ft. level.”
And as to that future—well, “ the main lode at the 530 ft.
level is a blank.” Certainly there were blanks in the
upper levels, and good ore came under them ; but blanks
don’t improve a mine, anyway. It has been a struggle •
these last few months to keep things going ; and the
costs show it; in the six months they have run up from
£32 11s. 9d. to £37 11s. 2d. per ton of copper, partly as a
result of having to use too big a proportion of silicious
carbonates. And they only used them because they
couldn’t get the sulphides to use. Six months ago they
reckoned upon having 8741 tons of 8 per cent,
oxidised ore at surface ; now the reserves are
down to 6389 tons and the value has shrunk to
a mere sensation over 7 p.c. In the first half-year 21 p.c.
Of all the ore smelted was oxidised ; gradually the pro-
portion has crept up till now it is nearly 42 p.c. Even at
the present reduced rate, there is not enough sulphide
actually developed to last a year out.
Crowl Creek’s profit was £10,492 for the six
months, as against £11,015 for the previous half-year ; 12
months before that the working account showed a profit
of £12,547, so even the fine improvement in the copper
market hasn’t broken down this co.’s pockets with the
dead weight of profits. Six months ago the board said it
was going in for a reserve fund. After paying £10,500 in
divs. (the same as in the first half, making very nearly 33
p.c. on paid capital for the year), £4OOO is turned into a
reserve ; but the co. is in such a position now that it
can’t afford to nail the money down in something apart
from the mine and the business. Still the co. isn’t hard
up yet; it had on Jan. 31 liquid assets £9414 in excess of
current liabilities —assets including, of course, the reserve
fund and the share-premiums (£3125).
* * * *
From Wellington (N.S.W.): At Wellington
Mines (late Commonwealth), general manager Burrow's
has everything in order to start smelting operations, and
anticipates a successful run. There is a large ore
body, but it is refractory to smelt, being deficient in
silica and with an excess of iron. The co. is therefore
carting silicious copper ore for fluxing from Dickerton
Creek, some eight miles from the mine. First smelting
trials were a failure ; but modifications may possibly give
a different result.—The Federal Gold and Silver Mine is
being thoroughly prospected under the management of
iEneas McDonald. The original mine has been tested to
the 150 ft. level on the underlay. The shoot, which has
been driven on for 80ft., varies from Ift. to 4ft. ; ore is
sulphide, galena and iron pyrites ; gold values from 6dwt.
up to as much as 2oz. per ton. Shafts have been started
to test three other reefs on the property.—Mitchell’s
Creek is still pounding away uninterruptedly, and in his
conservative way the particular J. Bull who owns the
mine tells the public nothing of either profit or loss.
Nearly 300 men are employed.—The Kaiser, two miles
north of Bodangora, which was worked some years ago, is
going on the market again. It owns a large formation,
with fair value in copper and gold, and the stuff can be
got out cheaply. What it needs is a well-equipped plant.
With that, there are profits in it.
* » * *
“ The Australian Mining Estates, Ltd., which
purchased the North Cobar (N.S.W.), has taken up a
further quantity, of land.” So the daily paper reports.
It gets much nearer to the truth than it probably
intended. The North Cobar—a quantity of land. And
yet isn’t it a fact that, just when things were hanging in
the balance, a cable reached John Bull describing it as
“ a payable mine ” —this property without a pound of ore
in sight ? Much the same people are in this as are in the
Shale Corporation. But the Shale shares haven’t been
passed on yet ; the original people are still nursing them.
Many of the North Cobar shares have, however, been
passed on to poor J. Bull already.
» * * •
The Stock Exchange of Ballarat, not having
much business to do, is joining the high-fliers in the trade
in Melbourne in the effort to extinguish the outside
broker. And these gentry of the Exchanges say hard
things about trades-unionism ; and as for preference for
unionists—absurd, monstrous ! It is also whispered, the
Argus to the contrary notwithstanding, that Bendigo
Exchange also pledges itself to agree to the Melbourne
Exchange’s request not to share corns, with outsiders.
Go ahead ! The more combinations of the kind, the clearer
will it be seen that combination for self-defence is
not inherently bad. But it may be too much
to expect an association of Fat men to unite for anything
but aggression, especially when they exist by levying
toll on the investments of others. But if they are aggres-
sive there is a way to reach them, and that is by apply-
ing the rod they want to have in pickle for others. Let
the State deal with them as it deals with auctioneers.
License them. Then if the brokers’ union wishes to really
protect the public, let it take cognizance of spec, selling.
Still, putting everything else aside, and looking at it as a
matter of business, is it really thought for a moment that,
the Exchanges of Bendigo and Ballarat can stop “ the
birds” on the pavement from getting a whack of the
•corn ? Everyone knows that many outside men are
stronger than a goodly proportion of those inside. Their
business is too important to heave into the gutter like a
banana skin. Rule or no rule, sales will take place for
them, and rebates will be made to them. The dealing
may assume the form of net-price transactions ; but
business won’t stop if the inducement to do it is put
before the gobblers in the rooms.
• • * •
One of the barnacles on the mining industry in
Victoria is the Lilliput Proprietary, of A. J. Peacock’s
office, which stands out unique in the record of royalty
grabbers. It is worth a trip to the Registrar-General’s
office to get a glimpse at the balance-sheet. Nominal
capital, £lOOO ; 1000 shares at £1 each; calls,
£5O ; capital uncalled, £950 ; dividends, £4950,
00. owns the ground at Rutherglen, which is.
being worked by the Great Southern Oonsols, and.
from which it collects royalty. So far Great Southern
Oonsols has earned for itself 3s. or 4s. per share in divs.
after an expenditure of about £lOO,OOO. But Lilliput
shareholders, who have risked nothing, have had £4 19s.
per share, and this on a called-up capital of £5O. There
isn’t anything so bad as this in the royalty way even in
Ballarat. Where is Mines Minister M'Leod’s axe?
W * * *
Birthday, Berringa (Vic.), has come down to
the average of the field, which at no time is much to talk
about, being under 6dwt. Co.’s tally during the past six
months works out at 12,220 tons for 26440 z., average a
shade over 4dwt. It would be good to know if the
tons were the big Berringa tons, or the every-day,
garden-variety of ton. 00. did not do altogether badly
on its low-grade dirt, as it paid Is. in divs. and ended
up the term as it began, with roughly £lOOO in hand.
The co. is now beating out the stone left in No. 9 level
and upwards, and beating it out pretty fast. This is not
a good sign. Only about enough gold to gild a stud has
been found so far in No. 10 level, although they certainly
have got the reef there at last. 00. has been a grand
dividend-payer (£135,000 for £1350 called up), but more
gold is needed than has been got of late to build that
total higher. #
Tin dredging in Tasmania isn’t a success so far,
and the dawdling over starting the Ringarooma has not
helped the over-sanguine crowd that began the game.
Said dawdling, though, was a bit due to an insistent
dredge-master, who would not give the plant a move
until he had got every ring and pin into its place.
Now the barge is at work, and there is a lot
of quiet nibbling-in of scrip. If tin dredging should
pay, Ringarooma, provided the bores are accurate, has
about as good a show as anything in the line.
Ground is easy and bottom is not of the nature to carry
boulders. Gladstone dredge has been got up the river to
Bell’s Flat. Taught by past errors, co. is not taking any
chances; A boring party is ahead of the dredge. Average
of bores so far is about Is., taking metallic tin at £lOB.
Therefore, so long as tin stands up at about present figure,
co. has a pretty big margin to work on. Dredge is
only just getting into the Flat, and as ground isless tight
than where the barge first started out, there is some
chance of more tha,n 2000 cubic yards a week being done.
This co., like the‘Ringarooma, started with too much
fluting and too little cash. . Ringarooma is going to raise
its capital and call up £3OOO to wipe out an overdraft, and
pay for its dredge ; and there are whispers that some-
thing of the same kind is in the air with the Gladstone.
Time will soon show,! for the: overdraft must be pretty
solid if the co. has paid off the contractor.
* , * *
The affairs of ; the Tasman and Crown Lyell
(Tas.) are interesting. The co. stood with 150,000 shares
paid up to 17s. 6d., and with a lot of call-payers, who
include some of the weariest Willies that hang on to the
skirts of the industry. Then up came the London
crowd, believed to be the same as the one
that has made Lyell Blocks ' a source of profit
to Tolhurst and Tom Harvey. They wanted
a novelty. So they .took hold of the derelict Tasman and
Grown Lyell. The idea is that they have the call of
30,000 shares of ss. each in a new co. of 150,000 shares on
payment of 6d. per share, and on placing £l5OO to the
credit of working account; that they give present
shareholders 50,000 paid-up scrip, and that for them-
selves they secure the right to call the balance of
70,000 shares. The only understanding is that
all the contributing shares in the co. shall
represent a Calling power of £20,000. Worked out, the
deal means that for £750 the crowd get 30,000 shares paid
up to 6d., and for £l5OO subscribed as working capital
they have the right to place. 70,000 shares at any figure
they like so long as the stipulated calling power is arranged
for. This is just one of those deals that ought to be
turned down. In the first place it does not mean mining, for
£2250 (£750 plus £1500) to credit is not enough to scratch
the mine. Even if it did mean mining nothing has ever
been discovered at the Tasman and Crown to warrant
further work. If the desire is to profit by the undue
booming of Lyell Blocks, the Tasman workings are half
a mile away, on the other side of the Lyell Peaks. The
claim is not even a position block. , Lastly, and
most important to some people, is there any
right to assume that a market will be made
in the paid-up scrip given to present shareholders ? The
people have no call to play with such shares unless they
are given to philanthropy. ; Their only reason for buying
shares in the co. is because the scrip may be given a jig,
and this with the risk of being left. Consequently it
works out that the right thing to do is to look at the kite-
flying, but to take no part in it.
* * » *
The directors of the Hercules, Mt. Bead (Tas.),
stilisit and sulk. Twelve months ago they tried to force
a wage-reduction on their men ; and the men, who have
to work in one of the most biting climates of Australasia,
far from civilisation, kicked. The co. brought up 60 or so
men from Melbourne; but when they saw the sort of
place it was and had a talk with the local men, not one of
the 60 started work. This is the sore point with the co. ;
every few months the directors break out and call upon
the public to bear witness to the sinfulness of it.
What the public will conclude from the circum-
stance is, that a jury of 60 men, picked by
the co. itself, visited the spot, tried the issues
between the co. and the miners, and decided unanimously
in favor of the miners. The cihildish part of the Hercules
business is that the directors, while railing at the work-
men, always knock off in the middle of it to mention that
of course it doesn’t matter a straw—they couldn’t work
the mine, anyway. “ Further attempts would have been
made to resume work ; but shortly afterwards a change
came over the conditions of the metal markets of the
world which prevented the directors,” etc. What sort of
idiots do the directors think their shareholders and the
rest whom they address are ? Twelve months ago
lead was £l2 11s. 3d. It is now £l6 ss. Spelter,
£23 7s. 6d. twelve months ago, is £24 17s. 6d. now.
Silver was 2s. 2 9-16 d. ; it is now 2s. 6 l-16d. Shareholders
(certainly ought to meet and thank the directors cordially
to throwing away the chance to make profits out of the
present phenomenal markets. The co. has still £6751 in
ihand ; so there will be enough to pay directors’ fees, &e.,
for quite a long while yet.
* • • *
The new reef discovered in the Day Dawn P.C.
underlie has been christened the New Dawn. More light
is still required before neighboring claims are rushed on the
market. Find is certainly holding out well, and has
increased to 3ft. of good stone ; 110 tons treated returned
£985. The Talisman and New Moon Co., a recent float
on the strength of the P.O.’s find, will do healthy pros-
pecting work for a neglected part of the field. Shares
were quickly mopped up, and a surface plant has been
purchased. Things like this have happened before.
Shares in the P.C. slipped back from 3s. to 2s. 7d.; by
that, did the market mean to insinuate that £9 a ton
isn’t good enough?
a • a a
“ M‘G.” (Irvinebank, N.Q.): Continued use of
flowery language from so-called “ experts ” in defence of
“ has-beens ” has disgusted southern mining speculators,
who might otherwise have been induced to part-up for
the development of this district to some purpose. Yet
good work is being done, and we can tel! now fairly how
things are shaping. Outside of Vulcan, the district must
look to its big low and medium grade deposits—such as
Governor Norman, Vulcan Hope, Adelaide, Dalziel’s,
Kitchener, the playful Smith’s Creek, and other such ;
•while the latest find of Kyan brothers, on the water-
shed of Kankin’s and Oakey Creeks, promises well.
Found some six months since, this show of Ryans has
been punched down to 42ft. ; crosscut at that level 28ft. ;
drives 15ft. and 10ft., in a softish chloritic formation,
without sign of walls or country in any part of these
workings. A crushing of 100 tons is now being carted to
Coolgarra battery (seven miles). Like Smith’s Creek,
Ryans’ was a covered-up show; it has been pricked by
costeens 30yds. north and south of shaft.
• • * *
Apropos the new A.M.P. building, Melbourne
(B. 22/3/’O6). John Batman, at the first Melbourne land
sale, bought the half-acre, nearly a square, at the south-
west corner of Collins and William streets, for £65 ; the
value in 1888 was £264,000. The lot adjoining, which
fronted William-street and Flinders-lane, was sold to
Francis Nodin for £4O, its value in ’BB being £148,500.
John Batman also purchased the half-acre, nearly square,
on the N.W. corner of Flinders and William streets, for
£75 ; in’BB it was worth £198,000; and Mr. Nodin also
bought the lot behind at £35, value in ’BB £148,500. Some
of these ’BB values fell through a big hole in ’93, but there
has been a great recovery since then.
* * * *
Fifteen miles on the Frazer River, Vancouver,
have been acquired by a Port Chalmers (M.L.) dredging
syndicate, which sent an expert there a while back to
test the locality. The machinery is being manufactured
at Dunedin, and a member of the syndicate, John Knew-
stubla, has gone to the spot to superintend the building
of the pontoons.
» • •
Australia’s old friend, Dan. O’Connor, was,
when the last mail left, waving his whiskers in San Fran-
cisco, where, “ in company with his friend, Mr. T. M.
Slattery, M.P., of Sydney,” he had been interviewed.
** Yes,” said Daniel, “ Australia did have some droughts ;
hut that w&s'years ago. You see, some of your American
(engineers came along and showed us how to dig artesian
wells” —and.now the country is as evergreen as the ilo-
quence of Demosthenes. And, according to the awful
Dan., who seems to be anxiously currying favor with the
Yanks, there isn’t much else that Australia does that
’Murrika hasn’t taught it; for instance :
“I lost 40,000 dollars in a copper mine once, and the
other shareholders in proportion. At the works there was
a veritable mountain of muck, or refuse matter, from
which we had extracted the copper. An American miner
came along one day, and saw the heap. He examined it,
and when nobody was watching he took a sample back to
Sydney. There was nothing in that muck visible to the
naked eye, which would indicate value, but he found it
was full of gold and silver. He formed a syndicate of
seven men, bought the dump heap for a song—l may say
for removing it—set up inexpensive separating machines,
and now his syndicate is still earning large fortunes every
year.
“ You see, we went for the copper in the ore, but we
never thought of the gold and silver. Such a thing did
not occur to us.”
“ Don’t your assayers or chemists analyse the tailings
of the mines? ” he was asked.
“Why, bless you, no ; we are not so scientific as you
are. That is what you Americans would do,” he replied
candidly. “We lack that science in mining.”
# * * *
Westralia exported 1100 tons of pearlshell in the
year, or nearly 200 tons more than in the previous one ;
and the value of the pearls discovered is estimated at
£58,000. Yet all that the State got out of it for licenses
and permits was £490. t Out of a total of 2900 men em-
ployed in the industry only 245 are Europeans ; 60 are
aboriginals, and the balance Malays, Ohows, Japs, and
the usual scum of the Straits Settlements. Some years
ago experiments were made in transplanting the large
mother-of-pearlshell from the North-West to Sharks Bay,
and they have been entirely successful. Large quantities
of young shell now exist at the latter place, and further
experiments on a more extensive scale are to be under-
taken —still mainly for the benefit, apparently, of our dis-
colored brother.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for* our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT’S FREE.
CO
m
s
CO
409 &. 411 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Aboriglnalities.
A WESTERLY WET.
"Say, what s the people cheering for up the
street?”
"Oh, the drought's broken up."
“Goon! It hasn’t rained.”
“No, hut Bill Casey's opened a pub."
“D.”: Be par by “S.A.”(B. 15/2/’O6),
I have known several youmr kookaburras to be
reared on raw meat, and I have reared one on that
diet, but there is no doubt they much prefer their
natural tucker, such as lizards, mice, &c The
secret in rearing young birds-such as crows
magpies butchers, and kookaburras-on Tw
meat is to see that they get a little sand or grit
with it otherwise it clogs their digestive wofks
especially during the first few days. It is also
better to give a young bird several small feeds
than to gorge it once or twice daily. Some kooka-
burras become very melancholy in captivitv and
nothing will coax a smile from them, while others
laugh as gaily as when free. Their digestive
povvers are simply marvellous. I once saw a squad
of them attack a small goanna, and for some time
1 thought the go. would escape, as none of t Sm
could lift him. But the ’burra Sandow arr veT
and taking the go. by the scruff of the neck he
struggled to a height of 30ft. or 40ft., and then
dropped him on to the hardest spot he could find
I his was repeated until the go. was done for
when he was carried to a handy perch and swab
lowed and digested m instalments. The end of
Ins tail was visible after six hours.
*
“The Prooshan”; Many bushfolk claim
that snakes have a dislike for the smell of
geraniums—so great that these plants' set
hous8 ' the
A BIT & SCANDAL DOWN OUR STREET.
HIS SPOUSE : " Well, anyway, Tm gain’ ter leave yer. Yer don’t make me ’appy! ”
HE: “'Appy! Not’appyl Why, you was drunk on Monday, Toosday, and yesterday.
Wot more dyer leant?”
T, Pn 7' \J le recenfc death of Capt. Geo.
Dorward. The first steamer to navigate the
'yf s the L a d y A u gusta (Capt, Gaclell);
Sf fl' T C k th r d -£ Da, y (Gapt Jackson); and
the third, the Lady Darling (Capt. Mace). M K
Beveridge, now of Malvern (Vic.), helped at Swan
Hili to put together the canvas boat in which
AtefnCi? h ' 3 V ° y “ Se ° f disCOVBr ? *°
* * *
In the ancient days of New South Wales
country inns generally bore some bucolic names.
Theßleedmg Horse,” “The Bay Horse,*
Th n n “ The Black
Ball, The Red Cow,’* “The
Dog and Duck," “The White
Hart,’ “The Barley Mow,"
“ The Dun Cow," “ The
Plough Inn" were seme
examples. Parramatta had
a “Red CoW," so had
Penrith. In High-street,
West Maitland, was a
Red Cow," the oldest
in the district, erected
70 years ago, when High-
street was but a bullock
track from Maitland
(now known as East
Maitland) and Morpeth
to the country beyond.
The old inn is now being
demolished. Apropos
West Maitland, it is not
generally known how it
originated. The earliest
Cohen had his stores in
Maitland, the Govern-
ment town. Morpeth
was then the head of
navigation, and Morpeth
belonged exclusively to
“ :> u *he Close family, and
Close they were. Cohen wished to build a
store at Morpeth, and, as the legend goes, “ Old
Thp S n pt USed t 0 sell the & roun d necessary.
Ihen Cohen went to West Maitland, and the
is there stUl* “ d the big firm ° f Cohen and C o.
* * * *
“E.H.H.” : Be long-distance horses. I
a n °, d . rac ®r (Bawler, owned by Jack Smith
Hotel and livery stable, Menzies’
W. A.) who often did the distance from Menzies
boaSitevand 1 ? mileS) in a day with a b uck-
Doara buggy and two passengers. Once a mem
ber of the Reps. (Hugh Mahon) was driving”'
and it was a race between Mahon and Harrv
Gregory, Minister for Mines. They were both
contesting North Coolgardie, and the one who
Malimf, M , ullme , first was to speak that night
£ h but the °n?d ang • ° f i hOFSeS ’ While Gregory
bad, but the old animal wore down two of
Gregory s steeds in succession. Then a mate of
mine lent Gregory the brumby he was riding and
showed him a short cut with which Mahon was
Wf a^p ln , te i y n- t even then the veteran racer
hoofed it into Mulline very little in the rear
* * • .
“ W. Y." : The kind that grow in the bush
riving out to Bruthen (Yie.) we overtook a small
girl' carrying a large tin trunk. Th s was three
miles out of Bairnsdale, on the hottest day of the
season. We hailed her. She dumped the box in
ptowT ' sat °u it, and assumed an air of weird
expectancy. She was going to Bruthen she win •
f |f m , fact ° r J bad Just started, and she’ wanted a
job hadn t had a show to earn a bob See the
hop-pickmg. She was 14, and one of a large hard
up family, and had started at four that morning
ther l n ' ne a ud a dozen miles still to g o f
She s posed she might as well have a lift We
dropped her 12 miles on, at the turn-off to the iain
place. She said, “So long, ” hefted her box and
lighted out. My mate said, “Wonder if’she’ll
get a job . I hadn’t any doubt about it myself!
The Prooshati : The most ungrateful
ftmmal is the cow. When a man finds his pet
nrnker stuck in a hole, or “bogged up to the
ears, he generally takes a quick survey, says
pore devil,” and rushes off for a rope and a few
men to “give a pound” on the pull. In due
course five men arrive on the scene, walk round,
make sundry remarks as to “ how she fiiuster got
in, also how long she’s .been in, and how long
she d last “ if Jim hadenter seen ! er,” Then they
Spend about 98 per cent, of their energy in pulling
her out, and the first thing that cow does is to
charge the relief party with fifced horns and a
bloate that would Waken the dead. Ho CoW
should be dragged Out of a hole without being
first bound oVfer to keep the peace.
* 4 * *
Snell : Saw a splendid battle between
SwUnston and Krohn at Cradle Creek township,
bwanston was a mere miner, who fossicked,
and cut wood, and dug post-holes, and grew
root crops, and conducted a menagerie of
cows, pigs, sheep, and mixed poultry be-
tween shifts ; and Krohn was Dago-
wu ew wil ° I . ce P fc a store in the main street.
What gave rise to Swanston’s derry on
Krohn I cannot say ; probably it was natural
antipathy. Anyhow, on the occasion men-
tioned.! came upon the pair of them fighting
like devils at the back of Swanston’s onion
crop. They were breaking up the vegetable
with each other’s heads, and for a Jew
Krohn was doing excellently. He couldn’t
punch much ; but he could bite and kick,
and when I arrived he had his teeth in
Swanston’s ear, and was hanging on with
great determination. It was my duty not
to see a Christian fellow-creature eaten, and
I choked Krohn off, whereupon both became
shrill in abuse and explanation. “ S’elp
me, I’m a peaceable man,” cried Krohn,
“but thereth thingth a man can’t stand,
vot d’yer think ? ” Krohn’s voice rose to a
squeal. “I’m a good Jew, and vot d’yer
think ? He thayth I bit his pig ! ”
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: It’s a curious sight to
see a centipede in an empty meat tin.
Ihe beggar will become (while he lives) a
perpetual merry-go-round, circling on himself
until he wears himself out. I hope that none
of your readers will rise up in wrath and
call me a heartless brute and other hard
things. I didn’t put the centipede in the
tin. He went in himself.
* * * *
A letter from a man and a brother :
A par. recently appeared in the S.M. Herald to the
ettect that the Government was complaining of the dearth
of sleeper-cutters. The explanation is simple. The
Government calls for tenders for the sleeper contracts
and accepts the lowest tender. The result is that the
PI 1 ?® of the sleepers is cut down so low (for, of course the
middleman has to make his “ whack ” out of the contract)
that no man will undertake the work—about as hard toil
as it is possible to find—unless driven to it by sheer
starvation. Many of the cutters on recent contracts
have barely cleared their expenses. If the Government
offered a fair price and dealt with the men direct, as it
might easily do through the officials of the Forestry
.Department, it would have no difficulty in finding cutters.
Another point. The Government lets a contract for so
many “squares” at one time, so many “round-backs”
at another. This results in enormous'wastc of valuable
timber and of labor. A man cuts down a tree, and per-
haps even splits it, and then finds, for one reason or
another (the tree may be hollow, for instance), that he
can t get any “ squares ” out of it. He could easily get a
good number of “ round-backs ” (a much smaller sieeper),
but the contract is for “ squares ” only, and consequently
it would be mere waste of time to cut the round-backs,
and the tree and the labor are both wasted. If the
Government had any sense, it would call for so many
sleepers of each kind at the same time. Under the pre-
sent S 3 stem thousands of pounds worth of {rood ironbark
is wasted annually.
* « •
“ Timbarra’s ” incoherent narrative i
Was in Bairnsdale (Oippsland), thte othbr day, ivhteh
the great army of frogs appeared and cdmbletely bvferfah
the towHship. I hfevet savV so ni&njr bogs in dll iitVlife:
i ®''ierywllere—big, green, evil-looking ffbgs
with bleai-y feyieS, long-legged, Slate-colored frogsj ivhitc-
Waistcoated frogs, tartan frogsi yellow frogSj black tides,
grCy frogs, spotted frogs, French frogs, dead ftogS, and a
lot more frogs. They climbed up inr,o ydur pockets Ond
jumped on your face in a beastly impartial manner; The
Street traffic slaughtered them wholesale ; ahd when the
white-waistcoated variety got run over they wfent Off pop.
I was up seeing my girl, and, thodgh Stopping at a pub;,
was deplorably sbber. When thfe invasion hit our estab-
lishment, the piibi cat dOnloliShed about two regiments !
then it strdck and retired in disgust; Householders in
some parts had to sweep the invaders Out with a broom;
One big, green brute came iti through the sitting-room
Window, squatted on my knee, and croaked something
that sounded like “your turn to shout;” I hit him On
the snout, and he jumped out again. Some said that they
came from M‘Leod’s morass, but one religious mstniac
tore past the pub. yelling 1 out that One of the seven
plagues mentioned in the Bible had happened at last; A
scared drunk staggered out and dsked hitn which one it
The Seembd tp lipsfei him; a§ he crimfe bstcii
With tt Vhry White fiicS; oraei-efct twd lbhk bfcfeta; #,nd skid
he clasped one with e,ach hjjnd; thd-t hell rind
bnmStbJle were due iii about 3(3 miniites, rind that he was
gchhg td die grimb rind hrippy; Another b'efet-eater stuck
up a locril prirsqn rind asked hiiti if he thought it wris tbe
hnd of thfe WoHti. Getting ri reply in thb affirmative, he
gave a larg*fe; blank howl, and said that the whole town
was drunk and the country gone to the dogs.
* * « •
u Edyson " j He came into the bar of the
Wayside pub; oh the red toad Out frOm CObble-
(hok. He was si tall man, who looked like a suit
bf clothes hung on a framework of 2 x 4 blue-guffi
raftering, and he had an exuberant profusion of
kinked whiskers. He lounged up to the counter
and looked at Big Ben Edgerton in a tired way.
“Grimme a be6r,” he said. When he got his beer
he held it up; weighed it, and then, pushing the
froth back With hid broom of moustache; slowly
absorbed it. He drank three-quarters; put
the pot down again, and blew the feuthfefs
out of bis whiskers. “Pretty fine day,
mister,” lie said. He finished his beer, re-
placed the pewter, and looked at it fixedly
for a minute or two like a man absorbed in gentle
regrets. After which he said : “ I’m thinkin’ this
weather’ll hold out for a week, anyhow.” He
turned to the door, saying : “Well, I mus’ he
goin’, I s’pose.” He lingered and looked back.
“ You didn’t see a pair o’ big bay horses in a light
Murican waggon boltin’ like hell a-past here not
tiioren ’atf a hour ago, did yer?” “No,”
said Ben, “they didn’t pass here.” "’Twas
a blue-painted waggon,” explained the whis-
kered man.“ “No.” “’Nd the horses had
white stars.” “It didn’t come this way.”
“I wouldn’t have them horses hurt for
somethin’. The pair’s worth fifty quid.” “If
they had come this way I’d have been certain to see
them,” Edgerton assured him. Whiskers took off
his hat, looked it over, and put it on the other
way round. “Then they must’a’ gone ’long the
uncleared road to Carra,”he said, “V a bust-up’s
certain.” At the door a thought struck him, and
he turned again, as if still hoping to jog Big Ben’s
memory, “There was a woman in the waggon,”
he said. Ben shook his head. “A stout woman
—my missus—With a yeller ’n’ red shawl,” “No,
nO,” said Edgfertoil, impatiently, “they didn’t
pass here. ” Whiskers took off his hat, sighed into
it, put it on again, and slouched out.
A BUNNYISM.
THE SQUATTAH: “ Well, what luck?”
ENGLISH GUEST : “ Splendid sport. Bai Jove,
saw heaps of rabbits. Felt obliged to tip
two fellahs I met; told me they were your
gamekeepers. Splendid the way you keep
the preserves stocked .”
“ Homo ” : Be blacks’ insensibility to
pain. I write in haste to say I know nothing
about it, but I do know a hard-faced person
named Mike. He was playing football one day,
and (to give his own version): “ We’d bin givin’
’em slops, ’n’ woodenin’ ’em right ’n’ left, ’n’ they
was fair narked. Ginger Lannigan come at me
on the sly in the ruck ’n’ give me a real beauty fair
on the face with his boot. I knowed it wus ’im,
becos when I looked round I seen ’im limpin’ off
with ’is big toe broke. It stung a bit for a minnit
or two, I can tell y\”
THE GREEN BOAT.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
When the sugar-ants are swarming in red millions at
.vour feet,
While all the stars are scarlet in the sky ;
When the night is full of flapping wings whose soft and
ceaseless beat
Swings heavy in the darkness where you lie,
It s for you the Green Boat’s waiting—and you’ll leave
her, with the rest,
For a life of creeping days and cruel ease,
And you’ll steam from Cairns in shackles, with your chin
upon your chest,
And your restless fingers plucking at your knees.
W'hen the Gulf winds sigh and mutter, and the breezes
from the Reef
Are tremulous with voices, calling low j
*VV hen the dreadful, lipless murmurings of every shaking
leaf . ■
l’ursue your fearful wanderings to and fro ;
When, chattering in the crowded trees, the skulls of dead
men sway
And gape wide-eyed beneath the staring moon,
lour shrift is short, the Green Boat waits, and you must
go away ;
You’ll leave her sobbing, crazy, sure and soon.
This is your luck—to see the town-line poled with corpses
white,
A pallid army holding up the wire ;
And when you shudder in the dark, and loathe the morn-
ing light
Beneath your aching eyelids flashing fire ;
When down the shouting silence comes the cry of men
who lie
Along the Walsh, long-lost where no men are,
Then the white ants hold your brain-pan for their own
until you die—
The Green Boat has you booked to travel far.
And when you fling out of your bunk and land on snakes
and slime,
And feel the good ground heave beneath your tread ;
When all the night-black sky is full of hands red-stained
with crime
Stretched out to call down curses on your head ;
When every lonely day repeats the torments of the Pit,
When you’re haunted with round eyes that roll and burn,
Your case has been attended to where dumb the high
gods sit,
lou sail by the Green Boat—and don’t return.
So nevermore you’ll swing the shovel crashing in the dirt
The3' 11 put you on a bench with twenty more,
You’ll have no boots nor braces—just your trousers and
your shirt,
And there’ll always be a tall chap at the door ;
And when Her sad eyes haunt you, and you take to
running wild,
They 11 muff you till your plunging spirit dies,
You’ll sit there cowed, and slobber, with your wide mouth
meek and mild—
The Green Boat long forgotten . .. and Her eyes ?
via.
FRANE HESTY.


There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
J
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
I*- Buy Whole Bottles. TPI
All Diamonds, £2B
Pearl, Ruby and Diamonds, £lB
All Selected Diamonds, £4-5
Pearl and Diamonds, £4O
RING
MAKERS.
WE sell at less than retail houses. o{ them in the rough.
II S t tm G S”s,a“y: WK mojnt them « the premia
WE set them in our own workshops.
Low selling prices mean a larger |^ n0 ™r.
a row uusu r-,- m - income Our prices never exceed those of Lo
A larger turnover represents ™ r ? n^°"d ; ate pro fits anywhere.
A low cost enables cheaper selling.
> ni . An fn mnvp IT
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX
& ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ Nulla ” : The making and decorating of
needlewood pipes is a great out-back camp-fire
industry. The pipes are made from the roots of
the tree, and operations generally start with per-
THAT SAVING GRACE.
M‘ALLISTER: “ Three pen'orth o’ stamps, Miss.”
THE SALESWOMAN : “Penny or halfpenny?"
M'ALLISTER: “ Have ye none of an inferior quality?"
spiring men putting in a wet day or a Sunday
with axes and other weapons in a temperature
Sheol-like in its intensity. The pipes are roughly
shaped with an axe-bushmen use an axe for
pretty well everything, bar picking their teeth—
: m d then o’ nights comes the knife-worlc and bor-
ing Tools are necessarily limited, and in boring
failures are many—generally about a score of them
to one success. As the pipes can be bought for a
few shillings, the scores of half-finished ones that
lie around most camps strike one as being monu-
ments of misdirected energy.
AN UNFORGIVABLE TRANSGRESSION.
THE AUNT: “But you'll forgive the boy in time. He is not the fust sen
cloved with a cook."
THE ENRAGED PARENT: “Never! Never! Dammit , ma'am, you forget. She was
MY Cook! ”
“ Talkin’ about a death-grip, said John-
son “ brines ter me mind an old cobber uv mine.
Wins out walkin’ wun Sunday mornm , un a bull
took after ’im. Round and round the pad dick e
went un the bull close behind mi un gamin
every stride. Dodged round a bloomin tree mid
grabbed it by the tail. Round the paddick they
goes again like a busted surluss un all uv a
suddint, the bull goes fair mad, und belts through
the fence with ’im clingm on. Went through the
town like ’ell, un nobody noticed un hangiii to t
—thort it wuz a mad bull with a tail a bit
thicker’.! usual. Nex’ day they found ’em both
dead in a station paddick fifteen mile away, lned
ter drag the bloke off, but e wouldn let go. ; Had
ter cut the tail otf un bury him with it in his anas.
“ Nulla ” : Be the Gordon-
Skuthorp leap. They tell the yarn
around Hill End of a Chow who,
vears ago, did an impromptu leap
over the Monkey Hill cutting on the
Sofala-Hill End road. The cutting,
which in places has a sheer fall ot
over 100 ft., was at the time unfenced,
and one dark night Muck Hi drove
over it. He said “ Whaffor m the
air and disappeared. He ought to
have been only pigtail and debris, but
with the usual Chinaman’s luck he
landed on a ledge 20ft. below the
road whence he was engineered vvith
some difficulty the next morning.
By the way, the Wallaby Rocks
bridge, on the same road, is an ex-
ample of our loan-drunk works policy.
During all the years of the gold
boom, when the population there-
abouts ran to tens of thousands, all
traffic had to ford the Turon ; and
sometimes it camped for days waiting
for the flood to subside. Then, when
most of the mines had closed down
and only an ancient fragment of
population (largely made up of goats
and Chows) remained, the depart-
ment splashed about thousands- if 1
remember rightly, Pumpkin Smith
was member at the time on an ex-
pensive, iron-pillared bridge, mostly
used by a ramshackle coach, an odd
team, or a peregrinating fossicker.
The old-time population is gone, the
gold is gone, the bridge and the debt
remain, and the debt seems likely to
remain longer than the bridge.
* * *
“ H.S.R.” : Writer in Bulletin
mentions a pilgrimage of frogs, and
stated that the frogs were quite
sociable, and carrying tlieir young.
The frog has no family ties. It goes
through the evolutionary processes
from plasm to tadpole and frog with-
out any aid from its parents, and it
would be a very wise frog that would
know its own father. What the man saw was
capital making for the coast, having been driven
out by Socialistic legislation.
1(0X6.” : After the recent severe heat
wave in S.A. have come bounteous rains, and re-
cord floods are the order of the day. ihe mighty
Cooper’s Creek (ye gods ! What a name for a
stream 50 miles across in places !), taking its rise
away back in Queensland, is in full flood, and is
likely this time to run its full course to Lake Eyre.
According to the reports up the river, it will again
overflow the bar at Innamincka, and run the
Strzlecki, which it has not done since 1891. On
that occasion it nearly swept Innamincka station
away. The station is built on a high sand ridge, and
was an island for weeks, with miles of raging water
all round it. The flood crept up until the manager
and his men had to start building a sand embank-
ment all round the principal buildings. this
they had to watch day and night for 72 hours, and
if the flood had not then subsided a little they
would have had to give in for sheer exhaustion
and want of sleep. The recent rains have covered
a vast expanse of pastoral country both m Queens-
land and S.A., the fall averaging from three up
to 18 inches. The Diamantina Creek is also m
full flood. The mail from Birdsville to Hergott
last trip had to be boated for 18 miles,
and then taken on by packhorses. At Hergott
Springs a cyclonic disturbance astonished the
inhabitants. A storm of rain could be plainly
seen approaching the town, and coming straight
for the centre of it. Had it arrived, Heigott
would have been a ruin. Fortunately, it swerved
at the critical moment, and turned towards the
Afghan camp, where it caught up four houses ancl
scattered them to the four winds m four seconds.
(There’s a moral in this for a White Australia.)
The rain that followed, or rather, what was caught
of it, registered two inches in twenty minutes,
which is pretty severe for this part, although
perhaps not worth mentioning in the tropics.
“W.”: Squatter Byrne, of Brock’s
Creek, 150 miles from Port Darwin on the
Pine Creek railway line, is at present in Adelaide,
and he is most optimistic on the subject ot the
Northern Territory. He started there about 20
years ago with a butcher’s knife and a £.l note
as his sole capital, and now he owns one lease ot
800 square miles of land, and thousands of horses,
cattle, sheep, goats and donkeys. He told me
that he is confident the Territory lands will grow
anything, and that all kinds of stock will thrive
there ; and he prophesies that, with good manage-
ment, it can be made the most prosperous part ot
the continent. White men can work there splen-
didly. The latest estimate of population in toe
Territory (exclusive of full-blooded aborigines) is
3810 persons, of whom 564 are females. Ihe
average works out at one individual foi every
1574 square miles of country, lhat can hardly be
regarded as closer settlement.
“Ante-up”: Be “Rambler” (B. 15/2/’O6).
A better way than grass to beat bull-ants, or any
other kind of ants, is to pour tar on their nests.
Never knew it to fail.
* * * *
A shark captured at Albany (W. A.)
recently was found to have swallowed a sugar-
bag containing eleven half-bricks, which had been
used in drowning a kangaroo dog. me aog s
skeleton was also conspicuous by its presence.
BEG AND BORROW LAND.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
There’s a Beg and Borrow country that’s familiar unto
me—
Too familiar, for it’s ever-present here —
Where the hummers, like a hive of bees are toiling cease-
lessly
At the noble work of chewing someone’s ear.
Oh, the Beg and Borrow fever’s got them firmly in its
grip,
And I fear that it will never more depart.
Yesterday a cockie’s urchin took our one remaining whip
To drive a fatted calf to butcher Smart.
Our reaper’s down the river cutting feed for someone’s
cows,
Our dray is carting Phil Maloney’s sand ;
We’ve only one at home of half-a-dozen decent ploughs,
And the disc is killing weeds on Murphy’s land.
Old Simpson’s horse is stranded —starving victim to
fatigue,
“ Can you lend us Glen to give the brute a pull?”
And Robinson, a member of the great Producers’ League,
Wants some branding ink to mark a bale of wool.
Parson Bill has got the creamy, jigging round the squat-
ters’ homes,
Smoodging unto squires and other Tory trash ;
His honest little bay, in pony-Paradise now roams,
Underfed on earth, and overdosed with las.’.
Our jinker’s at Wilbaura, and the buggy’s gone to
Stawell;
The bicycle is borrowed for the day ;
A dapper little dandy—he’s important tho’ he’s small—
Is careering round the country on the gray.
McKenzie’s binder’s broken ; down he comes to borrow
cogs—
He’ll return them after harvest without fail;
A teacher who is dressing kids for comic dialogues
Begs “ a plait of wavy hair from Snowy’s tail.”
From a house beside the river where the keen-eyed kiddies
play,
A woman comes to seek a butter-pat ;
And the smithy’s daughter rushes up all out of breath to
say
That “ Matilda wants some dogs’ meat for a cat.”
In the quiet summer evening sounds a knock upon the
door,
And we saunter forth the visitor to see ;
'Tis an old familiar comrade whom we’ve often met
before—
He is asking for a pound or two of tea.
There’s a list at every corner, there’s a plea at every turn,
“ It is just to give the Something club a start” :
They would beg away each farthing that a man could
ever earn;
They would borrow half your soul if you would part.
From the curse of folks who borrow, Fate deliver us, we
p^y.
From the cadgers let us evermore be free ;
Condemn the spineless wasters who are flocking here to-
day
To stand erect through all eternity.
vic.
GEO. BRYANT.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name amt
address must appear on .1 rS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will o*
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.F.M.: “Regrets” rather tame Jonah:
The love story of Joe doesn’t appeal to us. We dislike
people called'Joe....T.O.M.: “ Parted ” shows a great
deal of poetic feeling, but you don’t seem to have learne
the mechanical part of the business. Lines are uneven
and rhymes are anyhow.... Zepho: “Pete’ is^eryoid
story re-hashed... .Named : “ Parting declined for a
barrow-load of good reasons....J. : lolly notwe
enough done, though there is an idea in it Fraux .
Not very promising.... Ruth S. : “ Br.de of Satan_ is
powerful—a shade too powerful... .The Jade . We ave
Everythink” is too realistie-the unwashed kind of
realism.... Moody Sankey: “ Australian Menu too un-
intellidble. Do Westralian miners really talk in those
cuneiform inscriptions ?.. ..Cam : “ B.B." is good Jingle,
but lacks new ideas.... Anonymous: “Cain a failure.
Would publish “Homeward Bound” only the anony-
mous contributor is so seldom original... .Nulla :It was
just nearly good enough. We know of no books
that can help you. Writers are born, not booked
Mopoke: Too many blemishes.. 4Copper S.. Rather
thin and pointless... .Barnwell M. : Doesn’t quite hit us
W M M • Verses bad ; prose sketch better, butdoesn t
reach the mark :.. Mollie : The second stanza spoils it....
F.11.R. : Almost it persuaded us... .M.K.F. : YoU b
literary grip enough....J.P.G. : Slipshod and ineffective.
F O’N. : Facile but feeble Nicholas J. : You haye
a tine feeling for nature and a good literary touch, but the
interest is hardly vivid enough in any of them....
R.J.M. : Both well versified, but one is too formal ari 1
academic and the other is much too 10ng......-0-H. ••
Doesn't quite fill the bi 11.... Benicia 4No quality init.. ■ -
Weeroona : Has merit, but would benefit much by eon
densation.... A.P.R. : Seems to have something in it but
vour “fist” is too grievous to, wrestle witn....
Wanderer: “How can I improve any similar
copy?” Well, to begin with, you must acquire
greater accuracy of language. In many places you
don’t get exactly the correct terms for your meaning. . „
J. Allen : The local color is ad right, but the telling is
tame and spiritless.... Wanderer - Thank B , but we ve
been there ourselves, and know all about it. And, m
any case, your verse is lamentable....A.Lb. . y
ferior quality... .Nemo : Feeble humor....
Ludicrously bad 1... .Diomed: Descriptive writing is ob-
viously noc your strong point.... Machete : Has no claim
upon print y ...Ken Marie: Quite value ess.. .bN.R.,.
For th either PaPP Osstan : “iT trifling.'.'.. Elmore : Needs
terser treatment... .Mul: “ Despair ” isn t neatly enough
handled O.R. : Destroyed accordingly.. .E.H.H,. 100
Formless and indefinite...-E.N.O. : A pretty Klea but
some of the lines are very weak... -few in^Crade.
promise than performance.. . .P.M. •• Y g enc j
fled, and of respectable quahty. .1 risco Yes. bena
Vm alono* The Bulletin pays for an ; > thing it punts....
it again. You are a little mixed in your
Scripture Pilgrim : (1) Yes. We pay for jokes suitable
for illustration ; (2) verse submitted no use Glenbarr.
Well-versified, but “ Yankee’s Mate ” hasn’t enough in-
terest, and “AShadow” is out of our line.. .M.G J..
Smart but unequal, and a lltfc ' e < ? on ''^ tl .°WohbVv and urn
Not well enough done Echelbert W. . Wobbly ana un
hppressive D.N.J. : Pretty in a commonplace and
featureless way.... W.H. : All too unequal Ryvh.p-
makers there is a place called bodalla fin iN.b. w.;....
Specked Tater : Well enough done, but too dailypaperish.
P “Old Man’s Grief” (no signature) is of no literary
account... .Djadi : Cieverly written but too slack of m-
terest.... Twilight: Too late, a «dtoo crude ddy^
rejected... .Chetwynd
iamb.. • -H.L : It is a good thiflgrin thejay
romance. Wifi pubhsh i. . ~T.. J.M - l. with n 0 redeem-
Ship Jeach : Lacks strength and symmetry ...Mary
H. : Rather feeble and conventional....Genung^ell
“Ham”
treated Will-o’-the-Wisp : Mediocre onl >^" e Ll
silly; the other offensive; both badlj-wntte .... 8
spike: Darkly mysterious compiumcation to hand
Florence C. : You say you “beg to f ° r 'V?netrv P in the
poetry,” but there was no piece of poetrj m pe
it a ’ cilfis. isn fc inspiicd
worth a e cent.-Bruff : It is certainly not double, but it
l S P ro K a “fo 00 th d e e e a triX^
Corrections, not worth'"ihe space SHI
Stewart’s position is quite sound. He does not believe
Customs taxation, and suggests eithei absolute I e t
any^ustoms«n^eii\ie!T'. n Miles 1 : °Mrt Kidston'has already
exffed 0m t S h r a e t'he was .in the forces. twice, and
the second time resigned as stated u - r> -
Too disgusting except for a temperance paper—•
H.S.R. : Will endeavor to look up.... Bus in ui
All very just, but has been sal( L f rY '
Chipper * Sent on your letter to the A. , /
Poemlet too tiny.. . .T.M.W. : We pay for Mwe use but
wo have no use for jokes which are family relics....
J.F.D. : BibLETW files will give you a ™Pj e
“ White Australia,” and “On the Trail o: ’ ’
sold at this office, is a handy yarn about
Romulus : We haven’t time to worry about what Engh h
3. t.'SEJKSS ‘•rj
Unsuitable: C.T.B.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Gavanß. : You have some tal enfc, but you are a^long
senting Australia beg gin 1 u bu t the idia
dined with disgust ...W.J.S.. . w^™ is decei t
Ferse'ra very Imckn'e'yedFliei.ie and illustrated with a
back view of a girl with a very untidy head.


TOO AFFABLE.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “LOOK HERE, ALFRED, WILL YOU SAY SOMETHING DEFINITE?"


\
/a rf is
■
?ej !e ,
*^\ p riYu<c [
THE “FIRST-AID” MANIA.


'
v'V; A: f*% • '
• . ■ ' * - .
glS'| ffig€
.
£■ ' v HI >■'• MPMp
O' 5
■
w*
wW
:,' •
:
i
,•' ■ '■" ' ' - ■ ■ ' , '
':<* ■
. v «^,.
~fH«r «w»
**■>• ' 4K,m
*\* ;/••?:■ :
•» . %s!s>
-*w> ■»* som <S&
■ :■' ■ *»
*■ „ *«-* ; *
-■>3L 1".
■ (T»
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol , lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6). Of All Chemists.
Sole Representatives for Australasia: ROBERT H. BARBER & CO., LTD., GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Senator Dawson, holding forth on St.
Pat.’s Day, in Melbourne, claimed Tommy Bent,
funong other “great men ’’ as of Irish blood. The
claim was n< t popular, and one excited citizen
jumped up and yelled : “ It’s an injustice to Ire-
land ! It’s an injustice to Ireland ! ”
William M‘Millan, the drapery knight,,
giving evidence in the ease M‘Arthur v. Lyne,
testified that he was a Freetrader. It is as well
(that . lie mentioned the fact. No one would
imagine it who looked at the tariff of the alleged
Freetrade Government of which he was Treasurer.
The estate of a gentleman who died intes-
tate was auctioned the other day in Sydney. The
gentleman was William Tanna, lately suicided
Kanaka, and his sole assets were a Winchester
rifle and a revolver, with which weapons he shot
policeman Wallace and then himself. Mr. Tanna
died with his estate still smoking in his hand.
C. C. Kingston has hung up his signboard
again in Adelaide, which all good Australians
hope is intended to signify that he feels well
enough to return to business. If only the big
man s health could be restored, the old dream of
seeing Premier Kingston of Australia steering a
democratic Commonwealth in the right direction
would be realised yet.
Philp and Leahy, the leading blunderers
in the last edition of Queensland’s Continuous
Ministry, seem to have struck their proper level
at last. Philp recently opened a sheep dip in a
tiny hamlet, and discoursed on the alleged evils
of a land-tax ; and the same day Leahy lectured
to a suburban progress association on the present
garbage-shifting system.
Henry Sullivan, whose claim to be the first
white born in Melbourne seems to be pretty well
established, is now an in-patient at Ballarat
Benevolent Asylum. Upholders of White Aus-
tralia owe Henry abetter finish than this. He is
70 years old, and is the son of an old Sydney police
officer, who was in charge of ticket-of-leavers in
Melbourne in the thirties.
Mrs. Bowler, relict of “the late”— as
Sydney Telegraph has it—Mr. James Bowler,
died at Molong (N.S.W.) last week, aged 75
years. She had resided in the district half a
century. The Bowlers are a very old family out
West, the head being John Bowler, Major of the
80th Regiment, who died at Wyagden (N.S.W.)
in August, 1872. Mrs. W. H. Suttor is a daughter
of Major Bowler.
FROM SLEEPY GEELONG.
Councillor T. E. Bostock (Mayor of Geelong, Vic.), and
several councillors from municipalities in the same dis-
trict, are in Sydney this week collecting information in
connection with a scheme of drainage it is proposed to
introduce into their boroughs.
Extract from letter “ You can have no idea what
an exciting place this is. Hardly a day goes without
some startling event. Yesterday 1 found a dog in one
of the channels which, I was told later, had formerly
been the property of Mr. Reid.
An old-age pensioner named Wentworth,
who was before the White Cliffs (N.S.W.) police-
court, the other day, charged with “taking down”
his mate, who is also an old-age pensioner, told
the yarn once more that he is the son of William
Charles Wentworth, “father of the N.S.W. Con-
stitution.” The old man’s story has become one
of the superstitions of the Mulga country. No
doubt the derelict now believes it himself—he
even remembers how he used to play about
Government House—but William C. left only one
son, Fitzwilliam; and Fitzwilliam doesn’t need
an old-age pension.
“ Moody Sankey ” writes :
Rason, just exalted from the tea-caddy to the Premier-
ship of Westralia, recently told a deputation which had
driven him round that “ he could always gauge what the
requests were going to he by the number of bumps re-
ceived en route, but it was not always a good policy.”
At a subsequent banquet a speaker niade a feeling allu-
sion to the local cemetery, which, it appeared, w'anted
money badly. “It is,” replied Rason, “ a most regret-
able fact that many of those we can least spare are in our
cemeteries, but it is deplorable that many whom we can
well spare are not there.” Then a lot of people who had
laughed loudly just before looked like a phrenologist’s
■subject at a public meeting in Afghanistan.
A venerable Maori citizen named Rewihas
just passed out at a tall age, allegedly 127 years,
but probably 80 years could be chipped off this
record with a stone axe, and good measure left.
Jtewi s birth certificate isn’t available for inspec-
tion, anyhow. The late venerable was the leader
of the massacre at Wairau, when a number of
whites hurriedly left the world per tomahawk,
and he was a great and sudden warrior in the old
days.
Justice G. B. Simpson having returned to
the N.S.W. Bench after a long holiday, Justice A.
H. Simpson goes off for similar recreation. About
the courts various terms are used to distinguish
between the Simpsons. Some favor “Little
Simpson” and “Big Simpson”; others “Plain
Simpson ” and “Ornamental Simpson”; others
“Silent Simpson” and “Cackling Simpson”;
while officials say “Mr. Equity Simpson” and
“Mr. Divorce Simpson.”
Of the three N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners whose squabbles are now so conspicuously
before the public, Chief Commissioner Oliver is
the only Australasian. He is a Tasmanian, from
Hobart, 58 years of age, and has had 18 years’
railway experience. Kirkcaldie comes from Scot-
land, and is also aged 58 ; he has been a railway
man all his life. Eehon is a Londoner, and a
patriarch of 72. He seems to have wandered in
and out of railway services a good deal in his
middle years, and he put in intervals as a partner
in the McCulloch Carrying Co., as a western
N.S.W. squatter, and in other mercantile jobs.
Enthusiastic old fisherman Croft writes to
the press to complain of the N.S.W. Amateur
Fishermen’s Association not drinking a toast to
“Jack” Want at last meeting. That enables him
to get in print that he himself often caught in
Sydney Harbor as many as “ two dozen beautiful
red bream ” of a morning, and that in some other
place “enormous cod, thre'e at a time, can be
hauled up, simply by fastening a piece of red rag
on the hook, which I have often done.” How
Jack loved fish tales like these! And he loved
them all the more when dragged in irrelevantly,
as, for instance, at funerals, church services, and
trials for capital offences.
Queensland Parliamentarian Thomas Mac-
Donald Paterson died last week, aged 62. He
was born in Glasgow, and reached Queensland in
1861, aged 17. He had a big interest in Mount
Morgan, and was in the Assembly, then the
Council, and then the Assembly again for, in all,
23 years. Also he was P.M.G'. in Griffith’s first
Ministry. There were seven successive P.M.G.’s
in that straggling combination—Garrick, Mein,
Sheridan, Griffith, Moreton, MacDonald Pater-
son and Wilson. The first Australian election
(1901) put the Mac Paterson at the head of the
poll as M.H.R. for Brisbane. The second elec-
tion (1903) put him at the bottom and passed him
out. He was a good, decent man—and ordinary.
The late George Lansell’s last will and
testament was a little-minded document. Each
of the miners employed in his private mines is
bequeathed £5 worth of shares, laborers £3 worth,
and boys £2 worth. His household servants get
£lO each, and £1 for every year they have been in
the service of the family. And “each person
whose photo appears in a group of old Bendi-
gonians, on view in the gallery, and who arrived
in the State prior to 1857,” is to receive shares to
the value of £lo. There are bequests of £5OO each
to one hospital and two churches, and the family
receives about 98 per cent, of testator’s half-
million or so. The semi-millionaire who “ remem-
bers ” his. miners in his will to the extent of
a fiver apiece might as well have spared himself
the trouble of bidding for their gratitude.
Rather a strange coincidence that Fitz-
Gibbon and Coppin, the two most notable ‘ ‘ charac-
ters” among the oldest Melbourne identities,
should have died within the past few weeks.
Coppin, of course, was a much older identity
than the White Knight. Fitz. came to Melbourne
in 1852 to make his fortune. Coppin, who had
landed at Sydney about 10 years previously, was
manager of the Geelong Theatre whenFitzGibbon
appeared on the scene, and a year or so later he
returned to England with a fortune made. Fitz.
became Town Clerk of Melbourne in 1856, two
years before Coppin was returned to Parlia-
ment, but in the meantime busy George had
been pretty well everything—showman, hotel-
keeper, gold-digger, owner of racehorses, practical
philanthropist, lion-breeder, Turkish-baths pro-
moter, and a stone-broker.
‘‘ Tat” : When the late Geo. Coppin was
running Cremorne Gardens (Melbourne), he ad-
vertised that on New Year’s Eve, ’63, a cannon
would be fired on the stroke of midnight as a signal
for every man present to take a friendly drink
at his own expense and wish himself good luck for
the New Year. I was there as a youngster of 18,
and remember the enthusiasm with which the
injunction was obeyed. Ten minutes before the
witching hour, the bars were crowded, and it was
as good as a tragedy to watch how the strain of
waiting told on thirsty souls. Yes, Coppin knew
how to touch the great heart of the people. Three
years later, George came back from a foreign trip
in the same ship with Bishop Perry. An impos-
ing committee of welcome ascended the side of the
vessel. The church mm and his chaplain advanced
sm.lingly to receive congratulations. Then the
committee fell on George Coppin’s neck and
called him blessed, and the Church fell back in
disgust.
In the Australian
Parliament any de-
vice is permissible
which will prevent a
member making a
long speech on Fri-
day—the day when
the only political
ambition (so far as
two States are con-
cerned) is to catch
the Adelaide or Syd-
ney express. One
Friday last session
an honorable and
gallant Senator, who
generally has several
lady friends in the
gallery when he
makes one of liis
mighty efforts, got
fairly going. With
his face alternately
turned to the Presi-
dent and to his
friends, he spouted
his noeent remarks—
with no prospect of
finishing eftsoons—
in spite of all piteous
appeals. A youthful
Senator walked into
the room, and at a
glance grasped the
situation. He wrote
four words on a
sheet of paper and
passed it to the
waterspout. Th e
orator read it; his
jaw dropped; he
hurriedly turned full-
face to the chair;
and then, after one
or two stumbling
sentences, he fled to
the corridor, and ex-
amined himself care-
fully. Then he found
that the statement
about some of his beautiful clothing having burst
was a base fabrication.
Died, suddenly last week, while playing
r William H. Hoskings, managing director
of Hardmer and Co., one of Sydney’s leading soft-
goods houses. Deceased was a keen bowler, and
was one of the team picked to represent N.S.W.
against Victoria in the coming interstate match,
lie looked nothing like the 62 years he was
credited with.
“ Edyson ” : Mr. John Lynch, of Smythes-
dale (Vic.) mining surveyor, who died the other
day, was the man who was] told off to train the
unfortunate pikemen who tried to hold the Eureka
Stockade, and the dailies, recording his death, say
he led the men in the fight. He may have been
nominal leader, but there was practically no lead-
ing of the pikemen ; they never had a chance to
be led. I hey had to wait miserably, and take
what was going, till the swaddies charged through
and over the wretched slab barricade, and then
after a little wild poking and pushing with useless
weapons it was every man for himself and the
devil take the hindmost. The devil did take the
hindmost.
Eschenhagen, Brisbane’s leading caterer,
put three bullets in his head the other day upon
the Indooroopilly railway bridge, and died 48
hours later. He was an excitable but kindly
German, and being a German the Jingo hoodlums
of Brisbane called him a “pro-Boer” and fell on
him heavily during the war drunkenness. No one
had really known him to express any very definite
views on the war, but all the same a mob of the
loyal and patriotic ” ruffianism of Brisbane was
allowed to wreck his great establishment, almost
with impunity. Before the riot about 300 people
lunched daily at.Eschenhagen’s ; after that he was
boycotted and his customers dropped to about 25.
Things improved a bit in time, but his fortunes
were never wholly repaired. The old man had a
jubilee a few weeks before his death. Fifty years
ago an antiquated German gunboat exploded, and
of all the men who went up the only one who
came down alive was Eschenhagen.
“ 0.K.”: Melbourne is to be congratulated
on its loss of “ the notorious Billy Buck,” long
time a terror to policemen—and others. Billy, in
his younger days, was somewhat of a hero among
ill-conditioned citizens, and he had apologists in
people who argue that a little leaven of ordinary
human nature lightens a whole lump of abnormal
rowdyism. But he was mainly a pestilent fellow
a second-rate prize-fighter, hating the police for
hatreds sake when he was drunk and his true
disposition asserted itself. On occasions when he
wasn t drunk he would try to curry favor with the
Foorce by assisting a policeman to make a difficult
arrest, acts of violence being pleasant to him.
Having come to be recognised as a dangerous
mad-headed Billy, he was practically a black-
mailer, for if he asked a shilling from anyone who
knew him, the demand was the same as a threat,
and he got the shilling to keep him peaceful.
Billy was found dying in Royal-lane, the other
day, and, in accordance with the fitness of things,
the medical evidence suggested that he was the
victim of “foul play” in a street quarrel. They
that live by the stoush shall perish by the stoush.
PUTTING IT OUT OF HIS SIGHT.
SPARTER : " How is it, Carter, you spend all
your time drinking beer?”
CARTER : “ Fact is, ole man, I hate the sight
of the beastly stuff.
Some more about the late George Lansell,
of Bendigo :
The late George Lansell made three fortunes. Twice he
blossomed forth as a mining magnate, and twice he lost
everything, and went back to the soap and candle
industry. His chance came when the alluvial
diggings began to peter out, and the quartz reefs
to attract attention. Lansell bought into the Cin-
derella, the Advance, and the Prince Alfred companies—
three of the earliest successful reefing properties
of Bendigo. These returned him big profits,
and he extended his operations all over the field. He was
one of the promoters of the Garden Gully—paid calls when
other people were crying off, and made a small fortune
out of the claim. About 1870, Bendigo boomed. Lansell
held the major portion of the shares in the four tribute
co.’s that worked the Garden Gully lease, and drew the
most of the £220,000 they paid in dividends. He still
stuck to his parent co. shares, and has had a big slice of
the £1,000,000 it has since paid its shareholders.
His greatest streak of luck was the 180—for years the
deepest mine on Bendigo. The Weitscheifes who pegged
the lease sold the Claim to the Ballerstedts for £3O. The
Ballerstedts, after digging fortunes out of it, sold the
mine, a big battery, and a big house to Lansell for
£30,000. Lansell, it is said, had to travel to Melbourne to
scrape up £30,000 in cash. But he knew something about
the 180 that the vendors did not know, and he managed to
finance the business. Then he diig £210,000 out of one
stope. Lansell never let his profits lie idle ; as fast
as they accumulated he invested them in other mines and
soon had an overwhelming interest in the field. As a
market operator he was a genius. He owned privately
about a dozen mines, and last year five of them produced
10,000 oz. of gold. In about 20 other mines he held a con-
trolling interest, while he was a solid shareholder in every
mine of importance on the field. He would pay calls till
the death-knock, always certain that the gold was there,
and the calls would all come back in divs. when they had
dug deep enough.
Lansell insisted on direct control of mines by local
directors. Every day he or his confidential manager
would visit his mines and receive reports. Instructions
would be given accordingly, and then old George would
hie him to the Stock Exchange and rake in a few shekels.
Though Lansell’s courage and faith in the early days did
much to make Bendigo what it is, of late years his influence
has acted to some extent as a drag. He was conservative
and obstinate, and set his face against modern scientific
methods. Yet he wasted a good deal of money on strange
inventions and devices. A sort of perpetual-motion
scheme that he evolved for compressing air by water
pressure ran him into a bill for £2OOO or £3OOO, while his
experiments in winding machinery must have cost him a
fortune, though any engineer could have told him from
the start that all of them were scientifically wrong. He
had a strange mania for whistles, and in his garden at
Fortuna Villa (the house he bought with the 180 mine) he
had a syren with which he used to frighten seventeen
devils out of the casual visitor. He devised a special
whistle for his “ Big Blue ” battery, but it had a scream
so terrifying that the people in the neighborhood made
him remove it. They couldn’t sleep o’ nights.
Although all Lansell’s interests were in Bendigo, he
once became bitten with the mania of Englishness. After
he had made his wealth in the boom of the ’7o’s he got
married and went to England. There he bought a big
house and set out to be a magnate. But the haughty
people of the Cold Country didn’t take to the ex-soap-
boiler, and when a petition reached him from Bendigo
praying him to come back and let the light of his coun-
tenance shine on the city once more, George fell over
himself in his hurry to pack up and return, lie never
troubled England again.


&
>5;
-
No. 85. White Felt Tricorne Hat,
trimmed any color Velvet - „ *-
and White Wing's • « •“■O/O
“ What Hat shall
I Wear?”
Easily answered by a trip to
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
or toy sending for Anthony Hordern's
AUTUMN (Sb WINTER FASHION PORTFOLIO.
Post Free Anywhere,
No. 88.—Black, Wliite, or Colored Felt Hat,
trimmed CHiffon and Birds,
Chiffon Veil at back ■ ■
21/-
No. 75. Smart Felt Hat,
Velvet Band, Rosettes
and Quills - - •
trimmed
15/0
X
No. 89. Lady’s Imitation Ermine Fur Toque, trimmed
Flowers, Net R-osette, and long Fancy
Lace Motor Veil -------
42/-
No. 78. White Felt Tricorne Hat,
trimmed Black Velvet
. . . 15/6
and Wing's
ANTHONY HORDERN and Sons
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ASK YOUR GROCER
For a 21b. Pacßag'e of H.O. Self-Raising'
BUCK WHEAT
Hakes DELICIOUS PANCAKES. H.O. BUCKWHEAT is used in all good American Homes.
Use neither Salt, Yeast, nor Baking Powder. If your Grocer has not got it, send to
Fresh Stock received by each Boat. 437 KENT STREET, SYDNEV.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to make, a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queens GaieTer ra.ce
London. S.W
UNDER
ROYAL
ft*. *3
PATRONAGE
ONL NV7 OF
THE v/MOST
\ FASHIONABLE/
V\ HOTELS IN /
1\ LONDON l
I NOTED FOR\
ITS COMFORTS
CONVENIENCE


Died, March 21st., at Smythesdale (Vic.),
John Lynch, the last of Peter Lalor’s captains.
Born in county Clare in ’26, Lynch reached
Victoria in ’52, and was soon in the thick of
things. He was arrested after Eureka, but was
not included among those indicted for treason.
After the amnesty he settled down to a quiet life
as Government and general surveyor. Of his
twelve children seven died within a few days,
from diphtheria. Among the five who sur-
vived was Arthur Lynch, who fought with
the Boers, was subsequently returned to the
Commons for an Irish constituency, and after-
wards gaoled by Balfour and co. tor treason.
A PRETTY WOMAN fades early unless she gives
careful attention to the preservation of her complexion.
Every sign of wrinkle, sallowness, or blemish should be
arrested with the least possible delay. A few applications
of Dr. Lykuski’s great discovery—Valaze—removes all
imperfections and brings the lilies and roses of youth to
the oldest face; Is the most exquisite preparation for re-
moving wrinkles, freckles, tan and all other facial dis-
figurements. It is delightfully pleasant, and makes the
skin beautifully soft, white and smooth. A scientific
product of blended fragment herb essences and healing
balsam to promote the beauty of the skin. Specially use-
ful in allaying the dry and parchment-like skin caused by
Australian hot winds. Price, 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d.
extra. New importations from Vienna. Comtesse
Potocka’s “ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar)to be used with “ Valaze ”
Herbal Soap, (2s. cake). Adelightfulpreparation. Comtesse
Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor entertain-
ments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful beautifier. “Valaze”
special “Blackhead and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed,
3s. 6d. per jar. “ Valaze ” Massage Rollers, for use in
your home. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service,
Sydney, leading chemists all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubin-
stein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to
Beauty Free
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
H yo^ ol s.6<' t
i«o\A
«*2Ss*
,t»e®
T\»®
no'N^’llt
a« d
at
Vie"
V»'»S
V.O’
NU»-
U®® d
,nd° n
l«
th®
B a^ u
When
Your jz?
Husband
has purchased that
bottle of “CAPILLA”
see that he uses it
according- to the
simple directions on
the label. Then
watch the “ down ”
gradually grow into
good strong healthy
hair. .All that nasty
looking dandruff is
cleared from the
scalp—all irritation ceases—and premature greyness
cannot obtain. It would do YOUE hair an infinite
amount of good also if you were to use it.
Buy a Bottle TO-DAY. All Chemists 216,
posted 3/- ; full course (6 Bottles) 1713 from
THE CAPILLA PROPRIETARY,
166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
/
Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. ‘ After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots,, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no sear or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
“eR/VS?ENETTE£>
lisl\
RAINCOATS. |
Are the Ideal Rubrics
for
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dear Arini,—
Sydney, March 27, 1906.
The most highly r finished and Parisian-looking
bit of womankind in Sydney to-day is Mrs. Franz
Ddgen, who was Miss Mary Dailey. She is short
and fair, with light brown eyes, small regular
features, and shoulders, when in evening-dress,
like those of Queen Louise. (You know that pic-
ture of the lovely Queen descending a staircase—
it advertises a certain make of boots and a brand
of mtigtard. Napoleon is said to have fallen in
love with those Louise shoulders.) The new arri-
val, wearing something intricate, grey and Paquin-
ish in the way of gowns, and a grey silk boxer
with feathers, and a general air of being highly
specialised, causes quite a collapse in the tea-
drinking industry when she enters a city tea-
room. Monsieur Degen is a violinist of some
note in the pleasant land of France —a tall, slight
young man with a St. John-at-the-Last-Supper
face, enough hair for three geniuses, worn collar-
length, and a genuine Strad. He will probably
give some recitals in Sydney.
What a jolly old King Cole-ish person King
Edward looks in West’s pictures at the Palace.
He gets into his (flickergraph) carriage after open-
ing something in the city or launching something
at a dockyard, looks round with a cordial, fat
smile and lifts his hat as he recognises a face here
and there. Then somebody like Mayor Allen Taylor,
with a chain and a robe on him, steps to the side
of the carriage and the King grasps the municipal
paw, listens to some municipal platitude with his
untired, cordial smile, raises his tall hat some
more, nods several times, and drives off fairly
exuding urbanity (not condescension) and
good-humored interest. His heir, when making his
royal progress through India, left no such pictorial
impression. He shakes hands like a clockwork
man, looks bored, irritable and weak. England
will be very sorry, I reckon, when the present
king is called upon to wear a celestial crown. The
new king will be such a cross, tired potentate.
By the way, I met a youth who has just re-
turned from seeing India in the van of the royal
progress. He said the decorations were “tasty”
that’s all. He is not any relation to the edition
de luxe who has been staying at a mountain resort,
and telling the summer girls that all his singlets
—silk, of course —are threaded with narrow
ribbon to match the color of the underwear. They
purposely doubted him to learn what would come
next. A packet of the singlets came from his
room, as proof. Then he showed them the pretty
suspenders that kept his silk hose in a state of
vertical elegance. Now, when one’s friends are
returning from mountain resorts they bring us
plain tales from the hills. “A party of American
ladies did the Jenolan Oaves in tights.” “A
Rose Bay-leaf and a pillar of Society startled
other guests at the hostelry by smoking in public.
The other women also smoked—but not outside of
their bedrooms. My lady Nicotine had the
courage of her convolutions, and it was the
courage that shocked the other smokers.”
A great writer has said that “ Nature is always
on the watch to trip us up when we prance.” (As
a matter of fact, “ strut ” was the word he used, but
“prance” suits me better.) It was the gallant
Colonel Stanley, and he rode in the dewy morning
through a mean street on his way to inspect a fort
or something. He was in the Commonwealth
uniform, with a beautiful kit, and his horse was
own brother to Shelley’s Arab shod with fire.
Anyhow, it pranced. A Merely Mary Ann,
humping a dress-basket, called the rider to halt;
then, in great fear of the charger’s hoofs, she
made a long arm, and handed up half a brown
paper bag with an address written thereon.
“Where’s that?” she demanded. The warrior
pleaded the usual “perfect stranger” plea, and
Merely, after a further look at him, said “O, I
beg your pardon, I thought you was the post-
man.”
T. Macdonald Paterson, of Bananaland, now
across the Border, used to tell of an experience at
the Queen’s Jubilee carouse in London. At that
time Australians were pretty popular in the Cold
Land—perhaps because they were borrowing
splendidly. Mr. Paterson was invited to a society
function with many others from This Side. After
the formal introductions, someone mentioned to
the gushing, bulbous hostess that he was an Aus-
tralian. She darted at him, threw her arms round
his neck, and covered his frank, open countenance
with kisses. And, as before remarked, she was
bulbous.
Mr. Knibbs, who has charge of the Technical
College, has just now a happy time over the dress-
making question. Mr. Knibbs has the German -
type of intellect, which approaches every subject
with ponderous confidence, and settles it, after
reading 321 books of reference, in a report full of
tremendous polysyllables, any one of which
would be a fair load for a horse. But the
dress-making has beaten him. It is a
war of dress-making systems. There’s one
system, the Fell, which used to be first in his
heart. Then another system, the McDowell,
came along, and for a time captured his middle-
aged affections. Then the Fell and the McDowell
tugged with about equal persistency, and
there was a contest to settle the vexed ques-
tion. But the contest doesn’t seem to have
been conducted satisfactorily, and so far as I
can judge from a patient investigation (which
was very trying to my nerves—discussing
dress-making without a concrete, tangible, new
dress as an illustration is uninteresting) the
McDowell people don’t seem to have had a square
deal. Either that or else the Fell people haven’t
had a fair deal, or they have both been favored at
the expense of some third system which I have
lost in the confusion. Anyhow, my decision as
arbitrator is that Mr. Knibbs, or failing him the
man who has power over Mr. Knibbs, should give
the two.systems a fair trial over a period, before
fixing on one or the other, and that if any more
systems come along they should also have a fair
trial. I think there is an air of wisdom about this
award—considering that I really hardly know any
more about the dispute than I did before I heard
about it, and my head is buzzing dreadfully with
the discussion.
That duplicate of the late Queen "Victoria, Lady
French, wife of a former commandant of N.S.W.
forces, is in Sydney again. She is considerably
younger than was Victoria at her passing, and
also considerably better-looking ; but that Like-
ness had to be lived up to, even to the extent of a
large, bashed-looking bonnet and flat-heeled
prunella boots. The Queen, as she tired of
reigning, used to wear cotton gloves and carry an
eighteenpenny sunshade, but I don’t think Lady
French' ever went so far as that. The loyalty
that would stretch to the voluntary carrying of
an eighteenpenny gamp probably doesn’t exist.
Next Saturday week Sydney Cricket Ground
will be the gigantic stage on which will be pre-
sented a programme bigger than a herd of mas-
todons. No footlights will be needed because the
performance will be given as a matinee. (What a
sight must have been a Stone Age matinee, with the
gallery squatting in trees, and mingling their
laughter with that of the pterodactyls in the
higher branches, andthedress-circleswelH whohad
combed their mats for this occasion only with the
serrated edge of a cactus, or the caudal end of a my-
lodon, lying on the rooks, and occasionally pulling
the tail of the labyrinthodon, or throwing a flint at
the plesiosaurus !) All this to prelude the an-
nouncement that Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal
Comic Opera Co. will play prehistoric football,
prehistoric cricket, and ride prehistoric bicycles
undressed in prehistoric costumes. It will be
a magnificent spectacle, reminiscent of the
icthyosaurus and similar deceased celebrities, and
will be all in aid of theatrical charities. George
Fauri is the., Directing Prehistoric Cave-dweller,
and Miss Young, Miss Thomas, Miss Musgrove
and other fair visions will attend to the refresh-
ment and bouquet industry. A sporting event
that should be carefully noted is the donkey race.
Four of the long-eared fraternity with the scanty
tails are entered.
I dug this advertisement out of a daily paper:—
T.ADY, refined, infidel, would like to be companion
to lady going- to England for fare only.
I wish her good luck, anyhow. I would hate to
see any refined infidel or musical agnostic stuck
for her fare to England.
With a view to the safety of the Sydney ferry
traffic, the Harbor Trust has arranged that at
the striking of the hours, instead of eight steamers
leaving Circular Quay simultaneously, and
dancing the first figure of the Lancers with a
flotilla coming inwards, the eight are to depart
at intervals, one after the other. This will
be a relief to me when I speed down the
North Shore wharf, nearly tearing myself in
two as one half of me jumps for the Milson’s
Point boat and the other for the Lavender Bay
vessel, because they are both moving out, and I
can’t decide which is nearer the wharf. Whether
the fact that the ferry boats will do the grand
chain instead of setting to corners will make things
safer is not very certain. The Harbor Trust had
far better grapple with the real difficulty—the big
ocean-going steamers, which, with their colliers
and lighters in attendance, fill up the narrow
cove, and crowd the ferry boats into a small space
in the centre, thereby making my hair stand up
like the contents of the fretful pincushion.
Miss Rawson, who has been in town staying at
Federal Government House, has said “Yes” to
the League’s request that she should be vice-presi-
dent of its women’s branch.
That gold chrysanthemum, Willie Lawson, and
his _ motor-car, have been stopped by illness on
their way back to Australia, and have put in
somewhere en route. It is the man, not the
machine, that is reported ill.
Miss Olive Kelso King’s engagement is reported
in the British Australasian. Bridegroom elect
is Mr. Harold Waring, said' to be one of the firm
of Waring Limited, the wholesale art furniture
people. Future bride and her sister are in
England or on their way back here. They are
fine, healthy-looking, plump damsels, with good
complexions, glossy hair, and a noble quantity of
money of their very own. Their mother was one
of the Rand (of Mahonga) heiresses. Their
father, who manages the Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Co., is Sydney’s most stylish and eligible
widower.
The Immigration League is the most vigorous
and precocious bantling ever hatched. A few
months ago and the egg wasn’t even set for
brooding. Now, the bird is crowing—let alone
hatched. And it is going to have a real caviare of
a stall at the forthcoming Agricultural Society’s
Show. It has placed city youths on the land, and
is now arranging a Ladies’ Council to control the
movement of bringing out young women as
domestic servants. In Canada, a Women’s Colo-
nisation Society has put 20,000 working girls into
situations. And in the English papers of a month
or two ago the High Commissioner of Maoriland
was advertising for ai thousand Mary Anns. Dr.
Arthur, Messrs. R. H. Docker, Alex. Learmonth,
E. M. Dell, Scott Mackenzie, and Mrs. Robert
Farrell seem to be the prime chicks of the
League. They must have more than their share
of energy. Nearly everyone else is too tired to be
actively patriotic.
Miss Grace Joel, the artist who lately returned
herefrom London, will hold a show of her pictures
at Mr. Percy Spence’s late studio in "Vickery’s
Chambers; opens April 6. Miss Joel’s figure
work is so good that Nature is thinking of copy-
ing it.
Mr. Laurence, senior partner of the firm of
Laurence and Laurence (the second Laurence was
the Little Boy at Manly) has had a long, bad time
with peritonitis and pneumonia. But now lie’s on
the mend so fast that one can hear the convales-
ence working, and the era of the grilled loin chop
is dawning over the night of mutton broth and
milk pudding.
“ I had the pleasure of seeing St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral burnt down ” was fervently spoken by a minor
pillar of the R.O. Church at the opening of a new
temple the other week.
Mr. Frank Gardner, with his wife and child,
leaves Melbourne for their home in foreign parts
by the Omrah next week.
Miss Clara Chubb, the Queensland girl with the
Figure and the Eyes, and the pretty voice, who
appeared here with fair success in amateur
theatricals, returns to her native land to take up
concert engagements for the winter. But her
Mecca is Europe, and the purpose of her hegira is
voice cultivation.
Rose de Boheme (Mrs. Soley), who writes
weekly from London to a morning daily, is
running the Lyceum Annual, a magazine pub-
lished under the auspices—or under the umbrella
—of the Lyceum, a woman’s club. An annual
means a long interval in which to get one’s second
wind. The Annual hasn’t bloomed in this garden
yet, but its list of contributors reads like a yard
cut from the scroll of fame.
How admirably the majority of our four-footed
friends keep their cradles full! There’s a beauti-
ful grey cat-acquaintance of mine living in an
easy-money locality that is the happy mother
of 98. If she could write to the papers wouldn’t her
‘‘Mother of Ninety-Eight ” standout. And she
is only eight years old, and looks but three.
Sydney weather spent its last week-end in
most Wagnerian rain storms with “atmospheric
effects.” The way it rained unequally on the just
and the unjust was at once capricious and capa-
cious. At Strathfield, some seven miles from
Sydney, six inches fell. In Sydney itself the
potted palm and fern left out in the wet got
just wet. At other places the domestic fowl got
washed off its perch and drowned. From the
hills come wet and drooping tales. At Spring-
wood the incoming train was bailed up for 11£
hours by a landslide, weighing some thousands of
tons, and the unhappy ladies aboard got some
milkless and sugarless tea at two in the morning.
Motor parties would have bartered their host’s
motor for a dry fireside. Mr. Lew. Davies on
his way to the Caves with a party in his new
motor, a Humber, met the rainstorm at the foot
of the Mountains (alias Blue), and thought that
the sea had changed places with the sky, and was
falling on him. Clever steering and the amphi-
bian car did many miles without the tyres touch-
ing bottom.
A girl member of Nellie Stewart’s co., writing
from San Francisco to a friend here : “We have
had the biggest success since Irving’s visit to this
city. Nell received 30 baskets of flowers and
laurel wreaths, and a branch of gum tied with
ribbons. The magnificence of the dressing of the
audience would paralyse Sydney. No decollete
dresses—all high ones, but gorgeous, and lovely
big hats, and sometimes long fur cloaks. And
you would mistake every second woman for Nance
O’Neil. Evidently she is California personified.
We are now in our third week, and each night
every seat in the building is reserved. Our prices
are Bs., 65., 4s. and 25., so you see we are making
money. We play Sundays and two matinees a
week. Sunday seems no different from other
days—all the theatres going, football matches,
hotels open, carts in the streets and workmen
about. Miss Stewart gave an ‘At Home’ at
her hotel, the St. Francis, and looked splendid.
Her hat and gown were of Irish crochet. We are
entertained furiously, and I have often to attend
four different functions on the same day. It is
the middle of winter, cold and foggy.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
My Dear Yarrie,—•
Melbourne, March 27, 1906.
After all, Geelong is only to be an occasional
retreat for the grey Talbottles. They’re due at
Stonington again this week, and the languishing
Toorakite gets on the qui vive once more.
There’s to be no color rioting among the
Church pillars and over the pews for the
Balmain-Fairbairn knot-tying. Chaste white is
to predominate. Also the trousseau is not out on
show. Whether Miss Fairbairn gets a “dozen of
everything ” or not, like The Girl from Kay’s, is a
matter of speculation, and the Tooralc girleen is
angry that she isn’t likely to know.
Prime Minister Deakin is greying a little. His
clothes have something of the rust. His eye lacks
the old fire. He adopts the habit of almost
secret dining. The other Friday I saw him
dealing solus with a flounder. He looked like a
tired Government official taking a gentle snack
far from the call of the wild red-tape. The Prime
Minister is a badgered person these days; or
perhaps the occult sciences have again got him
down a,nd he is seeing things, and therefore his
health is neglected.
What shrinking little violets are those girls who
go in for gate-money sports! A feature of
Melbourne life last week was a drag-full of
charmers, travelling along the busiest streets,
labelled “ Tasmanian Ladies’ C. C.” The label
was a broad calico sign stretching the length of
the vehicle, and the girls blushed most engagingly
every time a vulgar man cried “ What price ! ” or
wanted to know whether the Autumn Sale had
commenced.
Miss Florence Hamer set off on her return
journey to London, the other day. The lady of
the searchlight eyes and wicked green and blue
gem-wealth was disappointed with her Australian
experience. Australia did not quite get the
adjectives to fit the swarthy Florence’s acting art.
It takes some time to accumulate suitable epithets
for a dazzler who talks so cleverly and acts so
indifferently as Miss Hamer. Certainly in chat—
whether from natural wit or much reading and a
retentive memory—she coruscated with epigrams
and aphorisms from more than one language and
showed a most agile tongue.
This is the season when child-prodigies Creep
from out their little cots before the footlights. A
little toddler, Queenie Williams, who does a solo
song and kick-about in “The Fatal Wedding,” is
the same _ tot, described in this letter as a
kiddie-genius who “knocked” the audience at
Mrs. Green’s annual hop. She is in her sixth
year, and has as much humor in her trained
toes as the ordinary grown person can ever hope
to have from sole to funny bone. She started
twirling her baby pins at four, was with Mrs.
Green two years, and now she is “starring.”
Every night her turn provokes an encore, and she
executes a half-bibulous, half-staid corkscrew step
on the stage again.
The hat of the catarrh season has a curious quill
stuck out of its crown at the side. There’s an
angry air of attack about the bit of bird that makes
the up-to-date Miss gulp and presently exclaim—
“ That’s smart!” It’s all in the direction the
quill takes. Set it flat on the crown and the
•harm is gone. Lay it gently on its side, and no
eye is arrested. Pass it evenly through the crown
like a fancy skewer, and there’s no effect. It has
to be thrust angrily and pointedly through a
corner of the crown so that the greater length
sticks up in the air like an aggrieved cat’s tail, to
be smart. Stab your hat fiercely with the in-
growing end of the quill, and you have the trick.
It must suggest a hen trying to bristle like a
rooster.
A neat thing (surely an accident) in “ There
and Back”: “You can’t help the girls you used to
know,” from Benedict No. 1. “Yotl oughtn’t,”
from Benedict No. 2.
The fancy kick is an innovation on a pro-
gramme. The Staughtons started the notion,
and it has come to stay. Two ruddy-haired
Lilith-like daughters of solicitor Evans executed a
joint pas de fascination at the Staughtons’ recent
party, and the guests called for more and more.
There’s a deal of entente cordiale here just now,
owing to the anchor-dropping of the French
training ship Catinat. On Thursday night Dr.
and Mrs. Crevelli broke out of their Albert Park
peace into a Froggie spree. The commander and
officers of the Catinat turned up to it, and some
of Melbourne’s sweetest had their paws tenderly
kissed by the Messieurs.
A daughter of barrister Purves called Little
Mary is one of the chic flutterers left to make the
most of Melbourne’s 1906. The petite Miss is a
small bundle of vivacity, wit, and saucy looks. In
the place of a large, radiant beauty this season,
Miss Mary Purves is about the best sample of
fashionable attraction.
Cheerful tidings arrive of Miss Lovie Mueller’s
song progress in Germany. The large Bendi-
gonienne has what scarcely another Australian
aspirant for the concert platform started with—a
fine, fat income. She has none of the starving or
saddening experiences of the hard-up student.
Back of her is a tidy Bendigo fortune. This
accounts for her bounding spirits and unconquer-
able optimism. She knows if voice does not pull
her through (and she has one) hard, solid cash
will. Accounts to date tell of her progress in
glowing language.


POST
FIiEE
53
-J
Bere I
||gAtJTY
■Bpag
SARAJVIA
////. ideal FA£i: cuiAti :,miN food
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St. and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon & Nicholls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s 3d
mm
tf
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE OMLY
iVIIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURhE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLIHGTONwz
“ROYAL”
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
11th to 19th APRIL, 1906.
Hunting and dumping Contests.
Trotting and Pacing Exhibitions.
Grand Cattle Parades.
Great Sheep Show (British Breeds).
Pigs. Poultry. Dogs.
Magnificent Agricultural Displays.
EXCURSION FARES ALL LINES.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
DUNLOP
RUBBER COOBS
YulcaTniscci
for Comfort f>
Durability.
Guaranteed .for 12 Honlhs.
Beware of Imitations.
e
Washing
fIADE EASIER, when your
WRINGER ROLLERS are in
good condilicm.Weare
now re-rubbering Rollers
arihe/ollowing Prices.
10* IW 4'ea. UxlH." 4% ea.
J2*lKs'ea.
, DUNLOP RUBBIPCfOPMUL?
/08 flinders Jl. Melbourne ;
dr all stales, j
Obtainable
an 1
Boob
s_bores
Dunlop
Brand."
‘Wo*
ushion
Heels
Ensure easy &
comfortable
Walking.
Dun/op Rubber Co. ofAus. L*
a// Sr&res. "
m
\V
Dunlop
Carden
Hosd
Does nor Kink or
burst, and lasts for
years •
•Specify DUNLOP BRAND
DUNLOP RUBBER <?OEMJ. L T»
LUEE//nc/erj Jr. fle/b. c-B/LJfafes.
m
Dunlop-Kelly Solid Rubber
Vehicle Tyres
for Economy c Comfort
Dunlop Rubber M
Hill
Made mall
Shapes and
Designs, j
* Neat* Clean • Inexpensive l
DUAL OP PC/BBEP CO. OF AUJ. LTD.
/o<3 TJ/nderj J/ Me/Aourne c- LU/Jtito.
are made by
Australians for
Australians.
Twenty Pounds for a Short Story.
nrnE proprietors of “ the Australasian
1 TRAVELLER” offer TWENTY POUNDS for the
BEST ORIGINAL SHORT STORY received before June
Ist, 1906. This premium will be awarded in addition to
the price paid for the story, which, like all the others
accepted, will be paid for at the rate of twopence a line
(of eight words). The story should consist of about 4000
words, and deal, for preference, though this is not abso-
lutely essential, with the life of a commercial man in
Australia. It is understood that every contribution is
submitted, not only as competing for the special prize,
but also—in the event of not gaining same—as available
for use by the proprietary, for a period of six months
after receipt, at the current rate mentioned above.
All accepted copy to become the sole property of “ THE
AUSTRALASIAN TRAVELLER.” The first story to be
published as the result of this competition will be the
First Prize-Winning Story.
Address communications to the Editor, “THE AUS-
TRALASIAN TRAVELLER.” 190 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, from whom all information may be obtained.
£5O in FOUR PRIZES.
Immigration League Competition.
NOW OPEN.
'TICKETS and Full Particulars may be obtained from
1 League's Office, or from any Newsagent.
IMMIGRATION LEAGUE OP AUSTRALIA,
11 Terry’s Chambers,
Tel. 4505. Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing- Friends. ’
DROUDLOCK.— Wanted the present address, if living
* (or place of interment, if dead), of THOMAS
PROUDLOCK, who left Gateshead-on-Tyne in 1886 for
Australia, and was at Maryborough, Victoria, in Septem-
ber of that year. Write DAGGETT & GREY, Solicitors,
Neweastle-on-Tyne, England.
Amuscmentff
Theatre royal, * Sydney.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), MARCH 29, LAST NIGHT of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by the Talented Australian
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in CAMILLE.
FRIDAY EVENING NEXT, MARCH 30, EAST LYNNE.
FINAL PRODUCTION.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 31, and Following
Evenings, LADY AUDLEY’S SECRET.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION TH EAT R E, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
EVERY EVENING,
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company
in a Comedy in Four Acts,
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manatrer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Famous Farcical Musical Comedy,
THE SHOP GIRL.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 31, PAUL JONEB.
Box Plan at Paling’s. tST PRICES AS USUAL.
gUPREME MONARCH OF ALL EASTER ATTRACTIONS.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH,
OPENING IN
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, MARCH 31,
IN A CITY OF SNOW-WHITE TENTS.
A FAIRYLAND of DAZZLING SPLENDOR.
7 HUGE SHOWS COMBINED.
CIRCUS, MUSEUM, WILD ANIMAL ARENA.
EQUINE PARADOX. ZOO, HIPPODROME, AND
HUGE ELEPHANT HERD.
A SHOW WITHOUT AN EQUAL ON EARTH.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2, and Is. Private Boxes to Seat 5, £l.
Plan at Paling’s.
FIRST GRAND MATINEE, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4.
HALL (THEATRE), SYDNEY.
COMMENCING, THURSDAY, 29th MARCH
(Five Nights Only).
MATINEE, SATURDAY, 31st.
LIVING LONDON
THE GREATEST AND MOST REMARKABLE
MOVING PICTURE EVER EXHIBITED.
The same as exhibited at the Melbourne Town Hall.
Under the Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
F. STETSON, Manager.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of
THE THREE LEES, THE GILBERT SISTERS.
Unique Performances of MARTINETTI and GROSSI.
BERT DANSON, Comedian and Character Vocalist.
MDLLE. NADA MORET, Character Vocalist* Raconteuse.
Mr. LES. WARTON, MADAME LEON CARON.
BARNARD’S MARVELLOUS MARIONETTES.
HARRY SADLER. BABY WATSON, LILY COLE,
ROCHFORT and HART. ETHEL PRESTON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
MARCUS BERESFORD, Baritone Vocalist.
LITTLE ROSALIE DODS, Child Vocalist.
FRED. BLUETT, Comedian.
TAMBO and TAMBO, Tambourine Spinners and
Comedy Artists.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Corned v Glee Singers.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
Plan at Allan’s. ItW PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING, Marvellous Success of
Messrs. MEYNELL and GUNN’S
Sensational Transatlantic Musical Dramatic Success,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
B_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■■ Lessee atid Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, MARCH 29, and FRIDAY, MARCH 30,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in L’AICLON.
SATURDAY, MARCH 31,
ROMEO AND JULIET.
The young English Actor, Thomas Kingston, as ROMEO.
Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
Commencing This THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 29.
First Appearance of England’s Greatest Baritone,
MR. ANDREW BLACK.
“ The Legitimate Suc-
cessor of Santley.”
SECOND APPEARANCE, SATURDAY, MARCH 3L
Mr. Andrew Black will be supported during- his season
by Miss Ethel Sinclair, the Brilliant Violiniste, and Mr.
Adolphe Borschke, the Hungarian Pianist. Mr. Horace
Gleeson, Accompanist.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 4.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the Governor and
Lady Talbot, The Right Hon. the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress of Melbourne, the Councillors of the
City of Melbourne, the Committee and Hon. Medical
Staff of the Women’s Hospital, the Austral Salon
and many other leading citizens.
Theatre and scenery kindly lent by Mr. Geo. Musgrove
in aid of ’
The Women’s Hospital.
SPECIAL PERFORMANCE of
THE WILDERNESS.
Under the Direction of Mrs. Freeman Nott. Interpreted
by her Company of Amateurs.
Box Plan Now Open at Allan’s \ and in consequence of
heavy booking extra rows of Reserved Stalls are beinsr
opened. PRICES —55., 35.. 2s.
Overture at 8.
Carriages 10.45.
W. F. WYATT ■)
O- McCBEKRY /
Joint Hon.
Secretaries.
“ Oh ! Woodman, Spare that Tree."
Great Axemen’s Carnival and Sporting
Demonstration, Daylesford (Vic.)
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 16, 1906.
Some of the Plums Handicap Underhand Chop 50
sovs. ; Handicap Standing- Chop, lOsovs.; Maiden Chop
5 sovs. ; Sawing Match, 5 sovs. ; and “ The Invitation
Championship Underhand Chop,” 20 sovs. ; and Cham-
pionship Medal, 5 sovs., net value. Tug-of-War 20
sovs. ; Sheffield, 20 sovs. ; 220yds., 10 sovs., etc. etc
Write or send at once for all information. Entries close
March 28, to P. F. MEERE, Secretary ’
A grandson of the late Peter Lalor sets off for
France in a few days to enlist in the French army.
He has lived in the land for a year, and fixed on
a military career on his own initiative. The
Lalor’s claim some remote kinship with the
French. But the present youth departs in no
spirit of foreign devotion. He has the nomadic
temperament and seeks a French soldiering billet
as an experience and a following of his fancy.
The Fred McEvoys took up their travelling kit
and set out for a second jaunt to the Cold Country
by the Mooltan. Up to the period of departure
the dame shed much chiffon lustre on Menzies’.
At night her raiment illumined a large patch of
the dining-hall. No one can walk into a fashion-
able commissariat department with quite the
deportment of an ex-chorus chick. Miss Vere de
Vere sidles, trots, saunters, slides or bowls in,
but the chorus chick walks, her head well poised,
her body balanced, her feet bearing her along
smoothly. It’s the result of the liberal education
she has had on the stage.
While on the subject of eating. Why does the
expensive dineress not complete her meal at the
table ? Why does she make a habit of finishing it
en route from the room ? You can watch any
procession of she-nibblers out of a stylish dining-
hall and you’ll not count out half-a-dozen who are
not still munching. The jaws of a Grace in vigorous
motion are not a picturesque sight at any time, but
away from the presence and excuse of eating
material, they provoke a shudder. “Alas! she
eats,” sighed Byron of a bygone divinity.
A cafe that didn’t secure the order for the wed-
ding feast of a moneyed bride is telling vicious
stories of the lady’s past, her wild abandon at the
supper-table, her tumbling acts and break-downs
in the hours that approach cock-crow. But the
public has a little sense, and it isn’t even amused
at the Bacchic yarns. It only draws its own
reasonable conclusions.
Mrs. Oswald Watt is staying with Mrs. Roy
Green, one of the few relatives she has left in
the State, ex-Justice Williams and his dame being
still anchored in John Bull’s capital or there-
abouts. Mrs. Watt in a “ gardener’s daughter ”
get-up, and with her chestnut thatch forming an
erection like a prosperous bird’s nest, looks rather
stunning.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Manifold and their black-
eyed chick are on their way to London, where the
Miss is to be presented at the May drawing-room.
Mrs. Freeman-Nott has rounded up a full house
to witness “The Wilderness”—the show she is
putting on at the Princess’s for one night only.
She tried the performance on the Austral Salon,
which survived. That in itself counts for little.
The Salonite is a well-behaved person, without
any nerves or sense of ridicule. Still, the lady is
a capable, knowing amateur, who has staged
dozens of little shows which would have been
easily excused even without the plea of charity.
A flock of Melbourne’s smart girleens are to
carry trays into a chirpy tea-room scene in the
show.
Mummer Thomas Kingston landed in Mel-
bourne on Friday looking a riper, suntiier, gayer
sort than he seemed a year or two back. His
curly pate has the same jolly kink. In the
absence of a Knight of the Calves the curly
Kingston ought to do nicely. Manager Tallis had
him in tow on Friday, and" the Block siren eyed
the pair hopefully.
Mrs. Someone’s “Little Mary” carried home
the Bracelet at an up-country pony race the other
day. There is no limit to rustic humorlessness.
A Christian Science lady caught a cold. At
least, she couldn’t articulate, and a guttural pro-
longed cough alone broke through the intervals
of silence. So the others of her doctorless faith
gathered round and chorused the dictum that the
lady with the cold in her speaking tubes was
Quite well. They repeated that for several days,
till at last the sick one, exasperated to the point of
desperation, scrawled on a piece of paper, “O,
you fools, shut up ! The doctor’s coming.” They
expostulated in mixed keys and language till the
man of the stethoscope descended upon them and
ordered the adjournment of the protest. Now
the patient has found her voice, and repeats in
clear staccato what she wrote in the hour of her
stifled speech. She’s no longer a Holy Scientist.
The cold cured her.
The adopted babe has a good time with repen-
tant or unblessed couples. In one instance, a
childless squatting pair who took over an English
orphan in its small-coated infancy are lavishing
love and kindnesses on their “family tie.” It’s
now at the toddling age—pretty, docile, and
affectionate. Its faults are put down to defective
parentage and are met with a Tain of kisses. The
luck of that youngster ! A fortune is to ring in
its majority—should that joyful period be attained.
The advantages of. adoption are great. Fancy
one’s wickedness being charged home to a departed
couple whom you never knew as parents. But
one needs to be careful in the choice of one’s
foster-parents.
After all, an adopted child Jis infinitely prefer-
able as a pet and plaything to a wretched yelper.
Many stylish spinsters hereabouts make a com-
panion and brother of a dog, and load the brute
with fancy chains outside and fancy biscuits in-
side. It’s an irritating sight to behold a rich idle
Miss taking walks with a smelly little terrier, and
lavishing her young affections on it, while there
are scores of mild young men waiting to be kissed.
A local medico tells me that he has to take a tonic
before he can attend one swagger she-patient, as
her bedroom is littered with dog population, and
even her pillows are used as snoozing places by a
pair of Pomeranians. Asked why he attends
the doggy person, he shrugs his shoulders. A
good case evidently can’t be given up on the mere
aesthetic ground of too much dog.
Miss Dina Cooper, of “ The Fatal Wedding,” is
a bigger ornament off the stage than on. Out of the
range of the limelight the lady of the Sandow
shoulders and rolling black eyes is a Sensation.
At Menzies’ they talked of her in scared whispers
as the Beautiful Egyptian, the Cleopatra idea
being borrowed from the serpent-of-old-Nile kind
of jewellery she affects. She has whole series of
strange Egyptian and antique gems for the head,
neck, shoulders, and arms. The Coopers are a
multitudinous tribe. Their number is legion.
Even the Osborne clan is few by comparison.
Those stories of the English officers in the Boer
War, who broke down baggage-trains with their
grand pianos, ice-chests and wine-cabinets, were
probably not exaggerations. In Tasmania, the
other day, half-a-dozen British naval men landed
for a camping-out and fishing excursion. Two
valets and two A.B.’s were brought along to
attend to the feeding and dressing of their su-
periors. Their kit included spring beds, kerosene
stoves, _ portable baths, and every imaginable
luxury in the shape of scoff and swig. Every day
a sailor trudged five miles to the township to ob-
tain milk, cream and strawberries for Britain’s
hearts of oak. The messenger also made a daily
call at a small general store to inquire for rare
cates and condiments, unknown even by name to
the proprietor. At the end of a week the party
had caught fewer fish than a local urchin would
have hooked in one day.
Restaurant-keepers sometimes witness gay
scenes. Not long ago a group of the smartest
met at a swell cafe for supper after the play.
Eizz flowed freely, and none of the company made
any serious objection to the hoisting of the
hostess (a fair, gentle-looking lady) on to the table
to be pelted with fruit and menu-cards. In the
end, the heroine of this little ovation had to be
carried to her cab by the proprietor and his
assistants.
An interesting romance takes the turn that
leads to matrimony, and a large circle is tremen-
dously tickled over the whole story. A
medico attended a moneyed young Benedict
in his last, long illness. Subsequently he ad-
ministered consolation and advice to the widow.
Her gratitude to the doctor who hadn’t saved her
husband’s life was touching, and it built up a firm
friendship. And now, the weeds having been
shed, the medico has started a-wooing, and the
lone one is willing.
A local telephone girl has escaped the “ hello ”
of the subscriber by getting to a nunnery. She
took the step in a cool, calculating, unhurried,
critical spirit. Having secured six months’ leave
on three-quarters or full pay, she spent the period
in an up-country convent. It met with her entire
approval, so she returned to this quarter, resigned
her post, left her blessing on the whole Exchange,
and packed off to her new home. Her particular
’phone pals presented the ivory satin “Reception”
rig worn on espousing Father Church (it can’t
very well be “Mother” Church in this relation).
Speculation is rife as to how the Lorings—the
new “Cloyne” tenants —are going to use their
year’s term in the blessed mansion. The Chief
Justice and his flock left it pretty well to the
moth. They seldom scattered the cobwebs by
festive crowds. The Lorings hail from the far-off
sandy State. Loring •pbre is in the mining
engineer line. There’s one spectacled son, but no
daughters.
At that ’Frisco spree given by our Sweet Nell
our old friend Slap, waved the baton and an inky
forelock in the familiar zealous style. There have
been reconciliations all round. Albert Gran
earned much applause and notice for a Norwe-
gian vocalisation at the spree in question.
David Syme’s mammoth Collins-street residen-
tial chambers are rated by the City Council at
£lOO,OOO. Most of the rooms are let already.
The lowest rate at which one can “doss” there is
15s. a week (provender not included).
I went along to see where the public washed
and swam for a copper or two the other day.
“The City Baths” sounds poor, cheap, nasty.
They’re really nothing of the kind. You mount
the steps of your sex (there are steps of two
genders) and find yourself in a model washery.
Marble baths, lots of shiny brass taps, heaps of
docile soap, and yards of snow-white towelling are
the portion of the public. There’s a first-class and
a second-class department. The difference is
hidden from the casual eye. Perhaps the shower
works more stylishly in one than the other, or the
disposition of the soap makes the difference. It
seems the public likes the idea of the two classes.
An interesting department is reserved for the
Chosen. According to tradition, the bath is below
a stone stairway, and the Jewish marm takes her
dip in a sort of wet vault specially reserved for
her immersions. No Christian can duck, dive, or
splash in that cellar depth. The slipper and
Turkish-scrubs are special, and boast fine surround-
ings. The swimming pond is big enough to ac-
commodate a dozen Kellermanns. The cleanli-
ness and order of the tubbing departments are a
credit to the authorities.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO..
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
L ~~ ~ J ’**' arid 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 8&C. FBG St. Marlin, Paris, France.
pis
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagco, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Au;t:'2.::s.rj Ctr.r.i;;a 2.u_:.t. Price Lists Gratis-
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS^
$
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prime Minister Deakin delivered the first
speech of the election campaign at Ballarat on
Saturday. And, as usual, Alfred said very little
at great length, and said it beautifully.
Joe Chamberlain has informed the British
House of Commons that “ the suggestion for the
corporal punishment of Chinese on the Rand
came from Mr. Evans, the protector of the
Chinese.” “Protector” looks beautiful in that
connection. Why not call him “the Chinese
Flogger ” ?
Commercial Agent J. B. Suttor returns
from Asia by direction of Joe Carruthers to tell
the Chamber of Commerce the position of trade
in China and Japan. And Suttor has been at
work day and night since his appointment putting
all he knows about Asiatic trade on bales of letter
paper. Is he now returning to read his own
letters to the Chamber of Commerce ?
It seems like a dismal repetition to read
that Colonel Ryrie is standing for Queanbeyan
(N.S.W.) in “ the interests of Reform.” N.S.W.
elected Joey Carruthers and his crowd nearly two
years ago on the Reform ticket, and it has had
Reform, and the Lands scandals, and the inability
to recapture Willis, and the wrongs of the old Ma
State ever since. And now it has a candidate
standing in the interests of Reform, just as if
N.S.W. hadn’t got Reform already.
SAID THE ELEPHANT TO THE FLEA .
“ Who are yer shovin'!”
Said a Tory politician in S.A. the other
day : “ Butler is too damned conscientious to be
leader of the Opposition. Whenever he agrees
with what the Government is doing he forgets his
office and votes with them. Now if little
were our leader, he would never do a silly thing
like that.”
The rivalry between little Cohen and Dis-
mal Dick Butler, the heads of the S.A. Stagnant
Party, has culminated in the violent resignation
by Cohen of the deputy-leadership. He wrote a
long letter explaining his reasons, but didn’t men-
tion that lie had lately made a strong bid for Dis-
mal Dick’s pedestal, and failed to get on to it.
Butler and two or three of his party are said to be
weakening in their opposition to Upper House re-
form and other progressive measures, and the
Cohen end of the Opposition is very angry.
For the first time for quite a number of
years S.A., during 1905, not only retained its
natural increase of population (5071), but also
gained 675 persons by excess of arrivals over
departures. Yet it was early in 1905 that the first
S.A. Labor Ministry took office, and there ought
to have been a general exodus of terrified capi-
talists by this time, and their employees should
naturally be trekking aftej - thepi in greajt herds.
Qn the 21st November qexfc the Victorian
Parliament >vill complete its 50th y.ear under Re-
sponsible Government. A jubilee celebration has
been proposed, though, until we are quite sure
that Bent is really going to pay off £1,000,000 of
the public debt out of revenue, it is hard to say
for certain whether there is much to jubilate
about.
The Owe’Sullivan has written a melo-
drama, to be produced in Sydney soon. He calls
it “Coo-ee.” The hero is understood, on the very
worst authority, to be a stout, elderly, florid Aus-
tralian Minister for Works trying to attract the
attention of a gentleman named Cohen. A note
will be added to the programme explaining that
“ Coo-ee ” is a corruption of “ Cohen” —the Aus-
tralian aborigine so persistently called to his
uncle that “Coo-ee” finally became recognised
as the national cry.
William M‘Millan, asking a jury for £5OOO
from William Lyne, fell in with the usual high
estimate politicians make of their characters.
John Haynes demanded £5OOO from James
Fletcher ; John M'Elhone demanded £lO,OOO from
Sydney Evening jNews ; John Davies demanded
£20,000 from John Harris; John Taylor wanted
£5OOO from J. D. Young, and so on. In not one
of the cases of the Haynes-M‘Elhone-Davies-
Taylor series did the jury give £lOO. Once the
award was £5 and another time a farthing.
The Royal Commission on the N.S. Wales
Lands scandals sat on 92 days; 26,970 questions
were asked and recorded with the answers, and
250 witnesses were called. Under-Secretary
MacFarlane was in the witness chair 32 times; Mr.
Speight, ex-station-manager, Coonamble,22 times ;
Premier Carruthers, eight times; ex-Minister
Crick, eight times ; and W. N. Willis, six times.
The Commission hoped to have the pleasure of
seeing more of Willis, whom it found very
pleasant company, but it was disappointed.
J. B. Suttor, N.S.W. Commercial Agent
in Eastern Asia, has had a “ very high and valu-
able ” Japanese decoration conferred on him —the
Order of the Gilded Baboon, or something. But
if N.S.W. really wants an agent in Eastern Asia it
wants one who takes a purely Australian view of
affairs, and who hasn’t been oiled and mollified with
decorations by the people with whom he is sent to
do business. It is time that Mr. Suttor was
recalled and replaced by an undecorated gentle-
man who has never heard of the Order of the
Gilded Baboon.
The business-like methods of Queensland
Premier Kidston are a woe and a misery to the old
brigade of Tory boodlers. When a municipal
council applies to the Treasury for a loan, the
Premier looks up the books, and if that council is
in arrears with its interest and redemption money
on previous loans, then it might as well talk to a
tombstone as to Kidston. It is more likely to
have a bailiff put in for old arrears than to get
any more money. For the first time in Queens-
land’s history the municipal council can’t be a liar
and a thief with impunity, and its amazement is
something terrible.
Civil-engineer Lock, now of Singapore, but
formerly of the Lucknow mine (N.S.W.), inter-
viewed at Brisbane :
There is no greater fallacy than to imagine that because
the Chinese will take a iow wage one can afford to
employ a large number of them. They are too artful for
that. The Chinaman is just as keen as the white man in
the matter of work and wages, and he will give you a
small amount of labor for a high wage. No man can put in
longer hours on hard work than the Chinese when it
suits his purpose, and no man knows better how to give a
small return for the money he receives.
“ These splendid workers,” as Bruce Smith calls
them.
A recent telegram :
The Premier (Mr. Seddon) declares that the combina-
tion of shipping companies prevents a subsidised west
coast of England steamer from bringing return cargoes.
The Government would, if necessary, break the monopoly
and establish a line of State-owned steamers. The com-
bination was against the best interests of Maoriland, but
the latter was more powerful than any company.
Why should not Australia and Maoriland combine
to run a State-owned mail service? They have
combined to subsidise a rather scrap-heap variety
of naval squadron and to do other things, more or
less useful or useless. This would be something
worth combining for.
BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION.
RIVAL CANDIDATE: “Here’s Jimmy Smith addressing the
coves fer the vacancy on de club committee. If you fellers
go and heckle ’im I'll give yer ’arf me cigarette ."
Australia has now got to the stage at
which it feels fit to manufacture the waggons and
limbers for the new artillery field guns—a work
worth £lO,OOO. Soon, at this rate, we shall have
the audacity to make the guns also, and show our-
selves as civilised as the Japs.
The system of voluntary enrolment under
the Electoral Act of Bananaland has been a
failure. In South Brisbane alone the census
returns give 2000 more adults than are on the new
roll. Consequently Home Secretary Airey has
directed that the police shall make a house-to-
house canvass. He would have been wiser to leave
it alone. The individual who won’t take the
trouble to enrol himself isn’t likely to use his vote
when it is brought to his door, and, anyhow, he
doesn’t deserve to have it. Moreover, the police
have other work to do.
Those Melbourne folk who are worrying
just now about Chinese half-caste children would
do more good if they went back to the beginning
of the trouble —viz., the duly-ordained Church of
England parson who marries the yellow heathen
to a white wife. In at least one State of Uncle
Sam’s country that act would mean life-long
imprisonment for the woman, and a long term of
gaol for the parson.
The recommendation of the Old Age Pen-
sion Commission in regard to children contributing
to the support of their needy parents, affirms an
established principle of Scottish law. In Scotland,
parents disabled by age or illness may claim ali-
ment by proving that they are in need and that
their children are able to help them. Parents are
entitled to a separate support, and the claim is
not met by a son offering to take his parents into
his own house. But we ought to have got a bit
further ahead of Scotland, seeing that the old age
pension was first devised as a taxpayer’s retiring
allowance—legally due whatever the circumstances
of the recipient or the recipient’s relatives.
Big Jack Murray showed a glimpse of
olden days when a deputation protested to him
against selling for closer settlement the Malms-
bury (Vic.) racecourse reserve. The trustees had
held seven race meetings there since ’B7, had spent
the revenue, as it appeared, illegally, and had
(also, it was alleged, illegally) let the reserve for
grazing; yet, directly the Government proposed
to put the 80 acres to good use a little crowd wept
on Murray’s mat and wailed that to take away
their racecourse was “ a great punishment.”
Murray retorted that it was no punishment at all;
he might also have told them that the proper
punishment for illegally using the people’s pro-
perty was gaol—just cold, hard gaol.
Mr. Austin Chapman, interviewed by a
reporter from the West Australian at Perth
(27/2/’O6): —
Under the old divided regime telegraphs and telephones
and post offices were constructed out of loans. Since the
Commonwealth has taken them over we do these things
out of revenue, and, accordingly, when an application for
any new installation is made to us, we have to ask our-
selves whether it will pay, and if not, what are the
prospects of its paying in the near future.
One of the good results of a non-borrowing policy
is the avoidance of wasteful expenditure. But
there is something very beautiful about Mr. Chap-
man’s “accordingly.” Even he seems to take it
for granted that it didn’t matter whether public
works paid or not so long as they were loan
works.
From the Gadfly (Adelaide) :
The leader of the Federal Labor party has received an
.ntimation that several British Labor members purpose
coming to Australia. This may mean little, or it may
mean a great deal. British Democrats and agitators have
visited this country before, and the result of their visits
has been, so far as benefiting democracy is concerned,
practically nothing. The British Labor agitator, as we
know him—persons of the Tom Mann and Ben Tillett
type—is likely to do harm, not only to his own cause, but
to the Labor cause in Australia, with his Utopian notions
and fiery speeches. It is not likely either that the Aus-
tralian Socialist will welcome any wild, visionary persons
of this type with any degree of genuine cordiality. The
Labor orator who is never tired of calling upon the people
to arise and shake off their chains—to throw off their
miserable serfdom and biff the tyrant employer where he
lives —is a menace to any genuine, commonsense,. demo-
cratic scheme, and an excuse for the Tory party to gibe
at the practical, everyday Socialist.
M‘Cutcheon, M.L.A., the fine old Tory
who represents St. Kilda in the Victorian State
Parliament, said recently that it was a mere
travesty of government to have two Federal
Houses elected on the same franchise.
M'Cutcheon’s idea, of course, is to turn the
Senate into a typical Upper House, elected by
landlords, employers’ leagues and conventions of
old male hens. Yet, in a sense, which wasn’t the
sense he meant, the Senate is something of an
anachronism. But when Australia is unified, and
the State debts and lands and railways taken over
bodily, and the State Parliaments and Governors
wiped out, and there is merely one Parliament
and a comprehensive Local Government system,
then Australia won’t need a Senate. Nor (thank
Heaven !) will it need M'Cutcheon.
stjU forgets
Sometimes‘.that it isn’t the Swan
River penal settlement. I,ts
Justice Department, supplying
particulars to the Government
Statistician jn the matter of
'court proceedings, always
.divides the population into
,two sections —“ Free men” and
“convicts and ex-convicts”;
and the same as to lunacy.
And it isn’t good in Westralia
to be either convict orex-conv ci
before a court; for of If (14
“free men” arrested in 1904,
considerably more than one-
third were not convicted, while
of 54 convicts and ex-c mvicts
arrested only one ninth
escaped.
Tait, boss of railways,
bids fair to become the burning
question in Victorian politics.
In his management he is an
autocrat with whom nobody but
Parliament has the right to in-
terfere, though Bent nominally
governs him in “questions of
policy.” Now Prendergast’s
Labor party is assailing his
power, and the Argus, the
Commercial Travellers’ Asso-
ciation, the Chamber of Com-
merce, and the representatives
of money-bags generally, are
rushing to his defence. Bent
sits prudently on a rail, but with both legs on the
side furthest from Tait. There will be a Tait
crisis in Victoria presently.
One of the Rothschilds told the House of
Commons that he possessed “irrefutable evid-
ence” that every Russian refugee who was refused
admission to Britain, and repatriated under the
Aliens Act, was shot on the Russian frontier
without trial. A Rothschild is in a position to
buy all the information, reliable or otherwise,
that he wants concerning Russian Jew refugees,
but his bare statement must be clothed in many
details before the right-thinking public will
receive it. Meanwhile, what is this Mr.
Rothschild pleading for? Does he expect the
alleged savagery of the Russian Government to
count as a sufficient reason for cancelling the
Aliens Act, and restoring Britain to its former
dignity as a dumping-ground for indigent
foreigners. On the face of Rothschild’s awful
allegation, the Russian Government for the first
time seems to be adopting a pro-British policy.
To shoot the repatriated refugees is the surest
way to stop the flow of undesirable immigrants to
England.
It is refreshing to find a note of vigorous
honesty in Sydney Herald. Extract from its
leader on the Crick case (23/3/’O6): —
Protest should be made against an argument employed
in the demurrer by Mr. Reid, which would seem to differ-!
entiate between the conduct of a Judge and that of a
Minister of the Crown in receiving money. It is difficult
to restrain indignation at the suggestion that if a Minis-
ter of the Crown does his duty, and there has been no
collusion, anybody benefited by his decisions is at liberty
to come to his room and drop a substantial sum into hi's
lap with or without grateful thanks. It may be perfectly
fair and right that no Minister should be held guilty of
bribery and corruption because a beneficiary under his
pen is disposed to be generous ; and, indeed, it would be
easy to show that an enemy could destroy the most
upright of Ministers by simply going to him after a deci-
sion with money in his hand. But that it should be
possible for the alleged acceptance of money under such
circumstances to be condoned, even as a matter of argu-
ment, is enough to arouse the public conscience.
Of course this is obvious enough—a mere common-
place of political honesty. But, all the same,
these remarks look very grateful and comforting
in the Herald.
Mr. Bruce Smith said
he hoped the women
would not allow them-
selves to be dragged
into party fights, and
he also hoped they
would see the men
whom they elected to
represent them
in Parlia-
ment were
men of
character
and ability.
“ AS, FOR IN-
STANCE, ME,
LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN .”
The commission of six English workmen,
three Liberals and three Conservatives, sent on a
visit of investigation to Germany by candidate
Moreing, has issued a supplementary report, nail-
ing down the lie that the price of food is sub-
stantially higher in Protectionist Germany than
in Freetrade England. The commissioners de-
clare that—
The German workman eats ryebreadbecauseheprefersit,
and that “ he would not give up his rye bread for the best
of wheaten bread that we eat in England at any price.”
Figures appended to these statements are given to show
that the price of rye bread is about the same as that of
wheaten bread in England. Even in South Germany,
where wheaten bread is largely eaten,the loaf which costs
5 5-l7d. would cost 5 l-15d. in England, and they ask :
“ Where, then, does the extreme pressure of the German
customer come in as. compared with the English cus-
tomer?” Similarly the commissioners assert that the
prices of meat, clothes, &c., have been greatly ex-
aggerated. They add, “No German municipality is
harassed by an unemployed problem.”
THE APOSTATE.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
“ The ordinary duties we have to fulfil as citizens are to
obey 'he law and avoid getting into its clutches. (Hear,
hear.) We have to shun perjury and blood and other
crimes.”— McCutcheon, M.L.A., on “The Duties of
Citizenship ” at Vic. Employers’ Federation meeting.
Swells with righteous indignation
The Employers’ Federation—
Each member seeks the nearest bar to clutch on
There, sale from Labor’s terrors, he
Grows pallid at the heresy
That’s uttered by the Socialist McCutcheon.
For the way he’d ruin bus-i-ness
Reduces them to dizziness,
For they cannot rise to perjury or touch on
Aught but facts when they’re declaring
Customs invoices or swearing
Affidavits, if they listen to McCutcheon.
But, together they stand, whether
They put barium in leather,
Or place the cheaper sorts of poison much in
The foods that they are selling,
And they’re mutually telling
Of the treachery committed by McCutcheon.
Vic.
A.B.


m
Ladies’ All Patent Kid Button Boots, light
soles, Wurtemburg heels, smart toes
35/-
you want something
specially nice in
Up-To-Date
BOOTS OR
SHOES
CALL ON
CALLAGHAN
and SON.
WE HAVE THE VERY LATEST STYLES IN
AUTUMN BOOTS AND SHOES.
IT IS CERTAIN
that no better goods are made than you can buy from our
immense stocks ; and the prices are low for quality.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fine Glace Kid Lace or Button
Shoes, Patent Caps, Pump Soles,
Wurtemburg Heels, or
Stout Soles and
Leather Heels
21/.
Postage Extra —
Ladies’, 9d.
Write for our
STYLE-BOOK .
It Is sent free of cost.
“ Edyson ” tells a tale with a moral :
Anderson was a small farmer on the Goulburn, and
when I first struck him, several years hack, the farm was
quite arcadian in its neatness and method. The house
was as trim as a picture, the fences all straight and in
order, the milking sheds, and the poultry houses, and the
dairy and barn, all models of cleanliness, and Anderson
himself was an orderly and methodical man, but un-
doubtedly hen-pecked. Little Mrs. Anderson had him
under her thumb, her will was dominant, and her word
was law, and wherever neighboring agriculturists were
assembled together Anderson was a scoff and a byword
because of his submission to the weaker vessel.
Of course, people told Anderson of it, particularly
Danny Olarke over the next fence. Danny had lately
bought in, and he had set himself the task of delivering
Anderson from his bondage. So he assiduously instructed
Anderson in the control of women, and continually ex-
horted him to cast off his shackles. I visited the "same
agricultural centre again recently, and found Anderson
still in possession, but the farm was little better
than a dust-heap, the house was suijk in disorder,
the outhouses were mere ruins, and the fine herd of dairy
cows was reduced to two gaunt beasts. Anderson him-
self, I was told, was mortgaged up to the ears, and he was
drunk. But Anderson fan the show now. Danny Clarke
told me all about it. Acting under instructions, he had
cast off the rule of little Mrs. Anderson, and asserted the
rights, of man, and now he was master of his own house,
a circumstance on which Clarke congratulated himself
highly. Cursed he the man who delivers a fool from his
fetters.
Never give a kid an axe to play with. In
one week Victoria reported that five-year-old
Teddy hit two-year-old Norman on the head with
it at Gordon ; that at Ballarat, little Arnold acci-
o
zs
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 18§4.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt §*.. Sydney
MALTHOID ROOF3NQ
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
THERE IS ONE
right way to build a house or anything
else—and that is to use only besc
materials and high-class labor. If
you want
GO„D ROOFING
to protect your good building you
want Maithoid Roofing. Made of a
high-grade wool felt saturated with a
pure mineral.
“Iflt is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius,
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.a.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., *
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N. 2
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A,
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E.L. YENCKEN&CO. Pty., Ltd.,Melb., Vic,
THOMSON, BRIDGES, & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
A FORTUNE FOR FIVE SHILLINGS
Hundreds of Profitable Trade Secrets, now
first published.
Valuable Formulae for Many Processes,
hitherto jealously withheld.
Methods for Making a Multitude of
Marketable Articles. f
Money-Making Wrinkles relating to Every
Trade and Manufacture.
| STABLISH yourself in business and bec< me independent*
Whether you are a man or woman, boy or girl, employed
or unemp oye«l. you may secure a Constant Income and a
Respectable Business, without hard work or worry, by making
at your own home in your spare time some of the hundreds
of articles whiyh rind reatlv sale everywhere, the manufacture
of which is cledrly described in this valuable book. Study
the careers of the most successful men of the world and you
find that many of them began in a small way by making
something in general request., and by gradual extension came
to own mammoth concerns. A single recipe properly
employed may be the foundation of a fortune. Pear’s Soap,
Beech.un’s Pills. Holloway’s Ointment, Aspinall’s Enamel and hundreds of similar things, from which 'tag ; incomes are derived,
may be equalled or even surpassed by some of the articles described among the 3000 Priceless RecipOJ. A-*; y bright and intel i-
gent, person may earn a good living in a pleasant way bv utilising the information here afforded. 'lbis \ ..1 liable Work of 363
pages leach page 4 inches by 5 inches) is not the prod ction of some obscure gleaner from out-of-date sources but is the result of
the life-work of the Famous Scientist.. Dr. N. T. Oliver, who has selected and published only the beat of the many formula
submitted to him, having thoroughly tested every recipe, many of which cost large sums to acquire. Every process is full/
described in the simplest language. It is nor a cookery book. It is a book of recipes, and NOTH:NO L/J i' RECIPES, of
inestimable value to Farmers, Housekeepers, Mechanics. Manufacturers, Chemists, Confectioners. Metal W’oik r*. and, intact to
even body. Single recipes are worth many times the cost of the volume. Write at once tor this Valuable Book, which
will be sen' oy post toany address, carriage paid, for Five Shillings. There is no extra ch*r>'**. nor tuiv duty r.» nay. 'only a
limited number are. available, so you should order at once to avoid disappointment. Cut this advertisement put at once, M
it will not appear again, and forward it with your order and Five Shillings to
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co,, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
A
PROFITABLE
Tl
0
<—u
('-orrfn
Vw U i w
VALUABLE
WRINKLES.
PRACTICAL
PROCESSES.
MONEY-MAKING
IDEAS.
A START
IN BUSINESS
WITHOUT
CAPITAL.
MAKE
£2GGa Yeac*
IN YOUR
SPARE TIME.
SOMETHING FOR
EVERYBODY.
dentally banged little sister Ada in the left eye
with the business edge of the implement; and
that at Buninyong, Willie, aged five, chopped off
two and a-half of his own toes. In mining dis-
tricts the youngsters mostly play with dynamite
caps ; in rural parts, with axes arid crosscut saws.
But they are not desirable playthings.
In Melbourne suburbs they are starting
electors’ clubs of a serious and conservative
character. The object is “to hear addresses by
representative public men,” just as if the country
were not already groaning under its terrible
burden of addresses by representative public
men. The first of the societies for the propagation
of speeches opens at St. Kilda with a lot
of cold talk from Irvine the Icicle. It will be
something in the nature of an ice-scream soiree,
for Irvine as an orator is about as passionate as a
consignment of frozen mutton. The object of the
clubs is to secure politicians a decent hearing.
A more urgent necessity is a powerful society
for securing hearers a decent speech.
HERE’S THE HAT FOR YOU.
'T'HE AUSTRAL HAT HILLS, over Melbourne
1 side, are making just about as nobby Hats as
can be made in any part of the world—far better than
most of them are made. They are turned out by
Australians, paid full union wages and working under
clean, sanitary conditions. This means much in a
Hat. Fur, of which Austral Hats are made solely, is
very apt to absorb filthiness of any kind. The Hats
that the “ Calico Jimmies ” of the Lane import from
the Continent are “ let out ” to be finished to sweated
work people living in the filthiest of foreign slum
hovels. They are then sent out to this long-suffering
country—germs and all—and we swear by them by all
our gods, “Imported—they must be good.” Our Hats
are sold throughout Victoria at Half-a-Guinea, and in
other States of th‘e Common wealth at a slightly higher j
rate. They come in Hard and Soft Felts, and are
suitable for City Man, the Miner, the Squatter, the !
Farmer, the Tradesman. They are supplied in a |
variety of the latest shapes and styles adapted to the
Austral climate. We guarantee them to be better than
other Hats sold at the same price—giving better ser-
vice in every way. Ask your Dealer for one of our
Hats. They all have our Full Name stamped on |
the inside leather—without which none are genuine. I
Accept no substitute pressed on you for the sake of
the extra profit it shows the dealer. Write to us if
you cannot get supplied, giving the name of j 7 our
Dealer. We will refund you your postage, and see
that our Hats are stocked in your district. AUSTRAL
HAT MILLS PROPY., Ltd., Dept. T., Abbotsford.
m
m
Jf :
Wi
m
m
mmm
0
£ : ~
m
d
&
/
■
j
j
'wtAAjyf
m
51
ms
m
L
I mi
*.*
It a
7m
\
m
rm HmM
96
#
j
ii®i ; ;r-' »
9te
118
. - i
-
as?
\
.
N
**r
rwasniw
■
.--T'*.'" r.
H 9
The New Composite Clip used only on KLEINERT Supporters prevents tearing of the Fabric and
HAS NONE of THE OBJECTIONABLE FEATURES of RUBBER.
me~ SOLD EVERYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA, at LONDON PRICES.
Only
a
ew
Vj
ss?'.®
5%; J';.'';
*©
an
Going at 10/6 & 21/- Each
There are just a few left of
two qualities of the well-
known MUH.D O C H
PANAMAS—aII genuine
natives. Those who are quick
to respond will secure one at
a good deal under the usual
price.
FEW 25/6 PANAMAS—NOW 21/-
FEW 15/6 PANAMAS-NOW 10/6
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
MURDOCHS
. . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE ROOD HATS ARE.”


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
A Household Eemedy.
The Mebits and Popularity op Db. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Throughout Australasia Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a household remedy, and the anti-
dote for all general ailments. In thousands of
homes the little amber bottle is the sole medicine
chest, for there are few complaints in which these
Pills cannot be administered without beneficial
results. Whatever the ail-
ment, it is imperative that
the bowels shall be cleansed
and kept free, and that the
process by which the blood
is purified shall be stimulated
to drive the foreign humors
from the system, which are
the cause of all disease. The
many wonderful cures
effected have awakened the
interest of all classes of the
community to the merits of
these Pills. Years ago Pills
were the medicine of the poor
only. To-day the efficacy of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills to overcome the
common ailments of man-
kind has convinced not only
the working section of the
population, but the more
wealthy, professional, and
independent classes that Dr,
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are the best family
medicine. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier and a positive and permanent
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for
female ailments.*
At Randwick, on Anniversary day, the seventh
horse in the book won three different events. 777 is
the number of Tattersalls’ golden pen. Try your luck
with one when you order your sweep ticket. Box of
eighteen for sixpence anywhere, or send eightpence in
stamps to 777, Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney.*
0?
DIRECTIONS
400LT3TW* hKmiIW
CNILDRCX A Halt* to*
•'"OU Pin. Viuouio
hi Sweetened Water
J*ttt btlbr* rxtjrin&
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
'O';
'}Wl\ \
rm
lUi't* tun* ft
Cable Address —
PASTIME, SYDNEY .
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersail's Club,
SYDNEY .
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST riARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.s^*^
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
■ ♦
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersail's,
SYDNEY.
R
RESCH’S
LA
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices: »
DOWLING ST., REDEERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The final of the Thousand did not start too
auspiciously. When the whistles blew Rutt was pump-
ing up his tyre, and just at the very last inflation the
thing blew out with a report like the starter’s pistol.
Rutt, afraid that they would not wait, frantically fitted
another tyre and pumped with feverish energy, and that
too blew out. Outside the people in the stands were
clapping and stamping in their impatience, and every
man who thought he might scoop that £750 was cursing
Rutt for keeping him out of his money. At last the tyre
was fixed properly, and a start was made. Hardly had
the pistol ceased to echo, hardly had the roaring of the
barrackers started, when there was another report, and an
awful voice roared, “ Stop her ! ” Payne’s pedal
straps had carried away, and the disgusted field
came back bursting with impatience. When they
got away the back-markers went off with a terrific
rush. Rutt took Mayer right past Olark who
trailed them ; and then Mayer made the pace for half
a lap. Next Clark went to the front of the trio and
took them right up to the field. The pacing of the back
men was ideal. Then they all reeled away together, the
back men taking a breathing spell behind pace. The
effort had broken Clark, and he and Wyatt dropped out.
The front men realised that the back-markers must not
get breathing time, and a series of frantic efforts were
made against the wind. Then Arnst’s brute strength
showed out at its best. He was strong as a bull and with
his 100-gear he went to the front a quarter of a lap before
the bell rang for the final round. That was the amazing
part of the race. The Maoriiander maintained his lead in
front of the whole field for a full lap and a quarter, and
then finished with one of the most sensational jumps ever
seen on the track. Many spectators believed that but for
being momentarily pocketed opposite the smokers’-stand
Rutt would have won, but it is not by any means certain
that he would have passed the frantic Maoriiander had he
got through. That last leap of Arnst’s would have taken
a lot of beating.
* * * •
As far as Dick Arnst himself was concerned,
there was never, till the last five seconds of the race, any
doubt as to who was going to win it. He had told all his
friends that he was a trier, and that he was absolutely on
his own, and that people backing him would have a
genuine go for their money. He rode a Forest
Finlay machine geared to 100, and shod with Dun-
lop tyres ; and a big, powerful man like Richard
can do a lot with a 100 gear. Moreover, at the finish
of the race the wind was dead behind him—what
little wind there was, that is. Passing the smokers’
stand the field was all bunched up, with Arnst in front.
It swayed and rocked in its desperate endeavor to get
clear, and German champion Rutt was locked right in the
middle of it. “ Rutt’spocketed ! Rutt’s pocketed ! ” howled
the frantic bookmakers who had just laid 20 to 1 against
Arnst; and then they chewed their tongues and cursed
all creation. With the exception of the acetylene lamps
over the track all the lights were out, and only the racers
streaking like shadows along the greenish tinted track
were visible. From the hidden, crowded stands rose a
deafening roar, and as Arnst rushed past the ladies’
reserve he howled triumphantly, “It’s mine!” Then,
through a defective shade a shadow fell in front of the
Maoriiander. He thought it was a reality. The night-
mare of the German smote him dumb, and his howl
stopped suddenly, bitten off in the middle. Down went
his great head and shoulders, his machine sprang through
the air, and next half-second he was across the line.
s * * •
Maoriland learned of Arnst’s winning of the
Sydney Thousand at breakfast, and, scoffing its prime
chop in the shortest possible time, tore down to the tele-
graph office to cable congratulations to the big fellow in
Sydney. He has been swamped with cablegrams from
people of whom he never heard, and when he takes back
the £750 they will all want to shake hands with him. A
man who makes money at the rate of £750 a night, even
if it is only one night in the year, is a man worth being
on intimate terms with. Just now the Maoriiander
dominates everything. His blessed Stead came over and
cleaned out the bookmakers; his footballers have broken
the world’s record in the way of a successful tour ; he is
borrowing faster than anyone else in Australasia; and
now Dick Arnst has scooped our biggest cycling prize. In
fact, the earth is, just now, the Maorilander’s. Barone
thing—he can’t play cricket worth a cuss.
* * • •
“B.B.”: The Arnst family of bike riders are
very much in the limelight at present. “ Dick ” Arnst,
the Sydney Thousand winner, is off to Yankeeland to
battle in the coming big six days race; while brother
“Jack ” goes Europewards to try and win the Bordeaux-
Paris and other big Continental road proceedings. The
M.L. League intends lending a hand to raise subs, to
despatch these riders, and the Australian Leagues are
promising assistance.
• • • ■
Saturday night last saw another elegant contest
between Martini and Skuthorp, at the former’s grounds,
near Sydney railway station. Booming thunder accom-
panied the wrangling, which was long and fierce, and
between the crashes of celestial artillery, the voice of
Martini could be heard leading off, “ Ladies and gen’l-
men, I might tell yer . He explained that he could
not talk much owing to having hutt his kneecap, but,
judging by his performance with such a minor injury, it
was a most fortunate thing for the audience he hadn’t
broken his neck. They would have been talked to death.
The crowd was distinctly Skuthorpian. The Professor’s
Yellow Bay threw Martini’s Yankee rider out of the
saddle immediately he got going, and Martini’s Bobs
retaliated by throwing Skuthorp’s relative clean over
his head. Wiliie Waite took the pride out of Yellow
Bay while Martini gave his jaw a rest, and but for
the ring-master’s continual yabber-yabber, it was a most
interesting show. Crack riders were being flung about
like ninepins, and the display of Bobs after he had ejected
his rider was fearsome. A crowd of men tried to catch
him, but he snorted and kicked, and they stood off at a
respectful distance and waited till he should kick himself
right out. And all the time Martini fired off personalities,
each one being preceded by the interminable, “ Ladies
and gen’lmen, I might tell yer” . Someone would
tell the very deaf Skuthorp that Martini was saying things
about him, and the Professor would rush into the ring,
place his hand behind his ear, and commence his yarn ;
then crashes of thunder would drown his voice. The
crowd enjoyed the two gentlemen telling things about
one another for a time, but got very tired of it at last, and
requested Martini and Skuthorp to get into the ring and
fight it out.
There was every possibility of a sudden down-
pour, and the crowd was anxious to see Skuthorp ride
Wild Angliss, an unbroken brute which Martini had
brought all the way from Victoria, he said. This horse
was proclaimed as unbeaten. Many had mounted but
none had stayed him, and their epitaphs loom large on
the Victorian landscape. He was brought into the ring
by a halter, and the crowd, which was expecting rain at
any moment, cursed at the delay as Skuthorp’s men tried
to blindfold him. Then Jigger Lavell came along, and
after some startling escapes, and having the bag stricken
out of his hand and his head missed by a hair’s breadth,
succeeded in getting the horse’s frontispiece into a
sack. The Professor started another wrangle with
Martini, and that desperate sportsman reared up
and offered anyone in the audience £2 to ride
the brute. Derisive persons asked if he thought he could
spare £2 for riding a ferocious brute that had never yet
been ridden. Why didn’t he get on him, himself?
Meanwhile Skuthorp was talking bets of tenners and
fifties, and Martini went one better and spouted about
hundreds. The audience ordered Skuthorp to get on
board. He mounted the animal. The bag was torn from
R. ARNST, winner of the Sydney Thousand,
weighs 14st. 6lb., on his Finlay Racer,
weight .
Photo, by Johnson, Sydney.
Angliss’s eyes. He bounded sideways across the ring.
The Professor gave him the spur. He wheeled round,
ran backwards, came to his belly twice; flew up as
though propelled by a pneumatic gun, landed on his feet,
and, rearing up, whirled round and round. Grunting, and
snorting he bucked in circles, varying the motion with
maddened plunges. Then Skuthorp tfcrew away the
reins, lashed the animal with both hands, and as
it soared through the air he took a double lunar
at the astounded Martini, who sat dumb with amaze-
ment. Roars of applause, shrieks of laughter, and wild
ho-ho’s. Skuthorp yelled with triumph, and made the
lunar a fixed point as he was whirled about the ring.
Wild Angliss stopped, and panting, hung his head.
Skuthorp hopped lightly to the ground, sprang into the
air, and took another lunar at Martini, and made for the
water bottle. Martini did the only thing he could do. He
ordered Waite to ride the horse in an English saddle.
William did, and threw away the reins also, and shouted
and whooped—but the exhausted horse hadn’t a buck
left in him, and it was only blank cartridge. All the
same Waite could probably have ridden him even had he
been fresh.
• « * •
Sporting events at the Royal Agricultural
Society’s Easter Show are going to be a huge improve-
ment on past years. The Society has now got the finest
trotting track, bar one, in Australasia ; that other one is
the famous Maoriland Metropolitan path, and even its
superiority is a matter of doubt. The jumping contest-
ants will also negotiate a sod-wall in addition to their
other obstacles, and altogether, owing to the record
entry, the displays of horsemanship will be much more
attractive than hitherto. In the purely show business the
display of animals will be enormous. The society has
erected over 50 extra horse-boxes, and finds the number
still insufficient.
* * * *
Ernest Clarke’s two new brood mares are a pair
of beauties. They were bought by Rupert Clarke in
England at very stiff prices. One mare, by Orme from
Huelva by Herald, was foaled in 1900 and is named
Andalusite. She is believed to be in foal to St. Serf.
The other mare is an even better animal. She is called
Bordina and was foaled in 1903, by Persimmon, from
Spezia, by Orieta from Electric Light (the dam of Bill of
Portland). This is the first of Persimmon’s progeny to come
to Australia, and it will be interesting to see what effect
she will have on our crack stock. Neither of these mares
has ever been raced.
• * * •
To spread the reminiscences of 41 years of Aus-
tralian racing over 260 pages, and make it all interesting,
is an accomplishment that any man might be proud of.
But that is what Mr. Samuel Griffiths (not the Australian
Chief Justice, but “Special Commissioner” of the Sports-
man and Sporting and Dramatic News) has done in his
just-published book, “ Turf and Heath.” It is a good
title, and the book is as good as the name. It does not
pretend to be a history of Australian racing—merely a
collection of reminiscences of ancient steeds and bygone
riders—but, nevertheless, there is not likely to be any
better book of reference published. Griffiths writes with
a pen that works easily, and without the slightest
attempt at flourish. It is the outpourings of a
genial fellow sitting back in his easy chair, pipe
in hand and glass at elbow, telling in a quiet, easy voice
of the exciting things that happened between 1838 and
1881. Moreover, it is an easy book to read. Messrs. A.
H. Massina and Co. (of Melbourne) evidently appreciated
the fact that the work would appeal to a large number of
ancient sportsmen whose sight is not as keen as it used
to be, and thoughtfully provided a good faced type on
rough paper. Illustrations of famous horses and racing
men are scattered through the work. To racing men and
lovers of the game it should appeal intensely, but the
best certificate for the book is that a man who wouldn’t
go outside the door to see the Melbourne Cup run, sat
down last Sunday and spent the day reading it—and
found it interesting.
* * « *
Frequenters of a Sydney betting-shop had
a shock at the end of last week. Biz was humming
when, suddenly, there was a cry of “ Nit 1 Nit!" and a
mass of about 200 men and boys endeavored to get out of
a narrow doorway at once. They got out certainly—the
majority of them fell out, and some of them were after-
wards only fit for a hospital. The cry of “Nitl” was a
wild hoax. But the mobility of the betting people,
spielers, hangers-on, and tipsters generally, was a treat.
The military authorities might take a lesson. If a soldier
could mobilise half as fast as a spieler, we would have the
swiftest army on earth.
* * # •
After everything is paid Maoriland Rugby
Union has a profit of £9500 over the “ All Blacks ” trip.
* * * *
Although the Rugby Union refused to admit
either St. George or Manly clubs to first grade, the
majority was in favor of the admission of at least one
club so as to do away with the bye. But it requires a
two-thirds majority to carry an admission, and now des-
perate lobbying is going on to secure the two-thirds
majority when the question comes up again, as it is cer-
tain to do. So far the Rugby Union and the Sydney Cricket
Ground and Agricultural Society people are still “out,” and
no first grade matches will be played on either of those
grounds the coming season. The result is a throw-in for
the new Sports Ground at Moore Park. But the Sports
Ground is an uninviting place—there is no shelter there,
and, in the event of rain, the big crowds of girls who roll
up and swell the gate and the barracking chorus will get
wet, and a woman is not going to jiay admission
to barrack for anybody if her powder is liable to be
washed off at any moment. If the Sports Ground people
are wise they will get a grandstand of some sort erected
in short order. This dearth of Rugby football at the
Cricket Ground is causing a great growl among ticket-
holders.
The hog in a recent greasy-pig competition at
Toowoomba (Q.) bit the winner’s finger off. It is about
time the porker asserted himself. He has been chased
round at many competitions and had his buttered tail
snatched by the hoodlum of the moment, and it is up to
him to show that the dragged porker will turn.
* * * *
“The Moocher”: Was on the wharf when
Nigel Barker went off, t’other day. The Bat stood near
me, gazing at the ship. Presently he nudged me. “Say,
chummy,” he asked. “ Who’s that blokie they’re kickin’
up sich a shine over ? ” “ That’s Nigel Barker, the great
runner,” I answered proudly. The Bat seemed to be
thinking awhile ; then he spoke pensively. “ D’ye think
’e’ll ketch ’im ?". “ Catch whom ? ” “ Willis.”
• * * *
“ B.B.”: Maoriland has a champion amateur ath-
lete of promise in F. E. Drake, who recently spread himself
over three M.L. championships—looyds. in 103-ssec.,
220yds. in 23sec., and 440yds. in 52 3-ssec. The times are not
extra fast; but it isn’t often possible to find an athlete
who can succeed at these distances. Hector Burk (who
wouldn’t go to Athens on subscribed funds) was just
beaten by Drake in the 440yds., but gathered in the half-
mile in lmin. 59 l-ssec., and the mile in 4min. 28 3-ssec.
• * *
Matters concerning the Board of Control are
still in abeyance. The Melbourne Cricket Club has re-
ceived extended time in which to appoint its representa-
tive to the Board, and that time has not yet expired. But
the matter can only end one way, for the Board has got
both might and right on its side, and in the end the Mel-
bourne Club must go down. South Australia does not
really count, and it makes no tangible difference to Aus-
tralian cricket whether the Crow-eaters stay out or come
in. If they like to wait a while and jeopardise the chance
of playing against the next English XI. it is their own
funeral. The board is treating the S.A. Association with
good-natured indifference ; it declines to discuss terms
with it, but any time the S.A. body likes to accept the
situation and come in, all it has to do is ring the bell
and the door will be opened.
* * * #
After a long and remarkable run Waverley
district club has been hurled from its position at the top
■of Sydney First Grade Premiership competition list.
Saturday saw it go under to Glebe, beaten by 138 runs on
the first innings. Burwood beat North Sydney by a
narrow margin of 21 runs—but it was enough, and placed
Burwood Club at the head of the list with 14 competition
points. Glebe with 13 is only one behind, and the
battered Waverley crowd comes along third with 11
points. Saturday, although an ideal day for run-getting,
saw only one century scored, and it was made by Bubb
for Glebe against the failing Waverley men. He had just
made the neat century when Carter caught him off
Newell. It was a day of wretchedly small scores, 85 being
the nearest approach to Bubb’s century.' Some of the
bowling figures were like the girl from the milliner’s, of
the fascinating sort, however. Iredale of Gordon took
one wicket for five runs; M'Beth of Sydney, seven
wickets for 66; Finneran of Balmain, six for 34; and
Bandall of Middle Harbor, two for 12.
* * * •
Saturday afternoon saw the close of the sailing
season on Port Jackson, and the bulk of the contests were
consolation affairs for the boats that had done more or
less shockingly during the season. So the prizes did not
bring unmixed bliss to their winners, for the man who
appropriates a consolation prize cannot very well stick
his chest out while talking about it. No less than
ten races were held by sailing craft in various
parts of the harbor on Saturday afternoon, and a
fresh nor’-easter, with a tendency to squall, shook
things up considerably. In fact, the Lane Cove
Club’s 10ft. race became a natatorial affair. In the
first round three of the boats capsized. Another went
over in the second round, and two more smashed their
booms. In the third round, as a result of a collision,
one boat capsized, and the crew gripped the craft that
had upset them, and dragged it over too. Eventually
both boats were righted and the race resumed, but later
on a protest was entered on the ground that one of the
crews received outside assistance in getting its craft off
the floor of the harbor into an upright position. Alto-
gether it was a great afternoon out, and a pleasing
wind-up to a very successful season.
* * * *
The Victorian eight-oared championship proved
the most interesting and keenly-contested event for
many years. Weather conditions were perfect, and the
slight south breeze compensated for an adverse tide. The
2£ miles course began at Williamstown Ferry, and ended
at the Footscray Wharf. Albert Park, Yarra Yarra, and
Mercantile clubs competed, taking up positions in that
order from the north bank. From a fairly even start the
Parks soon pushed their nose in front, and kept it there
to the Bottle Works. Here Mercs, drew up and passed
the “dark blues,” and from that out the race was des-
perate, both crews slogging all the way. At the
bend near the Sugar Works, Parks, with some clever
steering, made up the gap and forged in front. They
were never headed, winning a splendid race by half a
length in 13min. 3sec. The Yarras, hopelessly in the
rear, were never in it. Owing to the out-of-the-way
course over which the event is held, crews equal to an
inter-State win were watched by only two small steamer
loads of people, but some little bunches of wildly excited
and sparsely-clad enthusiasts careered along the banks
of the drain.
* * » •
George Seale, sometime amateur boxing cham-
pion and mighty oarsman, died in Sydney last week at
the early age of 45, leaving a widow and one child.
Originally a draftsman in the N.S.W. Works Department,
he joined the Mercantile Bowing Club (Sydney), and sat
in the N.S. W. Eight against Victoria several times. But
it was in the double sculls that he was seen to most
advantage, and in combination with George Brett, ama-
teur champion sculler, he carried off the doubles so con.
tinuously that at last the race was dropped as being a
certainty. Taking to boxing for exercise, he discovered
that he more than held his own with most of them, and
even the very best got no superfluous change out of him.
One of the most strenuous fights in Australian boxing
history was that between Seale and Sandall, in which
both men fought to a standstill, and when they could no
longer lift their arms the referee declared the scrap a
draw. For a time the dead athlete acted as referee at
Sydney National Sporting Club, but of late dv> oted him-
self entirely to teaching at his own establishment, the
Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club.
* * * *
There’s been a slight outbreak of stoush in
athletic circles lately. Mr. Sturgeon went for the referee
at National Sporting Club, and N.S.W. Amateur Swim-
ming Association has just disqualified for two years a
competitor who is said to have smacked an official.
The official informed the smacker that his costume
was not in accordance with the rules, and then
caught it where the girl caught the moustache
Swimmers, as a body, are very pugilistically
inclined, and there would soon be a grievous dearth of
competent officials if their assault and battery propensity
were not severely discouraged.
* • * *
The Quigley-Sturgeon fight at Sydney National
Sporting Club was a particularly strenuous scrap while it
lasted. Sturgeon was wound right up to the last turn of
the key, arid the speed and the ferocity of his attacks
were just plain marvellous. He came like the whirlwind
and showered blows so fast that for a time there was
danger of Quigley being drowned in them ; but, somehow,
he managed to keep his nose above the flood. Then
Quigley did a few hurricane acts on his own account, and
shook up the whirlwind opposite him very considerably.
Being unable to down him, Sturgeon tried to strangle the
shifty, vanishing Quigley. Hoots, howls, and threats of
impalement and other horrors indicated that the strangle
business was not catching on in public favor. Sturgeon,
nevertheless, again tried to screw Quigley’s head off.
More frenzied indignation and another caution. Then
the fight resumed on normal lines, and Sturgeon began to
get much the worse of the deal. Again and again he
seemed on the point of collapse, and then would sud-
denly unwind a rally that almost broke Quigley up, and
from which he only escaped by unconcealed flight. Then
his blood suddenly boiled, and he rushed Sturgeon, and,
getting too close, clinched. Sturgeon hit him viciously,
and smashed him on the jaw as he swung loose. Quigley
banged down on Sturgeon’s kidney region, and Sturgeon
got his arm round his neck and tried to do the Sunday
rooster act on him. Amidst the pandemonium it was
seen that the referee was on his legs, pointing to
Quigley—which meant that Sturgeon was disqualified.
The outed man rushed at the referee, and perpetrated
what certain papers described as the most disgraceful
scene ever witnessed in a Sydney boxing hall—which was
rot. It was a gentlemanly action compared to Scanlon’s
biting of Felix, or Papworth Sullivan’s knock-out kick in
the stomach at the Gaiety.
# # * *
Once more a big, enthusiastic crowd gathered
to see a boxing match in Melbourne, and was “ done in.”
Tim Hegarty v. Ted Savral, the coon cake-walker, drew
to the Athletic Club’s hall a packed house representing a
gate that should have been worth 20 rounds of hard fight-
ing. The result was one vigorous round between the
principals, and then Timothy Hegarty retired to his cor-
ner, assumed a fainting and rattled attitude, and there
was no more fight. Mr. Cake-walker Savral took the
big wedge of the cake for three minutes’ skirmish, in
which Hegarty walked all over him with his hands,
hitting his ebony countenance just as the spirit moved
him. There were numerous explainers and much explana-
tion. Hegarty, it was said, was sickening for a fever, and
had been warned by his doctor that he would go into the
ring that night at the peril of his life. Official orators
said the doctor was there to explain, but he did not
explain—at least, not publicly—and, anyhow, he could
not explain away the fact that a great crowd had been
permitted to pay £3OO or so to see a sick man come into
the ring, and hear several gifted elocutionists tell
why he couldn’t fight when he got there. If
a theatrical manager offered people a splendid show,
and then, having got their money, endeavored to
satisfy them by providing a long explanation of the cir-
cumstance that there was no show, he would probably
find his theatre pulled up by the roots ; but boxing crowds
are the most peaceable, weak, long-suffering crowds that
assemble in Melbourne.


WELSBACH
MANTLES *
Made in Australia by Australians for Australians.
“The House that Jack built.”
No. 2.
-
388
s.y i ->-
fea^'Tiawaigiiiftiiti
66 The Welshach Light was
fixed and shined,
’Twas soft and white and so
refined,
And pleasing fittings were designed,
To suit the house that Jack built.”
Look for the Trade Hark
on every article.
WELSBACH MANTLES and
FITTINGS can be had of all
Ironmongers and Plumbers.
W
©
The Welsbach Light Co.
Have Showkooms at . . .
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co*, Adelaide
Perry Bros*, Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth, W.A.
E. T. WALSH,
Practical Tailor,
Expert Chatter, uz?
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.—Send your name and I will send my illustrated Style Catalogue,
also Samples and Measurement Chart and Outfit for measurements.
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUR MONEY BACK.
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street,
London, rmnlnvv.rt.
NO FACTORY WORK.
359 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 10J inches).
This style of Ostrich Eeather is very fashionable.
BLACK
3 for 10/-
POST FREE
to any address.
■nt i rr l^' ce Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Postal
.Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 1216. Length, 1\ yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
To be. Obtained from —
SAML. McCARDLE, 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
J. R. BROWN. Box 494, Wellington. N.Z.
GILLETTE RAZOR
SHAV£
HORStBAC
GAV
S//AV.
AlOr,
m
S "4V.
**>
©
TWt
tot##
Send for Descriptive Circular. 80 Days' Trial given.
Money refunded if not satisfactory.
52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 143 i Melbourne. Box 404, Wellington, N.Z.
ANDREW Me GEE, 5 & 7 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ED. H. LINDSAY, Charters Towers.
HEAD OFFICE:
FRANK COFFEE, 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
MOTHER'S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Mead,
Strikes infesting vermin dead;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin ; kills nits ; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6,
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL,
'J rare 1 gon. Victoria.
erlts«—T
lASTi’m
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well-seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Comm< nwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDREiMt
GOTTH-.LL & Ca, Sydney.
Yes ! In hard soil or light ground it’s all the same Perfect Worß and Finish.
ppte j
M
1/
it
\i
■
i3K
KIS
,V
SSGRlfisPfii
. '
L
ST ■
■
.
/o 't
BBA
It
%'.i\ '*•>'•
*
to
iSpI |
'
VM
»
HHEi
c : : •
x>
.....
■
m
I m 1
181111111
“
mi
ill
. . ■
\*oi 1 kit y H i
M
\
Msiii§g«a
Jlil. ■ ■
jt&tjmz'' • ■ •
; ■
■
B 8
-It
w.
>Z£ZSp
*
, .-',V
Cc '
-frmi-Vd ’ '
-
m
H.. . .
iisfisi
■ J'
:
% f *
P S. x. 09
ft* V. Melbourne* Sidneys Adelaide.


A. SAtJNDERS.
Shaving mug,
Pure Silver-Plated, 209/
Other Styles,
183 6d, 15s Gd, 17s 6d, 255, 30&
A. SAUNDER& .
Oct. Gold Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires, 12s Gd.
Diamonds and ltubies or
Sapphires, 255.
New Zealand Greenstone Pearl Set BAR BROOCH,
CHAIN, and BKCT, 17s 6d.
X SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold TUSK BROOCH,
CHAIN and HEART,. Iss,
Without Heart and Chain, IDs 6d.
\. SAUNDERS.
lsct. Gold WISHfiONE BROOCH,
I’earl or Turquoise, 15s.
Otfß~ ILLUSTRATED 1
CATALOGUE.
We sen 1 it to any
address I’ostige Paid
if you ask for it.
Its perusal will help
you, and give you a
very good idea of the
enormous stock we
carry.
A. SAUNDERS
OUR HANDSOME
CATALOGUE.
A Post Card will bring
you a Copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
]sct. Gold Double Orescent BROOCH,
Set, Pure White Pearls, &2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy CURB PADLOCK
Safety Cliam attached,
Larger, £2 10s. Smaller
BRACELET,
40s.
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and New Zealand
Greenstone HEART BROOCH,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
OUR MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT.
To Country Customers,
our Up-to-Date Mail
Order system assures
you prompt and
satisfactory service
without leaving your
own home.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile or Seal Leather PURSE
and CARD CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s 6d, 5s Od, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold DRESS
RING,
Ruby and Pearls,
12s (sd.
15et. Gold, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, 22s 6d.
LADY’S,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Elack Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s Gd, 12s Gd, 15s,
. 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurses’ ” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
LADY’S,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Solid Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Turquoise, £2 10s.
Diamonds a-nd Rubies and Sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold CLUSTER BROOCH,
Pure Diamonds and Ruby
or Sapphire Centre, £lO.
All Diamonds, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2j 6d, 3s 6d.
Soliu l2s 6d.
Chased, 15s. J
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Amethyst
or Garnet, 255.
15<_j, uold, £2 ss.
SILVER,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
KEYLESS WATCHES,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 4s, £4 10s,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gjl<3 Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
Three Diamonds, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond
and Rubies
or feapphires, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half Hoop RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 8s 6d.
Silver Filled, us 6d.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal or Turquoise
PADLOCK BRACELET, £Z ss.
loci. Gold. £5.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart,
Gold Mounted, Ss Od.
Smaller, 4s tid, 5s 6d, t'j (Id, 7s Cd.
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Four Heart Opals
and Pearls, 355.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop
BING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones,
£3 10s, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold RING,
Pure Doable Gut
Dir'll aid and
Rubies
or Sapp Hires £7 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Combination SHAVING BRUSH,
and SOAP HOLDER, 15s 6d.
Soap fits in Handle.
A. SAUNDERS.
Isct. Gold BRACELET, Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire, ill 10s. Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
Comprising Three Pieces. 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Cold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s Gd.
Silver, 2s 6d.
I
A. „ . b'NDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN
CHAIN and N.Z.
Greenstone Heart,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBAC’CA' POUCH,
Beat Rubber Lining,
Pure Silver Shiem, is 6d.
Other Styles,
4s, 5s 6d, 6s Od, is 6d,
8s 6d, Iks.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Oval LINKS, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Extra Heavy, £2 lCs.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cherub Design HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long- White Bristles, 15s Od.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
jNICKEL,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face
Keyless WATCHES, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 32s 6d,
15s. Our “Unrivalled” 20s London Lever,
255. All Guaranteed.
NICKEL,
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, Os 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s Od, 15s.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Crocodile Leather PURSE, Extra H@*ivy
Solid Silver Mounts and Locks, 27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Love Bird BROOCH, 12s 6d.
If-l Gold. 2"=
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mounted
Bloodstone or Sardonyx
SEAL PENDANT, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR BUTTON BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated, 5s 6d.
Other Styles. 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Crocodile
Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Locks, 20s.
Other Styles, 5s Gd, 7s 6d, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 255.
SOLID
SILVER,
lit
VP
■
A. SAUNDERk
Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £4 4s, £5 ss,
£6 10s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, to £4O.
GOLD
CASED,
£4/4
A. SAUNDERSI
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, (
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, J
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
george-street,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


m
;
ism
m
tm
mt
mm
u r %
m
■'
s® m
:
■ ..
ar
■■■
is
i®
N.
u
a?
■■ ■ ,
rfi
-nrxmmMMHßab
i'm
K
£
St
m
Lc
A
. «^
4
AA^M-
J3L
U^*
vr
,; 1
In
HE®
A\r #*•(
<n%
With a CAMEO Cig'arette a Man can be Happy Anywhere.


WIRTH BROS-
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH
Ihc. PLy.nq
nr he: CR£*sr
E.43VIftNT
“TAb L EAu.
W 7
Tiwv
Thf^e.e.
YViu.o
O^SCUfM^^-
I=>hi| » *v>»o HIS
TGJNfi
° r HOWSE.S> (mot
*■ THE. V
o r* T"
'jjNO JA. 6
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS—OPENING, PRINCE ALFRED PARK. SYDNEY, SATURDAY, 31st MARCH.


You Know Our
“BOOMERANG” Brandy
IT’S GOOD!
“SPECIAL”
OLD WHISKY
The great obstacles Australian WbisKy have to overcome are
An Unfair Tariff, The vSilly Prejudice
against Australian Productions, coupled
with the Mighty Influence of the Importers.
All the other difficulties have been overcome, and
you will say so if you will only give us a trial.
JOSHUA BROS.’ “Special”
Amber Bottle Old Australian
WHISKY is an Aged and
Exquisite Spirit.
Help us to overcome the Boycott against Australian Whisky by asking for it at Hotels and
Licensed Grocers. A thousand to one they won't supply it. THEN WRITE TO
JOSHUA BROTHERS PPTY., Ltd..
Port Melbourne.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Pitt Street, Sydney, and
Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
AND THEY WILL TELL YOU HOW YOU CAN HAVE IT SENT TO YOU.


BEALE
lilnb* in liusknlin.
PIANOS
With Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-PlanK.
During the whole history of piano making strenuous efforts have been made towards attaining permanence in pitch
and tune* Numerous attempts have been made to devise an iron wrest-plank (or tuning-block) to form part of the
usual iron frame, and into which the wrest (or tuning) pins could be so placed that the iron structure would take
up the whole strain of the strings* In Germany, America, England, France, Austria, in every land where Pianos are
manufactured, devices intended to supply this want are patented almost every week* But not one of these attempts has
proved entirely successful, and the fact remains that by all makers other than ourselves the wrest-plank is made of wood*
Beale-Vader Patent.
The Beale-Vader Patent
Steel Tuning System.
The Tuning System of all
Imported Pianos.
tension screws
MsC^ (
X\
SPACE
6CR £ W 6
m
Showing Solid Iron Frame with
steel screws and tuning pins. A glance
will tell you that this construction
will endure for generations. The pins
are lubricated, and so can always be
tuned with delicacy. Patented
throughout the world. The pins are
firm, cannot move, nor thus give out
false vibrations, as in the old system.
Pins put through holes in the iron frame into
a Wooden Plank, which, sooner or later,
must give way. In a space of 1 J 2 square
foot, 216 pins, by l-} in., are driven.
Timber cannot resist such honeycombing
under a strain of 15 tons. The hole's become
oval, as shown above, by the crushing of the
wood fibres.
HERE is what Mr. Edward Brinsmead, of Messrs, John Brinsmead &
Sons, London, says in liis book, “The History of the Pianoforte,” about
the universal system of stringing to a wooden wrest-plank, and from which the
great piano-makers have vainly tried, by a thousand devices, to escape :
“1. The wires (or strings) are held by metal wrest-pins, around which the strings
are wrapped in two or three coils. The pins are then driven tightly into holes prepared
in a ‘ wrest-plank ’ made of wood, and the tuning is effected by turning the pins, and
thus winding the strings around them, so as to increase the strain and raise the pitch ;
or, turning the pin backwards, and thus unwinding the pins and lowering the pitch.
“These pins are held by the friction occasioned by the tightness with which the
fibres of the wood press around them, and to turn them great force is required.
In tuning, the movement must be very slight, as the diameter of the pin coils and
strains the strings so rapidly that a thirtieth part of a revolution is sufficient to raise
some notes about half a tone. The tuner has, therefore, to turn the pin backward and
forward until he finds the required tension, and even then this primitive plan
neither secures nor retains accuracy, for no material more suitable than wood
has been used for this process, and the wood occasionally splits, frequently loses
its holding-power, is invariably affected by climatic changes, and especially
is this the case in hot climates; and when the loss of power is aggravated by the
pin being turned forward and backward in tuning, pianos cannot remain in tune,
the tendency of the strings being to pull the pins round and uncoil themselves,
whilst nothing but great holding-power will prevent them from doing so.
“2. The wooden wrest-planks are liable to come away from their fixings, the
strain on these planks varying from 16 to 30 tons.”
This is what Herx* Julius Bluthner, of Leipzig, producer of the very best type
of German pianos, says in the latest edition of his work “Manual of Pianoforte Con-
struction: Its History, Theory, and Practice”:—
“ The wrest-plank is formed of hard, tough wood, usually maple or beech, in at least
three layers, glued together. In this manner a greater firmness is attained, and the risk
of splitting rind warping reduced.”
Again, on page 158, Bluthner writes : —“ In general the remark must be emphasised
that the timber used for this purpose must be carefully treated, and that in upright pianos,
almost more that in horizontal, the most painful cai'e must be devoted to the good
jointing-up of the timber, lest the parts should later come asunder.”
But the pinch of the timber upon the wrest or tuning pin is not sufficient to resist the
strain of the string when vibrated. Consequently, pianos with wooden wrest-planks will
not remain for any length of time at what is known as Philharmonic or Concert pitch,
namely, 540 vibrations per second of the note c'. Now, wind instruments are at that pitch,
and the piano, to be in unison with them, must be strained above its normal power of resist-
ance. The frequent pulling up of the strings to pitch will not by any means tend to tighten
the pins, but rather to loosen them. In course of time—and no long time either—the
instrument must be left a good deal under full pitch, if it is to be in tune at all. There is
no effective means for restoring the piano, because plugging the holes or stuffing the pins
with any substance whatever will only aggravate the misfortune. As aforesaid, a narrow
beech plank, honeycombed with 216 quarter-inch holes, each one-and-a half inches deep,
and close together, cannot, and will not, permanently withstand the full strain.
Our invention, BEALE-VADER PATENT
is simplicity itself. Instead of following the universal practice of introducing a wrest-pin
from the front, driven into wood like a nail, as described, above, we introduce a steel pin
from the back, fitted nicely into a hole drilled in a solid metal plate. The plate is a part of
the usual iron frame. The pin has a conical butt fitting a conical shoulder in the drilled
hole. A tension screw (or stud) presses the pin against the shoulder, thus controlling the
pin and imparting any desired tension. The strain of the string is taken up securely by the
iron frame. That is all.
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
With the wooden wrest-plank the pin crushes some of the fibres in front, thereby
causing a certain looseness or space where the pin should fit tightest. It follows that a part
of the vibration of the string is lost, because the pin itself, being insufficiently supported,
vibrates. But all the vibration from the stroke of the hammer should go to the sounding-
board, which alone develops the musical sounds. With our
IRON WREST-PLANK
the pin is quite motionless, and thus all the musical vibration is transferred to the sounding
board, and conveyed in full volume and purity to the ear.
Another great advantage is that our New
STEEL WREST-PIN
turns with perfect smoothness during the operation of tuning, so that the tuner can arrive
with ease and accuracy at the pitch desired. With the wooden wrest-plank he finds always
more or less jerkiness, because of the indispensable pinch of the wood, aided by the resin
usually introduced. With our patent he is provided with smooth metal surfaces, which are
lubricated so as to assure ease of operation.
A still greater advantage is that as the tension-screw perfectly controls the pin, which
it touches only at a point, the latter will remain absolutely and permanently at any desired
strain, thus conferring the boon of full and correct pitch. An enhanced quality of tone is
obtained, inasmuch as the ear receives the correct sound and is thereby pleased (though
perhaps the hearer knows not why).
But, above all, the advantage of permanence in tune is attained by the
BEALE-VADER PATENT
in so far as that can be possible. Piano strings are made by drawing wire from cast steel
ingots. It is true that these strings may be said to stretch at first, because they are really
straightening. For that reason all our instruments are months at full strain before issue.
Under the
BEALE-VADER PATENTS
the piano receives for the first time a complete internal iron frame above and below. The
instrument is therefore rendered durable beyond all others in respect of tune, quality of
tone, and generally.
The accompanying sectional illustration shows clearly the construction of the Beale
Pianos in respect of the tuning system. Any construction of wood, being an organic
material, requires some length of test in order to ascertain its merits or defects. But when
steel and iron are dealt with, the result can be known at once, whether it suffices its inten-
tion or not. Having fitted one steel pin in a cast-iron plate, its strain-bearing quality can
be tested forthwith. We prepare wrest-pins by the thousand gross, and in no single
instance—as a matter of course—have they failed to hold as expected. The pin will hold
any pitch up to the breaking point of the string.
English concert pitch is 540 vibrations per second of the note c'. Continental pitch is
c'=sl7, and at the latter German pianos are usually tuned, for the wooden wrest plank will
hold it for some time at least. But that pitch does not satisfy British ears. It is a semi-
tone fiat ci being actually the note bi natural. Hence it forms an intolerable discord with
either British or French wind instruments. Again, a singer accustomed to concert (or
philharmonic) pitch must either transpose his or her song, or accept an accompaniment half
a tone flat. Excepting at public concerts, where the piano is expressly pulled up to concert
pitch, he cannot expect to have the piano other than flat.
By referring to the engraving, it will
be seen that the tuning-pin sits firmly
in the cylindrical barrel drilled to
receive it. The screw is not affected
by the pin, because the latter touches
it only at one spot, and being firmly in
position, controlled by the screw, the
pin cannot vibrate.
COMPLETE PIANOS
may be seen at any of
Our Show Rooms
constructed upon the above system, or
small specimen sections will be sent by
post to any intending purchaser. There
are now thousands of pianos with these
patent wrest-planks in use with
families, in steel? 1 , and in course of
manufacture. During months there is
no change in them whatever. All
the expected advantages have been
attained, and some which were not
anticipated.
If you want a piano which will last a
lifetime, and can always be kept at
proper pitch, as a true musical instru-
ment should be, then we most respect-
fully ask you to inspect and test the
Beak PiaQoS
before buying elsewhere. They are
made in your own climate to withstand
the climate, of the best materials, by
thoroughly competent workmen. We
give guarantees and submit proofs
which you cannot obtain elsewhere.
Why not give Britons a chance, instead
of demanding the label “Made in
Germany ” ? There would be no sense
in making pianos here at all unless we
made them better, because we can get
all the labor and skill at much lower
wages in Germany.
SECTION OF UPPER PART OF PIANO.
WOOD FRAME FOR GftUZE. tWOY * Blt B * C * BB y D ~-
SPACE ALLOWING ~
ACCESS TO BACK
OF PATENT WREST PLANK r
WREST
i
l/)K
"a
SCALE* ONE QUARTER
SOUNDING BOARD!
WITH RIB
TENSION
SCREW.
WREST PIN
FULL SIZE
CASH OR EASY TERHS ANYWHERE.
BEALE. & COMPANY, Limited
474 George St., Sydney
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
101 Brisbane St., Launceston
207 King St., Newtown
127 Rundie St., Adelaide
615 Hay St., Perth
Branches and Travellers Everywhere.
Catalogues and Circulars FREE for the Asking.


St
m
h:
1
M
.V«-
m
A
Q
m
m
&
%
■
H
8
#
/J
*S3»
s*
M
«T'
*&&
4m.
r^ißfe
Si
■ Vv -
FOR EASTER HOLIDAYS
You can’t beat the Gippsland Lakes
where there is always Splendid Sport. Drop a Post Card to the
General Passenger <& Freights Agent, Vidonan Railways
and he will give yon all particulars and assist yon with your arrangements.
Melb.


Mr. E. P. Field, the N.S. W. barrister,
who once had a bitter and expensive action at
law against the late Justice Winde'yer over some
petty School of Arts squabble, and who afterwards
became a street-preacher in Sydney, is fighting a
long law-suit with the Evangelical Alliance in
England, of which association he became secretary
when he drifted to London, some years ago. The
casus belli was the removal of Field from his office
Idte Alliance has already spent
T2OOO in costs, and the shindy is not nearly at an
end. The saved Field of to-day seems even a
more costly snag to run against than the unsaved
one of very long ago.
The first complete edition of the works of
Thomas Jefferson has just been issued in America.
' efferson s letters form a unique part of the
collection. Here is one, written to Benjamin
Hawkins, relative to crowned heads :
No race of kings ever presented above one man of
common sense in twenty generations. While in Europe
, amused myself in contemplating the characters of
the then reigning monarchs of Europe. Louis the XVI.
was a fool, of my own knowledge, and in spite of the
answers made for him at his trial. The King of Spain was
a fool, and of Naples the same. They passed their lives
in hunting, and despatched two couriers a week a
thousand miles to let each other know what game they
had killed the preceding days. The King of Sardinia was
a fool. All these were Bourbons. The Queen of Portugal,
a Braganza, was an idiot by nature. And so was the
King of Denmark. Their sons, as regents, exercised
the powers of government. The King of Prussia,
successor to the great Frederick, was a mere hog
in body as well as in mind. Gustavus of Sweden and
Joseph of Austria were really crazy, and George of Eng-
land, you know, was in a straight waistcoat. There
remained, then, none but old Catherine, who had been
too lately picked up to have lost her sense. In this state
Bonaparte found Europe ; and it was this state of its
rulers which lost it with scarce a struggle. These animals
had become without mind and powerless, and so will
every hereditary monarch be after a few generations.
Alexander, the grandson of Catherine, is as yet an excep*
tion. He is able to hold his own. But he is only of the
third generation. His race is not yet worn out. And so
endeth the Book of Kings, from all of whom the Lord
deliver us 1
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
LONDON ..' .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
Kor Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent, street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ‘ & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Tllls—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
lluliial Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident, Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461—assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Pe Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f '
£370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant; Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. Ltd. of Loudon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direators—Sydney : lion. A. W. Mkeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jessoi’, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, J). Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
I''arquiiar ; J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt. St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
IST. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw# Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA~and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (under cover) to any part
ot Australasia or New Zealand.
Soli Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIQ And AITKEN,
N. 8. W. Barber’* Quppljr House,
W Q6org* stfdt. SYDNEY
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about
12th APRIL,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AFRIC to follow.
FAKES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Apt lication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
* MARATHON ..
SALAMIS
SOPHOCLES
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
R. M'Killiam
Noon, April 3
Noon, April 21
Noon, May 19
♦Twin Screw. Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
egE-A3XTXO S.S. Co. A, & A.. LIKTB (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE ran in con; unction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 9.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always oh board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury;
nxr.s.'W.
fflont de pete o.#|.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACfH ST., 74, SYDIEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMIT IC'D. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHUItCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, Greorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
total Capital
... £2,000,000
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RET) ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
April 16, May 14, June 11.
The Turbine Steamer, '
MAHEIMO,
SAILS 16th APRIL.
A Luxuriously Appointed Vessel.
Spacious Promenade Decks.
Roomy Cabins. Up-to-Date Baths.
&3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
■*-*- Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Eish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,C00.
A /CUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALEE, Assistant Manager. 1
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney -
Skipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT prill E
And GULF PORTS,
ES PE RANGE BAY.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Grantala, March 3"
■ S.S. Marloo, April 6.
S.S. Yongala, April 14.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, March 31.
j S.S. Bunniyong, April 7.
j S.S. Marloo, April 14.
nest, and Cheapest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
. * j wuuacu to Duuiudi, inaia,- umna,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
includin'*- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., arid also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ror further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. HILDA.
THE largest and besr-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than’icensed hotels. City, J-hour
bv tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
** c< "fec, e, s«r $ll
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
UIIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
■ “ lvilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk," a
collection of his best verses; bound in, cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.


Legal Notice.
RE CHARLES WILLIAM ELLIOT
DECEASED.
CHARLES WILLIAM ELLIOT, late Dis-
penser at the Mt. Morgan Hospital died
there on the 17th January 190 G intestate. The
next of kin of deceased, or any person knowing
their whereabouts are requested to write to
J. R. GAIR,
Local Deputy Curator op Intestate Estates
Rockhampton, Queensland.
Business Announcements.
the name
WOOD-MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar In walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia 1 —
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalg-corlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
MILNE
RUBBER
HEELYS
DEAF
1 TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. . Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hpntkii Sr., Sydney.
“ Is superior even to meat and 01
Inestimable value as a food."
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison say#:-
“ A diet rich in proteid M AKKS PH VS (i’AG A
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
»
e
m,
i
i
a
T3=>
<s*
\
ra
kN
FROM
i 11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY _
DINING ROOM TABLE
FROM
E 11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Aicociufc, 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
■
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
G ames, and the
Ai.cock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
Jt
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
fei “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.” *
The Lancet writes: —“Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar moie wholesome drink than any torm of alcohol.”
■
CE
CORDIAL
E
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ M NT EURAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘•OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL (Washable) Ilieh and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOLIN ENAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOLIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Ilose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot, water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations- ;t
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN ” FLOOB,
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES?.
IN» LVER FAILS.
Ask your Chem’st for the Little Eook
‘HOW TO PHESEHVE THE EYES
CURED
WILL ANDRADE n» BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS,- genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, bard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’k Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk. Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels. 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Bun,ding and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in eheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
big Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruit®
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
A
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring 1 Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Bocks for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne, Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gat Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, l's 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, Ras
engines, dynamos, 1/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guuie to Lite Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
San dovv, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwivks’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s Od. Aris-
totle, 3s <jd. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Boons, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingkrsoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made F.asy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND any book you want.
Above prices include postage to any '■address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/S.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
RNE.
MELB
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.
MELBOURNE.
0 0
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to clear the whole
of their stock :
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading' Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to .. £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced'to .. .. .. .. .. ..£1 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £o' 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels ; reduced to.. .. .. .. _..£l 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Poweli Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
~ Bulleted Cap £0
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb. ; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
6 9
The “Hem flajah”Gold Name Brooches
Gold Cased. Good Pins.
Any name up to 12 Letters to order—Dinna For-
get, Mizpah, Forget-me-not, Regard, BABY,
Darling, Mother, Good Luck, Pet, 1.0. R.,
C.E., 1.0.G.T., etc. Price only 1/6 each, or
4 names, 5/-. Post free anywhere. Send
Postal Note to STAR NOVELTY CO.
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made fop cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
MM
IJ# ySE
mo
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara. Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria —Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia —P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, OH APPLICATION.
r
I AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERV!£Ss.
PLASMON
COCOA
It non-heating. One cup contains*,
more nourishment than 40 cupa
an; ordinary cocoa.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP BELF-CUKE, will
forward the same, free o 2 charge, to any-
“AddwsS A*. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH*
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d


>»’ 03
«o
IIUJS
4AUJ
im
Keeps Your
Hair On
Daily shampoos with Cuticura
Soap and weekly dressings of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure
and sweetest of emollients, at
once stop falling hair, remove
crusts, scales, and dandruff, de-
stroy hair parasites, soothe irri-
tated, itching surfaces, stimulate
the hair follicles, loosen the scalp
skin, supply the roots with
energy and nourishment, and
make the hair grow upon a
sweet, wholesome, healthy
scalp, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, 25c., Oint-
ment, 50c., liesolvent, 50c. (in form of Chocolate Coated
Pills, 25c. per vial of 60). Depots: London, 27 Charter-
houseSq.; Paris, 5 Rue de la Paix; Boston, 137 Columbus
Ave. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
OST Send for “All About the Sit in, Scalp, and Hair.”
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PflfWPfl’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
Sold''
by
all first-
clc.Jß stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,*’
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
QUEENSLAND BRANOH—
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building:, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT? , v . ,
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra ;
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
4h
trui-fif*
It
The
77//IV£L TUG of WAR,
IVC I ” AGRICULTURAL
IV CL MOTORS-
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
Dyspepsia
and all Affections of the
Stomach, the Liver
and Kidneys,
** * *
HEADACHES
and Nervous Weakness,
which usually comes
from Stomach ills,
** * *
INSOMNIA
. and Palpitation of the
Heart,
CONSTIPATION
ARE' ALL QUICKLY
CURED BY
MOTHER
SEI GEL’S
SYRUP
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like Indigestion or Liver
trouble, and nothing lifts them up
so quickly and surely as a course
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
THE GREAT
STOMACH REMEDY
Coropotifyd
Interest
comes to life when the body feels
the delicious glow of health, vigor
and energy.
Tl>at Ccrtaii) Scqsc
of vigor in the brain and easy poise
of the nerves comes when the im-
proper foods are cut out and pre-
digested
Grape-
Nuts
take their place.
If it has taken you years to run
down, don’t expect one mouthful of
this great food to bring you back
(for it is not a stimulant, but a
Rebuilder).
10 days’ trial shows such big results
that one sticks to it.
“Tljcrc’s a Reasoi)-”
Get the little book, “The Road to
Wellville,” in each pkg.
[ll.
mm
i
K
COLUMBIA
\ Gold-Moulded Records
Are BEST for Phonographs*
LOUDEST—CLEAREST-SWEETEST
Price Is 3d each.
WRITE FOR LATEST LISTS AND NAME OF
NEAREST AGENT.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (tau
Australian
Headquarters s
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ARE
YOU
A
BARRACKER
For
Australia
HERE ARE A FEW FROM 1001 REASONS
WHY YOU SHOULD PURCHASE A PRIZE
A.N.A. Sewing Machine.
"THE A.N.A., although much the
1 best Machine, is halt the cost
of Any Other—because we save
selling- expenses by not keeping- a
staff of expensive travellers.
Your money is kept in Australia
instead of being sent out of the
country.
A.N.A. MACHINES are the most
simply constructed of all machines,
are most durable, reliable, and the
perfection of strength and accu-
racy, with ease of operation and
superior finish.
""THE A.N. A. is The Marvel of the
A 20th Century. Whilst pos-
sessing the best merits of the best
Machines it has the following
special features and valuable im-
provements possessed by no other
machine :
Sews Backwards or Forwards
with great speed, the backward
sewing being invaluable for finish-
ing and strengthening the end of
a seam.
Patent Knee Lever to turn or
withdraw the work, so that both
hands are always free.
Securely Packed
and Sent . . . .
Price from £3 10s. to £9 15s .
To any part of the
Commonwealth.
TERMS TO SUIT ALL.
GUARANTEED
FOR 25 YEARS.
For Full Description of this Great Aust. Prize A.IM.A. Machine send for Catalogue A. to.following address—
Established 1888. Sole Proprietors.
224 Chapel St., PRAHRAN, Melb., Vic.
WARD
Business, Robbery, etc.
Everything about the late George Coppin had
a vein of comedy in it. His speculations were scream-
ingly “ wild-cat.” His farewell appearances seemed
never ending, while his sudden death has been rumored
over Melbourne a dozen times in the last 20 years. His
most cherished investment—the Theatre Royal Proprie-
tary Association—was the most comic-opera affair among
the lot. Every year the association held a meeting, and
every year the meeting lapsed because old George Coppin,
the only shareholder who attended, wasn’t enough to
form a quorum. Then, after the meeting lapsed, it was
generally reported that the old man had dropped dead,
and cabs would drive, telephones would tinkle, and news-
paper offices get excited until the ancient comedian was
run to earth somewhere alive and well, delighting an
audience with some fruity reminiscence of 50 years ago.
* * * *
A commercial man, just back from the land of
the Harvester swindle, says he has completed arrange-
ments to put on the market in Australia a sewing machine
for £4 equal to the one which sells here for £l6. Great is
the power of the ‘ dump ” and the knock-out!
* ■* * *
Westralia has just added a useful national in-
dustry to its very limited list. The firm of J. O.
Hutton sent a representative along, t’other day, to take
the management of a newly-erected bacon factory, the
first of its kind in the West, and the most complete that
has been built in Australia thus far. Talking of bacon,
it is worth mentioning that Victoria owes the introduction
of the “ mild cure ” variety to old Dave Mitchell, the
father of Melba, who put it on the market at a time when
all the rival bacons were as salt as Lot’s wife. But Melba
never blows about her Dad’s commendable enterprise in
the dead-pig line of business.
* • * •
“ Crade ” : lie chemists’ profits. People seem
to forget that a chemist should be paid, not only for
things he sells, but also for the learning which enables
him to sell them. Remember that he must spend hun-
dreds of pounds and years of his life to fit him to open a
chemist’s shop. Soon someone will get up to point out
that journalists make a profit of 500 per cent., and say
that a law should be passed to limit their profit to 10 per
cent, over the cost of the paper and ink used—with per-
haps 1 per cent, added to cover depreciation of tlie desk
through wear and tear.
* * * *
Eucalyptus oil has had a bad set-back in Eng-
land as an influenza medicine, through the foolishness of
people who swallow' it neat by the spoonful. The last
case, at Derby, ended fatally, and the coroner’s jury re-
commended that the oil should only be sold with a
“poison” label on it.
» « * •
Talking about the common everyday libels on
Australian-made hats, the manager of the Austral Hat
Mills remarks that two of those libels might be truthfully
applied to the imported article. The Australian hat is
often declared to lose its color quickly, and, in the case of
“ boxers,” to go soft under a blazing sun. As a matter of
fact it is specially matched against the imported hat in
these respects—the dye is faster, and the body of the hat
less subject to sun-stroke. In England, during the sum-
mer months, a visiting Australian, w'ho pays as much as
12s. 6d. for a local “ boxer,” gets his first experience of a
hat losing its shape under a sun that doesn’t register
higher than 90 in the shade.
* * • *
The latest Yankee quack is a man who sells
“ magic boots,” guaranteeing them to cure paralysis,
locomotor ataxia, neurasthenia, heart disease, sciatica, tic
doloureux, neuralgia, St. Vitus’s dance, and throat and
pulmonary affections. Among his customers were steel
magnate Schwab, who paid £lOOO for a pair, and Bishop
Potter, who paid £3OO. The “magic.” it is stated, con-
sisted in having the inside soles loaded with white pepper.
* * • *
“Nulla”: In N.S.W. railway freights are in-
teresting. A 601 b. box of fruit, eggs, or other perishables
will come 300 miles to' Sydney for Is. 6d. ; from Sydney
the freight is just double. This explains why fruit—
when there is any—is retailed out-back at Is. a dozen all
round, the freight often costing more than the fruit.
These freights were designed by Freetrade Governments
to give huge Protection to N.S.W. goods coming towards
thefsea against imported goods going inland, but it works
equally against N.S.W. goods grown on the coast and
sent inland. That couldn’t be helped while State Govern-
ments of Freetrade liars and Freetrade hypocrites were
doing their Protection surreptitiously per medium of
railroad freights. If they had given straight, honest
Protection at the Customs, and taxed the foreign goods
there, then they could have given as cheap freights for
any goods inland as for goods coming to the coast, and
fruit and vegetables wouldn’t be as rare as angels in the
far inland towns. The same policy makes things very
rough on the city manufacturer. Said a Sydney man to
me the other day : “ See that 4s. box of lollies. It costs
2s. to send it to Tenterfield, just up the Northern line,
-„f t „. m sen( j j- 0 D un e(iin, at the far end of Maoriland,
for 3d.”
• • • »
Honi wanted cash very badly, and he plugged
aw'ay at a storekeeper at New Plymouth for 20 “ quid,”
promising him all sorts of security in the way of cereals
and blighted spuds, and w'hat not. He was so insistent
that the grocer eventually capitulated, and when he
hauled out his cheque-book, the eyes of the Maori fairly
danced with joy. The cheque for £2O was duly signed
and handed over, and the brown person blessed the sugar
man and his posterity to the 10th and 11th generations.
But nobody would cash the document that evening—“too
big,” they all said, and they all laughed as they said it,.
;So Honi waited until the bank opened next day, and then
the clerk also laughed and told him it was “ no good.”
There was a considerable scene until an onlooker took the
cheque and interpreted it. It read simply, “Don’t pay
Honi £20.” Then that Maori danced a fandango, and
acted in a most disreputable way, and offered to tight the
bank for its reserve fund.
A Yankee statist lias estimated that Rocke-
feller saves £2400 6s. a year by having a bald head. Rocke-
feller has a yearly income of £8,000,000 which averages
out about £lO a minute. If he had hair like most people,
Rockefeller would have to visit a barber once a month in
the ordinary course of affairs, and each visit would mean
a loss of £2OO os. 6d., the £2OO being for time lost, and
the sixpence for the haircut.
* * * •
“Dave H. R.” : Some days ago I went with a
man who had taken the first legitimate step towards in-
creasing the birth-rate to buy some furniture. I followed
him to the quarter where Yap and Co. supply such goods.
While he inspected the stock, I inspected Yap, who was
busy on some worm-eaten timber. It was much perfo-
rated and decayed, but the silent Celestial simply filled
up the scene of devastation with putty and then stained
the lot to look like a sound piece of wood. Next day I
happened to mention this matter to a timber man of my
acquaintance. He approved cordially of Chinese. “Not
a piece of wormy wood goes to waste,” he said. “They
take the lot.” Rater on my friend and I explored the
furniture, especially in the places where the stain hadn’t
taken well on the putty. Before we’d finished my eco-
nomical acquaintance had made several brief remarks
about Chows.
* * * »
“E.G.8.”: Was purser’s clerk on a steamer
running between London and Sydney, via the Cape.
Shipped a couple of dozen hands in Sydney for the run
across to Capetown—passage-workers at a shilling a
month. (It’s a Board of Trade regulation that all mem-
bers of the crew shall receive a wage.) They were em-
ployed in the various minor positions on board, and
signed off in a bunch at the Cape. I helped at the sign-
ing off ceremony, and in a day or so had forgotten their
existence (though their unavailing attempts to wring a
few bob out of our Israelitish purser made a big impres-
sion on me at the time). Then 1 got a surprise. Was
going through the ship’s articles to make out a crew list,
and noticed that the “Is. per month” had been altered
to £2, £3, or £4 10s., in fufcy a dozen instances. The
captain and purser did rather well out of the deal.
* * * *
The South Coast cocky (N.S.W.) has added
another to the great natural resources. The English
blackberry of poetry and prose got a footing in Illawarra
some vears ago, and, like other importations, rapidly grew
to the size of a pest. The cookies, at first flattered by
the condescension of the blackberry vine to grow on their
land, later grew alarmed, then came to curse and rage ;
until one day a less weary farmer than usual offered to
sell the fruit to Sydney buyers. Now one contractor
supplies a factory with 200 tons of the berries. Some of
the settlers, instead of tearing up the vines, actually
prune them, and talk severely to the cow when she tres-
passes on them. Certainly blackberry jam is not a
favorite ; but there are others. It was a Victorian Judge
who was hearing a “jam” law-suit, when a witness
declared that all raspberry jam came out of pumpkins.
“But the seeds?” said his Honor. “Oh, they are got
from Moreton Bay figs ! ” “ Well, now, we come to mar-
malade,” began counsel. But the Judge pleaded to have
one illusion left to him, and this mystery of marmalade
remains.
* * * *
“Nulla”: A lot lias been written about the
waste of labor in Indian bazaars, where it takes about ten
men to sell an ash tray, but it looks as though the same
conditions will soon prevail in this low-tariff-cursed
country. T’other day I saw four able-bodied men in
charge of a fruit cart, whose stock in trade would have
about made a meal for a healthy school kid.
TRADE.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
Choose the butter rich and yellow and the fruit that’s
sweet and mellow,
Great Sir Iloggenheimer’s waiting for the banquet to be
spread ;
And the Hon’ralile Fitzglutton needs the fattest of your
mutton ;
Ship your cheeses unto London and content yourselves
with bread.
All your first fruits you are sending by that alien fleet
extending
From this land of milk and honey unto Hoggenheimer’s
halls,
Where the Nabob quaffs strong waters with poor Plea-
sure’s weary daughters,
And the starving millions perish just outside Fitzglutton’s
walls.
There in lanes of foetid hovels, Lazarus to Div&s grovels,
Humbly handing out the life’s blood of his children for
the rent;
So to please Sir Hoggenheimer strive to make your butter
primer
That the gold he coins of flesh and blood may unto you
be sent.
There in sacerdotal vesture a lay figure with a gesture
Preaches to the men of sorrows crucified against the
wall,
Seeks to soothe the murmuring rabble with the old,
unmeaning babble
Of God’s mill that grinds so slowli’, but which grinds
exceeding small.
So send your beef and tallow, and the fatness of your
fallow
\\ here the toilers know them only by the weight upon
their backs,
That the fatmen may grow fatter and the breastless
women flatter,
Whilst a droning presthood prostitutes itself as Divfes
hacks.
vie.
JEACH.


\
/
This Watch was manufactured specially for
us by the Waltham Factory, and we can re-
commend it to anyone requiring’ a reliable
and serviceable watch. The hunting cases
are strong and of sterling silver. The move-
ment is a jewelled f-plate one, with exposed
winding wheels, Brequet spring and compen-
sating balance. Guaranteed for three years.
Price £3 lOs. Better Grades, £4 lOs.,
£6 10s. With Gold-filled Cases, £6 10s.
We supply this Watch in four styles at
these prices : Crystal Front, Polished Steel
Case, 25s ; Hunting- Polished Steel Cases,
30s ; Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case,
35s ; Hunting Solid Silver Cases, 40s.
The lever movement of this watch is
highly finished, has fourteen jewels, patent
screw balance, exposed winding wheels,
reliable keyless work, and we can recom-
mend it for the use of men or boys.
DO YOU WANT A WATCH
These Watches we have tried and found satisfactory. They are offered at prices lower than Watcheeof equal
quality can be bought for elsewhere. Cur eight big business houses In A “otraja B *a explain why. S your
order by mail. We will give it prompt attention. For other Grades see our Special Watch Book. Wo po-t it FK-fc.
Sf>.k
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as the “Prin-
cess.” Although we sell many of these
every year, we seldom have a com-
plaint reach us, and this should he a
good guarantee that it is a reliable
article. We make with silver or gold
engraved cases in open face and full
hunting. The movement, is keyless
and properly jewelled. Guaranteed
for two years. Price : Crystal Front,
Silver, £2 ; Hunting, 50s ; Crystal
Front, ISct. Gold, £4 lOs ; Hunt-
ing, £5 lOs.'
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing Cased * Watch, suitable for
young ladies. It has a reliable
jewelled movement exquisitely
engraved solid 14ct. gold cases—
strong, keyless work, and altogether
is a sound and serviceable watch.
It is possible to sell a gold watch at
a lower price, but as the timekeep-
ing and construction is not such as
would give lasting satisfaction to
our customers, we do not stock
them. Price £4 lOs.
-O'
6=3
V
This shows our Lady’s Keyless
Defiance Watch, hundreds ot which
have been sold, and have given
unbounded satisfaction. It is a really
reliable watch and priced very reason-
ably. The case is a solid silver one,
beautifully engraved. The movement
is J-plate, jewelled and carefully
finished in detail. Open Face,
£1 lOs ; Hunting, £1 17s 6d.
This shows a dependable
small size Lady’s Crystal Front
Watch. The movement is a
keyless and jewelled, the dial
is of pretty decorated opal,
the case is polished steel, and
we lind them to be excellent
little timekeepers. An ideal
girl's watch. £1 2s 6d.
This is our Lady's Waltham Lever.
The movement is of solid nickel, is
jewelled, has .compensating balance and
Brequet spring. The hunting cases are
of solid silver, nicely engine turned and
engraved, with shield in centre, after the
style of the picture shown here. Price
£4. Guaranteed for 3 years.
“THE NONPAREIL.”
We have advertised and sold this
Watch wherever the English lan-
guage is spoken, and surely no other
has given such universal satisfac-
tion. Best Keyless Movement, ISct.
Gold Cases. Hunters, £7 10s .
Crystal Front, £6 lOs.
Our
Watches
are
Honest
Watches.
/
r
s
as
&
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths,
us a Triumph in quality over any other low-
ipriced watch already in the market. It has a
very fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short-
winding movement, and the case is made of a
very hard nickel, beautifully polished, and fitted
•with unbreakable crystal glass. Price 18s 6c!.
With Silver Case, 30s. Steel Case, 18s 6cf.
mvit i
V
, GEQftr
I ml
mm.
W/A
m i
m
jig®©
ESBI
'm
This is the famous
ull-capped English
J-plate “Excelsior”
Watch. Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, fine
fully jewelled
movement. Price
only £5 10s•
a
“Cupar, Fife, Oct. 11, 1904.
“ Dear Sirs—l have used Kutnow’s Pow-
der often myself with beneficial effect.
ould you be good enough to forward a
bottle of same to . . . Avho is a martyr to
liver affection and accompanying symptoms
of uric acid poisoning ? By so doing you will
oblige
“JAMES BORROWMAN, F.R.C.Y.S.”
ENTIRELY FREE FROM URIC ACID.
Boston, Mass., Sept. 16th.
‘ ‘ I have suffered for the past two years
with Gout in its most painful form, my body
being thoroughly charged with uric acid. I
used Kutnow’s Powder, and in three days
the morning tests showed less and less acid,
until now lam free. I have now taken four
bottles. I consider Kutnow’s Powder the
greatest uric acid solvent in the world. I
am using same throughout practice and hos-
pital.
“JOHN T. SIMPSON, M.D.”
HOSPITAL SURGEON SAYS:
“Parco Grifeo, Naples, Italy,
9th July, 1904.
* c Dear Sirs—l duly received some time
ago a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, of which I
handed some to my friend, Professor Dr. C.
Scotti, House Surgeon of the International
Hospital here, who, acknowledging the re-
ceipt with thanks, says : ‘ I have known the
remedy about a year, and have used it in
many cases with very satisfactory success.’—
Yours truly,
“ J. WOLFFSOHN.
The Medical Journals
OCTOBER, ISO 4, SAYS:
“ The uric acid problem affords an ever-increasing interest',, not I ''
only on account of the many attempts at solution and
theories set forth, but because of the wide field of investigation
which is opened up with the fascinating prospect of bringing to.-light
metabolic facts which have ever been shrouded in obscurity. We
do know, however, whence uric acid is derived, but the metabolism!
produced thereby has yet to be determined. Regardless of diet, rich',
and poor suffer alike from the accumulation of uric acid, which some- •
times occurs without any apparent failure in health ; but more often >
are the kidneys and bladder affected, and the digestive organs im- •
paired ; hence excessive uric acid is frequently responsible for heart-
burn, flatulence, and liver trouble. Lithia has been tried and found
useless, for when taken by the mouth it chemically combines with
the phosphates in its progress through the stomach and there forms
insoluble compounds. The best remedy we know possessing a solvent
action and eliminative properties is Kutnow’s Powder, which is
largely used by the Medical Profession and has always given the =
highest satisfaction wherever it has been tried.”
IMPORTANT CAUTION ! \
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others w' ins,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some ch jap
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions «re
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capab.’ ®'df
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palat. Jhle,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signa tmre,
“S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensp rung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and a' ao on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insur. } yourr
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDf £l*
NERVOUS HEADACHES.
How is nervxras Headache brought on ?
Principally by the retention of the excessive
uric acid, which is a terrible scourge to the
nervous system.
How is this uric acid headache distinguished ?
When it is due to uric acid poisoning, it is
generally one-sided or partial, as over the
brow, and more or less intermittent pain
on pressure of the scalp, and darting or
shooting pains from temple to temple.
Is uric acid dangerous ?
Not immediately so ; it is very insidious, but
ultimately, if not checked, its ravages are
disastrous.
Is nervous Headache a first sign of uric acid
poisoning 1
Yes ! when the uric acid is absorbed by the
blood it is rapidly circulated and deposited
iin the nerve centres, notably the spine
and brain.
Is uric acid productive of disease ?
To its baneful influence may be ascribed in-
numerable ailments, amongst which are
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Insomnia, Melan-
cholia, Gout, Sciatica, Enfeebled Brain
and Suicidal Tendency.
What is the proper treatment ?
Kutnow’s Powder not only removes the
headache, but concurrently invigorates the
nerve centres and expels the cause of
the trouble.
Is the action of Kutnow’s speedy ?
Yes, it will remove headache within 20 or 30
minutes.
KUTNOW’S POWDER ELIMINA TES URIC ACID.
Proprietors : S. KUTNOW & CO-, Ltd., 41 Farneigcßoii Road, Londoir
Proprietors in U.S.A. : Kutnow Bros., Ltd.,
853 Broadway, New York.
C3-9J


Statistics declare that cancer has increased
in Sydney to the extent of 233 per cent, in 11
years. If true, this is alarming. But are the
figures due to an actual spread of the disease, or
to more accurate diagnosis? More accurate diag-
nosis is responsible for the apparent increase of
appendicitis. Eleven years ago such cases were
considered as peritonitis, and there was no thought
of the little vermiform appendix.
“J.C.” writes from Maoriland’s windy
city:—
Why not call us something else now and then for a
change? “Maoriland” might occasionally give place to
two or three other names, Aotearoa and Mukuroa, for in-
stance. Ao-tea-roa was the name given to the long moun-
tainous coast of the North Island when first discovered by
the Polynesian navigators from the South Seas ; its most
commonly accepted meaning amongst Maoris themselves
is “ the Long White World,” in allusion to the far-stretch-
ing line of cliffs on the coast line, where the brown sailors
made their landfall—cliffs shining like chalk under the
summer sun, and crowned for miles and miles by the
crimson-blossoming Fohutukawa groves.
W. P. Reeves perpetuated a common blunder when he
gave his book the poetic but misleading title of “ The
Long White Cloud.”
Another interpretation to which Ao-tea-roa lends itself
is that of the “ Land of the Long-lingering Daylight,” or
“Land of the Longer Twilight”—a translation justified
by the knowledge that “ ao,” besides meaning “ world ”
or “land,” also signifies “ light ” ; “Ao-tea,” the clear
light of day. When the Maoris landed here they found
that the short tropic twilight, or rather, absence of twi-
light, to which they had been accustomed in their eastern
Pacific homes, had given place to an evening-time period
when the daylight very slowly and gradually merged into
dusk and then dark ; it was perhaps on that account they
called the new land “ Ao-tea-roa.”
Another ancient name for Maoriland is “ Nuku-roa,”
literally the “ Long Land.” As for Te Ika-a-Maui (“The
Fish Hauled up by Maui ”) and Te Wai-Pounamu (“ The
Waters of Greenstone”), one hears these names every-
where used amongst the Maoris —and amongst many
whites also—in reference respectively to the North and
South Islands of Maoriland. Also let us have the “ Long
White-Washed Land ” sometimes for the sake of variety.
If the Public Debt keeps on increasing at the present
rate we’ll badly want to be whitewashed before long. ,
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT 1
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Aro Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
4 Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 .Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. .
—* £3.
Warranted equal to any JSIO lOs.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every eyr ie bought of us. Your
Honey in full refunded without qu< stion
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST - ~
MODELS _ _
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
to £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
taking orders from sample
- ... machine. Acti Ye Agents
■wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage,
ayres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. half prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dep\ **39
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
£2.10 to £6
200
EARN A CYCLE
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
that . . .
Neale's Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
. LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4e. 6d. per day: or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
“ L.E.” : The physical and moral blessings
of sport are strikingly exemplified in the types
that line Bourke-street, Melbourne, between
Swanston-street and the Eastern Markets, said
territory being fittingly labelled the “ Australian
Bight.” Low bookies, welchers, touts, broken
bruisers, pickpockets, derelicts, spielers of every
degenerate variety—these gentry exhibit their
collective Nose and disfigure the pavement in a
public place without a license. The authorities
allow them to swear and linger and spiel, because
there is only one god, and that is sport, and these
are his prophets. Gambling has so ousted true
sport that a tote-twirler is considered greater than
an athlete; and the man who lays the odds,
though only an animated cigarette, unable to
fight a consumptive or race an Adelaide tram-car,
is regarded, like Booth or Dowie, as one of the
Creator’s special successes.
It isn’t safe to mention picture postcards
at the Melbourne G.P.O. now. The sorters, with
as much to do as they can manage, used to stamp
these missives just as they would letters ; but so
many people complained that the Dam family
and other regrettables were obliterated, that
postal secretary Scott ordered the sorters to stamp
the cards on the address side only; next he
instructed them to be extra careful not to smudge
the rear; further, he actually provided separate
receiving-boxes at the chief offices, so that the
picture postcards shouldn’t get mixed with com-
mon letters. But when the Philatelist Society
chipped in and wanted the stamps slapped on the
backs of the cards as before, “ cards thus defaced
being more valuable for philatelic purposes,”
secretary Scott got annoyed. He actually even
said that the department was merely a State
distributing concern, which ought to be run on
commercial lines.
(210)
DRAUGHT
7 fcs /s Me Team // Az/tes So drdtv & /rosi-
i v Bear/w /far/es/er. &sicf Mey 77 re 1
[ d/trays Doy -/-/ret/ tSAe/i AAe/r Bays rto/A /s dcae\
1
~&r. - -m
jr’i
7?r/s 7e&/rr h 7/// a jDeer/ag os' ytfc Ccrai/cA • -
Xc//es~ Bear/ny /7a/-desfejr c/r any Zand-W///
do // easy, do, /A a// day. and /faaa o/v •
80/a/g /r s-/p/d /‘/rs-ouy/, Z/te> /farSes/t > •
WHaMß«3MWaWß«iUJll»B»u..pgirig»»n>rß'Mi.iiiiLii....i..i. -
Do you want an easy running, easy handled Harvester that will
make the best sample you ever saw?
One that has a practically indestructible steel frame, that will be
just in its prime when a wood frame of the same age has gone to
t(ie scrap heap.
t If so, get our 1906 Harvester Pamphlet (free for the asking), and
Wave the above statements pro ved to you by photographs and the
testimony of hundreds of pleased purchasers.
I International Harvester Company of America
'Agents throughout Australasia*
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON and
CHRISTCHURCH
UgH 11 111 Ml 11 J III 1 M I.ILI-Lil J 1
ft
BO
cs
co
fTI
f 11 f 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 1 1 m7 1 1
m
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
j DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
i VEGETABLES instead** of
; OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale Agents—
: WEST AUSTRALIA—
WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
: VICTORIA—
ROBERT NELSON &. CO., Melbourne.
: NEW SOUTH WALES-
W. H. ARIELL &. CO., Sydney.
: OUEENSLAND-
d- d. VERNEY & Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS & MANTON, Wellington.
80UTH AUSTRALIA—JAMES ROBIN & CO.. Adelaide.
ASK FOR
A
AND
REFUSE
Substitute*
‘rfiftirf-
.vl
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It ha 9 cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that j ustly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLF.S,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDUET.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
eonsumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 moil ths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 2‘2!)-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
W THOUSANDS OF ■
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sept with my Valuable Book—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. J
CURED
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PK.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Fbee.


Melbourne Public Library Trustees hung
Holman Hunt’s “Light of the World ” alongside
Wood’s life-size sculpture of Daphne. The
trustees offered the contrast between the morally
perfect man and the physically perfect womans
and the visiting women, with one consent, ignored
the latter ideal. The canvas pandered to the
imagination, the statue offered just the clean,
cold, pure truth, and they didn’t want it. And
in Sydney, to the (alleged) grievous pain of the
Methodist Conference, which mostly stayed in the
city a few days to see it, the trustees at
first hung the Light alongside— “ The Bathers ” !
Which was awkward, because the Methodist
Conference had nearly made up its mind
to say very severe things about Manly, and
the shocking people who go down there to gloat
upon the —— &c. And when the Methodist Ooiv
ference called in to see the “Light,” people
thought it had come to see the Bathers, and to
gloat, &c. So, after some remonstrances; the
cold truth was withdrawn, and you can see “ The
Light ” now on its own.
The autobiography of the late ‘ ‘ Self-
Help” Smiles has just been published. It bears
the same message as his other books, viz. :
“ Work about eighteen hours a day and practise
a soul-destroying thrift, and you may eventually
attain the dizzy eminence of churchwarden or
J.P.” It is pleasing to learn that the moral
Smiles, in his younger days, committed the crime
of extracting pennies out of his money-box with a
knife. Without this blemish his character would
be altogether too dazzling.
“F.” attempts to look at an old subject
in a new light :
Woman is not by any means an exhausted topic. Has
anyone ever considered her dressing habits from an
actuarial standpoint? The one I’m particularly inter-
ested in came home to-day after “ paying a call.” I had
just been paying a small Bridge debt, and she needlessly
remarked on the fact. It aroused the auditing instinct.
I elicited some facts. The dress had cost 10 guineas ;
it was getting a little shabby, as it had been worn
quite half a dozen times, and she was “ beginning to l e
known by it.” But seeing that I would waste my money,
she supposed she'd have to wear it another half-dozen
times. The hat? Well, that was four guineas. It could
be worn quite eight times without becoming a bye-word
and a reproach, and something for cab-horses to laugh at.
Gloves? The fashion now was dairy-maid sleeves, ana
gloves had to be long and cost 7s. 6d. They could be worn
twice and afterwards cleaned. It was hardly the thing to
wear cleaned gloves for a formal call, but they d do to go
shopping. Stockings?—But I’ll not pursue I tllie sub-
iect further. I found by careful calculation that there
should have been written off that lady for wear and tear
and depreciation of furnishings just £1 14s. Otfi. on
account of one afternoon call lasting 12 minute...
With one pound fourteen shillings, and give the oaa,
coppers to the paper boy, the average man could have a
whole night out ! , ~ , . „„
By the way, does a woman ever decide to have an atter-
noon out with the girls ? Does she sally forth with a full
purse and a jovial tilt to her hat, and meet Dulcie ana
Pattie at the street corner, and take them into the bonnet
shop and slap a cheque down on the counter and shout
hats all round ? And does Dulcie then remark Now
have one with me,” and call for toques for three. Does
Pattie next insist that, no heel-taps, they must take a
picture hat with her or she’ll put it down to their
pride? And do they then rollick out filled with the
elation and comradeship of fine feathers and crepe ae
chine, and stroll across to another drapery to set them
up again? And do they wake up in the morning with
the head that comes of a debauch on four mixtures ot
There seems to me to be still room for research in the
field of woman.
SOME
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
is
1
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
TT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or .woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
killestsense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth -covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXI ENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr.. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. _ Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop llandyrook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune .Telling Book of F ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d, Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength,’ 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Flay Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, IS. Elements of Social
.Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. 1 rencii
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash* Established .80 1 ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
SIR ROBERT BE A
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is:
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Oiibvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, bs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget- Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G, W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 16p0 ill us., leather
bouud, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The. Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of. Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is. 3d. Women’s . Secrets, Is post, Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. ‘ New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
iv
#' <<s>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer foice
of merit, because every person who uses . them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
nutting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” cr “out of sorts.”. Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo.«* welcome relief
in a very short time.
A
&
&
&
?v
&
C
and OINTMENT
MELBA ACGORDEONS
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music*
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
UM\
&
U
y.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop ua a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade 'ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
me toll! aloe free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medicai Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Div Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use ot
RX COJRO’s
gss^ t * cfeof yv f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents- Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding' & Co., 16 0 Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Lager
Superior
to
AN Others.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Jrnrnai
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
' own.’ 1
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, snd tho AGED.
BENGER’3 FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
The TRUSTEES will carry on the businesses under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WITHOUT ANY INTERMISSION, and under the same
management as during past years.
The Trustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses in
HOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUSTEES in the Estate of
the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any EIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
I»]HI
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
This
Trade
Mark
AERTEX
kONDOH
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN'S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
REMOVING TO
94 King Street, Sydney,
BETWEEN GEORGE & PITT STREETS.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
XHCE FA.TWCOUS FIEMIEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANT CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat. ”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“ For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, hut none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“ I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.” —Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best -medicine I have ever
taken.” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Yirginia-street, Geelong.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.” —OHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved ray son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.” —D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well. ”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it'to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
1 GOOD 1
SUnlichT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
SO GOOD
FOR
WOOLLENS
3*4
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
6000 6000 6000
6000 600 D 6000
r>
A
SCALP DISEASES.
AMONG children who mingle carelessly in the school
play-ground and in the street, the risk of scalp
disease is very great; and even when the best care
is exercised, disagreeable eruptions, spreading
sometimes over the entire scalp, will make their appear-
ance. Dressing freely with Zam-Buk will be found to
soothe the itching, irritated surface. Repeated dressings
with Zam-Buk will generally be found to eradicate all
sores gradually restore a healthy sweetness to the scalp,
stimulate the follicles, and protect the head from the
harmful microbes which are often the cause of the trouble.
In many cases where the disease is accompanied by the
hair falling out, a new crop of hair
has been produced. In this way
Nature crowns the work of Zam-
Buk, which has regenerated the scalp
in health. The Balm undoubtedly
forms an ideal dressing for the heads
of both children and adults. “About
12 months ago,” says Mrs. P. Kerr,
of 41 Oxford-street, Kingston, New-
town, Sydney, “my little daughter’s
head broke out in pimply sores.
The irritation caused her to scratch
them, and in a little while the sores
commenced to spread and covered
the whole of her scalp. I took her
to the doctor, and received a lotion
from him, which I used, but without
benefit. I then tried several other
treatments, but the sores showed no
sign sof im pro vement. A lad y friend
advised me to use Zam-Buk, and
presented me with a pot. I accord-
ingly had the hair cut very short
and applied Zam-Buk in accordance
with directions. After a few days
of this treatment a vast improve-
ment was noticeable. All the irri-
tation disappeared, and the sores
commenced to dry up nicely, and
her scalp was soon quite clear of
them. Her hair, which was very
thin, is now growing thick and
strong. lam quite satisfied that
Zam-Buk, and Zam-Buk alone,
worked this wonderful change. Zam-Buk is without a doubt a wonderful healing balm,
which no mother should be without.”
ZAM-BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES. ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES, SORE LEGS, BARCOO, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA, etc. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED.
As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS, PIMPLES, BLACK-
HEADS, SORE THROAT, SORE CHEST, and SORE FEET, ZAM-BUK is
INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at 1/6, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing
nearly four times the quantity).
\\
RUB IT IN
Fact’ry ’Ands.
THE TOUCHER.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
HE was a jobbing hand from the printers’
flat. His name was Raymond Cato, but
he acquired “ Toucher ” as a complimen-
tary title when we knew him better. He was tall,
sallow, languid, and distressingly impecunious. I
put it that way because Mr. Cato’s impecuniosity
was more a trait of character than a result of mis-
fortune. He was the sort of young man who
would have been impecunious had he been born to
ten thousand a year. He was slov nly in his
dress, and his trousers were always worn to strings
at the heels, and this fringe collected various
foreign bodies, which dragged after him as he
walked, Raymond being too languid or too indif-
ferent to shake them off. You got to know when
Toucher was coming by the clatter of vagrant
articles attached to liis trousers fringe. He once
towed a disused fish-tin after him through a whole
hot afternoon. That will give you an idea of the
sort of person Raymond Cato was. But this de-
praved young man, while apparently sleeping up
against a case, could paw type with miraculous
speed and precision, and he handled the most in-
tricate jobs with absolute certainty when under
the influence of two-and-a-half buckets of very
bad beer.
Mr. Cato had only been 10 days in the factory
when he came to the packer’s board and leaned
there. There were two peach-nuts, a metal rule,
and the rind off a tin of red ink dangling at his
fetlock. ' He passed his hand wearily oyer his
brow, brushing back his long, black hair, and
rested his eyes on the packer. Raymond’s eyes
were large and dark, and suffused with an over-
whelming sadness. The Toucher owed his
success largely to those appealing eyes.
“ S’pose we do a break, Mills,” he said,
joylessly.
Feathers looked at him with bitter reproach.
The remark was an invitation to execute a strate-
fic exit by the lift door, and drink pints, and
‘eathers was up to his ears in work.
“’Ow th’ell can I,” he said, pointing at the
long list of orders, “’n’the whole flamin’ ware-
house whoopin’ fer goods ? ”
“Oh, well,” said Cato, resignedly, “I had a
tizzie, my last, and it’s so lonely I reckoned I’d
let it go.” He took the coin out, turned it over
ip his fingers, and sighed. “ Left blooming alone,”
he said.
“ Down to it, are yer ? ” asked the packer with
sympathy. “ There’ve been times when I’ve ’ad
t’ run by the pub with me eyes shut meself, ’n’ I
know what it is.”
“Fair on my knuckle-bone,” said the printer.
“But a man doesn’t care on his own account. It’s
the old lady.”
Feathers looked sidelong. Feathers’ class is
always suspicious of sentiment; but there was no
snivelling in Raymond’s tone. His expression
was that of a strong man who bears his troubles
bravely, and his accent hinted at a profound
emotion kept well in hand.
“Tribulation in ther ’appy ’ome?” queried
Feathers, warily.
“Slathers, Mills, old man.” Raymond Cato
turned his shoulder, but the strong, composed
voice continued presently: “The mother, you
know. Seen better days, George; good family.
Dreadfully ill, and”- Here the voice was
almost cold. “And I haven’t the half-crown to
pay for her medicine to-night.”
“Jimmy Gee! ” murmured Feathers. He
fingered a solitary coin in his pocket lovingly,
drew it out, and laid it on the bench. “’Ere’s
arf a dollar you can have the use of,” he said.
There was just the faintest suggestion of a start,
the most momentary hint of eagerness, in Ray-
mond’s descent upon the money. The thing had
been easier than he expected. Mills noticed the
start, and a pang of repentance shot through him,
Cato realised his mistake instantly. He placed a
firm retainer on the half-crown, and slid it back
toward the packer.
“No, no, old man,” he said, “you can’t spare
this.”
“Garn !” retorted the packer, with simulated
indifference, “get a’ammerlock on it.” With a
flash of diplomacy, he added: “ It’s on’y till
Saterdee, anyhow.”
“Oh, all right, Geordie—till Saturday. You’re
a good sort.” Cato’s tone implied that the time
might soon come when he would show his grati-
tude by dying for the packer. He took up the
half-crown slowly, reluctantly, and went gently
down stairs.
For a minute Feathers gazed fixedly at the
blank wall before him, forgetting his work.
“I’ve been stabbed,” he whispered. “That’s
it, a clean stab. ’N’ I wasbeginnin’t’ think I was
grown up. Geordie Mills, you ain’t tit t’ be
allowed out without yer aunt.”
* * * *
Feathers was not a man to show his wounds.
He said nothing, and in the course of a day or so
the town traveller came to him with his trouble.
“ What of young Cato, the comp, with the fatal
beauty of a consumptive nun,” said Goudy ; “ is
he a confidence trick or what ? ”
“ He’s the pride iv ther fam’ly, ’n’ ther sole
support iv all his bed-ridden relations,” replied the
packer.
“ Well, he’s touched me three times in a week,
and I’m as Scotch as most people.”
“How’d he plead? Was it corf drops fer his
sick sister, ’r fun’ral expenses fer his dead brother-
in-law left over from last week consequence ’iv ther
’ard ’earted undertaker refusin’ delivery at the
grave side ? ” , .
“ I don’t know how he did it, mused Goudy,
scratching his whiskers. “He must have used
laughing gas. ’Twas absolutely painless extrac-
tion.”
“ E’s a hartist—got er touch like velvet, it
put’s ther acid on so’t you think it’s ther milk ’iv
’uman kindness.”
“Hello,” cried Goudy, “he’s dipped up some-
thing of yours then, has he ? ”
Feathers almost blushed. “Come off,” he said,
with a shade less than his usual confidence, “The
gay deceivers don’t twitter t’ me. I’ve bin too
long out iv the egg.” .
“Oh. yes, yes, yes, yes. I was forgetting,
chortled the town traveller, softly. “You are
Abdul the Wise and Wonderful. You are the
great Take-Down. The bad men go home by the
back streets to escape your machinations, and
you’ve brought hundreds of spielers to destitu-
tion.” And Goudy went, whistling absently the
offensive refrain of “ Muggins the Juggins.”
Feathers pasted a label, and attached it to a
parcel with unwonted precision. He hated Goudy
when he used big words. “ Any’ow,” said Mills,
“ I’m not a soft thing fer beginners. I’m not sich
a snap fer sharpers that the boys practise on me.
• * * *
This little disputation rendered it unnecessary
for Feathers to breathe a word about the manner
in which the Toucher had stabbed him. The town
traveller, too, concluded that his reputation as a
business man would not be enhanced by further
discussion, and so Raymond Cato was free to play
upon the tender buds of human sympathy in the
lean and dusty breast of Jacob Ellis, foreman of
the flat. ..... ...
Ellis was cutting a ream of tinfoil for winch
Toucher was waiting, and Toucher’s sadness was
dramatic. He sighed heavily, and a tear fell on
the polished platform of the guillotine. Raymond
gently wiped it off with a piece of waste.
“Aren’t you well, then, Mr. Cato?” said Ellis.
The woeful foreman even mistered Billy, the per-
sonal devil from the printing flat.
Raymond Cato started like a guilty thing,
moved away a few steps, changed liis mind as if
convinced that Fuzzy was the kind of man in
whom any stricken soul might confide, returned,
and placed the photograph of a baby boy on the
platform. The baby was taken on the half-shell,
and looked like one of those remarkably fine chil-
dren who earn an excellent living by posing as
examples of the results of feeding on Somebody’s
Infants’ Condition Mixture. The young man had
found the photograph in a drawer down stairs
that afternoon.
“You are a father yourself ? ” he asked.
“ No,” said Ellis. “ but I have a sister what is.
Five she has.” And then, with a lugubrious effort
to show interest, “ What’s lie, a boy or a girl ? ”
“You wouldn’t know him now,” Raymond
went on, huskily. “Skin and bone—skin and
bone. And he cries to me so pitifully ; and what
can I do?”
“Have you tried castor oil? asked Hulls,
vaguely.
“My God!” said the young man, in a low,
terrible voice, “ if that boy dies, I don’t care what
becomes of me.”
“Go on 1 ” murmured the foreman, deeply
touched.
“And what’s a man to do?—what can a man
do ? They order expensive things—chicken in
champagne. I tell you, I feel sometimes that I
could commit murder to procure the money that
might be the saving of my boy.”
“ I wouldn’t, if I was you,” Ellis said. He was
quite agitated. He looked at Cato with pitiful
eyes. “ I really wouldn’t, you know.”
Raymond snatched up the tinfoil and walked
away, stopped, and came back, looked Ellis square
in the eye, steadily, for nearly half-a-minute, and
then he said deliberately, emphatically, as if
putting the foreman to the test of his life.
“ Would you lend me half-a-sovereign ? ”
“Yes, yes; of course,” stammered Fuzzy. He
went to his vest pocket for the money. His hands
quite trembled with eagerness as he handed it to
Cato.
“ But mind, now, no murders,” he said.
“Don’t speak to me or I shall breakdown,”
faltered Raymond Cato, in the character of one
unaccustomed to such great kindness, and he fled
from the flat.
* * * *
Benno’s turn came later. He also went to
Feathers with the tale. He tried to speak as one
with unshaken confidence in the Toucher, but
there were subtle doubts hovering at the back
of his head.
“ Got the luck of a lame cat, Cato has, he said,
fiddling with the packer’s scales. “ D’jer hear
about him?”
Feathers fanned out a ream, and knocked it up
like a second Cinquevalli; then he sought a
hiding place for the incriminating tobacco juice,
and spat with judgment. . .
“ Benno,” he said, with aggravating conviction,
“ you cornin’ t’ me with ther story iv yer shame?”
“ Give’s er charnee,” retorted the clerk.
“ The lad below’s been nibblin’ yer ear, ’n’ yer
thinkin’ iv doin’ a mag erbout sheddin’ yer beans
in the cause iv charity, but it don’t go.”
“ You’re one what knows,” sneered Benno.
“Well, a bloke’s, lived a bit,” admitted the
oracle. “Chat aloud, Benjamin, I’m waitin’ fer
ther ’arrowin’ details. Was it his pore ole father,
what was a Dook once, crying all night with dried
peas in his appendicitis, him bein’ a victim to em ;
’r his lady mother who’s li-ble t’ become sober at
any moment if ther charitably inclined don’t come
to ’er assistance in ’er hour iv need ? ’Cause, I
may tell you, Benno ther seraph, that Cato s
parents ’ve both bin missin’ for years. They saw
what he was cornin’ to when he was five, ’n’ did a
guy, leavin’ him t’ ther mercy iv a crool world
on a pub. doorstep.”
“Nothin’like it,” said the clerk. He had a
naxident—swallered a thick-un. I was workin’ a
bit late day before yes’day, ’n’ ’long erbout arf
past six who should come sprintin’ upstairs but
me nibs, pale’s a blessed egg, hair on end—fairdilly.
The bums was in his house fer rent, n he was
hurryin’ ’ome with the quid he’d got advanced
stuck in his tooth box, when he butted into some
gazob in ther street, ’n’ down went ther thick-un.
He was tearin’ ratty t’ raise another jim. A bloke
he knows promised him four arf dollars, ’n’ he
come t’ me fer the rest, seein’ I was a cobber in a
way, ’n’ his ’ome sweet ’ome was goin’t’ pieces on
his ’ands. Acourse, I parted me arf jim— couldn’t
have the brick face t’ do less under the circs.
’Twas on’y fer a day, he said, cause he was gom
under er operation yes’day ter recover ther lost
goblin.” . . , . . .
“ ’N’ was ther operation a triumph in surgical
skill ?’’ asked Feathers. ‘ ‘ I know—they recovered
ten sovs. ’n’ a gold watch, ’n’ Cato s payin two
’underd per cent, dividends t’ ther shareholders.
Yer goin’t’ hinvite me out t’ ther parlor bar, ’n’
plaster me in ’n’ out with sixpenny drinks.’
“ You ain’t bettin’ on that.” Benno was gloomy
now. “No ; his nibs copae t’ me yes’day ’n’ said
he’d seen his medical adviser, ’n’ the blessed opera-
tion ’ud cost one V a ’arf, V that he'd go on with
it if I’d con tribit another dollar.’
“’N’ v’ did it, y’ did it!” yelled Feathers in
ecstasy. “Y’ sank another five shillin’ in your
wild cat. Oh, here’s Bertie off the boat, here s
Little Willie. Some kind gentleman hold his
purse while he gets his ’ead read. Y did it .
“’Tain’t possible,” retorted Benno.
“Oh ain’t it? Well, y’ orter wear ear mutts
this bitin’ weather, silly boy.” Feathers slapped
at Benno with a feminine affectation. *\ hy,
Cato never had no ’ome that it ’ud pay ter put er
bailiff in at 2d. a day. He’s got er leaky room at
mother Spargo’s, in Williamson-street, fer which e
owes regular every Fridee, ’n’ where he dosses on
a two-feather bed, weather permittin .
* * * *
Evidently it was Mr. Cato’s intention to try
the acid on Feathers again. He approached the
packer a few davs after Benno’s confession, and
he had the air of one patient under great provoca-
tion. The packer’s hand went to his ear instinc-
tlV“ How would you take a good thing for the
Handicap to-morrow, Feathers?” said the comp.
“ You’re the straightest man here, and the only
one I’d let into this with me.”
The packer did not reply for a few moments.
He lingered for effect, chewing absently. ,
“This ther one yer worked on Billy?’ He
spoke without interest.
Raymond looked at Mills with the reproachful
eyes of a starved dog.
“ You don’t trust me, George,” he said.
“Cliattin’ iv good things,” continued Feathers,
“what’s gone wrong with that beautiful arf-
dollar iv mine ? ”
“Hid you lend me half-a-dollar ? Of course—of
course, you did. Oh, that’s all right, old fellow.
“That’s er weight off me mind,” sighed
Feathers. “I’ve bin expectin’ that two ’n’ a
tanner home. I’ve bin sittin’ up iv nights waitm
fer it cornin’, ’n’ I got t’ thinkin’ yer was neg-
lectin’ me, Ray, an’ devotin’ all yer money t
good works.” ,
The com p.’s sadness was intensified by Mills
sarcasm. “ Surely a miserable half-dollar wouldn’t
hurt you,” he said.
“It ’urts me pride,” answered Feathers. It
’urts me t’ think I’ve bin done on ther grill. The
hagony’s somethin’ awful, ’n’ I’ve gotter git that
arf-bull ’r somethin’ dangerous may set in.”
“ Oh, very well, you shall have it immediately.
“Don’t get runnin’ me down with it, Ray—-gi
me time t’break the glad tidin’s t’ me fam’ly.”
Raymond Cato spent the dinner-hour discuss-
ing the drama and kindred arts with Martha
Tilcher, and in the afternoon he sent the half-
crown to Mills in an envelope inscribed, “With
R.C.’s compliments.”
* * * *
By this time the Toucher had almost exhausted
the male employees. There were many aching
victims down stairs, and his title was recognised
all through the factory. He paid a pressing
creditor when he could borrow the necessary sum
from another subject, but that did not happen
often. Strangers were continually asking for him
at the door in the lane, and people would await
his coming for an hour after he had gone home
over the adjoining roofs, and down via, an accom-
modating tea warehouse with an open-air staircase.
Raymond borrowed only small sums from the
Beauties, but he was very successful with them.
The other young men always approached the girls
in a mood of artful and distressing levity, but the
Toucher was very grave with them, and always
sympathetic whatever the complaint o'gljt be,
and there was scarcely a Beauty who hadn t a
complaint of some kind by her, if only as a con-
venient theme of conversation. Half-a-dozen of
them would have died for the bibulous comp,
despite the bottle-o ! s stock garnered in the trouser
fringe at his boot heels, and every paster but one
seemed good for a shilling in exchange for a sigh
or two and a pathetic glance from his soulful eyes.
Those eyes were irresistible when Raymond was
really thirsty. , , . . ,
Tlie one girl whom Raymond had not been seen
to approach for a little loan was Mi’ssEva Magill.
Miss Eva was not as young as some, and she had
no “cobbers” amongst the Beauties, She was
demure and steadfast, came softly into the factory
with down-cast eyes, woiked quietly and per-
sistently in an out-of-the-way corner, with droop-
ing lids, and passed out again, noiselessly, with
eyes unlifted, and was wholly unknown, bhe was
disliked and respected by the whole factory.
Toucher’s finish was sudden and dramatic. One
afternoon faint echoes of a warm debate came up
from the warehouse. Presently Miss Magill was
sent for. She went down, with her apron over
her face, weeping. She returned in a quarter ol
an hour, still weeping, went to the dressing-room
corner, and had a fit of hysterics, concluding with
a dead faint. . , .
Billy the Boy bobbed up a few moments later.
“A fair ole beano!” he gasped. “They ve
dumped Toucher in the dust-box for immedjit
removal. Spats wanted ter send fer ther J ohns.
He’s done Magill in fer ’er little bit.”
A voice of authority roared below, and Billy
ducked down again, but Feathers had the whole
story before evening. „ „
“ ’E’s bin givin’ Magill guff erbout marriage,
Mills explained to the town traveller,, “’n’ tlier
spiel was good fer fifteen jim, the savin s iv a life-
time, which ther dear boy was goin t’ risk in ther
comfits iv a house, but which ’e’s bounced down et
ther two-up.” . „
“That pale maiden lady with the little lisp .
exclaimed Goudy, in amazement. “Why, the
very thoughts of man gave her all the unfavorable
symptoms mentioned in a quack advertisement.
“ G’Out, that sort’s sweet ’n’ easy t’ ther lad that
ain’t punched off with a frown,” retorted Feathers.
“ The brother took a tumble, ’n’ lie’s bin here,
wantin’ to hit Oato clean out, ’n’ put him away
over ther ’olidays tor false pretensions, ’r larceny
ez a bailiff, ’r somethin’, only the girl wouldn t
hear iv it. She’s bin squealin’ roun’ there all ther
afternoon that Raymond’s true to ’er, true ez true
—she don’t care.”
“The infernel scoundrel,” snorted Goudy ; he
ought to be hanged ! ” . . ,
“ ’E’s a naughty tease, ” Mills soliloquised, n
’e did Scotty fer a tray-bit— ’angin’s too good
fer him ! ”
EDWARD DYSON.
“ Eiram ” : The iguana does not confine
its attention to devouring eggs. Have seen
it carrying chickens away and climbing trees
with as many as five of hen junior in its mouth.
Have also seen it drinking from a trough where
thick milk was kept for pigs, and daring the pigs
to approach. Shot one, one evening, and left the fat
in a dish close to the house, when a large iguana
made off with it. I chased it to the nearest
tree, shouted for my gun, and when I had located
it, fired. The third shot had the desired effect.
It proved to be the largest iguana ever seen in the
Warren district, and had been a source of annoy-
ance to the selectors for months. In addition to
over a quart of oil, the body yielded five bullets.


HAVE YOU
KIDNEY TROUBLE?
HOW TO TELL
Does every cold affect the back,
causing chilliness, uneasiness,
or pain? Are there urinary
troubles, sediment, gravel, pains in the sides or loins ? Do
you suffer from dizziness, rheumatism, headache, neur-
algia? Is the skin sallow, the flesh swollen and flabby,
the sight dim ? Are you easily worried or tired out ?
Do you get depressed and hopeless ?
Health depends on the kidneys. Look after them, and
when you do not feel as well as you ought give your kid-
neys help, in
Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney
Pills. This
medicine is
special kidney
help ; all its
healing powers
go to the kid-
neys. It aids
the kidneys in
their great
work, it soothes
and heals the
tired kidney
membranes,
dissolves crys-
tallised uric
acid, and keeps
the body free
from kidney
poisons. Your
neigh bors—
Sydney people
—have been
cured to stay
cured by
Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney
Pills. Bead
t.li e following
testimony :
“ Every Picture Tells a Sto; .. .
Sydney People Cured.
A SYDNEY WOMAN,
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this
city, says:—“For about three years I suf-
fered with kidney derangement. The worst
symptom was a constant backache, which
became more painful whenever I stooped
much. I tried many remedies for this com-
plaint, and the results were anything but
beneficial, but Loan’s Backache hfidney Pills
permanently cured me. It is over twelve
months since I used these pills, and I’ve had
no return of the old pain.”
Four years later, Mrs. Mullins informs us
that she is still well. “I have never had a
sign of the complaint since,” she says.
“ They are splendid pills, and have made a
great difference in my health. The per-
manent cure in my case speaks for itself.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. W. James, Tobacconist, Manly,
states : —“ Five years ago I took a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they
cured me of pains in the back, and strength-
ened my kidneys. I. had been suffering with
this trouble a good while, and it was the first
medicine to do me good. I’ve been quite
free of the ailment ever since. I’ve never
taken a pill or had any treatment for the
kidneys whatever. It is solely Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills which cured me. Any-
body who suffers with the kidneys should
use this remedy. I can recommend it. Five
years is a good test.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClelian Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m,
BACKACHE
ECZEMA.
Nothing spoils a good disposition quicker.
Nothing taxes a man’s patience
Like any irritation of the skin.
Piles almost drive you mad.
All day they make you miserable.
All night they keep you awake.
Just the same with Eczema.
Such miseries are daily decreasing.
People are learning they can be cured.
Learning the merit of Doan’s Ointment.
Plenty of proof that Doan’s Ointment will
cure
Piles, Eczema, or any irritation of the skin.
Read the testimony of a Sydney woman
Mrs. F. Fitch, 36 Wattle-street, this city,
says : —“Doan’s Ointment cured my little boy
of Eczema about three and half years ago,
and he has remained free of this terrible
complaint ever since. For eight months he
was suffering with this complaint—it was all
over his body, and it was worse about the
head, under the arms, and down the legs.
But, as a matter of fact, it was bad all over
him, and very itchy. The hair came off his
head, and we had to keep him covered up all
over to prevent him from scratching. Medi-
cal treatment did him no good, nor did the
various remedies which we tried. The neigh-
bors said that nothing would ever do him any
good. But lam glad to say that Doan’s
Ointment started to relieve him as soon as I
applied it, and in three days a very great im-
provement could be seen. We used five pots
to effect a cure, and he has not had a blemish
on his skin since.” -
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 70 Pitt-street, Sydney
N.S.W. J ,y ’
Remember the name—DOAN’S.
Night in the Graveyard.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
YERY peaceful lies the graveyard on the
hill
Where the trees throw waving shadows
on the grass,
And the very silence seems to wait until
It shall hear a footstep pass.
All in order stand the headstones, all in rows,
Very solemn, very stately, very white,
And the grass that presses round them greenly
grows,
And the flowers are frail and bright.
Very silent lies the graveyard through the day,
Jiut at night strange voices tremble into sighs,
f amtly forms go flitting past, as if astray,
Seeking other forms that rise.
Bent and ag<kl shadows through the darkness
creep,
Vague elusive, and they whisper as they go,
We have lived, we have labored, and we sleep,
It is surely better so.”
Other younger voices answer, “ It is best ! ”
Other younger shadows murmur, soft and clear,
YVe have loved, we have suffered, and we rest•
It is peaceful waiting here.”
Children’s voices echo sweetly, children play
In and out among the headstones, laughing low,
luck the ghostly gleaming roses from their
spray,
loss the petals to and fro.
And they cry, these shadow children, in their
glee,
Tell us not to sleep, our hands together pressed.
Ret us play in this one garden, wide and free :
V\ hat have we to do with rest ?”
Then the other older voices rise and swell
Juke the never-ceasing murmur of the sea
VY hen it sings of all the secrets it could tell
in its low monotony :
“ We have dwe]t pain, have learnt what
sorrow knows,
Like children we have cried ourselves to sleep •
Let us rest where nothing troubles our repose, ’
Where the silence broodeth deep.”
So wears night away, and splendidly the morn
Fdls the sky with floods of glory, waves on waves,
And the little breeze that rises, most forlorn,
Whispers lonely round the graves.
N.S. W.
RUTH M. BEDFORD.
By Rail and Semaphore.
STATION-MASTER PLUG’S POOR-BOX.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
STATION-MASTER Plug was a very
short, thick man, and his figure would have
been an outrage on the landscape but for
the unusually intelligent cast of features with
winch Nature had compensated him. He had a
resolute Roman nose, and the line of his jowl
was positively classic. In fact all the intelligence
Rlug possessed he carried on his face—on the out-
side. He was the most thundering dolt in the
service ; and that was saying a lot.
The Section knew this, but when it-referred to
the fact always mentioned, as a set-off, his kindly
nature. Even the dour, suspicious Traffic Clerk,
I Inter, declared that he could see a brotherhood-
of-man expression in Station-Master Plug’s cheer-
ful brown eye.
Just inside the door of his office Plug had
erected what he styled his Poor-Box. When
officers came out from Romahapa to take rises out
of him, Plug stood it all in good spirit, but just
before their departure he would draw their atten-
tmn to the Poor-Box ; and he was a stony-hearted
ruffian indeed who got away without a small con-
tribution “ The Poor ” was a subject on which
lug could discourse with absolute eloquence, and
be would always conclude his fervent addresses
with something to this effect :
“ 0f course ’ y° u smart, young fellows with only
yourselves to keep never think of this phase of our
city hfe, but the miserable plight of these poor
people is always before me. I have to struggle to
make ends meet. With my family of eDht
healthy young boys to provide for out of a modest
, per week, one can never get quite away from
the economic side of life. I can’t afford to assist
32rf»S3&S'S H " 0t thi " k Serna'S
Then there would be a chink of small silver
dropping into Plug’s box. SUver
a /n ir he r ,u]d °P en the receptacle-on
the -Oth of December and the 10th of June, and
a day later the District Traffic Manager would
recqree a short report to the effect that the Poor-
Bqx at Ranelagh had panned out so many pounds
hv nC f’ whlch had been distributed
by the Station-Master among the deserving poor
of the suburb This semi-official report was
always acknowledged by a brief note authorising
S-yS 6 b ° X m the Station for an °ther
Plug’s assistant “Splash” Lamont, had repeat-
edly applied for his annual leave, but had C
put off every time. The Summer gave way to
Autumn Autumn faded, and chill winds started
% r r ,l ! nd f the Propped-up Station
Splash at last wrote a pathetic letter, asking
if his annual leave might stand over till next
S«“ m er. He didn’t want to take his holidays
in the depth of Winter and already the platform
was white with frost when he came on duty m the
early morning through the moonlight.
Had he not sent in that request’ his annual
leave would probably have been forgotten, but the
Traffic Clerk was busy, and left the opening of the
letters to Mr. Knutsford that morning. ° -
“ Anything startling ? ” asked the long dour
Fluter, stretching his feet a yard or two nearer
the gas-fireplace.
“No! Only a yelp from Lamont about his
annual leave standing over till next Summer.
Two bags of grass-seed picked up near Clarence
biding, and 2cwt. of oysters left behind at Popa-
adv'mtage” h 1 ° rdered to be sold to the best
, right ! I say, we have kept that poor
devil Lamont on a string about his holidays. I’ll
fix him up to-day ; still, I don’t fancv him trying
sarcasm on us. " 6
So saying, he reached for a memo, form, and in
two minutes the mischief was done : “Mr. Jones
to relieve Mr. Lamont for three weeks, after
which the clerks at Popatunoa, St. Swithin’s and
Wairuna would be relieved in that order by Mr.
r ° n( f tj or , f fortnight each. Correspondence
Clerk Hart to advise.”
-vr Correspondence ” Hart advised promptly, and
X . r \ -lamont cursed loudly when the advice
reached him that afternoon.
Jones, arrayed in a new knickerbocker suit,
arrived at Ranelagh next day about 11.45 a.m.
Station-Master Plug greeted him stiffly ; he was
afraid of Jones. Jones looked round the office,
■ T ed .i lnt ,° * be telegraph room, dipped his nose
into the battery cupboard, said the cells of the
nrnrS 1 ? ere ”° bla nky good, and then
proposed to Mr. Plug that they should “ wet it.”
ivir ± lug had determined to decline the invita-
tion hut before he could bring himself to do so he
■■ c )oen rushed into the pub and requested to
give it a name.
He christened it “ Rum ! ”
J ° n ™ Proposed “a quiet little lunch,”
and before Plug could explain that Mrs. Phi?
always expected him home at 12.30. Jones had
broth 40 the dlnln R' rooni consuming chicken
It was a cheerful little lunch. Plug stowed
a gr , eat ca , rgo ° f delicacies, and took enough
g is i ale on board to last him the remainder of
tne week. Jones saw him to the door of his
residence, and then rushed back to Romahapa to
gethis grip-sack before relieving Lamont at 2.30.
into a chair lurC led into the office and waddled
T,‘> 5 very n, 'sh fellow, that chappie
Jones , whysh he got such a beasht of a name !
Ibis cigar cosht bob-does it slimell nish?”
they Wng“‘fi ®“‘ beWa ” ° f 11,0 Greeks
ooi?hi„r“ioby" y ~ish feiiow - u «- di ““
At 2.25 Jones stepped off No. 29 South and
sWt len T ed tO /" Sh thr °uerh a transfer balance-
i gmon tv.Wau. Wa u sw ?t ,t off his feet. Jones
SiHr P lnt th fi Ca !-n throu^ b llis fingers, banged it
tubes 16 td ii ran his eye d °wn the ticket
w*Sh” P the tOWs -“ d his ”» me
y v! re ,’ old fellow ; stick your name here,
and get to Hades out of this, and begin enjoying
yourself before y’are frozen in.” 3
(]r ,Sl gned, and, after shaking hands,
drifted down the street, taking the half-drunk
Jones walked on the
air Thl and drank in the cool, crisp afternoon
the nrittv hgh flilnn g m the windows of
in deen 7 Jrllf 8 'o' 10 ,* crow , ,,od the hill or nestled
JLITh P ’ green-edged gardens. Down below a
novelette Sat J n A tiny garden readin R a
*lo” g t„ e ge“
T bffie-two-one ” went Ballantyre block.
r j, n L es darted in to take the signal, and as he
shd through the door Plug’s Poor-Box caught his
“Mr a pf th , ls ’ Jack ? ” he said to the cadet,
on o, f U i g S P °° r - Box > sir.” And Jacky went
to explain that philanthropic institution
sixpence. teUed att6ntively > and then dropped in a
a / te f tea, Kmitsford came out
to see him. Ranelagh was only seven minutes’
? n ° maha P a Office on the passenger
dromi'ed t j owed him the Poor-Box, and
dropped in eighteenpence which he had found
sllflling th Mr Sh pi KnU i Sf ° rd foir ° wed i(; up with a
bv the g 'sfn^ r - P i lug ’ W l° was sitting in the chair
K®* 5y e, sober and suave, beamed on them.
He felt pleased with himself; he had successful! v
sk.n g that T h ° le Shlft ’ and Was under impres-
sion that Jones was unaware of the fact.
Knutsford drifted on to Clara Beach, and left
poor 3 and d i3 !1 g , together - , Plu g orated on the
mM Worries d ly mentl ° ned bia own finan-
“l assure you, Mr. Jones, it is quite a struggle
I m sure I don t know what I would do if I had
ch tV| )ay 1 W 11 )' p he boys are always wanting
oi tlm other Jrf?? ar<3 r ?, quired every week for one
oi the other of them. I m sure I don’t know how
aiITuKX". weet!‘° h * re 11,6 Mld IW
of Zfld»L7.!Chti7? n v B ?" d ,t'“ t " bi,rs !
naked „„ « a week"' f "S
for my private income, I couldn’t, by G-, sir ”
of tlm world. ° SllUddered at the awfui poverty
Mr Jon^- P bni C H arly Partial t 0 good clothing,
I have to be enJ,V d T me l ° n my miserable income
1 have to be content on two suits a year. I save
the price of them in small sums, shillings and
“ySISSS' b “‘ iA ' h ” d '
.nd“kfta“fws blOoke<i ” P khe doorway
* ♦ *
A week later—-the 10th of June in fact-Jones
manffit?the l offi Shlft T A Sm , all boy led a blind
man into the office. Jones placed a chair for him
and requested him to have a cigar. Blind neonle
are a rarity in Maoriland. Thf Wan l7t thSar
and then produced credentials which proved that
fdrThe Pi- au i h ri d collect or for the local Asvlum
for the Blind, Deaf and Dumb. Jones’s soul was
moved within him. He wrote out a cheque for a
guinea and then explained the Poor-Box to the
Wind collector. Here was a splendid charity
Nothing could be more deserving. In one act the
id was wrenched open and the contents poured in
to the collectors hands. There was £6 10s The
give hlSpu J se ’ made his lad
nic nf e . cel Pt f< ? r on a proper form, gave Jones
his blessing and went off by 14 North, well pleased
with his morning’s work. Phased
At noon Plug’s eldest son arrived with a note
give the 8 lid h the reqUe t ting m r ’ Jones to kindly
give the lad the poor-box. This was “ Distribu
* b ™ f
» Phis
done?” Xl G ° d ’ Mr< Jones > what HAVE you
spkndTd. eXplained ’ and aBked Plugif d wasn’t just
p jug burst.into tears.
tiousTv nnTpi ( ' re< ? 'l°T S a P proac bed him can-
Sa “f I'i? lool!ec, at bm ‘ WM. h.
Plue- y nrrl'rf Vi‘ lre .TPF the ‘ deserving poor ’? ”
Jd dd ,; ‘‘lt’s my suit money!” he
“ Well I’m damned ! ” said Jones.
O. A. JEFFRIES.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
r?
uim
“My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits. In later years these
were more frequent, and her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
here in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to give it a trial,
and the result was marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
“I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully.” — John F.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland
“P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla —“AYER’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
Strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by DU. J. C. AYER & CO., LoweU, Mass., U. S. A.
“A PERFECT
CURE."
This is the verdict of all sufferers who use
this splendid remedy. Let every man be
“every inch a man.” No man need be weak.
No man need suffer the pangs of remorse be-
cause of his weakness. Be strong. Get
vitality. Get new life into you. Every ill has
its Remedy. Electricity cures all chronic ills.
We make this claim because we are prepared
to endorse our statements. We cure thousands
of sufferers yearly.
H
HH
m
;3'U\
Mfi
Electric
IS GUARANTEED IN EVERT CASE UNDERTAKEN. IT IS SURE.
It is what every sufferer requires for Weakness, Lassitude, Loss of Power,
Nervousness, Weak Back, Insomnia, Indigestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Diabetes, Skin and Blood Diseases, Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Lumbago, "Varicocele, Rupture, It cures absolutely and per-
manently, and is certain in every case.
BEAD THESE GRATEFUL LETTERS.
Logan Reserve, Kingston, Q,
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.
Dear Sirs, —It is now many months since I have
had occasion to wear your High-grade Belt, as since
I wrote you last, and told you how I had been cured
of my Back Trouble and Rheumatism after two years
of intense suffering and inability to walk, I have en-
joyed the best of health, and have never had a
return of my pains.
To be cured as I was, after all other remedies had
failed, is just marvellous, and I would be ungrateful
indeed if I did not thank you again for all your Belt
has done to make life worth living.
Yours gratefullv,
JAMES LAUGHLIN.
204 Stewart-street, Bathurst, N.S.W.
the dr. McLaughlin co.
Dear Sirs,- —My back is entirely cured by the use
of your Belt, which I have been wearing for the last
six months. I don’t think I should have been on earth
to-day if it had not been for it. I must say I have
had pains in my back and kidneys for the last twelve
months, but have found a permanent cure at last
from the use of your treatment.
You may do what you like with this testimonial,
so that other sufferers can hear of my cure, and you
may recommend them to write to me, and I will
tell them what your Belt has done for me.
. I remain, yours very truly,
R. EDWARDS.
SC I A TIC A, LUMBAGO.
Monger-street, Leederviile, W.A.
. i . ,ear mw,—Seven or eight years ago I had a fever, and the after-effects left me with an attack of
ociatica, Weak Back, and pains across and under the shoulders. I suffered very nnieh, and at last I had
almost to give up work. On your advice I used one of your High-Grade appliances, and now I can truth-
fi'Ostate that I have improved beyond measure. I feel in good health, and can both sleep and work well,
and have no pains from the Sciatica trouble. I can recommend your Belt to others suffering from similar
complaints. Yours sincerely,
10/3/’OG. A. I<\ POWER.
tic. c.
m ©I m m
&K
as*
S^2S325gSS^E32^
Write for One of our Books
which will be sent Free and postage paid to any address on
application. This valuable Treatise on Electricity should
be read by every man or woman who is in bad health, or
who lacks strength, vitality, and nerve power. It. is full of
information most valuable to sick persons, and treats of the
many ailments that are cured by Electricity. It costs you
nothing, so send and get one.
CALL FOR FREE ADVICE AND FREE TEST FROM 9 A.M. TILL 8 P.M.;
or, if living at a distance, and unable to call, we will advise you absolutely FREE in your
own home, and tell you whether Electricity will Cure your ailment or not.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
167 E.
ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
ViUiarn Charles Crawford.
100VV- MARKET STREET, SYDNFY.
90 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
29/3/6 B.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
mms
Il’OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling: after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath. Cos iveness. Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THU FIRST DOSIS
WILL GIVF RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and cl ey will be acknowledged to be " ViTORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S taken as directed, w cuicldy restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of tne system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs ;• Strengthening the
Muscular System ; re.-toring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edje of appetite, and
arousing with ilie Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Enkugy of the human frame. ..These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Ben-ham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he vor d. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold 10 very where, in Boxes, Is and t!s !(d each.
DRUG HABIT
ENNESS
DON'T DESPAIR,
LIQUOR HABIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ha resist.ho rpe, W.A.. 23-9 04.
Hare finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink ,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No.‘s. Posted Free
The Dr. Langston institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
ASTH MA CURE
EBIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervousConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. So d )ii all Chemistn.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the min>>B of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c f charge and postage will tell you
allabout this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
. what it will accompli h. Scud for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this pap r, I will also include a large
package of vilu ble, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a liferin.*.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, b 9 Pitt St.,
\
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the ratno
diseases in 4@
hours without
incon-
venience. luinu}
Each Capsule bears the name wr (pjluYJ
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings, full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
on. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, etc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Qr.J. COLLIS BROWNS
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept, as, 18D5, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLORODYNE. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions lor the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, P. imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dels. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, roo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U SA.
DEAF
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medlc'ne Practising 1 as a ;• pecialist
in Australasia, and holding 1 the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If you have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being- cured, CONSULT
DR. MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronic and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long- experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Curt
any Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Fhysician-in-Ordlnary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
“ DR. MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgery, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner. He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms ai d in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOX: “THE DISEASES OF MIN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE.”
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all rn application. The Look
contains 700 pages, over 500 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for general
use, and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely diffcent to the many so-called Medical
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day, or
send for specimen copy—FREE.
"ELMLEY HOUSE/’ 151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY .


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in ocvvu casks,
75., Bs., 9s, ewt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145.,
18s. cut.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN fUEL.
Pardriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
E3timat33 g for Covering Boi.e & Steam Pipes.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
\TALOGUES FREE on
application to
"
SIMPSON BROS.
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted
Cockle’s Antibilfous Pills.
Ido not hes.tdte to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaida.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.'
Absolutely Fare
It is the purest ai\ti most economical
cocoa invise. It s nicest too. &
7?i£ UUNCff says-- Cadbury's as the^tanda highestpurn
KNOWLES
STEAM PUMPS
of all kinds.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills
and Air Compressors.
Morris Centrifugal Pumps.
ENGINES AND BOILERS,
Horizontal and ’Vertical.
Engineers Fittings.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET ,
SYDNEY.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
“UTOPIA”
. SAVES .
MONEY. TIME, LABOR.
It is the name of an
AUTOMATIC VYCE
that no joiner or fitter should
be without.
Descriptive Catalogue on
APPLICATION TO
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“ Independence ”
IS THE BRAND OF
PERFECTLY BALANCED
Wood Split Pulleys*
SOLI ? BY
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Alt sizes in slock. Write for Prices.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism. Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLI) IN TWO SIZKS. 9d. it Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
-
'
at =
■B
A
I
4ii=
4i»=
naanc
gaB.agBBB
BOOD
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Run d/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
AN receipt of P.O O.
” forward to any
or M.o. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
9rt. 0 OLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
Name or Three Initials, Hell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In Isot. <!.K Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
syddxtby.
■
o
-H
-
__
«o
■c
o
CO
Ul
o
>■
o
I
I
S'
tea
m
'T'O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
*■ possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
h r
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Use.
DINNEFORDS
sGNESIA
