

BULLOGH LADE’S BULK WHISKY
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
R. G-. WATKINS ££> 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW akd SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
J
Roller. Steel sod Special CHAINS
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient (jotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTS MG
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
,J. C. Lsicwici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydne
Labor-Saving Appliances red - by - J E F FREY SVIFQ. CO., columbus, oh.o, u.s.a
Chain & Cable Conveyors, Bucket Elevators, Rock, Lime &. Cement Crushers, Ore Handling Machinery,
Vibrating Screens for Screening Ore, Quartz, Portland Cement Clinker, Chemicals, Coke, Coal &c.
For Particulars apply to SOUS AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
he it bach,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Srand
HAMS ®
BACON.
LOc
Ks
THE KOYfll.
EDISWAN LAMP.
rr An
16-. A
m
m
Economy in Current.
Equality of Lioht.
THE
M & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Eepdt:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
a/£,
c®
Bathurst to Sydney, Great Wallace Continental, Road Race.
fst. d. D„ M'Mahon
2nc. F. A/!sop
Rode Continental Tyres .
127 Miles without Puncture.
Ask for these Famous Tyres
for Motor Car or Cycle .
All Cycle Agents and Continental Tyre Depot, 7 Wynyard St-, Sydney.
ASK YOUR G ROC SR FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
3?*
TEA!
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
OIL
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Slmpliolty
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & 1 ’ortable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
L Coulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
■croo f
Jb •
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of "Hop's” Pictures, superbly produced.
▲ UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
HELIDON SPA.
Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1352.]
[Thursday, January 11, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Linehiiti MBchanien l Engineering, Bth edt., 15s, postBd.
i orbes Way they Have in the Army, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Herbert, -Telegraphy, 7s (id, postage (id.
r oster, Bridge in Jirief, is 3d, post 3d.
hladen, Queer Things About hicilv, 9s, post Cd.
' lslTn^ n |? nee «w M^ hein Simply Explained,
S-hnn iFu 3 ' Slater ' Mercantile Haw, 7s 6d, post 6d.
S. hofle.d, Management of a Nerve Patient, (is, post 6d
Eice, Denominational Garden, Is 3d, post 3d
Gall r ol ]’ the Lady, 2s 6d & 3s od, post 6d.
Meakin, Life in Morocco, 15s, post Bd.
Lvery Man His Own Lawyer, 1906 edt. 8s post 8d
Gould, Political Caricatures, 1905, 7s, post 8d
Murray, The Hitrh Road of Empire, 25s post is
sf John i !i l ' Kib ° 0k for Debatin ? 3s, post sd.
„ • Job "; Reminiscenceb ot a Retired Diplomat 9s n fid
Barrett * N.ch n How to Teach BookkeepW’Ss p P ' 4 d
ihe Empire and the Century Essays, 2f»s, post is ’
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD.,
77 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Colonial
OF POPULAR AUTHORS.
Some New and Forthcoming Vole.
WHO WAB LADY THURNE Florence Warden
THE CHOICE OF EMELIA ..Adeline Sergeant
THE HARVEST OF L0VE.............0. Ranger Gull
IRRESPONSIBLE KITTY. .....Curtis Yorke
THE CARDEN OF MYSTERY ....Richard Marsh
HORSES I HAVE KNOWN “G. G.”(H. G. Harper)
TRAITOR AND TRUE John Bloundelle-Burton
THE GREAT REFUSAL Maxwell Gray
Author of “ The Silence of Dean Maitland.”
THE CATTLE BARON’S DAUGHTER..HaroId Bindloss
FOR THE WHITE COCKADE !.. J. E. Muddocr
the BELLE OF BOWLING GREEN.....AmeIia E. Bari;
SOUL TWILICHT ... Lucas Clebve
PATCH ‘ *• -Fergus Hume
?anv J 7o S BR ' DAL A »• Keiohtley
lady MARION AND THE PLUTOCRAT
Lady Helen Forbes
™ E WH'TE FARM May Crommelin
rr.r R,AcE * mcdonnell b o d K .n
I2L f««!?R 8, DAYBROOK Florence Warden
ANNA LOMBARD (89th Edition). Victoria Cross
* Complete Catalogue of John Long’s Colonial
Library Post Free.
hat SOULD’S NEW
SPORTING STORIES.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
<4*sssa«“ swsa&siKiSß
ONE OF A MOB Recently Published.
Vll f ELL,NG PLATER In November.
n . H *~ LADY TRAINER January , 1906 .
Price 2s. each, illustf ted boards ;or in cloth, gilt
<!s. Gd. each. Crown Bvo, 288 pages. *
Nat Gould’s Annual (1905
A BIT OF A ROGUE
160 pages. Price Is. 9in. by Gin., illustrated pan
cover m 8 colours, thread seim P P
This favourite Annual, containing a complete and en
tirely new long story Mr. Nat’Gould Fs read.
SHILLING EDITIONS
A LOSt , CaUSe " - G»vT„&,
Author of “ When it was Dark.”
Standard (London):—” lias all the elements of
great.and popular success,”
Daily Telegraph (London) ‘A Lost Cause’
tta ”
Morning Leader (London) “ Will create as
«Jf" *» ’i* ™> B.rk,' .nd o ~‘i “Sr
WHEN IT WAS LIGHT
A reply to “ When it was Dark ’
BY A WELL-KNOWN AUTHOR.
This book which, it is no secret to state, is written
by a very well known author, is a reply to “ When it
was Dark,” by Mr. Guy Thorne, and in anti Me to
the views expressed in that enormous] v popular novel
It should arouse very great interest, and no doubt
this battle of the wits will resound in the ears of
English novel readers throughout the world.
All London has been roaring: over
THE STORM OF LONDON
Pith Edition completing a circulation
of over 100,000.
Bookman : “Everybody is stark naked and has to
grow accustomed to it. You cannot tell an Earl from
a busman the butler from his master, nor the cleric
from the layman. Entirely readable and amusing.”
London: JOHN LONG, 13 & 14 Norris Street,
Haymarket.
And at every Library and Bookseller's
in the British Colonies.
for the lungs, the throat, the voice.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
awd Influenza I
anti the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchia* Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
UW HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL. JUJUBES ~W
(Registered). CONTAINB NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists in tin. im
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stainns ’
D*pot : 6& 7 Queen’s Plaoe. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street w" London^
THE RED PAGE.
QUINTUS RORATIUS FLACOUS
1970th birthday of the poet Horace
■ having come and gone, reference to the
* works and character of that.great and
brave little man is timely and proper
It has always seemed to me that, after Shakes
pear and a few other authors, there is non
more worthy of close study and frequen"
reading even for men of ordinary educa
°n ;lll!l intelligence, than this versatile anc
charm ng poet, known to the world as Quintu
Horatms Flaccus He alone, of all the poets o
all the ages and of all the nations of the earth, ha
been unanimously acclaimed as “The Delightful
■ tne testimony of mankind in every a«-e
yet the ordinary reading public of Australia
outside those with a University education, have
scarcely ever heard of him, certainly never reac
I have been for some years now occupying rnv
spare time, first in translating the “Odes” inti
Irish verse (or, more properly speaking, Gaelic)
and also (a thing hitherto not yet attempted eithei
m prose or rhyme) into the colloquial language or
everyday speech of the Irish people. I have been
prompted to do this, because from a close study of
the character, the life-history and genius of the
man, 1 have come to the conclusion that Horace
was an Irishman—or, more correctly speaking,
of Irish blood and descent, • i.e.. Hibernico-
Romanus. His father, or at least his grand-
father, was undoubtedly Irish. The bent
and structure of the mind of Horace and the
inspiration of Ins genius were by no means Roman.
He had, in a marked degree, the strength, the
warmth and charm, and even the very weaknesses
of the Irish character, which Inis not altered for
thousands of years ; and the more closelv investi-
gation is made, the more readily will this be
acknowledged.
We know the father of Horace was a slave apud
Horatios (such men were generally foreign cap.
fives or the children of these born in slaverv).
ihis man, by his character and conduct merit-
mg approval, afterwards became a Uhertinus
or freedman, and at his manumission, as was
customary on such occasions, took the name of
the yens of Ins late master; but as to race and
family he had no claim to it. Now had he taken
the name of his own tribe or clan, mv contention
would lie obvious. That his son had the auded
name of Flaccus, or flap-eared, only goes to show
that Horace was very likely a wealdv baby ; and
as to his surname, properly speaking he was name-
less. Of his mother we know nothing, but from
the character and whole life of the father we can
readily imagine she was not a slave of the ordinary
type. We do know at any rate that Dathi the
great warrior king, monarch of all Ireland, having
in vaded hairope and being joined by the allied
Gaels of Gaul, Belgium and Helvetia, &c and
having defeated and dispersed all the Roman
legions and armies brought against him, while
advancing on Rome itself was killed by lightning
«ven while his army was crossing the Alp °
Disaster afterwards fell upon the Gaels thus
deprived of their great and all-conquering leader •
as a result many captives were brought to Rome’
hence the ancestry of the poet and the character
and history of the man. Space will not permit
to cite authorities and fully elaborate this theory,
but 1 hope to be able to do so in the proper place
and time.
Observe this silent man, this freedman of the
Horatii, lonely m crowded Rome. Love of family
W!th him is not the ordinary affection of colder-
bloodeidraces. With him, as with all true children
ot the Gael, it is a fierce, dominating, over-power-
ing passion. Observe him lead his little boy every
day through the crowded streets and hand him
? V f r n t i° t ie Pedagogue, lest perhaps evil may
befall him. Are not Irishmen, above all others
even to-day m Sydfiey-town, distinguished for
this same sublime, unyielding devotion ? Are
there not numbers of such men who toil with hod
and Pjck-axe, or away in the bowels of the earth
or in foul sewers, in places where death stalks and
the fate of the worker, is worse than that of the
Yet th e money so earned is freely giv
that the children may be handed over to the nu
or the brothers, and so saved from many things
regardless of what the fathers may suffer. Patri
McDooley, the hod-carrier, ar-d Horatius Senio
the libertmus of the Horatii of Rome, are simp
chips of the same block. It is, of course, ala
too true that both Horace pere et Ms were patmn
as all Irishmen at that time ; but that th
old man had the “ rale good dhrop in him ” go
without saying. 8
And as to Q. Horatius Flaccus, the poet li
personality is still more Hibernian. That he ha
wit and gracious manners we know. That he hac
the martial spirit and more than Roman warint l
tor friends, comrades, and boon companions is i
evidence ; and the flash and gleam and colour anc
bent of his genius are, in several instances, trill
Irish. Certainly the man who wrote “Ac
Amphorain ’ may also have written “ The Cruis
keen Lawn.” Horace was not in type eithe
republican or Roman. Every system of govern
ment acts on the national character in the s an 3
manner as a system of e inflation on the individual
ami in time the traits so developed becom
hereditary, and give direction and colour to the
inind and actions of the people. Government b 1 '
L l in developed characteristics peculiar to itself
which, to the analytical mind, are readily
distinguishable. Devotion to chiefs of one’s own
family and race, and sentiments of gratitude anc
attachment and blind following, even if abnor-
mal y developed, were rather a strength than a
weakness under such circumstances; whereas under
a Democracy the same sentiments are not only
dangerous but contemptible. The Irish people
are even yet only struggling to be democrats, and
are suen only m the rudimentary stage, which is
the prime cause of their want of success. (How-
ever they are coming round). Tfiat the character
of Horace is marred by a too gross and abnor-
mally-developed sentiment of gratitude is pain-
fully evident. 1 he subject and inspiration of the
very first ode of his very first book is gratitude
and fulsome praise and devotion to Maecenas, and
the same is harped on again and again ad
nauseam ; but this sort of thing, by reason of his
race and ancestry, was in his blood, and was but
expression of that national characteristic of grati-
tude and devotion and admiration and blind
attachment to that vile scoundrel known in
modern Irish history as the “ Quid Masther ”
“ °^ ber hand, Horace was always
form- nr • JOV i ern ™ ent ’” holding on to the old
; nn from which neither gain nor
NW dra 'T him - But 1 must conclude.
r<ll] . ’ s .i hLoraces power and frequent use of
raiuery there is no people in the world so addicted
to lavho or raillery as the Irish. It is the tone
I conversations of the people, high
‘ w ’ on fc h ls acopunt and in this manner
• erve. as it were, an apprenticeship to ready wit
ant pei petual cheerfulness. Furthermore, Horace
t y* ur , u, ider disadvantage in its use ; for the
-L-atin language is deficient in that peculiar sub-
' - ill .“ adaptability which is so characteristic of
hci In!'''- 81 aUd French languages under this
to . certain expressions in ode xv, Lib.
tht ISI Gh !?r S i’ , Now take m y translation of
I tnis ode, and I feel certain that anyone capable of
judging will admit my way of dealing- with
L xor pauperis Ibyci ” is much superior to the
lt will, besides, serve as a sample of
published 00 " 111 6te W ° rk will be w hen my book is
Horace, Lib. 111, Carmen XV, —Ad Uxorem Pauperis
I by ci.
l T ijh, sthop, Missus Ibycus, asthoreav you plase,
Or you'll spoil us entoirely wid your skittish ways.
Juuth, ’tis matin’ your sowl I am sure you should be,
Anda foine dacent corrpse you would make, gramachre
But when sportin’ about ’mong the colleens so fair,
iou re a dark winter cloud in the bright summer air.
I ou may think giddy airs and sich ways suit you foine
But, agragh, girlish grace and youth’s charms are nor
thoi/ie.
X ow your daughter with these conquers lovers galore,
But s le ’s difj’rint from you, Missus Ibycus asthore.
When young Phelim is near—ah, her love for the boy
i nen illumes her sweet face, fills her young heart wid joy
Bike the dancer when roused by some stirring moneen,
So love calls to her hearrt,, the sweet charrmin’ colleen,
And she frisks and she laughs and wid many a wile
She binds round her the lose of brave Phelim the while.
\Vell now, ma’am, when you act in this manner, begor
lou look oulder and uglier—much worse than you are /
So lave purple-red roses and garlands of bloom
To the maids young and fair, and think you of your tomb
You should wear soft warrm bawneens, take plinty
gruel.
Keep yourself nice and shnug and have time, you ould
.fool!
But togged up, moroyagh, in the fashion in vogue
Don t, suit you, Missus Ibycus—you ’re a granogue !
December 14, 1905. A °' Now ‘
-♦»
Of Leon Duvauchel, a minor French author, it
has been Said that he pleased himself in living in
writmg beautiful verse and in dying. A quatrain
ol .ns posthumous hook runs :
Dans la sincirite d’une dine de poete,
VoiUl quel est mon rive et mon digit secret:
Quand la nuit da tombeau pour vies yeux sera f ante
Mon ecu nr a mon amour, mon corps d la fordt
I bo Victor Daley might have wished it. But he
was interred m Yaverley cemetery, on a beautiful
land indeed, hy the margin of the sea, but amo
a horde of white monuments so trivial, so ar
tesque, so pitiful! Did you ever see thecemefe
of I ere-L.-Lha'se, m Pans, a wilderness set on
lull. Great trees grow there, covered by creeper
and flowers are wild ; and half-buried in foHa
you come on the door of a tomb. It is a solen
and befitting shrine, where grief seems pitied
the waving plumes of Nature’s own mourners, ai
the dead.men slumber as if withdrawn in a gratefu
peace But the barren cliff at Waverley, win
swept dotted with countless little finger-rosts
marble !—the feea itself seems belittled by sue
ugliness every idea of rest is banished in th
garish monotony.
Songs by the Sloep, by John Buncie (Lond.
*•' Ihompson and Co.), is a book of verses begin
nmg smoothly and rather flatly. As one th
author appears to be a cultured, meditative Seo
cousin to Brunton Stephens, and, like him
moralising agreeably and not very forcibly Ye
there are some lines and verses that wiil bea
re-reading, and a reflective mind may gather profi
from the book. • There is a dry humour in “Th
■Jock s Prayer.
G° l in Thy mercy hear oor cry,
h'or -surely ice he sinners a';
In. deep humility tve try
I'd U'ulk within Thy perfect law.
It ’-i muckle mair would it hers seek :
ll'e ask but little, being meek.
The Boer is chosen, so he cries:
He kens Thee like an open book.
It s nae for us to criticise,
Nor meet Thy awful Holy look,
Nor gie advice ; but this we ken,—
Ye micht hoe chosen ither men.
We maun avoiv oor hopeless state,
But Lord, Thou kens that canteen beer,
Likewise the wimmin when they wait
I Beyond the barracks in the rear;
But Lord, next day, Thy holy hate
Doth make the sinner expiate.
m °od is well represented by
the final extracts from a litany, ” not novel but
pleasantly spoken. me novel, out
Can ye constrain the music of the Urd
By hate, or weave the chalice of the jlmver
By some device to hold the Sun and shower,
And melt the moonbeams in one little word t
All things vouchsafe his sweetness and his power,
For Love is honey-lipped and Love is lord.
Lo, when he comes, the homeliest face grows fair
The loveliest face more lively ; all. things turn ’
A rosy cheek towards us, and we burn
With burning hope that fires our heart to dare,
Even as a curtain tivitches or a flower is worn ■
All else were well forgot, if Love be there.
For a verse of Charles Lamb’s Arthur Symons
as a happy phrase in Nov. Monthly Review - The
>ld J< armbar Faces is scarcely a poem at all. The metre
alls, stumbles, there is no touch of magic in it • but if is
P® e , c ; t ’’J' a m' d h “ ma t n s P eech > su ch as rarely gets through
e remSS' 86 The laBt words are to
Which may be rendered roughly :
Sincerely, then, as suits a poet’s soul,
This is my drea m ami this my secret yearning :
Give, when Death's shadows over me shall roll,
My heart to my love, my bones to the Bush for urning.
A BOOK OF GAY BLACK F [?]LOWS.
IN The Little. Black Princess, by Jeannie
Gunn (Melb., Melville and Mullen ; ss.
net), Messrs. Spencer and Gillen will
intimate picture of aboriginal
life that evaded their weighty volumes ana-
lysing Our Black Brother. True, that Mrs.
Gunn is concerned especially with Our Black
Sister ; but that’s irrelevant. Irrelevant
also that Brother and Sister become black by
streaks and patches. Called to look at a
piccaninny, says Mrs. Gunn :
citi T l oun d one just about the colour of honey.
What name, Topsy?” I asked at last: “him
close up whitefellow, I think.” “No more,
Missus, ’ she answered, touching the little sleep-
ing baby lovingly. “Him blackfellow alright,”
showing me one thin jet-black line running right
lound the mouth and others round the eyes and
nails.
Then the lubras all joined in, and explained
that a little black baby when it is first born is
always of a very light golden brown, but with thin
black hnesj j ust as this baby had. They said that
steadily and surely these lines would widen and
spread till in a few days he would be like all other
shiny black piccaninnies.
It seems that this book is Mrs. Gunn’s
first literary essay, written from a cattle
station at the head of the Roper River, N.T.
My friends used to wonder why I was not
lonely,” she says, “a hundred miles from
any white neighbours ; and I used to wonder
if anyone could be lonely with a perpetual
circus and variety show on the premises.”
The circus turns round “Bett-Bett,” a
piccaninny with a speckled dog and a bone
through her nose, whom chance had made
heroine. Bett-Bett and the speckled dog
were found one night camping near the
river, their friends having scattered in fright
from a hostile tribe ; and were invited to re-
side at the homestead. Their pranks and
adventures form the staple of a bright and
charming narrative. One of the relishes we
have met before :
Charlie had been taught that he must noteat
meat on 1* riday, but one Friday he was found
with a piece of beef.
Charlie, said the mission priest, sternly,
you are eating meat.”
“No more,” said Charlie, seriously. “This
one fish alright.”
The priest then said it was very wicked to say
what was not true,- but Charlie insisted that his
beef was fish. “Yes,” he said, arguing it out,
this one fish alright. You bin chuck ’em water
longa me you bm call me Charlie. Alright me
bin chuck ein water longa beef, me bin call fish.”
And he went on eating it.
But the rest of Mrs. Gunn’s book follows
her own observation ; and the ideas and
habits of the blacks are set down graphically.
One or two yarns make a reader comprehend
the importance of 44 tracking ” in aboriginal
life.
We had a strange lubra with us—one I had not
seen before. I noticed that she dragged a leafy
branch after her wherever she went. I asked her
why she did this, and she told me that she had
run away from her husband, and didn’t want him
to find her.
“Meknockupiongameboy/’she said: “him
all day krowl—krowl,”—she meant growl.
You see, he would, of course, travel about
looking at any tracks he came on, trying to find
her, and so Murraweed bee—for that was her
name dragged this branch along after her like a
ra <s\ scratch and mix up her tracks, so that
nobody could possibly recognise them. Instead
of disguising herself, she disguised her footprints.
Another time, swimming across the billa-
bong, Mrs. Gunn
noticed a man’s tracks on the bank, and asked
whose they were ; for of course I did not recog-
nise them To my surprise the lubras burst into
shrieks of laughter.
, , .Him Maluka! they shouted in delight'
• v l ?>> Maluka ; him bin bogev last
night.
1 hen Bett-Bett screamed to the lubras on the
opposite bank—
“ Missus no more savey track belonga Boss.”
It was the best joke they had ever heard —a
woman who did not know her own husband’s
tracks !
No author gives a more vivid or attractive
glimpse of aboriginal life and character ;
and Mis. Gunn is heartily to be congratu-
lated on her success. The book has some
capital photographic illustrations by W.
Holtze. For bonne-bouche we take a picture
Blackfkllows’ Washing-Day.
It was washing-day, and we were all delighted,
bo would you have been if you had been there •
for when washing is done by black lubras the fun
is always fast and furious.
Directly after breakfast, which was usually at
sunrise, there was a wild scramble among' the
bundles of soiled clothes, followed by a go-as-you-
please race to the billabong or water-hole. Each
lubra, as she ran, looked like a big snowball with
twinkling black legs ; while perched on top of two
or three of the Snowballs sat little shiny-black
piccaninnies. Bett-Bett had not had many wash-
ing-days, and that accounts for her being last with
the stocking-bag. As they reached the creek
every one dropped her bundle, slipped off her
clothes and began the day’s work by taking a
header into the water.
When I came along I threw big pieces of soap
at them, and they all ducked and dived to dodge
iu, and when they came up they all ducked and
dived again to find it.
They began to sort the clothes very seriously;
I but before half-a-ininute had passed, Bett-Bett
and d udy were having a tug-of-war with a >heet,
arid everybody else was standing up to scream
ard shout. It was most exciting, particularly
wueli Bett-Bett suddenly let go, and Judy and
sheet took a double somersault into the water.
As soon as her head came up every one pelted her
with soap, which was the first thing that came
handy. Then, of course, they all had to dive in
to find it before they could go on with the wash-
ing. There is one thing a blackfellow can do per-
fectly, and that is to work into play.
After all sorts of pranks, the clothes were
sorted, and then everyone climbed along an old
tree trunk that had fallen into the water. There
;hey sat, six naked luliras in a row, and rubbed,
ind scrubbed and soaped, till the elothes looked
:ke wet frothy halls, and the tree trunk was as
slippery as an *■ A
As they scruoned they kept up a perpetual sort
>f pillow fight with sloppy balls of clothes, knock-
ng each other off the tree, till often there were
core lubras in the water than out of n. t cer-
ainly is a good plan to take your ch . off on
/ashing-day in the tropics.
When everything was washed trie rinsing
egati; and if you like real fun, it’s a pity you
-'ere not there.
The sheets and big things were done first. After
key nad been carefully spread out on top of the
'ater, everyone climbed up the banks and took
ying leaps into them. Down they went to the
ottom wrapped upjn a sheet or tablecloth, there
) kick and splash till they came to the top again,
he first person out of the tangle ducked the
'hers as they came up, or else swam off up the
•eek with a sheet, which still had one lubra half
>lled up in it, and two or three others hanging on
i it.
And the babies? The little; shiny-black pic-
.ninnies ? They just played and rolled over
ich other on the banks. Every now and then
le would roll int > the water, only to swim out
rain, or to dogpaddie after its mother.
a. as.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FUR SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. "W
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDIMEY.
THE ANGLERS’ BUREAU. MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
We stock
Millions of
FISH HOOKS,
manufactured
specially for us
by the leading
Hook Makers.
2/0
4/0
6/0
Suitable for Murray
Cod, Schnapper, Jewflsh,
Groper, Kingfish, Tailer,
Bream, Pike, Black
Bream, Blaclcfish, Perch
Trout, Mullet, Trevally,
Salmon, Whiting, Trum-
peter, Sprats, Yellowtail,
Herrings, etc.
Mick Simmons.
%
lit.
Hi — m -— 1
HW. BARTLEET & SONS jj
HEX* DITCH. H
SUPERFINE KENDAL g
CAST STEEL
KIRBY BENY HOOKS, g
Hatted. g
3eSEBBBBBBBSRBBBBM»
Best Ringed Shark
Hooks.
9d, Is, Is 6d, 2s each.
?ho N
tf\ c
$9
Bear
!
3s
nss
iMi
Mounted Fishing Lines.
Suitable for all fish. Fitted readv for use
Brass Box Swivels.
Nos. 10 to 1/0, Id each; 2/0, 2d each ; 3/0, 3d each ; 4/0, 4d each. Rust-
proof Steel Watch Spring Swivels, Nos. 10 to 1,2 d each. Brass Cros < Line
Swivels, Treble Action, suitable for Cod or Sea Fish, No. 1,2 d each.
EEL SPEAR.
Best Steel Eel Spears, Japanned
—3 prongs, 4s each ; 4 prongs,
5s each ; 5 prongs, 6s each.
Crab or Frog Spears, with Tang
to fit Handle, Id and 3d each.
Waterproof Trout Bag.
Pitted with two divisions, outside
Pocket for Tackle, l'2in., 10s 6d each ;
14in., 12s 6d each.
Mick Simmons.
Waterproof Canvas Bags.
Brown, Canvas open at ends, 12in., 4s Cd
each ; 14in., 6s 6d each. Plain, with two
Divisions and Buttons, 16in., 2s each.
Mick Simmons.
Webb Basket Straps, with Strap and Buckle.
2in., Is 3d each ; 3in., Is 6d each.
Best Hickory Rod, 12ft, 4 joints, 2 tops, Snake Rings in Bag, 15s each
Nyssa Floats can he used as Fixed or Sliding Floats. This shape
lfin., 2in., 4d each ; 2Jin., 2Jin., 5d each ; 2Jin., (id each ; 3in., 7d each.
swap
The Unbreakable Fish Scaler, 6d each.
Mick Simmons.
Fly Tweezers from 6d each.
Fly Makers’ Hand Vices, 8s 6d each.
Best Net Rings.
Folding, 12in, 4 joints, Is 6d each
14in, Is 6d each
14in Cane, Is 6d each
13in Metal, Is 3d each
Zinc Live Bait Cans, with
inside Floating Can, 6s each.
Mick Simmons.
Hi
y# e‘
;»■ i <■
a Wm
H
LUinch Fitting
Best Winch Fittings for
Rods, 6d per set of three. Better
Quality, Is per set of three.
§9BBT* Illustrated Fishing; Tackle, Sports and Tobacco Lists Post Free
Polished Wood Reels.
2in., Is each ; 2Jin., Is 3d each ; 2Jin., Is 6d
each ; 3in., Is 9d each.
MH9£m
Best Landing Nets.
16in., 6d each; IBin., 9d each;
25in., Is eacli ; 20in., Is 9d each.
Extra (Quality, 22in., 3s 6d each.
4
Sizes of Wire Gimp.
Rustproof Wire Gimp
for Fish with Sharp Teeth,
Is 8d per oz., 2d per yard.
& fA
m
Metal Trout Reels, 3in., ssCd each.
Metal Reel* with Moveable Check
to hold 40.yds., 9d and Is each; 60yds.,
Is 6d each; 80yds., 2s each; 100yds.,
2s 6d each ;'2ooyds., 3s 6d each.
Best Bait Boxes to fit around waist
for Rock Fishing, Is 6d.
Best Rod Ferrules and Counters.
3/I6in., 3£/16in., 2d each ; 4/10in., 4A/lf<in. , 5/16in., SJ/16in., 6/16>n.,
ei/iein., 7/16in., 7|/16in., 8/lGin., 8A- him., 3d each ; 9/16in.,
<U/lGin., 4d each ; 10/16in., 10A/lGin., 1 111/16in., 5d each
12/lOin ’ 124/lGin., 13/16in., 14/16in., lid each ; 15/16in., 7d each :
16/16in., 8d each.
INCH
MESH
Ch
Best Quality Nets —Fishing Nets, liinl Nets, Fruit Tree
Nets, Rabbit Nets, and Netting oi all Description.
9
Best Kirby Hooks on Single Gut. Nos. 10 to 1,8 d doz.
1/0, 8d doz.; 2/0, 9d doz. ; 3/0, lOd doz. ; 4/0, Is doz.
ARTIFICIAL FROCB for
Perch, Trout & Cod, Is each.
Mick
Simmons.
Artificial Shrimps, 9d each.
w
Or
Best Waders
and Wading
Stockings,
For Trout Fishing,
made to order from
25s per pair.
Best Silkworm Gut,
Direct from our Factory in Spain.
Duality {guaranteed. In Hanks of
50 Strands —6d, Bd, 9d, lOd, Is 6d,
2s, 2s 9d, 7s per hank.
Mick Simmons.
Best Bean Shape Running Leads.
£oz., 44 doz n ; ljoz., 6d dozen.
Sportsmen’s Pocket Balances.
251bs. x Boz., 9d each ; 61bs x 40z., 2s 6d each ;
81bs. x 2cz., 4s 6d each.
Mick Simmons.
Brass Upright Rod Rings.
Sizes—Nos. 00, 0,1, 2,3, 4,5, 3d per dozen.
1 doz. Mounted on Cards, with Top Ring, 6d each
Landing Net Ferrule, 1-inch, 6d each.
pr- remittance and freight must accompany order, -m
Hints on General Fishing and Trout Anglers’ Guide-Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Lor Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
ri Ar lowest current rates of interest
ce^it n of V fho^tS Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repavin'* up to 20 per
n;. the I ? an during any year, without notice or payment of anv.fne P
Esq • S^To^he I Ho*n°l I 1 1 The Hon ‘ A W Mekks - M-L-C., Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin Short,
q ' • s “Ss ?c,£ l, ZKX ■ o S’> K v J :^S ux ' ai, ' EW,so, '“"'' E *’. :
lEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
On Security of Freehold or
Le se old City or Suburban
Properties, or on
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOIST.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WtNCffSSTm
Model 190 S Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers,
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By All Dealers.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., New HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
i
m
_
The Physician’s
Cure for Grout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFQRDS
AGNESIA
:
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRU
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked END’S ’ FRUIT SALT;’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prnparnd only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, SNQ.,
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HEIR RASMUSSEN,Must
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Me " ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
■Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidenee, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases, I
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood I
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/61
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female!
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Brandies : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST., KALGOOPLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
A TORPID LIVER.
A CATALOGUE OF SYMPTOMS.
The Case of Mrs. M. WING.
(By a Sydney Reporter.)
Events which have evidently left an
impression upon the mind never to be
obliterated—events which at one time
were beheld with grief and dismay—
are here related by Mrs. Maria Wing,
of Bora-street, Hurstville, upon whom
a pressman recently called, and was
courteously accorded an interview.
“It is twelve years ago now,” ex-
plained Mrs. Wing, “since I took Cle-
ments Tonic for indigestion and neu-
ralgia, but if it wore twice that time I
should never forget how much I owe
to that remedy for its powerful cura-
tive influence.”
“Had your afflictions been in. exis-
tence long ?”
“yuite seven years, so you can ga-
ther from that what a wreck I was.
Even from childhood I had been a
great sufferer from nervousness, and
each year found that complaint more
fully developed then ever. When neu-
ralgia started, the pains in my jaws,
all about my head, behind my eyes,
and at the back of my neck and right
down my shoulders were unendurable.
Night after night passed by and not
an hour's sleep, with the result that,
by-and-bye, I felt almost dazed for the
want of rest. This, however, was not
the full extent of my adversities, for I
daresay you know what indigestion is
like ? It meant that whenever I took
any food—and I did not have much at
a time, my appetite being so poor—l
got a feeling m the chest like a tight-
ness, as if 1 had overeaten, and a
nasty, full, uncomfortable feeling also
affected me in the stomach. But the
bilious attacks I had were horrible.
Some days, from the time I got up in
the morning till the sun went down in
the evening, I coultl do nothing but
retch, and on those particular occa-
sions I had such a fearful sensation in
my head that I could not hold it up.
Talk about being depressed—why, that
was no name for it ; I was absolutely
melancholy, and what also helped me
to be so was a continual presentiment
that something was going to happen.
Try how 1 would I could not got out
of my head the idea that some kind of
trouble was awaiting me, and if it
didn't come to-day I was sure it would
arrive to-morrow. Oh ! it was a life
that one should be pitied for leading,
and I’m sure I’ll do all I can to help
other poor women out of similar pre-
dicaments. Now I know that an infal-
lible cure is within the reach of every-
body, I consider it but right that I
shoiild make known to the world what
that cure is, and for this reason alone
1 am actuated in going into full de-
tails. Yes, when those bilious attacks
were on I was so upset generally that
I could not oven take a drink of water.
Nothing whatever would stay on the
stomach, so 'it’s nothing to marvel at
that I got as thin as a shadow and as
weak as a kitten. And the giddiness
that I had to contend with. It used to
come on suddenly, and almost cause
me to fall sometimes, and it was
strange how my eyes felt so swollen
and the sight bad besides.”
“Those are symptoms arising from
the disordered state of the liver,” re-
marked the writer.
“Exactly, and further evidence in
support of that lay in the fact that
my mouth had a bitter taste, and I
had a white coating over my tongue ;
and not until I had taken some Cle.:
ments Tonic could I get rid of those
symptoms cither.”
“What medicine had you taken pre-
viously ?”
“Nearly every kind of pills apd me-
dicines ever heard of, and there was
not one of them that was worth my
while to refer to. Such useless. trash 1
didn’t think possible could exist, and
it just shows you how advisable it is
to relate such experiences as mine so i
that people's money should not be
thrown away. Doctors, too, they used
to attend me and prescribe medicine,
but it never came to anything-. I felt
no better after taking it, and that is
why, to tell you the truth, I started
to lose hope, and think that I was
never going to get rid of my com-
plaints again. One thingf that caused
me no small amount of alarm was pal-
Eitation of the heart, which used to
e particularly troublesome when lying-
down at night, but Clements Tonic
soon my mind at rest by making
the heart’s pulsation regular and
steady, and at the same time I ob-
served a great falling; off in the bother
1 previously had with flatulence. My
chest becamo eased of its burdensome
feelings,, and when I had been using
Clements Tonic a little while the dis-
comforts to the stomach after meals
was entirely absent. So far so good, I
thought ; but there was a lot for Cle-
ments Tonic to do still, if it Was only
equal to the occasion.”
‘‘And was it equal to all your re-
quirements ?”
“Yes; every one of them, and what
a lucky woman I was to be suro ! Just
fancy being almost mad with pain like
1 frequently used to be, to fruitlessly
spend money in all directions trying to
get relief, to become hopeless and de-
spondent, and then, at last, to get a
medicine hitherto overlooked which
was the very one that could cure me !
Don’t you think I had cause to be
deeply grateful ? Ah, well ! I sincerely
trust that my experience may reach
the ears of others, who will soon
know that I have spoken nothing but
the truth about Clements Tonic. With-
out exaggeration, that remedy set me
entirely free from all the pains I have
mentioned, gave me such an appetite
that I could eat anything that was
going, and so invigorated my nervous
system that I could stand any kind of
noise without trembling, and as for
having ugly dreams or spending my
time in worrying over imaginary trou-
bles ahead, why, I never thought of
such things after being on Clements
Tonic a few weeks. And if anything
will make a person sleep soundly it is
Clements Tonic, for by using it it be-
came a regular tiling for me to fall off
shortly after getting into bed, and
not till nearly breakfast time would I
wake again. It was a delightful change,
and it will give you an idea of the
perfect cure it was when I tell you
that I am now heavier than I have
ever been before.”
“Well, that ought to be a good in-
dex as to your health.”
“And so it is, for I can now work
well and enjoy the privilege of living,
whereas before taking Clements Tonic
life was only a drudgery that was not
worth enduring. I have advised dozens
of people to take Clements Tonic, and
shall always do so. You also have my
permission to publish this interview in
any way you like for the benefit of the
general community.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MARIA WING, ol Dora-strcet,
Hurstville, in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing- of fivo folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness
and euro by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements —which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing tho same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, -1900.
Subscribed and declared at Hurstville this,
twenty-third day of September, one thousand
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDKTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MAKSUFIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.


3
/L
i
“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
'Gherri( &eetcral
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., 11. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MO SR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
Efc
#®
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: '* ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
CAUTION.
-IT IS NECES-
SARY TO
ASK FOR THE "No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
■■ JZfejpZsK^Jr-.
C
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Darina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
No. 4, Tlie addition of tho
address JULICHS PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
PURVEYOR TO H.M. the KING EDWARD VII.
pa
n
/( \ N
on y
H
f
ft)
'P
, ■ .
y\
t -a\ e
A HOME TOPIC.
♦ V
The Marvellous. .
Curative Properties
of . . .
Bonnington’s
IRISH MOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COLDS. 3
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100dOZ. AERATED WATERS for 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Viotorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling #ll American productions.
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Cataloguea.
So/e Manufacturers,
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
«■»!
GROUND
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
mu
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
rECTIOM ACT
rAiaa
REALGE
HQLLm-GMUm
Refuse
Imitations
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England. |
i
Kolibrl Arc Lamp.
THE BEST ELECTRIC LAMP
for Dwellings, Shops, Show-
windows, etc.,- etc., is the
Kolibri Arc Lamp
MADE FOR DIRECT AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT.
It gives 160 candle power, and consumes less than
half of the current required by the best incan-
descent lamps.
Sole Australian Agents—
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr. HANNA and KAVANAGH STS., SOUTH MELBOURNE
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Insane.
Near by a canary is singing,
Whistling and singing with glee ;
By the railings the prisoners are clinging—
They, friends, who are even as we.
As we, but the world does not know it,
The secret is ours to keep;
To guard that our eyes may not show it—
That our lips may not babble in sleep.
For, friends, they would take us and bind us,
Not heeding nor answering why.
In place of a world they would find us
An acre of garden and sky.
Oh ! we are the merry and glad men.
Ye crazed, irresponsible things,
Who brand us and bind us as madmen.
And pose as our rulers and kings.
Ye—wandering blind through the ages,
And dazed with your schisms and schools —
Know we are the wise men and sages,
And ye are the children and fools.
And what of the laws of your making ?
Ye say : “It is thus —it shall be ” ;
And rise in your wrath at their breaking,
Because ye are stronger than we.
But your rules are the ravings of fevers,
Bred of shadows fantastic and vain,
That are spun by the little white weavers
In the mystical loom of the brain.
They are born of your minions and creatures,
Of the phantoms and shapes that ye saw ;
But ye pose as our prophets and teachers—
Till ye make your insanity law.
And so we are careful and cunning,
Because ye .are stronger than we.
By the railings the prisoners are sunning,
And lo ! it is sweet to be free !
n.s.w.
LOLA RIDGE.
Where the Lyre Bird Sings.
There is a woody place alone I know,
Deep secret from the sun when high he reigns
On the bald, withered mountains, and below
Glares on the iron plains.
Here barren noon without has lost his power,
And Time lies quiet in an easy dream,
While silent hour glides by grey silent hour
Like leaves on a slow stream.
Here shady Quiet, sweet with violets,
Coils soft in snaky roots of bearded trees,
To vanish snake-like, if some lost bird sets
Apart two silences.
And when old Day creeps softly to his end
Mysterious shadows grope in the half dark
From bole to bole, and friend to flower-friend
Cries in the greenness, “ Hark ” !
A rippling melody of mellow sound,
Where gold and gemmed and purple notes en-
twine
And sever, musical, and all around
Swell echoes rich, like wine.
A glorious tumult of embattled song,
So starlike rings your call, so keen and clear
Or throbs with riper music, in a tongue
Too sweet for man to hear.
For now in splendid discord unconfined
Life’s myriad voices ring in ecstasy,
Till wild blood leaps to passion, and the wind
Runs mad with melody ;
And all the world’s afire with burning song,
And joys in legions do full-throated call,
Wild with desires innumerable, that throng
To hold high festival ;
All the world’s sweetness, caught into one voice,
All the world’s sorrows, blent into one tone,
Full life, exulting, life that bids rejoice
And makes the earth her throne.
N.S.W.
PAN.
Peter Lalor’s Flag.
For fifty years on the earth it lay,
For fifty years it slept,
But its spirit lives as it lived the day
That in the breeze it leapt.
Since they saw the men of the red brigade
To earth their emblem drag,
When they died with their pikes at the palisade
For Peter Lalor’s Flag.
There are men who burn with the quenchless fire
That’s born of death and pain ;
And fret for the day of their Great Desire,
When it rises once again.
They mourn that their land should e’er behind
The tail of the nations lag,
And long that a place in the van’t will find
’Neath Peter Lalor’s Flag.
“ With our shoulders squared, we will stand up
right,
And laugh at the fools’ alarms,”
They cry ; “ and we’re ready to work or fight
With the faith of our own right arms.”
We will give no thought to the critics then,
And neither crawl nor brag ;
But live the life of a race of mtn
’Neath Peter Lalor’s Flag.
When our craven doubts to the wind are hurled
And our servile souls dismissed ;
With an open hand for the wide white world,
And for Asia’s threats a fist.
When nationhood is no misty dream,
And o’er each beach and crag,
There floats the sign of our power supreme
In Peter Lalor’s Flag.
VIC.
C.N.


V--C
.
* : ; '*«*.
7**
m
7 i
FOR COTTAGE & MAiISIOM, -
CMETPME3S & DURABILITY.
&gen.ci at in every .stale a fletu Zeal.
AH-AUSTRALIAH-
msm
h
$
0,3 ue -free
OOP
£>Y&rtEY
Sc MEL.
LET’S TALK OF LAXATIiE.
LAXATINE is the leading Laxative.
LAXATINE is a very mild aperient.
LAXATINE is made up in lollie-like lozenges.
LAXATINE is as pleasant to take as it is easy to buy.
LAXATINE is liked alike by the ladies and the little ones.
LAXATINE thoroughly cleanses the system without causing any personal dis-
comfort.
LAXATINE is not a violent purgative; it is gentle, but unfailing. Good for adults
and children.
LAXATINE arrests disease and gives renewed vigor to the weak and weary.
LAXATINE is sold by all Chemists. One Shilling per box. Cheap at a Pound.
Try Laxatine.
m
ms
House Cleaning
Carpets, Furniture,
Curtains, &c., cleaned
without removal.
CONVENIENCE, CLEANLINESS,
DISINFECTION, ECONOMY.
BY THE
Simpson & Burton
SUCTION DUST
EXTRACTOR,
Offices: 14 O'CONNELL ST.
SYDNEY;
34 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Telephone 2377.
S3F“Write or Telephone us and our
representative will call.
NESTLE’S MILK
w
w
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
Nestle’s Milk Pood
The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHERS » MILK.
a
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The IVanager.
0t
cues
It
S OLD BV
All Jewellers
WHO'CANSHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EIVIPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
*.»IS
V®o
6®®
'Ofia
0
\ a®'
'B e
1892
f /
S>
EsTab-
-175a
: ;
-
RUBEROID
for Wool Sheds.
AS a roofing for Wool Sheds RUBEROID has already
proved its superiority over all other roofings. Iron
is not only costly, but turns a shed into an oven during
shearing. The sketch here shows a wool shed, of which
the roof and sides are covered with RUBEROID. Not
only does the use of RUBEROID considerably reduce the
cost of erection, but the result is unbounded satisfaction.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
IN OTHER STATES:
MELBOURNE—Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE—A. W. Sandford & Co.
FREMANTLE—J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
HOBART—Wm. Crosby & Co.
LAUNCESTON—The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’
Agency Co., Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1352.
THURSDAY* JANUARY 11,
Pbiok 6d.
THE BRITISH TORY POLITICIAN'S BURDEN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
" Australia for the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ' ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts , etc., arid, all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to A d. dress Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking sortie care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattentiort.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A Hides, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return fit, will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlacle. and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be 'paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§£n. x Vein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“Posters” ivill be attached to agents' parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
ffite S^tzHeizvi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 1906.
THE COMING PROTEST.
Before next issue of The Bulletin sees the
light the provincialist section of .Sydney is to make
a greater fool of itself than usual at the Town Hall
on the well-worn issue of the Federal capital and
the alleged ‘•wrongs” of the Ma State generally.
The basis of the complaint is that the provin-
cialist crowd in Sydney will not, if it can avoid it,
have a capital in the Monaro district at any price,
and nothing will really satisfy it save a Federal city
on a site dictated by New South Wales, at Lynd-
hurst, close to the back door of Sydney, where all
the trade will go to Sydney, the said territory to
be on an area the size of which will be fixed by
New South Wales. Also, it is proposed by State
Premier Carruthers that the water supply of the
Federal capital should be controlled by New South
Wales. It is loudly and generally demanded by the
pro vincialists that this matter of the capital should
be “treated in a broad Federal spirit,’’and the pro-
vincialists of Sydney define a broad Federal spirit
as one which considers New South Wales and
New South Wales only. By way of working up
the broad Federal spirit, so frequently men-
tioned, the old theory of a “Victorian con-
spiracy” is being used for all it is worth. As a
sample, taken at random, the following may be
quoted (it is from the usual poisonous source,
Sydney Telegraph) :
VICTORIA ALL THE TIME.
“ It’s Victoria all the time ! ” was the burden of a com-
plaint by Alderman Siieppard at the Burwood Council
meeting last night, in referring to Federal matters
generally, and the capital site question in particular.
Victorian interests were paramount with the Federal
representatives, who, while technically agreeable to the
placing of the capital in New South Wales, chose a site
that would confer no advantage to the mother State. It
was to be regretted that the members of the Federal
Houses were influenced by their environment, and he
urged above all things that New South Wales should
speak with united voice of protest, as the striking of a
discordant note now would result in dire consequences to
our best material interests. He moved that a letter be
sent to the Premier, Mr. Carruthers, congratulating him
upon the stand he has taken in connection with the
Federal capital, and stating that his action has the best
sympathy and co-operation of the Burwood aldermen. In
speaking to the motion, which was carried unanimously,
Alderman W. Lawson Dash expressed himself strongly in
favor of the Lyndhurst site. He was one of those who
had attended the Bathurst convention, and as a result he
was strongly in favor of Lyndhurst.
That is merely one specimen selected haphazard
from the printed clamor of many fools and the
published effusions of many narrow-minded
human nuisances. Amid all this disturbance it
may possibly be worth while to state once more
the case for the selected site at Dalgety (and,
incidentally, for New South Wales). It is an old
story and a simple one, but the position has been
obscured by so much hard parochial misrepresen-
tation that to some it may be still new.
* * * *
The Federal Constitution disqualifies every
existing State capital from all possibility of being
the Federal city. Presumably i t does this because
the State capitals are already too large in com-
parison with the country population, and so
it was considered inadvisable in the public in terest
to further bloat any one of them by concentrat-
ing there the Federal public business. The
“spirit of the Constitution”—a thing much talked
• °f. these times —seems to be that the Federal
capital should rather bring population to a site
now empty, and should help on the decentralisa-
tion policy which certain violent provincialists,
now solely intent on bringing everything to
Sydney, used to preach with great fervor. The
parish politicians of Sydney demand, contrary to
the apparent spirit of the Constitution, that the
Federal city shall be practically a suburb of their
city, situated on the western line, in a position
where it must get its supplies from Sydney, do all
its trade with Sydney, and serve to further con-
gest a centre which already contains much too
large a proportion of the population of the State.
A Federal capital at Lyndhurst would have
almost the same effect in the way of further
bloating out Sydney as a Federal capital at
Sydney itself. And the Constitution which dis-
qualified Sydney, in common with every other
State capital, can hardly be held as contemplating
such a thing—assuming that it had any definite
contemplation at all.
* * * *
The proposed capital site on Monaro stands in a
wholly different category. It is in one 'of the
healthiest districts—if not the healthiest district-
in Australia. It is in a region which is capable of
growing the sturdiest population in all the Com-
monwealth—a race like the Scottish Highlanders
at their best, but, it is to be hoped, without their
ignorance, their clannishness, their bigotry, their
whisky, and their kilts. It is an empty region ;
even if 5000 square miles of it were taken fora
Federal capital N.S.W would be deprived of very
little population. It is a region from which the
State Treasurer has never succeeded in collecting
enough revenue to cover the cost of government,
therefore the surrender of an area there would be
a gain to the State revenue instead of a loss.
It has a splendid water supply at present running
to waste—running across the border to irrigate
the scenery of Victoria ; and great manufacturing
industries worked by water, the cheapest of all
powers, might be created there. It is defended
to seaward by a huge mountain wall. And it is a
place which stands by itself, too far from Mel-
bourne or Sydney to be influenced by either, or to
be a suburb of either, or to be a means to the
further bloating and congestion of either. In
this last respect it represents to perfection the
spirit of the Constitution—that spirit which dis-
qualified all the State capitals, and laid it down
that the Federal city must strike out on its own.
And it is just because it represents so exactly the
spirit of the Constitution in this respect that the
parochialists and importers of Sydney rage so
furiously against it.
• • • *
The reasons they allege why a Monaro site is
quite unfit to be the Federal capital are charac-
teristic of them. Being characteristic of them
they are partly lies and the rest misrepresentation
and unconscious arrogance. It is alleged, for one
thing, that the proposed site is closer to Melbourne
than to Sydney. This is sheer lying ; as any map
will show', and as was shown by the report of the
Commissioner whom the State Govern-
ment appointed to report on sites, it is 12 miles
nearer Sydney than Melbourne as the crow
travels when the crow is in haste and
dead earnest, and about 60 miles nearer Sydney
than Melbourne by any practicable railway route.
It is alleged, too. that it is in a district
which is practically an appanage of Victoria in a
commercial sense, and this is also a lie. So far
from that being the case, the northern part of the
adjacent Victorian county of Croajingolong was,
even in the days of border tariffs, a commercial
appanage of N.S.W., drawing its supplies from
Delegate or Bombala. It was driven to do this
because the mountains cut it off from the rest of
Victoria, and the necessity was so completely re-
cognised that the Victorian Customs tariff was sus-
pended on this bit of the border (not legally, it
may be, but suspended all the same) as regards
goods in retail quantities. It is also set forth as a
grievous disadvantage that N.S.W. will have to
build 30 miles of railway across very easy country
to connect with the proposed Federal capital, but
N.S.W. has already 130 miles of line thereabouts
which is run at an average loss of £35,000 a
year, and to add a little bit on to this with
the probable result of turning that loss into a pro-
fit is a small matter to a State which is even now
proposing to spend two or three millions on 200
miles of line, every mile of which is expected to
be a dead loss. Further, there are bitter com-
plaints about the cost of connecting the Federal
city with the main Sydney-Melbourne line via
Tumut, but as the Tumut branch, as things stand,
is another dead loss of £lO,OOO a year, an exten-
sion which would probably turn it into a profit,
and change it from a little cockspur, ending
nowhere, to a main line ending at the capital of
Australia, seems rather desirable than otherwise.
On these two railways alone a Federal capital on
Monaro should mean the saving of £45,000 a year
of good Cornstalk legal tender.
* •» * *
Furthermore, by way of argument against a
capital on Monaro, the provincialists set forth that
it would cost Victoria a fearsome and ruinous num-
ber of millions to connect its railways with the new
city, and if Victoria decided to bring its connecting
line up through the hills and wilds of Croajingo-
long, it might possibly do so. But, seeing that
the provincialists who advance this argument are
the same provincialists who allege that the pro-
posed capital on Monaro is a deep and villainous
Victorian scheme or conspiracy, out of which Vic-
toria is to reap all the profit, it doesn’t seem worth
their while to weep so bitterly at the same time,
on the ground that the Monaro capital will involve
Victoria in great loss. If Victoria is half as bad
as they say it is, it deserves the loss ; and if Vic-
toria, as alleged, has schemed for the Monaro
capital, the loss is a just retribution. Let Vic-
toria’s loss pass. ■
• * * *
The whole case for the parochial party which
proposes to be a greater ass than usual at Sydney
Town Hall this month is really summed up in the
utterance of that obscure alderman already quoted;
it is proposed to place’the capital on “ a site that
would confer no advantage to the mother State.”
In that utterance the pitiable smallness and
meanness and selfishness of the parochialists
stand out like a lone tree on a great plain. There
is nothing in the Constitution about placing the
capital so that either the Ma State or any other
State may grab a separate advantage out of
it. It is only intended to be an advantage
to Australia —the one place on earth which the
parochial push of Sydney appears never to have
heard of. Australia in general is to benefit by
having a new city where at present there is none
by having a healthy, sturdy population reared in
the healthiest site in the Commonwealth, where
now there is emptiness ; and by having new indus-
tries where now there is grass and wind. All the
States will share indirectly in these benefits, but
if the capital is fixed on Monaro, where it will
have to be its own commercial centre instead of
being a suburb of Sydney or Melbourne, no State
will be able to grab these benefits all to itself.
That is the real grievance, and every patriotic
Australian will value that grievance and see
that it continues, for it is a good grievance
and not to be lightly parted with. There is also
a claim that is heard occasionally to the effect that
N.S.W. is entitled to possess the Australian
capital as its own exclusive property by way of
“compensation”—compensation, that is. for join-
ing in its own Federal movement, originated by
itself. And when the Sydney Town Hall meeting
gathers itself together to bray about the
“wrongs” of the Ma State, it goes without say-
ing that there will be a long and wearisome
repetition of the old falsehood that the people
of N.S.W. refused to join the Union until
they had the Federal capital assured to them, this
despite the fact that the popular vote of June,
1898, records the exact contrary ; and of the com-
paratively new falsehood that the Constitution
specifically gives N. S. W. the right to select the capi-
tal. This exceedingly impudent and robust fiction
only commenced work recently, and, as very few
people, unfortunately, take the trouble to inspect
the Constitution, and to discover that it is absolute
invention, it seems likely to do some service. If
these two products of Ananias are not present at
the Sydney Town Hall meeting it will be a lament-
able oversight on the part of somebody.
THE SORE-HEADED PARTY IN THE
REPRESENTATIVES.
It is to be hoped that, before next Federal elec-
tion falls due, the people of Sydney and its
environs will think a good deal over the absurd
position into which they and their Federal Repre-
sentatives have jointly drifted. About ten men,
all from New South Wales, and mostly from the
vicinity of Sydney, by their constant obstruction,
their revilings, their lack of good breeding and of
the ordinary decencies Of debate, have turned the
House into a bear-garden, and have done a great
deal to make N.S.W. —or at least Sydney—the
best hated place in the Commonwealth. They
have made it notorious as the locality which sup-
plies the worst rows, the most of the sectarian
squabbles, and the most excited little person
who ever raised a dust with a motor-car. It is
the place where the irreconcilables come from,
and their origin is a remarkable piece of politi-
cal history. The Commonwealth owes its exist-
ence to two separate invitations issued by N.S.W.—
in 1890 and 1894 —to the other States to join it in
forming a United Australia. There had been
many previous movements, but the one which
was successful was a movement whereby N.S.W.
beguiled its neighbors into union. Yet even while
it was beguiling them the old Cabbage-Tree Mob’s
attitude of patronising insult was not abandoned.
That body, which had no more notion of fair fight-
ing than the “push ” which sandbags a man from
behind, and no more gentlemanly instincts than
an alligator, described the Federal movement
which N.S.W. had started as a “Victorian con-
spiracy,” and raved about it being backed up by
“Victorian gold” which was allegedly sent to
N.S.W. to buy votes, and at the same time it de-
clared that Victoria was a beggar and didn’t
possess 2d. An ex-Premier, now deceased, stated
in public that Victoria was wholly dependent on
N.S.W., and that “all our money” went over to
Victoria to save that ruined State in ’93, and he
was a very angry man when it was shown by
the N.S.W. Customs statistics that N.S.W. in
’93 received from Victoria more money than it sent
there. One Federationist spoke of the necessity of
having the capital about Bathurst, “ to be away
from Victorian influences,” it being taken for
granted in the creed of the Cabbage-Tree Mob
that a Victorian was necessarily a depraved
person and a moral leper. George Reid didn’t
quite leave off scoffing at the other States as the
“five drunkards,” and had on one occasion the
ineffable “front” to rise with his deficit in his
hand and make a mock offer to finance the other
States, as an act of charity, out of N.S.W.’s
alleged abundance, if the other States—es-
pecially Tasmania, S.A. and Queensland —found
themselves bankrupt. The “Ma State” atti-
tude was always there. Nevertheless, N.S.W.
started the movement, and led the other
States into union; also, incidentally, it was
the only State which turned traitor to the move-
ment when half-way through.
« * • *
In promoting Federation, N.S.W. knew per-
fectly well that it was inviting a body of mostly
Protectionist States to join it in building a
Commonwealth. There wasn’t the slightest hope
of them turning to Freetrade to oblige N.S.W.,
especially as N.S.W. never believed sufficiently in
its own alleged Freetrade doctrine to practise it
itself. N.S.W., under the “great Freetrader”
ParkES, had a tariff which protected all its im-
portant industries; its politicians lied outrageously
about its.adherence to a fiscal creed with which it
wasn’t even on speaking terms; and its coddled
and bonused and subsidised Freetrade papers had
always an enormously lofty scoff to throw at
Protection while both they and their State lived
on it in a great measure. Under Dibbs, and for the
first eighteen months under Reid, N.S.W. had an
avowedly Protectionist tariff; and after that it
had a “ Freetrade tariff ” which protected a whole
lot of its industries directly and indirectly. There
was no possibility that the other States would
abandon their ideas to accept, on the recommen-
dation of N.S.W., a fiscal creed which N.S.W.
had never really adopted itself. Yet in the very
first session the little brawling band of Foreign-
trade irreconcileables set to work to stonewall the
Federal tariff to the bitter end. The great
majority of the House was Protectionist, and the
majority is supposed to rule. The Protectionist
majority was there to make a tariff as the result
of accepting N.S.W.’s invitation. This was at a
time when all the bogus grievances about
the Federal capital, the right of N.S.W. to
another member, the Six Hatters lie, the Petriana
falsehood, the Blind Tourist joke, the union label,
and the rest of the present stock-in-trade of false-
hood and folly had not yet been invented. There was
no real or sham N.S.W. grievance, except that the
little Wilks and Reid and M’Millan and Joe
Cook and Coniiot and Lonsdale and two-Siumis
group held it a great wrong that their minority
should not be allowed to over-rule the majority.
For nearly eight months they suspended majority
rule by mere yapping. The other States learned
then that they had been invited to federate, so
far as this objectionable little mob was concerned,
mainly that they might be jeered at, that they
might learn that a "Victorian industry” or a
“South Australian industry ” was a thing to be
always mentioned with a scoff, that they might be
bored to death by the interminable speeches of the
same dozen or so of dreary and endless repetition-
ists, that they might learn all about the superiority
of the Ma State, and that they might be deprived
of all semblance of majority rule unless they could
. secure some measure of it by sitting night and day
till they wore the minority out.
* * * *
Sydney and its environs still send this little
knot of interminable fools to Parliament. They
form a “cave” by themselves —they and their
grievances. Sydney can’t be seriously repre-
sented in any Federal Government that has the
least chance of living, for Australia isn’t going to
have a Freetrade Government; that is a fact of
which Sydney was perfectly aware when George
Reid, the representative of the principal Sydney
constituency, asked the other States to federate.
The Cook and CoNßOY'and Kelly lot have made
it clear, ever since the tariff debate, that until
Freetrade comes they will be a gang of irreconcile-
ables who are against practically everything—
there are others in the mob, but all the leadership
and the organisation and almost all the gabble
comes from Joe Cook’s “cave.” That means
that until the impossible happens Federal
politics will be a fight between the Cook and
Wilks gang and all the rest of Australia, and
that all the rest of Australia must learn to regard
Sydney as the common enemy. Sydney gains
nothing by all this. It loses its share of office, for
the little minority for which it is mainly respon-
sible demands office on fiscal terms which are
impossible, and which it knew to be impossible
when the first invitation to federate was sent out
from Sydney. It gets not a step nearer to real
Freetrade, even if it really wants real Freetrade,
which it is difficult to believe in view of the wild
anomalies which it used to call its Freetrade
tariffs. The only tariff revision in view is one to
bring about definite Protection. Sydney gets the
discredit of being represented chiefly by a crowd
of blatherskites who are generally despised and
widely hated. And it is steadily rending the
State asunder; in many Protectionist con-
stituencies of the N.S.W. interior, Sydney, domi-
nated by the anti-Australian importers, threatens
soon to be as much hated as it could be if it were
an alien city. Meanwhile a section of the Sydney
importing crowd talks about “ secession.” If such
a thing were allowed—which is impossible—the
right of Riverina and the West to secede from
N.S.W. must also be allowed. Then those
parts would rejoin Australia, and it would
be a mere remnant of the importers’ State
that would emerge to resume its separate ex-
istence. At the same time a very large
section of the Federal .members would gladly
hear of the secession of Sydney and as much of
N.S.W. as wanted to follow it. The loss of the
places which return Conroy and Cook and
Johnson and the rest of that tribe would be a
load off the mind of any Legislature.
PAPUA AND BRITISH “JOHNNY”
RULE.
All acoounts agree that the Australian portion
of Papua is in a bad way. Industry languishes,
disorganisation affects the administration. Scan-
dals and rumors of scandals are common. Yet, a
few years ago, when it was British Papua, and
that capable Scotchman, Dr. William Mac-
Gregor, was Administrator, the Possession pro-
mised to be prosperous. MacGregor was a good
Governor; his heart was in his work, and his skill
was equal to his industry. Under his care the
mining industry had some hope of encouragement,
and the future of the natives was looked to in the
foundation of cocoa-nut plantations. With his
departure there came a change, and things
drifted until Papua, under Australian rule, is
about the most backward portion of Polynesia, and
compares unfavorably with the German, Dutch,
French and British settlements. Even the plan-
tations which MacGregor designed to take the
gentle natives’ mind away from head-hunting
have been allowed to go to ruin. Gold-mining
languishes, and, excepting for the production of a
more or less genuine crop of “converts” by mis-
sionary enterprise, there is no industry in our
part of Papua. Side by side with this lan-
guishing there grows a great discontent. Of The
Bulletin’s many correspondents in New Guinea
not one has a good word to say for the administra-
tion since the departure of MacGregor. Incom-
petence and partiality are said to affect almost
every branch of the public service. It seems to be
in petto a sample of that “English Johnny”,
administration of which so notable a display was
made in S’Africa lately.
• • * •
In casting a scoff at “ English Johnny adminis-
tration,” The Bulletin wishes to.disavow any
anti-British prejudice. There is no doubt at all
that in the past the Britisher—and the English-
man, just as much as the Scot or Irishman—has
shown a natural genius for the government of
inferior races; and this innate aptitude is still
shown conspicuously at times. But, these days,
there are Britishers and British Johnnies. The
times when the sons of the ruling classes were
generally sturdy and fairly sensible, for the very
good reason that if they weren’t they had a very
small hope of growing to manhoocl, have de-
parted, and the British aristocracy is a much
deteriorated institution so far as mental fibre goes.
These are the days of skirt-dancing earls and poor
heiress-hunting weakling dudes, and of barons
who are barren of everything that makes for
real manhood. And, with the decadence of the
aristocracy, there has come no change in the system
which demands that the army shall be as a rule
officered, and the diplomatic service manned, and
the remote parts of the British Empire governed,
by the scions of aristocracy. Some of these men
uphold worthily a great tradition, and they are
helped by a small band of promoted plebeians
whose arrogant merit has insisted on pushing
them into places for which, according to British
ideas, their birth unfits them. But this not-
withstanding, there is in this century a shockingly
large proportion of incapables engaged in the work
of governing “ Great Britain and its dependencies
beyond the seas.” They are men such as Huntley
so effectively satirised in some recent musical
comedies —weaklings without bodies or brains
fitted for anything but “ golf,” weak drinks, ping-
pong and tremulous flirtations. These are the
men who are forming the tradition of “ British
Johnny ” administration ; creatures with much
pride of ancestry but with minds and bodies that no
self-respecting mule would envy.
* * • •
Now Papua, or South-Eastern Papua, is
an Australian Possession, and, as such, should
be the last place in the world to be run on
British Johnny lines. That the Commonwealth


Size of Holdings.
Num-
ber of
Hold-
ings.
Extent
of Land
Occupied.
Extent of
Land
under
Cultiva-
tion.
1 acre
to
5 acres
2,374
acres.
7,252
acres.
3,131
6 acres
15 „
3,379
34,171
14,743
16 „
30 „
3,740
80,124
27,150
31 "
50 „
3,284
134,226
36,206
51 "
100 „
5,565
419,849
96,469
101
200 „
7,601
1,142,431
225,522
201 „
320 „
7,813
2,138,081
499,130
321 „
500 „
5,349
2,166,474
531,303
501 „
640 „
3,860
2,262,269
603,260
641 ,,
1,000 „
4,111
3,333,832
735,636
1,001 ,,
2,500 „
4,055
5,975,438
1,035,226
2,501 „
5,000 „
834
2,779,409
216,034
5,001 „
10,000 ,,
309
2,162,458
42,808
10,001 ,,
20,000 „
180
2,563,302
20,905
20'001 „
50,000 „
121
3,549,351
13,957
soiooi ,,
100,000 „
15
983,948
5,835
100,001 „
and upwards
8
2,448,433
8,299
Total
•
.. ..
52,598
32,181,048
4,175,614
entered far too lightly on the government of the
Possession The Bulletin argued at the time the
step was proposed, and so it still believes. Cer-
tainly whilst there was the Northern lerntory
waiting on the Commonwealth s door-step, it
was a bad move to take Papua m. Cut what
has been done can’t be undone, and, having
Papua, Australia must organise its government
to show that White Australia can do J ustice to a
black man’s country. The present disorganisation
of Papuan affairs is a humiliation to the Common-
wealth, and the humiliation will be much deepened
if shortly—as with the present trend of affairs
seems inevitable—Australia has to confess its total
inability to govern Papua. To avoid that, the
administration must be thoroughly reformed and
a form of Government set up on Australian rather
than British red-tape lines, with Australians in
charge. t t ,
There would really be something very interest-
ing to students of sociology—quite apart from the
value in practical results —in the experiment of a
characteristically Australian rule of Papua, ine
Australian is still a pioneer type, is free from the
caste prejudices which shackle older peoples, has
a faculty of originality and inventiveness which
are the hereditament of his free-and-easy and
somewhat adventurous life. So far as industrial
enterprises indicate, he seems to make a good
“boss”; at any rate, one finds Australians in
charge of big affairs in many corners of the globe.
An Australian Administrator in Papua with Aus-
tralian officials to help him, and no Bed Tape
Department, would be interesting to watch across
Torres Straits, and would perhaps, by his success,
give the hint to our State and Federal Govern-
ments to model their methods more on the lines of
the people they govern, and less on the lines of
the people who govern Britain ; for it is a curious
and mournful fact that the least Australian thing
in Australia is the political system, shaped by
exiles from Britain at a time when the reverence
for what is British was keenest, and what was
characteristic and individual of the population in
this new land was too busy with the early
pioneering work to take any hand in politics.
* « * »
A just, enterprising, business-like administra-
tion, stripped of all needless frills and ceremony,
is what The Bulletin would like to see in Aus-
tralian Papua; and that administration should do
its work with as little cant as possible. It is a
fact, from which there really seems no escap-
ing, that when the white man intrudes into the
black man’s country, it is not for the black man s
good. The savage gets Christianity, rum, trade,
tomahawks and beads, various new diseases, the
“ dignity of labor,” and other blessings of civilisa-
tion, and rapidly dies off. Perhaps it is of over-
much joy. Perhaps in the artless sincerity of his
conversion he wishes to hurry to that Heaven
which the white man believes in but is so re-
luctant to visit. (Even bishops sedulously avoid
Heaven). A sick bishop was ordered a long
vacation the other day by his doctor. He argued
that he couldn’t leave his flock that long. Ihe
doctor summed up, “Well, it’s that vacationer
Heaven ! ” and the Bishop decided to take the
vacation.) At any rate, the black man soon pies
of the blessings of civilisation. _ In New Guinea
an Australian Government might postpone his
fate for as many years as possible, perhaps for
ever, by restricting the supply of the blessings of
civilisation. And, as inevitable woes came upon
the heads of the Papuans, at least their groans
need not be answered with the hideous litany of
cant. Mr. Atlee Hunt, in a report drawn up
after a hasty rush through the Possession, sug-
gested a hut tax and forced labor far “ the good oi
the natives.” In the name of Heaven, let
Australian administration keep clear of
that jargon. It is hard to see why it
should be necessary to force the Papuans to
work if without work they can support them-
selves. If it is really necessary—a part of the
inevitable cruelty that follows when the strong
man covets Naboth’s vineyard—let 11s not do it
in the name of the Lord, or out of tender con-
sideration for the moral improvement of the
nigger. Sometimes, perhaps, cruelty cannot be
avoided. It is never necessary to garnish it with
cant.
* •» * *
The Australian Government during recess will
have time to ponder over the problem of Papua.
Perhaps even a Minister may be found with
courage and leisure enough to go to the Possess ion
and see for himself the muddle which exists, and
think out remedies. It is current rumor that
desperate social efforts are being made to influence
the Government to allow a continuance of the
present state of affairs, a public scandal being
regarded as a light matter compared with the
private benefit of certain individuals who live on
the present red-tape system. But The Bulletin
hopes to see a courageous effort made to establish
an Australian Government on non-red-tape prin-
ciples. It is more than a question of the petty
trade profits we may in time get from Papua;
and more even is involved than the happiness ot
the half-million or so of blacks entrusted to our
keeping. Australia’s prestige is committed to
making a success of the Papuan government.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Ring and a Mutton Chop.
The Anti-Trust Bill resurrects the Sydney Meat
Preserving Co., and the Daily Telegraph pro-
vides it with a thin coat of whitewash. Years ago
a half-dozen carcase butchers ruled the market;
they paid as little as they liked for stock and
charged as much as they pleased for meat. Ihen
the Meat Preserving Co. was formed; and its
buyer is always present to “steady the market.
If the public isn’t bidding up briskly enough, the
co.’s buyer bids up ; and tp get their supplies the
other buyers have to bid higher. Says the Man
with the Whitewash Brush—“ This prevents the
butchers forming a ring.” It does—and it
doesn’t. It may prevent them forming a ring
to beat the stockowner ; it certainly doesn’t
prevent them forming a ring to beat the
public which wants chops for its breakfast and
roast mutton for dinner. The immorality and
unfairness of the whole proceeding lies in the fact
that the legitimate buyer has to compete with a
fictitious buyer. Fictitious in this way : the price
he offers isn’t the price he pays, because the stock-
owners hand him back \ per cent, of the purchase
money, and this \ per cent, amounts to about
£9OOO a year. The buyer to whom the public
looks for its meat supply therefore has to play the
game with a competitor whose dice are loaded.
No possible objection could be taken to the
pastoralists running a meat preserving co., whose
buyer would compete on even terms; but when
there is a league between the pastoralists and one
buyer, involving a return of part of the purchase
money, with the object of compelling the public
to pay a fictitious price for its meat, then it is time
to find out what has come of the conspiracy laws
that were used by the same pastoralists in order
to “ down ” the shearers and other workmen when
they wanted a trifle more money for the dog’s life
they mostly lead.
♦
Closer Settlement in Victoria.
V ictokian Government Statist M‘Lkan has issued
a statement re the estates of Bent’s country—the
great estates, the small ones, the cultivated ones,
the ones that merely raise grass and block settle-
ment, and so on :
These figures contain some remarkable lessons.
Most remarkable of all is this, that although there
are 52,508 land-holders in Victoria, not reckoning
those who own a mere suburban back-yard, one-
thirteenth of the whole of the occupied land of the
State belongs to eight persons. Little more than
one-third of the whole land (namely, 11,718,709
acres) is in blocks of 1000 acres or less. Three-
fourths of the land-holders (39,105) hold blocks of
from one to 500 acres in area, but the total which
they hold is only 6.122,608 acres, or less than one-
fourth of the area held by the 13,493 big land-
grabbers. While three-fourths of them hold an
average of only 156 acres, the other fourth holds
an average of 1923 acres—over twelve times as
much. Of the holdings under 500 acres, 1,433,654
acres, or 23'47 per cent., are under cultivation. In
view of the high price of land, so many smaller
holdings are being kept for speculative pur-
poses that even this is not as high as it
should be. But When it is compared with
the cultivation of estates of larger size,
it is an enormous percentage; for of the
26,000,000 acres in holdings between 500 and
100,000 acres (and upwards), only 2,742,000 acres,
or 10'5 per cent., are under cultivation. Did the
large holders cultivate as assiduously as the small,
Victoria would have about 3,395,000 more acres
under crop—that is to say, its agricultural pro-
duction would be almost doubled. On the figures
put forward by M‘Lean, Victoria could afford, if
it were necessary, to exempt the holder of a living
area of land (i.e., the area sufficient to give a
reasonable living to one family) from any new
scheme of taxation. Such areas appear to constitute
only three-sixteenths of the whole; on the other
thirteen-sixteenths a progressive tax could be
imposed which would amount to a fair demand
on the 12,000 holdings between 500 and
2500 acres, and a crushing impost on the 1467
holdings which run from 2500 acres to “ 100,001 and
upwards,” and whicb const itu to s6V6n-sixt66ntns
(14,500,000 acres) of Victorians occupied soil. Let
the living area men once be got to clearly under-
stand such a policy (they will understand it only
by hearing it precisely expressed), and they and
their families will vote for it. That will mean
39,000 farmers’ families voting for Labor—if
Labor puts this matter clearly on its platform and
howls it night and day in the ear of every small
farmer in Victoria —-and 13,500 families voting
against it. And when parties get divided that
way the Bent-M‘Cutcheon form of government
will vanish like the ghost of a foolish dream.
♦
Labor in British Politics.
The British General Election brings with it a
sign which may mean the beginning of the end of
the reign of class privilege in England. It is
generally assumed to be certain that this time the
Liberals will be successful, but in no less than
42 cases the Labor candidate lias apparently so
good a chance of winning that the Liberal party
has made a virtue of necessity and adopted him as
its candidate also. The next Parliament will
certainly see the commencement—though it may
be a very small commencement—of a definite
Labor party in the British House of Commons,
and if that party knows what it wants, and knows
enough to want the right things, it will grow in
time to be a great party with all the future before
it The question is : Does it know what it wants .
Britain is still one of the richest countries per
inhabitant on all this earth, and yet so miserably
and unspeakably poor is it that there were
lately in one month 42 deaths from starvation
in London alone, a record that stands
as the prize horror of the white man’s share of the
earth. There are 12,000,000 people on the verge,
or over the verge, of starvation—nearly one-
third of the population. There are a few over
42 000 000 people in Britain, and almost the whole
wealth of the country (85 per cent, of it, to be
exact) is owned by 10,000 of them. That leaves
12 000,000 with nothing and 30,000,000 with only a
little. In many parts of Great Britain and Ire-
land farmers and peasants, whose lives at the best
were only a bitter struggle to pay the rent to the
landlord, who often didn’t know what to do with
his wealth, are being driven out so that the land
may be laid waste and reserved for wild animals
to be shot at by the loafing rich, lhe richest
landlords and the most tremendous mass ot
poverty that Europe or America can show
are to be found in Britain, and there, ever
since the present system of Parliamentary Govern-
ment began, Lord Coodle and Sir Thomas Doodle
have bustled into and out of office turn about, and
done nothing. They were both the same, except
that one was Coodle and the other Doodle. lo-
day in Britain manufactures are stationary or on
the down-grade, agriculture is decreasing, pauper-
ism has reached a point never before heard of—
and people who hardly know how to dispose ot
their riches are about to spend a million or two on
specially-prepared motor roads, so that the
whizzy, buzzy car of the millionaire can get up a
record pace without the inconvenience of running
over some pauper or some pauper s stray dog.
Close alongside Britain such countries as h ranee,
Denmark, and Prussia have been showing that
the problem of poverty is not hopeless; they have
directed their laws towards promoting the
subdivision of wealth, having recognised that
millionaires are a disease and that no little group
of men can own almost unlimited riches without a
huge section of the community living in chronic
starvation, because there isn’t sufficient wealth
to go round after the little group of millionaires
is satisfied. But Britain, busy on getting Lord
Coodle out of office and putting teir Ihomas
Doodle in, or vice versa, has apparently learned
nothing. Its policy is still to permit the growth
■of large estates, and by cordial recognition of the
alleged rights of the Eldest Son to keep these
large estates together in as few hands as possible.
If the British Labor party that is coming knows
what it wants, there is before it the greatest pro-
spect that has opened before any political party
in the last half-century. Supposing it put before
it these aims to begin with :
(1) No man who now owns country land to the extent
of 200 acres to be allowed to acquire any more.
(2) Every tenant to have the right to compulsorily pur-
chase the land he occupies up to 200 acres at a valuation
to be fixed by arbitration.
(3) Every town tenant to have the right to compul-
sorily purchase the house he occupies at a price to be fixed
by arbitration.
(4) Every estate in land or money exceeding £lO,OOO in
value to be equally divided at the owner’s death among
all his children, the “ rights of property ” being held
as inferior to the interests of the community, which
rights are best served by a wide diffusion of wealth.
(5) A heavy graduated land-tax on great estates, and a
.specially heavy tax on land fit for settlement which is
kept out of occupation for sporting purposes.
(6) Disestablishment and disendowment of the church.
(7) Industrial laws tending to secure a living wage for
all workers.
(8) Exclusion of undesirable aliens.
(9) Protection of British industry.
A Labor party with such a programme should
develop within a few years into a Labor Govern-
ment, and then, if it had the courage to raise
a sufficient number of coal-heavers to the
peerage to force its programme through
the House of Lords, anything would be possible
to it. Of course, such a programme means that
the House of Lords would go, and the squirearchy
would go, and the bishops and the Eldest Sons
would go, and the millionaires,and the great old
political landmarks would go, and Lord Coodle
and Sir Thomas Doodle would go, and the
Liberals and Conservatives would go —but unless
they go there is no hope of regeneration. The only
prospect for a renewed England lies in the growth
of a party which shall have for its constant
aim the wide diffusion of wealth, stately
homes and aristocratic traditions of England are
built on the concentration of wealth in the hands
of a few, and the constant woe and hunger of the
great multitude. Therefore, if any good is to be
done, many things will have to go.
+ -
Thou Shalt Not Commit Adultery 1
[For Tub Bullruin. ]
From the gloom of hoary ruins— -from the ages
that are sped—
Erom the dreary desolation of the silent, stricken
lands.
To the Nations that are living, from the Nations
that are dead,
There hath come the solemn warning that the
living God commands —
Yea, the tombs of smitten Nations God’s mo-
mentous message send
To the Nations that are living—to mankind in
every land.
And the Law of the beginning is the Law unto
the end—
Lo ! Heaven and earth shall perish but the Law
of God shall stand.
Hearken ! Oye foolish Nations! this the living
God hath said:
Evil and adult’rous Nations, bitter woe shall be
thy lot,
Cursed shall be thy habitations—sorrow-strewn
the paths ye tread.
Choked by foul abominations, thou shale die and
be forgot.
If thou wilt embrace the alien, thus the living
God hath said,
He shall be a curse upon ye in the land wherein ye
dwell;
He shall mystify thy judgment so that thou shalt
be misled.
He shall mock thy gods and scorn them, and shall
make thy land a hell.
Dost thou dream mankind hath altered since the
alien’s blood was shed
By the holy prophet Moses, ere the time when
Israel fled
From the tyranny of Egypt and the curse of
blended blood ?
Dost thou dream mankind hath altered since the
days before the Flood ?
Dost thou dream mankind hath altered since when
•Phinehas, the priest,
Slew the alien of Baal-Peor with proud Salu’s
vicious son ?
Since Babylon sank strangled by the morals of the
Beast ?
Since the strange outlandish women laid their
snares for Solomon ?
Is it nothing, O ye Nations, that thy children cry
for bread ?
That thy women’s eyes are burning with the tears
they cannot shed ?
Dost thou glory in thy trophies—broken heart and
ruined home ?
Dost thou glory in thy madness? Wilt thou not
remember Rome ?
maoriland. Lionel Terry.
The So-called Sugar “Bonus.”
To avoid a constitutional difficulty, when the first
Federal Government decided that some conces-
sion should be made in favor of white-grown as
against black-labor sugar, the concession was
called a “bonus” instead of a “ rebate.” It was
constitutionally doubtful whether the Federal
Parliament had power to grant a rebate of
excise or customs duty. It was certain
that it had power to grant a bonus. So the
difficulty was got over in a way suggestive of
the Lord Chancellor’s famous ruling m “lolanthe.”
The law of the fairies being that “ any fairy
marrying a mortal shall be condemned to death
the Lord Chancellor, strong in the ripe experience
of Equity practice, decided that the Act should be
interpreted “any fairy not marrying a mortal,”
and the difficulty vanished. So with regard to
the sugar industry in Australia. The rebate was
called a bonus and the constitutional problem was
solved. It wasn't a bonus, but the view was taken
that the Constitution wouldn’t notice the differ-
ence. Usually a penalty follows any want of
candor in legislation. It has been so with the
White Australian laws; and also with the
sugar “bonus” provision. Because of the word
“bonus,” the idea has been allowed to sink into
the minds of the voters that the people of Australia
generally are taxed to subsidise the white labor
sugar-growers of Queensland ; and the ignorant
or malicious daily newspapers of the various States
are full of commiseration for the “local farmer,
who has to pay this impost. As a matter
of truth, the exact opposite is the case. Hie
sugar-grower, practically alone of the producers
of the Commonwealth, has to submit to excise
taxation to help the revenue. If the wheat-
grower wants to be put in the same position,
let him ask that an excise duty of one shilling per
bushel be levied on all wheat grown, and that a
“bonus” of 9d. per bushel be paid to those
growers who use white labor exclusively. Most
wheat growers would get the “bonus,” but they
would also pay the excise and find themselves m
the end 3d. per bushel out of pocket. It, too
potato man of Tasmania wants a ‘ bonus on
the same terms as the sugar-grower he will
be offered it most cheerfully by any federal
Treasurer with an eye to revenue —an
excise of £1 a ton on potatoes with a
“bonus” of 15s. per ton to the white grower-
net result, every ton of potatoes pays ss. to the
revenue. The use of the word “bonus in con-
nection with the sugar excise has given a hint to
tho anti-Federal newspapers to mislead the pub-
lic : and they have taken the hint with alacrity.
The result is that probably more than halt the
Australian voters believe that the general popula-
tion has to pay a bonus to encourage the
white sugar grower, instead of the white sugar
grower paying a tax to encourage the reve-
nue. But even believing that, they are pre-
pared to continue the present system. It is
reasonable to believe that within the next tour
vears there will be a little more enlightenment on
the subject; the newspaper lies will be gradually
overtaken, so that a continuance of the rebate
system can be confidently reckoned upon by
Queenslanders. Seeing that the Commonwealth
is willing to sanction the arrangement when it is
called a “bonus,” it is certain to willingly agree
to it when realising that it is really only a small
reduction in a rather large tax.
♦
The Spreading Jap.
About the Japanese influx :
An ex-resident of Honolulu, writing in the New York
Times, says a few things of special significance to Aus-
tralia. inter alia he says “ The United States will
have a new form of the race problem to face if Japanese
migration to Hawai 1 goes on unhindered, tor all prac-
tical purposes the territory is a Japanese territory, and
any visitor will soon become convinced of the truth of
tins assertion. The brown men number i 0,00() souls,
scattered throughout the entire territory, with repre-
sentatives in every hamlet and village of the group, a heir
appearance in any town, as a general rule, has been
followed within a short period by the departure to other
shores of the Americans, whose labor was undersold and
standard of living undermined by the newcomers. Nearly
all the skilled labor of the islands is now being performed
by Japanese, whereas a few years ago it was all being
done by Hawaiians, Portuguese and Americans.
“ The second-generation Portuguese, children of those
who were brought over 20 years ago for plantation-work,
make fine citizens, educated, as they have been, in the
public schools ; but since they demand $3O a month for
their services, and the Japs will work for $l4 without
board, the Portuguese are no longer employed on the
plantations. Their work in the cities is also being under-
mined, and they are leaving in large numbers by every
steamer for Mexico, Canada, and the States, where they
hope to find a civilisation still free from Asiatic views and
still paying living wages to white men willing to do a
white man’s work. Most Americans who have attempted
to make their way in Hawaii since the American ascend-
ancy there have found it useless, and have left for other
places. In 1897 there were 24,407 Japs m the islands ;by
1900 they bad increased to 61,115, while the Chinese num-
bered 25,762, and the Hawaiians of all shades and colors
54 141.
’“To-day there are in round numbers 70,000 Japs,
28,000 Chinese and 30,000 Hawaiians. As against these
100 000 Asiatics there are 12,749 white people, including
English, German, French and all other Europeans. In
1901, 1902, 1903 and 1904 the number of Jap children in
the schools had increased 116 per cent., the Chinese chil-
dren 28 per cent., the Portuguese 14 per cent., and the
American, English, German and other European children
only 12 per cent. .
“ According to the 1900 census there were 9000 native-
born Asiatics, all of whom will have full rights of citizen-
ship in a few years. The Merchants’ Association deinon-
strated in addition that the Asiatic ‘ invasion had r 5"
suited in competition disastrous to all but the immediate
sugar interests, and that as a consequence of the surplus
labor (which numbers dearly 50,000) those engaged in
professional, mechanical, and mercantile pursuits were
being 1 ousted by the cheaper undesirables. The questions
involved are thus seen to embrace the important one as
to who shall populate and control these islands in the
future. ... ...
“ The situation in Hawaii is but one of the many indica-
tions that the time is approaching when the cheap labor
of the Asiatics will make more acute the wage problem
all over the world.”
And against these facts we have, on the other side
of the case, only the voluble assurance of Viscount
Hayasiii that the Jap has no desire at all to emi-
grate to Australia, and only wants the restrictions
removed because he comes of a “proud and sensi-
tive race.” He demands the right to come, it
seems, because he doesn’t want to come. Mean-
while the proud and sensitive Jap keeps his
barrier against white settlement in the Jap
country as high as ever.
♦
Secesh and its Gun.
Ip the N.S.W. secession push is serious in its
intentions, The Bulletin desires to inform that
body that it knows where a quantity of old guns
can be bought cheap. There is absolutely no use
in talking secession without a gun. No matter
how many foolish old meetings are held at Sydney
Town Hall (there has been none yet, but one is
talked about), or how many falsehoods are written
to the correspondence column of the Sydney
Telegraph, or how many referendums Oarru-
THERS may or may not take (he hasn’t taken any
yet, but he threatens one), the Australian Parlia-
ment has no power to dissolve the union. It
could no more do that than it could dissolve the
Russian empire. The British Parliament could
do it, but that body would first want a full state-
ment of the alleged grievances, and then the
representatives of the Australian Parliament
would prove beyond all question that
every one of these alleged grievances was
a lie, and the verdict of the British Par-
liament would be that the secession party was
either a lunatic or the last thing in the way
of an impossibly cantankerous old woman.
Under the circumstances, it is to be hoped that
Mayor Taylor, of Sydney, who talks of
calling a meeting of the disaffected at Sydney
Town Hall, will realise that he is fooling with a
movement that is no use without a barricade
and a gun. There are many very good places tor
barricades in Sydney, and the belltoppers of the
secessionists —who are mostly an elderly, foolish,
pot-I', atted brigade—would be handy for carrying
ammunition around in, also water for the y ounded.
Cf course the surviving leaders of the secesh
movement would probably be hanged in the end,
but hanging is a much less painful process
than it used to be. And they could at
least make a noble speech apiece on the
scaffold, and state that they had risen
in revolt to prevent the Federal capital having


m.
m
V»
o
BCCO
(Na vy Cut.)
MINS EASY
" EVERY TIME •
on Account of its natural
aromatic flavour*
GALL-AHER UP BELFAST- BELONG TO N° TRUST or COMBINE
enough land to provide itself with a water-supply,
and that their ghosts would haunt the Federal
reservoir forever and a day. And then, just as
there was going to be a thud, it is possible
that a breathless messenger would arrive with a
reprieve, and an order that the defendants were
to be imprisoned for the remainder of their days
in the Benevolent Asylum, or else permanently
exiled to Thursday Island, where tne pearling
niggers and the profanity and the lukewarm rum
are.
♦
Morocco.
Morocco, which gave to Europe one of its most
virile and formidable non-Caucasian invaders, and
deeply tinged the texture of its civilisation, has now
reached that stage of decrepitude at which it is tit
to be added to the pack of the “White Man’s
Burden ” ; and to influence its disposal various
European Powers are bluffing that they hold war
hands. The conference in regard to Morocco,
which opens shortly, will probably not result in a
European war; but the impression that it will is
being sedulously fostered in some quarters. Ger-
many allows it to transpire that the Fatherland
is preparing for war. France seeks to hint that,
if war does come, it is ready. Belgium, the
old “cock-pit of Europe,” takes precautions to
guard against its frontier being violated. Great
Britain mobilises its fleet on a war footing under
the guise of “manoeuvres,” and an American
fleet finds it handy to drop in on Morocco at this
juncture. All these war signs would be more
impressive if they were more furtive. As they
stand, they seem to spell “ bluff,” the threatening
indications of people who do not mean to fight,
but who wish to indicate that as a last resort they
are ready to do so. Morocco is, from a strategic
point of view, a prize worth striving for. It
could be made to command the Mediter-
ranean as well as Gibraltar. It has a
fine Atlantic port, which could threaten the
second European route to Asia —that around the
Cape of Good Hope. Germany—which as a result
of a continued policy of trying to be “too clever by
half” is in a somewhat isolated position in European
diplomacy—sees a real grievance in the fact that
France and Britain have between them decided
on the fate of this rich prize; that it is to be
absorbed by France, and that in return Britain’s
position in Egypt is to be recognised. In reply
it is the business of British and French diplomacy
to express willingness for war and to mass as much
solid and visible threat behind that expression
as possible. Up to this the hand against Ger-
many seems far the stronger. At the coming
conference Britain, France, Spain, and probably
Russia, Italy, and Portugal will stand together.
Germany may have the support of Austria, but
that is at least doubtful. The attitude of the
United States —which country has insisted on
being represented—will be of very great import-
lf the big Republic sides with Britain
and France, Germany’s position will be hopeless.
American adhesion to German views would, on
the other hand, give the Kaiser encouragement
far greater than the actual military strength of
the U.S.A. would warrant. Indeed, it wouldn’t
be at all surprising to find America “bossing”
the conference and dictating a decision on com-
promise lines.
♦
Malouf, the Syrian who came to Australia as a
temporary Asiatic on an exemption certificate
and who now refuses to leave, has, it seems, an
Uncle Malouf in Sydney, and the Telegraph
allows Uncle Malouf to spread himself at great
length in its columns like this
I have made many hundreds of pounds. I have put
some of my money into property, and I own over 50
houses and shops. I have a factory with 25 Australian
girls employed in it. lam very angered over my nephew’s
treatment. Look at him ! What is there undesirable
about him ? Why should they be spiteful to him ? Thev
let him come here, and tell him that he may stay as long
as he likes. They allow him to spend all his money, and
when he gets a good business they drive him out. This
is not justice. It is not British justice. I refuse
to see my nephew ruined because of the officiousness
of a Customs official. Parliament—l have a vote myself
~ ‘never thought that the Act would be administered
in such a monstrous way. lam going to light for my
nephew. I will go to the fountain-head of British justice
to secure his rights. Not until the Privy Council wills it
will I stop. They know what is right and just, and if
they say he must go he will leave without a protest. It
will be expensive. I don’t care how expensive it is. It
is not fair that I should have to spend my money to get
justice. Justice should be free, but the fact that it
cannot be obtained without spending my money will not
stop me from gofng after it. lam going to fight this out
to what you call the bitter end.
The Telegraph might have put a footnote to
Uncle Malouf’s letter, to the effect that the Aus-
tralian authorities didn't tell Malouf the nephew
that he might stay here as long as he liked, but that
rag neglected to do so. Any brown or other uncle
who wants to slander the Australian Government
can get space on a conspicuous page of the
Telegraph, and, however glaring his tale may be,
the Telegraph allows him to shout and blather
without contradiction.
From a recent S.M. Herald article concerning
Tommy Tanna
The small (Queensland) storekeepers will also miss the
Kanaka. They traded together very considerably.
Tommy generally got the worst of the deal, for now and
again he was robbed right and left, and woke up to find
he had no redress against the levanting offender, who
had made good his escape from the district. This was
the result of misplaced confidence. The practice used to
be for the Kanaka to make the storekeeper his confidant
and banker. A room was set apart with shelved recep-
tacles for a square pine box, in which Tommy kept nic-
nacs bought between times till he was ready to return
home. Some storekeepers would have hundreds of those
boxes at one time. It paid them to provide the space.
It was a handle to business, and the goods stored were
generally bought at the shop. The storekeeper acting as
banker would at times hold very large sums, for which he
would get interest at the bank, and in most cases he
retained this as compensation for this trouble ! Now and
again history would repeat itself by the report that the
storekeeper had suddenly disappeared. In one district
no less than three of these unscrupulous traders one year
caused lament amongst their colored friends by de-
camping with £l9OO, £l2OO, and £llOO respectively.
This accounts for some of the opposition to the
deportation of the Kanaka, anyhow. Nobody
can rob the Kanaka when there isn’t any Kanaka
to rob.
♦
Westralia, with a quarter of a million popula-
tion and a revenue of £3,500,000, cannot make
both ends meet. There will he a deficit this year
of at least £150,000, and Parliament has just
authorised another million loan. The Estimates
for the current year were not submitted until six
months of the period had passed, and members
sincerely anxious of cutting down the frightfully
overgrown civil service were told that they were
too late. Item after item was passed with light-
ning rapidity. The Rason Ministry put up a
record—the whole of the Estimates were rushed
through in three nights, and on the fourth night
the manner in which the million (yet to be
borrowed) is to be spent was decided upon.
Every credit is due to Keenan, the new member
for Kalgoorlie, who attempted to stem the torrent,
and repeatedly moved for the reduction of votes,
but without avail. He pointed out that increases
were being given to the men already drawing the
biggest salaries all through the departments, and
J vitl) a bl £ cleHc ' ifc inevitable such items as
£OOO for a snake-house at the Zoo, £2OOO increase
to the picture gallery, £2OOO to the punlic library
over and above last year’s vote, and £4OOO to
King s Park were being voted without explana-
tion of any kind. Of all these concerns “Dr.”
Hackett, chief boss of the West Australian,
is chairman, and in a leading article Keenan was
viciously attacked for daring to suggest that the
expenditure might at least be deferred until the
deficit was wiped out. Rason, so far from
carrying out a policy of retrenchment, is going
the pace faster even than Bigjohn the
Reckless.
—
After spending over half a million in erecting an
alleged rabbit-proof fence, the Westralian Govern-
ment found it necessary to erect another one, 50 1
miles further westward. Now it is found that
rabbits are swarming on both sides of both fences.
A man who was in charge of one section expressed
a straight-out opinion that the money was being
absolutely wasted. There was no supervision,
and the men were allowed to do as they darned
well pleased. For this frankness he was promptly
sacked, and he has just sent along a further state-
ment. Here are a few extracts :
The fence, as it stands at the present time, is valueless
as a rabbit fence for the reason that it is not high enough,
and already the rabbits are going over the top. .. I was 14
months in the Department, stationed 114 miles south of
Burracoppin, and during that time the Chief Inspector
had never been once along the fence. .. The present
attempt now being made by tiie Department to cope with
the rabbits between the two fences is childish and
ludicrous. There are two overseers and twelve rabbiters,
only two of whom have had previous experience in
trapping. The result is that where one rabbit is caught
there should be two dozen.
And yet for more than two years the Chief Rabbit
Inspector has been collaring £OOO a year, and
Parliament has just voted £75,000 for continuing
the farce. Poor Westralia !
STARTLING.
“ Big sensation in town, Bill. 'Are yer'eard?”
“No. Wot is it?”
“Split in the Labor party.”
“No. Is there?”
“ Yes. I'll tell yer abaart it. Hi've left the party.”
A wheel examiner on a northern S. Aus.
line dug a precocious six-year-old kid out of the
grease and dust and grime under a railway-truck,
the other day. The youngster—of six—said he
was full up of the country and wanted to get to
town ; and he was getting there on the cross bars
of the brake of a milk-van. They nipped his
enterprise when he was still 100 miles from his
Mecca, and sent him back to his cows. *
“ B.” writes :
The recent tragedy at Leichhardt (Sydney), where a
woman shot three times at her husband and then killed
herself, originated in a rooted antipathy, which arose
from no apparent cause. This psychical phenomenon is
not so very uncommon after a confinement. I knew of a
case where the wife’s love took a sudden sheer, and she
hated her husband with vehemence. The unfortunate
man tried his best to disabuse her of the conviction that
he was about to desert her and her child and leave them
destitute. To this end he settled the whole of his pro-
perty in her name. This had the effect of driving her
tottering brain clean off its balance, and she was taken to
Callan Park within a week. The husband then found
that all the property had been taken possession of by the
Master-in-Lunacy. In the midst of his fruitless struggles
with the Lunacy Department his wife died, and the pro-
perty went over to the Curator of Intestate Estates. By
the time all the legal forms had been gone through, most
of it had melted in Costs. Good old Costs !
About Victor Daley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Victor Daley liad two stories of an old friend of
his earlier journalistic days that he told with great
delight when the wine was red. Mack was a boon
companion and a kindred spirit; his was always
the same, and the two saw many mornings
dawn. One night, Victor, being less gay than his
brother in felicity, took him home under his wing—-
“Or betook me home, I forget which,” Daley would
add naively. Anyhow, Victor was awakened in
the dark and early hours of morning, and heard
the voice of one crying in the wilderness of night.
The one was weeping, not noisily, but in a
quiet, patient, desolate way. V.J.D. stole out
of bed, and, pawing about in the darkness,
found his friend. Mack took Daley’s two hands
in his. and clung to them, and continued weeping
quietly, and with immeasurable pathos. “ Why,
whatever is the matter, Mack, old man?” mur-
mured the poet, compassionately. Mack pressed
Victor’s hands more closely, struggled with his
feelings for a moment, and then said, in a low
broken voice, “ Sing to me, Victor—sing to me ! ”
* * » *
The other story of the same companion in
rhyme tells of Daley being awakened very late
one dark, wet, windy night and lying for quite
half-an-hour listening to a low, patient, but per-
sistent knocking at his front door. The night was
cold and the bed and the poet were hard to part,
but at length Daley arose, pulled on his trousers,
and went down to the door, talking good hot Irish
to himself all the way. He opened the door, and,
peering about in the storm, at length discovered a
sopping figure kneeling on the mat. It was Mack.
“ Victor,” said Mack in the lugubrious tones that
always marked the third stage of an opulent jag,
“Victor, dear old friend, can I sleep under your
mulberry tree ? ”
* * * »
Victor Daley told many bailiff stories, but this
one, I think, has not previously seen print. The
bard and several other Bohemians, including an
artist and a vagabond comedian, were living in
the centre house of a terrace of three, the rent of
which was 15s., unpaid weekly. Presently it
became the painful duty of the landlord to'put a
man in possession of the combine’s bits of sticks.
The combine made the “officer and gentle-
man ” very welcome, had a gay morning with him,
and filled him so full of beer that before noon he
was drunk, unconscious, and incapable. Then
Victor took him by the head, and the comedian
seized his heels, and they carried him into the
house adjoining, which was exactly like their
own, but empty. When the bailiff awakened,
sore and contrite, he found the combine squatting
about him on the floor, and not a stick of furni-
ture in the house. The wreck of what had once
been a bailiff staggered off, and reported that the
Bohemians had drugged him, and stolen away all
their belongings. V..J.D. and his companions
remained three days longer in the house, and
then, having raised sufficient to hire a van, they
shifted at their leisure.
* * * *
Another misfortunate and myself were running
a little lunatic paper at the time, and the free-
lances used to foregather there because bottles of
beer thrown from the pub. just across the right-
of-way could be caught at my office window, and
the landlord of the pub. was a trusting soul. One
afternoon Victor and I and the other misfortunate
entered the pub. bar, and found a shaggy ruffian
(he was a half-pint religious journalist and can-
vasser) raging drunk, and insisting that he was
Victor Daley and the author of “ The Sunset
Fantasy ” and “ The Old Wife and the New,”
fragments of which latter he roared at the top of
his voice while beating a pewter out of shape on
the counter. Denials from a few authorities about
only made him roar the louder. “ I am Victor
Daley,” he thundered; “I’m the greatest living
poet of the age. Victor James Daley is
my name, and I’ll smash any man that
denies it. I’ll smash him, I tell you !”
He raised the pewter aloft, and his roar was
terrific. Then Daley stepped in under the battered
pot. “You’re not Victor Daley” he said.
“ Wha-a-at?” bellowed the inebriate “not Victor
Daley, not the great poet Daley? I’ll have your
life ! ” “ No, you’re not,” said Victor, “ because I
am.” A feeble light of recognition came into the
drunk’s cobwebbed eye, the elevated arm dropped
slowly. “By (hie!) Jove, so you are,” he said.
“My mistake, old fellow.” It was the neatest
thing in apologies that I remember.
EDYSON.
Letters, apparently inspired by persons
connected with the tramway Co., appear almost
daily in the Melbourne papers, complaining with
great damp weeps about the alleged discomforts
of the Government motor-bus service from
Prahran to Malvern. A much simpler device
than all this letter-writing would be simply
not to travel by the State vehicles; but the
trouble is that people do travel by them—in
fact the public hang on to them like bees. The
good qld Imperial flag has also been raised, right-
thinking persons demanding to know why the
Railway Commissioners originated a design for a
motor ’bus instead of following the English model.
That question answers itself. The deviation was
forced on the department to suit the roads, and
the fact is the department didn’t deviate enough
to suit this specially awful route. It is like a
choppy sea suddenly transmuted into macadam,
and the cyclist who ventures over it does so at the
cost of his machine. The real fault lies, not with
the Government, but with the primaeval conserva-
tism of the municipalities, which upset a mass of
rocks, spill some dirt over it, and call it a high-
way, when it is more like the Kentucky “railroad”
of muddy antiquity.
A VOICE.
“ Really, now, I’m not so deaf as they say. I
declare I heard a cat mew when I sat down.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girl from Kay’s.”
Theatre Royal “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
Criterion “Rogues of the Turf.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Gilbert and Sullivan’s Opera Co.
Her Majesty’s “ Merely Mary Ann."
Theatre Royal “A Path of Thorns.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Bostook and Womb-
well’s Circus .. Variety Co.
Athenjeum Hall Best & Baker’s Biograph.
Princes Court
♦
By way of preparation for the Secesh
meeting which is to be held in Sydney Town Hall
to talk about the Woes of N.S. Wales, Mayor
Allen Taylor ought to shout all the suburban
mayors, and Trickett, and Dr. MacLaurin, and
the other Jeremiahs a matinee ticket for Her
Majesty’s; and J.C.W. might put on a special
performance of “ The Girl from Kay’s ” for their
benefit. In this special performance the big
letters in the bill shouldn’t be given to Hoggen-
heimer, or The Girl, or to Norah Chalmers (Miss
Margaret Thomas), but to Norah’s ma. Norah
is the young woman who is going to be married to
Haigh Jackson, and whose bonhfet hasn’t'come
home, which leads to the appearance on the scene
of the milliner-girl from Kay’s. Haigh Jackson,
though a sharebroker, is a really decent fellow,
and likely to make Norah a first-class husband as
husbands go ; but Norah’s ma is a fidgetty lady
of great bulk and manifest prosperity. She ob-
viously is the person of the whole show who
could give the best account of a substantial
dinner ; but she moves her vast tonnage around
wailing about her poor wilted condition, and moan
ing that a delicate woman like she is can’t do what
other folks can. Also, she is sure that something
dreadful will happen to her Norah ; and when
somebody mentions that away back in the forties
or somewhere a stockbroker was hanged, she is
dead-sure Norah’s stockbroker will be hanged,
too; and she holds a meeting to wail over the
awfulness of having a hanged son-in-law
in the family. Mrs. Chalmers is a very
fine representation of the dear old Ma
State as the N.S. Wailers picture it ; and it
ought to do them a lot of good to turn up at Her
Majesty’s and see what a foolish old person it is.
Incidentally, it will do other people a lot of good
to likewise turn up to see “The Girl from Kay’s,”
for the singing is something special, and Miss
Florence Young’s millmer-girl is a perpetual
delight.
** * *
“ Sinbad the Sailor,” at Sydney Royal,
has taken on with the youngsters, and the
matinees every week are crowded with youthful
admirers of the fairies, and the harem ladies, and
the jugglers, tumblers, and funny men. An ex-
cellent idea is that of locating the harlequinade in
a menagerie ; even with children the fun in time
wears off the joke of burning the policeman’s seat
of dignity with an imaginary red-hot poker
(besides, that form of humor is apt to unduly en-
courage Australian lack of reverence for authority).
The menagerie harlequinade allows for a new
range of primitive mirthfulness. “ Sinbad ” seems
likely to be Sinbadding for quite a while. Then
there is some talk of the resources of the co. being
devoted to opera-bquffe for the rest of the hot
weather. The decision is wise. It represents
needless wear and tear of villain to keep him pur-
suing virtue with the glass showing 100’ in the
shade.
** * *
“ Two Little Vagabonds ” leave Sydney
Criterion on Friday night after a prosperous time
of scallywagging and romantic dying. On Satur-
day night “Hogues of the Turf” will be staged
by the Holloway Co. The Horse and the Ques-
tionable Woman will permeate the new piece,
and the ruin that the fast girl and the slow
moke bring upon impressionable males will be
worked out to a more or less logical conclusion.
The Rogue, the Turf, and the Tinted Venus
with the chemical hair offer no end of possibilities
to the melo-dramatist, and the public takes most
kindly his working out of the game with these
materials. Provided of course that virtue, youth
and beauty cyanide out richly by the time the
last curtain is called.
** * *
Thurston’s uncanny business, at Sydney
Palace Theatre, picked up during the week. Sym-
pathetic persons who went to see the mysterious
production of lovely women from inside suit-cases
and bonnet-boxes were rejoiced to note also the
flocks of fat poultry that had escaped being eaten
to make a Christmas holiday by hiding themselves
inside the magician’s hats and pockets and cigar-
cases. Next week, Thurston and his fellow and
girl companions in magic go to Hobart, where the
fleet will be.
** * *
Miss Agnes Chambers’ series of Popular
Concerts will close on Saturday night, and the
inaugurator and her manager, Mr. Southwell,
have every reason to wear the corners of their
mouths turned up over the success of the venture.
The engagement of the Scottish vocalist, Miss
Maggie McCann, who came over for the Highland


Society’s New Year concert, was a real heather
sprig of business. The damsel is not vei 7
our late visitor, Jessie Maclachlan. Her shoulde
are just as good, and she has a way wi
in vocalisation, and her bit of Scotch accent made
the Highlanders fall down before her in abject
reverence. Her singing of “ 0 whistle and
come tae ye, me lad,” caused them to murmur,
“ Ye’ll nae whistle lang then. Deed 111 be there
a’ ready, we’ll a’ be there.” The Scotchmans
heart is like dry tinder when a nice young woman
drops a spark from her eye on it. It s only ms
cunning that makes him pretend he s like a cold-
storage vault.
** * *
The only remark that seems called for
regarding Sydney Tivoli is that the Eight j
roses are a-blowing and a-toeing with all their o
success, and that the audience seems to like tins
kind of primrose best when it is waving its stalks
in the air. Boy Glen and Ryder Sloane have
nearly finished their Sydney course, and still
another balladist from England has come to
strengthen the bill. He doesn’t strengthen the
bill; but as it was a good bill before, the failure
doesn’t matter so much.
** * *
At any other than the present season,
which is mostly a season of heat and apathy, the
revival of “Princess Ida,” at Melbourne Princess s,
would be wanted for more than six nights. Ihe
opera is as good as new to most people, and,
although not as good as the best of the Gilbert and
Sullivan works, its quaint of extrava-
ganza, farcical comedy, and pure Gilbertianism
gives it a distinctive flavor. The rival monarchs,
Hildebrand and Gama, and the three tin-clad sons
of the last-named potentate, have nothing m
common with any other qf Gilberts creations.
They want knowing, and having come to stay for
a week only they will not be generally understood
when their time is up. It was noticeable on
Saturday that the audience didn’t catch the
humor of Hildebrand’s Opening address. Also,
Gama and liis three grotesque sons seemed to
puzzle the house, but the idea of Hilarion and his
friends masquerading as female students in a
stronghold for young ladies appealed instantly to
popular intelligence. The house thought of
“Charley’s Aunt.” In fact, the appearance of
friend Cyril (Kenningham) reminded one m its
weirdness of the fraudulent old person from
Brazil, where the nuts come from.
* * * *
The order of merit in this performance is
the same as in previous performance of the G. and
S. Repertoire Co. The chorus is charming, the
orchestra excellent, and the principals most of
them —range from satisfactory to admirable. Ihe
conspicuous exception is Miss Holly Castles, in
the rather unthankful name part, iohe hasti t the
necessary height or deportment, and in trying to
look serious she puts her facial light out. Never-
theless a little girl in the part would be acceptable
(one can’t have everything every time) if she sang
and talked it prettily. Miss Dolly Castles has a
more or less defective ear for music. Her intona-
tion is not always true in singing. Her delivery
of a long speech gets out of tune with its
meaning, and doubtless there are some tall
girls in the chorus who could do fuller
justice to the lines of Princess Ida if given the
chance. None of the lady principals get shining
opportunities. Miss Aggie Thorn makes much of
a smalt character, Miss Yima He Loitte might be
a more distinguished Lady Psyche, and Miss
Grhiloni is her highly-intelligent, mezzo-soprano
self in an uncompromisingly contralto part, ihe
men are better placed. Frank Wilson, as liilde-
AT THE “SHOUT EE'S ” EXPENSE.
" Sponge actually asked me to have a drink this
morning
“ Did you accept ?”
"No. I told him I didn't have any money.”
brand, asserts his rich vpice very impressively ;
Howard Vernon —the King Grama is big and
blunt and vigorous where the late Elton was keen
and venomous. Ernest Fitts and his mates are a
fine, musical trio of sons ; Kenningham (lame on
Saturday) is a tenor vocalist who can act very well,
and Walter Whyte is a tenor who doesn’t act too
badly nowadays. Whyte (as Hilarion) scored the
hit of the evening in the ballad which introduced
Clarence Leu mane to Australia some 18 years ago.
It is, perhaps, the most showy and commonplace
song that Gilbert ever wrote, but the words
being in narrative form have confined it to the
opera. Fitted with new words, it would soon
become a hackneved item at ballad concerts.
Next Saturday (13th) brings “The Sorcerer ”back
to notice after an absence of 20 years, or nearly
that long (Melbourne had it at the Royal, with
Frank Thornton as the matter-of-fact wizard), and
the latter half of the week will be given to “The
Yeoman of the Guard.”
** * *
“ Merely Mary Ann ” is keeping her
situation at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), and her
lovely innocence as to her origin is still expressed
in three short words. Considering that Mary
Ann’s religious principles are of the merest
Sunday-school character, and her artless piety
qualifies her to be the heroine of a Bible Society’s
tract, distributed gratis, the comedy might have
dealt more reverently with the greasy shepherd
who brings the glad tidings of her half-million.
Pastor Oily Deering is introduced as an object for
ridicule, an unmitigated humbug, though he is a
typical agent for the particular brand of Kerris-
tianity that has proved so beneficial to Maiy
Ann’s young soul. He really deserves to be
congratulated on the purity of Mary Ann.
* * *
“ A Path of Thorns ” is putting in a third
week at Melbourne Royal, and the end of that
Australianised melodrama is not yet. h and
Holt’s latest is full of life. Also it contains three
murders and a suicide. In short, a bright and
gruesome story.
** * *
Best and Baker’s Biograph, almost free
from flicker, but not guiltless of agitation, lias
earned an honorable reputation at the Atheii«euin
Hall for its assortment of pictures. Ihe places,
persons, and things filmed into evidence are inter-
esting subjects —unless they happen to be wil-
fully “comic.” A specially interesting person is
the monkey who earned an enormous salary
at the ’alls in Europe by displaying more intelli-
gence than the average human idiot. After wit-
nessing one of his performances on the L.B. bio-
graph sheet one is glad to know that the monkey
died young. He was a humiliating fact for man-
kind to pay its money to witness.
#* * *
Bostock and Wombwell’s show is now
advertised as a “Novelty Circus,” but the new
title doesn’t meet the difficulty. Melbourne lias
not yet recovered from a recent double dose ot
circus. The word has a horsy meaning, and
Melbourne is not looking for broncho steeds and
phenomenal ponies just now. Anyone who can
think of a word signifying a vaudeville entertain-
ment under canvas would bestow a boon on
Bostock and W. by sending it along. In the
meantime the attendances at the tents appear
to be increasing, and the principal hon ess
in the incidental menagerie has given birth
to twins. On Friday night of this week
Premier Bent will mark his respect for the
ancient firm of B. and W. by christening those
twins, to which end the wise men of the menagerie
are seeking means to discover the sex ot the
tawny infants. It is one thing to guess (from the
size of their little heads) that a lioness s two babies
are male or female, or one of each. But it is quite
another thing to arrive at a settlement of the
question what time the doting mother is looking
on. And she’s always looking on. Ihe Bulletin
hopes that die will not get enraged at the sight ot
godfather Bent, anyhow.
** * *
An ‘‘actor vocalist” who vocalacts under
the name of Arthur Albert, is this week’s addition
to the Rickards Melbourne programme. Ihe
Jackson Family, and. the remarkable cyclists
likewise the marionettes, and a host ot
attractions ” continue to deserve liberal sup-
port at the Opera House. On cool nights
the present bill is universally admitted
to be a first-class document, but there
were some nights last week when a troupe
of archangels, just arrived under special engage-
ment to Mr. Rickards, would have been incapable
of moving a vast audience to enthusiasm. In the
first place, the audience would not have been vast.
* *- * *
The Palace Gardens at Perth (VV.A.) and
the Palace Theatre (formerly the Oremorne) are
being run this season on “ clean and wholesome
lines by young Leonard Davis, who seems to be
teaching Perth what it wants, and creating the
appetite that he feeds upon. Australian showmen
begin to drop to the fact that during the hot
months there’s a lot of money in the long-neglected
art of “gardening.” Undoubtedly there is a
steady decline in the demand for indoor entertain-
ment. Melbourne at the present time offers a
splendid opportunity for a municipal pleasure
ground, down by the Yarra, west of Pnnoes
Bridge. A small charge for admission and the
appointments of a German bier-garten would
enable the management—representing the Cor-
poration—to establish a capital town band. And
Melbourne is vaguely understood to be pining, tor
a town band that would lure the Philistines
towards an appreciation of Marshall Halls
orchestra.
■*- * *
Amusements in Adelaide are right down
to summer level, and the many seaside resoits
have been doing all the business. At the Royal,
“Thunderbolt” had the luck to run against a
streak of the worst kind of weather. Yet it is
probably the best drama of its precise kind, and
George Darrell is helped by a strong co. (including
notably Mabel Lane) to give its robust methods
full value. .
AT POVERTY POINTS.
“ Melb.” : It is cheeky for Bracy to state, as per advt.,
that “Pinafore” this Christmas was the best here on
record, but he may be right. J.C.W. opened Her
Maiesty’s with “Pinafore” on Mafficking night, a huge
stroke of purely accidental luck. Yet the performance
all round was not up to this Christmas. Here are the
two casts: Josephine, Carrie Moore, Castles ; Buttercup,
Polly Vane, Ghiloni ; Sir Joseph, Laun, Vernon ; Rack-
straw Kenningham both times ; Corcoran, Brownlow,
Wilson • Deadeye, Hugh Ward, Fitts; Bobstay, Shine,
Wallace In no one point was the Mafficking show ahead,
except that Carrie’s perfect grace was preferable to the
superior voice of our latest Josephine. The suavity and
ability of Lauri were more than compensated for by the
characteristic chippy touches of Vernon. It is a good
deal to say, but Wilson was better than Brownlow.
Wallace even sang better, but then Brownlow was
recovering from a tumble out of a Sandringham upstairs
window. These vain fellows won’t wear glasses. Dolly
Vane could not, or at all events did not, fling herself
into Buttercup with the delicious abandon of Ghiloni.
Dollv seemed to say all the time, “ If it has come to this,
it is time for me to get.” Hugh Ward’s Deadeye was
sheer impudence ; he croaked the music, but Hugh hau
le'>s! Yet Leslie and Wallace show that no man is
indispensable.
“ Melb.” : Hold hard about Sydney having the one Aus-
tralian pantomime this year. John Wallace staged a good
pantomime of “ Little Red Riding Hood ” at the Collmg-
wood Town Hall this Boxing Night and following even-
imrs There was also a tarantula nightmare of a panto,
called “Jack and the Beanstalk” at Gavin’s Cyelorama
Theatre, a monster circular barn where the Waterloo,
Jerusalem, and Gettysburg visions were shown.
After the recent announcement of a marriage engage-
ment Melbourne audiences evinced considerable interest
in the “Pinafore” scene between Sir Joseph (Howard
Vernon) and Hebe (Miss de Loitte), where the lady
expresses her intention to “ soothe and comfort your
declining days.”
“ F.” : A Poverty Point item. Tuesday, Jan. 16, will
be the 110th anniversary of the drama in Australia. On
16/1/1790 the dramas of “The Revenge and The
Hotel ” were performed. The manager’s name was
Sparrow, and the actors were Green, Hawkes, Hughes
and Mrs. Davis. Mr. Sidaway built the theatre which
stood somewhere between Jamieson-street andMaigaret-
street near George-street. Mr. Hughes was a printer, and
the first Government Printer at that. We are told that
the cash box was stolen.
“ Edvson ” : The starring system has a tremendous in-
fluence on dramatic criticism in the daily newspapers.
The eulogies lavished on Tittell Brune’s most uneven
performance in “Merely Mary Ann,” while the really
excellent work of a subordinate is passed over with a con-
descending pat or two, provide only another of many
instances demonstrating the rule. Miss Brune slips
ochasiohally into the right vein on the comedy side
of Mary Ann, but her pathos is a purely artificial
A GOOD SAMARITAN.
FIRST GARROTTER: “So yer give up workin ’ with
Bill !”
SECOND DITTO: “ Yes, too risky. Why, every
time we'd flatten a bloke, ’e'd ring up the
bloomin’ hambulnnec.”
American brew common to ma>ny actresses from the land
of Sam, and would appear to be carefully concocted
from a simple recipe. Miss Brune has not yet struck
a single note of pathos that ran true in my ear, although
she has a neat turn of auger, and one hurst of passion
that goes a good way. This ineffectiveness in sentiment
makes Miss Brune painfully accentuate the rank absurdity
of Zangivill’s Mary Ann. The one living, breathing indi-
vidual in the whole collection is the very actual London
lodging-house-keeper presented by Susie Vaughan. 1
admit that the writer, in drawing the queen of hash to
the life, has made the actress’s task comparatively easy.
But the combination is an artistic success, perfect within
its limits, whereas the Zangwill-Brune combination is an
artistic failure.
Melbourne Argus has been greatly impressed by a yarn
concerning handsome Maxine Elliott. It remarks with
bated breath that “ one of the greatest men in England
a nobleman who has won the highest political honors ■
would make her his wife if she were free, i Ins is pleasant
news for the big lady’s husband.
G. H. Snazelle, whose voice tins not been heard in Aus-
tralia since he toured these parts with a “ patriotic
flickersraph show some years ago, has settled down in
London lately on the strength of an appointment as pro-
fessor of elocution at the Guildhall School of Music.
nr”. \ ■ ■ Merely Mary Ann ” detail. Why does Lance-
lot when he forsakes Leadbatter’s lodging-house, leave
his’portrait-gallery of illustrious composers behind ! He
past the necessity that might formerly have
arisen of handing them over instead of rent, and it seems
as if the portraits ought to be taken off their hooks (if
they are removable) in the interval between the second
and third acts.
“S S ” • Zangvvill is evidently excusing himself for the
flagrant appeals to the gods throughout “Merely Mary
Ann ” with the arguments lie puts into the mouth of the
popular composer who has the talent for unprofitable big
things, but is content to write te-tum-tum songs tor the
treat tasteless British Public, and make thousands
Zangwill is something of a literary artist, and in his day
has piled pages and pages of humorous derision upon the
K sentimentality of the popular drama But this
time like his successful writer of cheap jingles, Zangwill
is out after the sequins, and the cash receipts from
.< Merely Mary Ann ” eloquently attest the accuracy of
his iudgment. “ Mary Ann ” is a poor play, and Zangwill
the artist loses honor by it, but doubtless consoles himself
with the reflection that the literary man of honor hath
no profits in his own country.
The pla-ue of Australian singers in London has become
so acute that one very successful artist, who was always
regarded as the fairy godmother of the young person with
a voice and large ambition, lately found it necessary to
close down on newcomers. Nearly every one of the many
hundreds of vocal Australians in England has made direct
for this singer’s domicile on arrival, and constituted her,
first adviser-in-chief respecting teachers and the
subtle wavs of the English concert world, and later
the recipient of woeful stories of futile effort. It is also
said that not infrequently they asked and received
monetary help. It is matter for wonder how the amiable
one has been able for so long to keep up her smile of
welcome when new aspirants came round to ask her to
reveal all the professional intricacies that it took hci
years to unravel for herself.
“ ril ” : About every third shop-window in Melbourne
contains a mummer’s’ testimonial as to the marvellous
merits of something or other, from cough mixture to
openwork stockings. One lady seems to have tried
every kind of voice jujube that has been patented, and as
each varietv was the best she had sampled up to .the,tune
the testimonial was given, the last must be what
Shakspeare would describe as a fair bonser. Others send
grateful letters to their boot repairers. (Mine never
seems to yearn to display my autograph ip a pretty
frame though 1 have several times written assuring him
that “I find your clump soles matchless for the com-
plexion,” and the wretch has even put my bill into the
hands of a debt-collecting agency.) Now that most out-
ward and visible subjects have been exhausted, some
ladies are beginning to drag toilet mysteries into plate-
o-lass publicity. One gives corset testimonials, while the
Sotograph of another, taken in something like the
garment known to the counterjuniper as a lady s
night,” is framed in a suburban laundry window along
with a letter asserting that “ your washing of laces is
especially admirable.” The male mummer is also an
occasional offender, and I fully expect yet to see an
affidavit from Junius Brutus Smith testifying that your
purple pyjamas are absolutely nightmare-proof.
The recently-published life of William Bodhani Donne
supplies a sidelight on the office of Examiner of 1 lays,
which exerts a chilling influence on the British drama.
Donne, who was Examiner from 1857 to 18/4, was a highly
respectable old gentleman, who would have graced the
position of Sunday-school superintendent. He is said to
have vetoed the use of the word * God on the stage.
A visitor to his home came upon Donne and his children
busily engaged in looking over manuscripts. As he en-
tered one said, “Here’s another God, father. Very
well my dear,” returned the sanctimonious parent,
“cross Him out and put ‘Heaven,’ as usual. But the
imagined susceptibilities of the public had something to
do with this attitude, as Donne showed when he wrote
to Fanny Kemble “ Madame Riston is to play Judith
in a few evenings; but to please the thick-skulled,
superstitious British public I have been obliged to find
her a new name for the tragedy, and new titles for the
characters, and all because the Book of Judith happens
to be bound up with the Bible being all the while g|,
much inspired as ‘Tom Jones.’ Xlms the intelligent
portion of the public is credited with the foolish feelings
of a few old women of both sexes. The same thing hap-
pened quite recently, when Stephen Phillips was forced
to alter the names of the characters in his David and
Bathsheoa” play, and had to shift the period right out
of the ao-e of the man who had Uriah killed so that he
could sneak his wife. Ristori played “ Judith ’ in Aus-
tralia without causing any perceptible deterioration of
morals in the populace ; nor did Rignold s production of
“Joseph of Canaan” add to the Australian crime re-
cords though it also was blocked in London as being a
biblical play. The best way to get a Bible plot accepted
for the London stage is to incorporate it in a musical
comedy. Potiphar’s wife, for instance, becomes Mrs.
Potts wife of a wealthy London pawnbroker, and Joseph
is turned into Josephs, the young shopman, who m the
second act becomes junior partner of Pharez W . Memphis
(nicknamed Pliaraoh), mammoth newspaper proprietor
and real ruler of England. Then all goes well.
H. R. Jewett, so long associated with George Rignold
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is still acting in the States.
He has turned Christian Scientist, and is a, very mild
person compared to what he was in the old days. It
seems to be good business to belong to the seer, as
several theatres are controlled by them. Only recently
a play was produced at the Garrick Theatre, New York,
the money being furnished by the Christian Scientists.
The piece was written by a Scientist, and nearly all the
actors were Christian Scientists.
“ Actresses will happen in the best-regulated families.”
“ Robert Brothers ”: I’ve heard many comments in
Australia on the suggestiveness of certain gags on the
Australian boards, but when you come to sit out a show
in England you are ready to think the Sydney Tivoli is a
Gospel meeting. They are not at all suggestive in Eng-
land. They are thick. One Saturday' night I went to see
Arthur Roberts portray “ The Importance of Being
Another Man’s Wife.” Well, I’ve not done blushing yet.
Roberts is a drunken clubman, who cannot resist the
temptation of climbing into a lady’s boudoir in conse-
quence of the painters having left a ladder there. The
lady is expecting her husband home, and also sister
Kitty, whose hamper has already arrived. She implores
the intruder to leave, and he discovers that the ladder
has been removed. Heavy knocking—it is the husband.
Enter cheeky Cockney servant, and Roberts is referred to
as “My brother.” Servant says she “ Knovv’d it. The
situation is saved by the slavey shaving off Roberts
moustache and giving him sister Kitty’s dress to put on.
The husband is introduced to sister Kitty, whom he
forthwith falls in love with, and later on he suggests that
she should share his wife’s bedroom. A lady friend drops
in on her way from a ball, and indulges in woman-talk
with sister Kitty, showing her stockings and telling her
how much she paid for them, and asking her if she doesn t
think that her garters are lovely. Which is a fact—that
is, viewed from the back of the hall. Sister Kitty is so
interested that he can scarcely stop inspecting these
garters. All the rest of the jokes are of the same kind,
and “The Importance of Being Another Mans Wife
booms on the strength of the hosiery' and the garters.
The £2 2s. contributed by Amy Castles to the Mon-
sisrnor O’Haran presentation made a louder bang than the
hundred guineas otherwise subscribed. That was because
clever advertisement-manager Rev. Robinson sent the
contribution by wire, timing the wire so as to hit the
assemblage when all there. And it did hit and was as
good as £-20 worth of posters to Amy.
Melbourne people are still wondering whether the Mar-
shall Hall Conservatorium will ever produce a charming
silver. A good many of the star pupils have been auded
almost to the slues by newspaper gushers and members of
the Conservatoriuni cult, but in every case the voice was
disappointing and the vocalism suggestive of tuition
as essentially German as the Frankfurter sausage.
Some of these young Teutonised singers are said to have
bail bright Australian voices ere they went into training.
The price of admission to the gallery of St. James
Theatre, Manchester, England, was recently reduced to
twopence.
A tine sample of the Podsnap family, sign-
ing himself “ Traveller,” wrote to a Sydney daily
last Tuesday about the N.S.W. Liquor Act. He
said that some friends met him on arrival last
Sunday, and went to his hotel with him, but that
though “ Traveller,” being a boarder at the
hotel, could obtain liquor, the friends, as mere
Sunday intruders, could n't. “Traveller lodsnap
says lie told the waiter very ungrammatically
that there must be some mistake, as he
and his friends “ were under British protection,
where freedom of the subject is one of the chief
items of your laws.” And even this impassioned
calling up of the British lion didn t enable lod-
snap’s friends to obtain liquor on Sunday ; the
British lion himself, no matter how much he
lashed the pub.-door with his tail, couldnt get a
drink on Sunday now in Sydney, unless he were a
boarder. The scene closed with the British lion
still lashing his tail on tne pub. doorstep.
The story of the married life of James
Staines Codings, a squatter, and Fanny Codings,
his wife, has been related to Chief J ustice Cooper
and a Brisbane jury during a, period of 17 days.
There were many hair-raismg allegations ot
cruelty, charges of perjury, flat contradictions,
and other things, making up an incredible narra-
tive The Bar was the only party to the suit
which didn’t look tired out. The question finally
put on the Kith day, at 4.15 p.m., was “ whether
the defendant was guilty of the cruelty men-
tioned in the petition, and if so, in which para-
graph?” An obviously dazed jury left the court
to try and run its flooded mind back through the
fearful mass of evidence, the addresses of counsel,
and the two-hours summing-up. Four hours later
the four jurymen came back with not as much as an
olive leaf. The 0. J. asked them, in a sympathetic
sort of way, how they were getting on at the job.
The foreman said something about “Quite-weil-
thank-you,” and then the Judge essayed to make
their stupendous task clearer by talking half an
hour longer. The foreman announced casually
that they were two and two deadlock. At the
same time they were agreed that the parties should
be separated! “You have nothing to do with
that,” said the C.J. impetuously. Then they
retired again, apparently more bewildered than
before. Two hours later saw them m court
again saying that the husband had been
o-mlty of cruelty alleged in one paragraph,
but not of the cruelty alleged in another
paragraph. The Judge put a couple of other
questions, and the barristers wrangled about
them for some time, and the jury went back to
seclusion once more ten minutes p&st midnight.
Half an hour later the Judge said his patience
was exhausted, and he locked the jury up for
the night. Uu the morning of the 17th day the
four jurors roused themselves up at 5 o’clock and
began to wrangle again, and at 10 o’clock they were
practically no “forrarder.” lhe Judge said
things One of the jurymen said he didn't care a
button what anyone thought. Another juryman
fell into a fit of hysterics, and had to leave
the court. A third juryman said something about
a desire that he would not be regarded as a mad-
man. When the sick man recovered they all
wrangled a bit longer, and the J udge finally let
them go. So the barristers began to argue again,
one side moving for a separation and the other for
a judgment for the defendant. At length the
Judge said he would reserve his decision, and the
17 days shindy was suspended.
The best way to ensure the happy New
Year we are all wishing each other at this period,
is to take the right measures for the development
of an honest spirit of humamtariamsm. The
rWitest of all measures is a measure of D.L L.
whisky—the only sure and certain brand for
encouraging our virtues and making us everything
that we wish ourselves. The spirit of humani-
Urianism is H.C.L., so happily known as the
Whisky of the Wise.*
Bovnl Limited, recently invited the physicians
of the English metropolis to inspect the linn s huge pre-
mises Thirteen hundred accepted, and were taken
throiurh one of the few ideal establishments on earth.
Thev saw immense vats in which the product of 300 oxen
were contained ; and in beautifully-equipped laboratories
thev saw skilled chemists preparing the albumen and
fihnne of beef without which the Bovnl would be only a
hie’h-class meat extract. It is the addition of the albumen
and tibrine of beef to the meat extract that gives Bovnl
its unique value as a food. In this factory the doctrine
of absolute cleanliness finds its highest expression, and
throiwhout all the varied processes none of the elements
of Bovrilis once touched by hand. Kunng the recep-
tion the chairman of the company took the medicos into
the comuanv’s confidence, and showed them the processes
by which the new preparation “Virol” is produced
This is a fat food for use in case of consumption and
wastin'* diseases, and even while its constitution was a
secret ?t had already been adopted by over 500 hospitals
■md sanatoria. Now that t.c company has allowed the
doctors to ascertain the nature of its composition its use
will probably increase by leaps and bounds.


ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
Tnfl the ?r 10nal K e ™ ed y for Sandy Blight, Swelling Blight,
and ? ’*' Stre '‘ gth ‘° Weak <*«*
y b e enem‘ ion “““ * * ‘ im “
Sold B„ on Chemists and Storekeeper. throu e h.ut Australasia.
// not oll»mst:« loeoU* tend note for 1/9 for a hotlle to the Sole
1 ioprietois and Manufacturers:
A JJ* A ‘ R , OSE & co «. 531 George Street, Sydney.
al l Substitutes and Imitations
Amateur Photographers
You will not go wrong with
your Holiday Negatives if
you make your Prints on
The Easiest, Quickest, Cheapest, and Best Printing Paper.
Prints made in a few seconds by Gas or Lamplight in the evening.
PRINCIPAL Distributoks-
Sold in Packets. All -Regular
Sizes at Popular Prices.
Instructions in every Packet.
HARRINGTON ,s
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
386 GEORGE ST.
Near
G.P.O.
SYDNEY, ai *d 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The tropical storm that struck Melbourne
on the last Saturday of the old year, when li
inches of rain fell in an hour, was responsible for
Some quaint episodes. In the lower city streets
J qmcldy filled, and that one-time
gully, Elizabeth-street, speedily became a broad
and pretty swift creek, through which city swells
whose business couldn’t wait, waded almost knee-
deep. the downpour was so solid and so sudden
that dainty damsels in the airiest of summer
chillons and voiles were caught before they could
gam a sheltering verandah, and thenceforth thev
were as mud-clinging, wet mud. One wise
individual stopped at the Equitable corner, and
carefully removed his boots and socks and rolled
up his pants before navigating the Jordan. But
one city man lost his head completely. He
occupies a basement office on a corner where
the flood waters converged, and before he
had time to realise that some rain was falling
a slimy, yellow torrent poured down the
staircase, forced the glass door open, and
flooded his trim little office. He immediately
chmbed on his desk and yelled to his office-boy to
shut the door and go for assistance, but that small
imp had already gone to take part in whatever
tun was going on above, and was taking swimming
exercise in the gutter, so the commercial man
commanded his typewriter girl—his only other
employee— to face the torrent and call up the fire-
brigade, the police, and all other available assist-
ance. As her billet depended on it, the girl went
and presently returned with a stalwart, wet, sym-
pathetic constable, who assured the trembling
citizen that the water was subsiding and that
there was no danger whatever, but that he (the
constable) would send for the ambulance if
desired. Also, he looked suggestively at the girl
clerk s damp skirts, and said coldly that it was
rough weather for a girl to be out. When he had
gqne, the business man descended cautiously from
his perch, spoke severely to the returned office-
boy, and resumed his normal expression of pon-
derous dignity. The legend goes that he raised
the girl clerk’s wages, but about that very little is
known.
* * * *
As the very newest development of Aged
Fish, one Hume Nisbet has been writing to the
English papers to say that he heard of a servant
girl starving in Westralia. Heaven only knows why
a servant girl, of all persons, should starve in
Westralia a State where there are at least four
men to every three women, and where Merely
Mary Ann is a most unprocurable person. Perhaps
the unfortunate girl was stage-struck and starved
while waiting for a show to play Lady Macbeth.
More probably she was a fraud and an invention
At all events, it is up to Hume Nisbet to give the
girl s name and address, or some particulars by
which she may be found and rescued—if she
exists, which seems almost impossible. A starving
slavey may be common enough in London, but for
the domestic Biddy to starve in Australia from
sheer want of a chance to go Biddying is too
ridiculous. Perhaps what is meant is that she
got bushed, and was starving under a tree through
insufficiency of ’possum while waiting till she
should be found by the police. Or perhaps
Hume Nisbet has got hold of some old flood yarn
m which Mary Ann starved up a tree till the raft
came for her.
GENTLE SARCASM.
THE BOSS : “ Well, Miss Vavasour, how do you
like your part in the new play?”
MISS V.: Not at all. Mr. Poverty Pimpernell
has all the ‘fat.’”
MR. P.P. (in the background): “O that this
too, too solid flesh would melt," dec., &c.
A mooning Maoriland dipsomaniac, being
asked where he was going to spend his Christmas
holidays, said he was going to take a very long
holiday soon, lhen he drew a revolver and shot
lirnself, in the public bar, just as somebody was
going to ask him to have a beer. J
According to a recent happening in Maori-
land, sailors claim some curious privileges. Dur-
ing the temporary absence of a trimmer on the
ionganro his box was stolen from his bunk and
investigation showed that the contents had ’been
distributed. A fellow trimmer who was
arrested swore in court that there was an impres-
sion that prosecutor was deserting, and, “accord-
ing to the usual custom, they went for his gear.”
ihe court didn’t think much of the custom, and
said something about three months.
: Ihe “colonial” woman when
she comes to London beats every other hollow for
right-down adulation of the aristocracy. I never
knew until coming here what a lot of Burke’s
Peerage ” and Debrett must be read up by
the fair voyagers what time they are baking
on the Bed Sea, or enjoying the pleasant
swell of the Mediterranean, or rolling on the
mad, reckless Atlantic. When they get there
seem to know the pedigree of everybody,
and they air the knowledge with an assump-
tion of familiarity with the titled set which is
simply appalling to a new-comer. At first I
wondered how it was that people who were
nobodies at home shone with
such vivid splendor in Fog
City, but of late I have
learned that it is quite
possible to go to the big
crushes in Park Lane and
elsewhere without an invi-
tation, if one has
front enough. Hos-
tesses recognise
everybody who is
present, for two
reasons. One is
that it is diffi-
cult to remem-
ber exactly
whom you know
or don’t know.
The other is
that it would
be very much
against the suc-
cess of a gather-
ing if any scene
were created.
But the board-
ing-house dis-
cussion of high-
life details by
t u f t - h u nting
dowagers from
outside is get-
ting on my
nerves; so,
also, is the
contemptuous
sneer that the
details create on
the acid countenance
of some fellow-boarder
who happens to be related
to half the British aris-
tocracy, but is afraid to mention
the fact because, if he does, they will
stop his credit at the tailor’s.
* w *
The new year is to see all the railings dis-
appear along the Elizabeth-street side of Hyde
Park (Sydney), and, as funds will permit, the City
Council intends removing the railings round the
rest of the park areas, leaving the whole expanse
of grass open to the street. Along with the rails
will also disappear the remains of the paint daubed
on by U. H. Beid’s unemployed a few years ago,
leaving absolutely nothing to show for the loan
money spent on that great permanent and repro-
ductive work.
* * * *
Advertisement from Melbourne Age :
!\ | AA > with Good Voice, wanted to sell skim milk
Henderson, 25 De Carle-street, East Brunswick.
The last drop in the fallen basso’s cup of misery is
the fact that the milk is skim. Better—far better
be a bottle-o. He at least deals in the genuine
article. They don’t skim bottles.
* * * *
A portly Hebrew gentleman boarded a
Sydney-bound tram, at the top of William-street
the other morning. At the next stopping an
active young Israelite bounded into the same
compartment, and unctuously shook hands
with the elder in Israel. Presently the guard
came along, and proceeded to take the fares
of two Gentiles next the door. Simultaneously
two hands shot out towards the collector
one from each of the Chosen. For a moment
the air was filled with protesting “ No, noes ”
as each Hebrew gentleman tried to prevent
the other from lavishing his wealth on the
guard. Two frantic fists clutching money
dodged each other in mid-air. “One at a
time, please,” pleaded the guard as he secured
the fares of the Gentiles next the door Then
there was a lull. “Now then,” said the
guard. Each hand opened, and revealed a
lone solitary penny. “I thought you were
going to pay for me,” gasped the younger
one in a tone that sounded like an old kettle
sinking a hundred fathoms deep. “ I thought
you were ” began the elder, but he stopped
as he caught a faraway look in the eyes of the
guard, and saw a passenger trying to avoid
swallowing his pipe.
* * * «
“Lay Brother”: Dear old London
Punch ! What a perpetual addition it is to the
gaiety of Mothers’ Meetings ! The Bishop of our
diocese (Ebenezer Haunted Billabong is his official
signature) frequently sends a parcel of English
periodicals to our sanctuary. The dear Bishop
does not subscribe to Australian journals, except
those which depend mainly on clippings from the
Old Land. He humorously says (being, as I may
perhaps say without profanity, something of a
wag) that he believes in imported literature and
imported bishops. A rude young member of our
congregation asked him if he thought England
should import Australian bishops, but Ebenezer
Haunted Billabong, who brooks no impudence
withered him with such a glance as is possible
only to an Oxford man.
THE HORROR OF IT.
COUNTRY SPINSTER (in lift) “o, young man!
young man! to think we’re rushing to
Eternity together, and I don’t even know your
name."
Melbourne Herald has dug out the old,
old story of the lost heiress—this time a Mrs.
Robins, wife of a fossicker at Myrtle Creek, near
endigo. -There is a quaint old sameness about
these stories ; they are as much alike one another
as a herd of galvanised iron shanties or a drove of
gum-trees. The old grandfather died at Norfolk
(England) in the backblocks of last century, leav-
ing half-a-million pounds to his daughter. She
never took the trouble to collect it—that kind of
woman never does ; and the papers which proved
her claim lay around in a drawer, or in the coal-
scuttle, or else the baby played with them.
Ihe granddaughter also didn’t trouble about
it till the other day, when she woke up
from a financial trance, so to speak,
and decided to assert her rights. The money
of course, is “in Chancery’’—that place
of dreams and shadows, where unclaimed fortunes
are vaguely supposed to be heaped up in cellars,
and to moulder m great safes, and to lean wearily
against door-posts, waiting till thev shall be col-
lected. As a matter of fact, the old Court of
Chancery is dead and gone now, though the
phrase survives ; and it never had any unclaimed
money worth mentioning, except what novelists
found there. And as for that tired woman who
was left half-a-million or so but never claimed it
preferring to plod along in a mild, respectable
way and buy her groceries regularly every Satur-
day night, she is a very old jest and quite harm-
* .
“Lay Brother” : I am sorry to find that
fg; ard Mr. Gipsy Smith’s promised
visit to Australia as an unmixed blessing. Surely
surely you have not read any of his matchless
sermons, which in point of style are far superior
to those of our revered Bishop Jeremy Taylor •
yea, above even those of Mr. - Cockeye ” Blood-
anfare, the converted member of the Crutchy
Push, who speaks each Sabbath on the Yarra
bank. Read, I pray you, this elegant extract
discourses ?.L° Ur Glpsy broth er’s latest inspired
to A mr U hnL onl y £37 more wanted ! You should come
« h and hear l h - e parrot si, C r “ Count your
Bless the Lord f SaySS ° metlmeS ’ Master ’ a cold!”
Can we marvel that £450 was coaxed into the
collection-plate by such wondrous words ? Would
that our present vicar (the Rev. Gideon Skiwauk)
were thus favored with the gift of tongues ! Then
would his stipend be regularly paid in cash, in-
stead of being tendered mainly in the form of
striped socks, that are somewhat grudgingly
donated by various shopkeeping brethren as sub-
stitutes for coin. Even these articles are usually
their unsaleable lines.
THE GENTILES' JUBILEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
-rvoJ, l i,? on< J luSion ’ tb , e Rabb i said that he wanted the con-
gregation to pray that the time might speedily arrive
when all Israel would be joined together under their own
Government in their own land.”
Ho! bang the sounding timbrels, and clang the joyous
cymbals,
And agitate the gimbals and such instruments as those ;
Strike a chord in seven sharps upon the sackbuts and the
harps,
And blow the mezzocarps, to the confusion of our foes 1
Pound the dulcimer with vigor ; thrum the banjo of the
nigger;
Let the shawms be played with rigor ; strike the lyre, ye
sons of Shem !
For from Rio round to Newry, from Johannesburg to
Fleury,
See them march, the Tribes of Jewry, back to Old Jeru-
salem 1
And they’re gain’—goin’—goin’—
Levi, Solomon, and Cohen,
Eleazar, Leah, Rachel, Samuel, Gad, and Zebedee ;
Isaac, Benjamin, and Jacob
Their belongings now v ill take up,
And we 11 hold a Feast of Trumpets and a mighty J übilee 1
Yea, our hearts shall be uplifted for that Israel has
shifted,
And the Chosen People sifted, seed by seed, from out our
gate ;
Over every land and ocean, with confusion and commo-
tion,
They are going back to Goshen—where the milk and
honey wait.
We are quit of Cain and Abel, Posh, and other sons of
Babel,
And the glad news comes by cable that Ishbosheth too is
gone
To the ancient land and sunny of the locusts and the
honey,
Of the fig-trees of Tekoa and the vines of Lebanon.
And they’re goin’—goin’—goin’—
To the cave of Hezanoin,
To the squalid town of Zion and the pond of Galilee ;
And the same old smells will meet them,
And the same old lepers greet them,
And they’ll find the same old faction and the same old
Pharisee!
But the Gentiles will be singing, all the gongs and bells
a-ringing ;
And triumphal arches springing will adorn that splendid
day!
We shall give ourselves an outing, and the State shall do
the shouting,
And the statesmen lots of spouting, when the Jews have
marched away.
1 here 11 be oceans of good liquor ; every man will get his
“ ticker ” ;
And the sovereign will be thicker and more frequent in
the hand ;
And the pawnshops shall be hidden, and the IO U
forbidden,
And the racehorse fairly ridden when the Noses leave the
land !
And they’re goin’—goin’—goin’—
To the brook of Kishon flowin’
Back to fight, and skite, and ramp, and rage, and cheat
and biff, and tear ;
Back the Midianites to worry,
And to make the Hittites hurry—
Ah, the men of Kirjath-Jearim will’ be badly needed
there !
For too long the superstition of the Hebrew erudition
Kept us folk in poor eondition-but, at last, the tyrant
goes.
And we gaze with grin ecstatic, European and Asiatic,
And our gestures are emphatic as the cause of many
woes
Turns his face once more to Zion, for we know that
Judah’s Lion,
Who has waved his tail so high on our down-trodden
shore, will find,
When he tries to eat his brother, or his uncle, or his
mother, ’
Tha l.ehindT’ 116 iS qUUe another t 0 the one he ’ s left
Yes—they’re goin’—goin’— goin’
But when Cohen tackles Cohen,
And Levi leaps on Levi with a view to tear him down
The resistance of the Gentile ’
And his struggles were infantile
V\ hen compared with what w ill happen there in Salem’s
ancient town !
'glory’ lat ' S anot,iler story ; meantime celebrate the
And let no Memento mori dim the gladness of our som>- •
hor the Gentiles’ chains are broken! Let the happy
words be spoken
From Hobart to Hoboken, and from Lisbon to Hongkong
APl b?tteJ heThreeßallSB:litfcer Wkh a baleful light and
f Ul i r ?, a . humb!e sitter at I. Moses’ feet are we •
Lo. the Rabbis prayer is granted, and the Wandering
Tribes are planted
! Where wanted ( ar] d WE wanted them)
Yes ! they’re goin’—goin’— goin’—
You can hear the trumpets blovvin’
Lou can see the flags and banners and remark the £ s. d
\\ inch is bulging out our pockets,
And to-night you’ll see the rockets
And the great illuminations for the Gentiles’ Jubilee !
VIC.
O.C. CABOT.


JAMES R. LAWSOM & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
Gentlemen who wish to look smai't, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.
A Woman Loves to see a Man
WELL DRESSED
♦ ♦ ♦
♦ ♦ ♦
Fine Suits in the latest styles, cut and
made to perfection by the best skilled
workmen in Sydney*
3 ana Guineas.,
Patterns, New Fashion Plates and Measurement Forms Post Free.
R. C. HAGON
Herchailt
Tailor . .
129 King St., SYDNEY
Dr. Ainess, medical superintendent of
Melb. Hospital, praises the Federal Parliament
for its attempt to stop opium smoking by pro-
hibiting the importation of the drug. He says
the number of white smokers is increasing rapidly,
and the public would, if it knew, be astonished at
the number of respectable mechanics, clerks, etc.,
who take their whiff of opium as others take a
long beer after their day’s work. Amess says the
opium smoker, like the morphia maniac, can be
cured absolutely if he can be kept away from the
drug, the only inconvenience being a fit of depres-
sion, attended with a certain amount of heart-
weakness, which lasts for four or five days. The
hospital frequently receives patients suffering
from abdominal pains, who are supposed to be
victims of appendicitis ; but investigation discloses
the cause of the trouble to be merely opium colic.
This is the medical view; but, judging by the ex-
perience of opium smokers and eaters, the victim
who has his supply suddenly cut off suffers the
torments of the Lost. One instance which Dr.
Amess quotes is that of an intelligent man who
periodically attends, suffering from sores ; be can
now take enough morphia in a day to lull
; and his chief difficulty is to find a fresh place. on
■his body to insert a needle. The doctor
.also mentions a woman, now in the hos-
pital who took very large quantities of
laudanum daily. “We stopped the supply,
but her friends sent it m m papers and books.
We stopped that; then a bottle came in concealed
in a banana. Now she gets nothing but the, food
•we give her. She felt bad for a few days, but is
■now getting on ail right. The only danger is that
•at some future time she will get at the drug again,
.and thus undo what has been done.
BROKE.
HER: “ Well, did you go on the mountains after
the Cup?”
HIM: “ I meant to—hut I went on the rocks
instead.”
This is a prosaic age, if the experience of
James Jones, of Melbourne, goes for anything.
Jones loved a South Yarra girl with his whole
heart, and she returned his affections, but her
mother didn't. So Jones acquired the habit of
dwelling outside his girl’s house and gazing up
fervently at the balcony, the while pressing his
hand to his heart and heaving sighs. Romeo was
allowed to do this sort of thing, but the girl’s
mother handed Jones over to the police, and a
magistrate ordered him to give up heaving sighs
•outside the house or else go to gaol. So Jones
promised not to heave any more.
The re-capture, in Fitzroy (Melb.), the
other day, of George Giles, who, after swallowing
a stolen diamond and attempting to swallow a
cheque, absconded from his hail, rouses interest
in a remarkable criminal. As Giles has foi years
received, and still receives, a remittance of £5O a
year, he is either a burglar from choice, or—more
probably—he has a lady friend whose demands
run to far more than £1 a week. Anyhow, though
but 49. Giles owns sentences aggregating 40 years
all told, mostly for burglary and receiving. .But
his worst crime, if his story is to be believed, was
one over which the Law missed fire. According
to his own belated narrative, away back in Jl
Giles, with others, burgled Osborne House, in
Fitzroy. An inmate grabbed him in the dark,
but he tore away, leaving a piece of his coat
behind. He promptly gave the coat to a com-
paratively harmless wharf-rat —one Edward Bell.
Bell was arrested with the incriminating rag on
him and got four years. Subsequently he lost
most of his eyesight in the quarries at I ent-
ridge. There Giles—an inmate for another crime
—met him, and being bowled out by remoise
he confessed ; or else he told an interesting fiction
by way of a joke. The tom coat seemed to bring
ill-luck all round. Bell got no satisfaction ;he
was only a wharf-rat and had no influence in
political or any other circles. The detective who
arrested him was shot in the neck one night \
some person unknown in Carlton Gardens, and is
now semi-paralysed and useless. And Giles ias
been dropping into the hands of the police wit 1
even more than his usual frequency since then.
*
Providence seemingly takes no trouble to
influence the direction of cash windfalls. In the
history of long-lost legacies there are some
instances of cruelly bad luck on the one hand and
utterly undeserved good fortune qn the other.
The manager of a Melbourne inquiry agency has
been telling once again the story of how Wed
Whittaker, heir to a fortune of £.10,000, was
finally discovered through an advt. in the AGE.
The old chap, a helpless cripple, limped into the
inquiry office, proved his identity, and casually
remarked that, if there was any fortune coming to
him, he would like to make his will and leave halt
the money to be divided among four old mates,
who had taken him on as “ camp-keeper after he
was disabled, and had kept bun for 10 years. It
was Xmas-time. Here was lovely material for a
Dickensesque Xmas story. But the grateful old
ruin went out and got drunk, and died of heat
apoplexy, without having made a will. Bo his
brother in England got the whole £30,000.
* ♦ t
“G-.M.”: Dropped into Sydney Public
Library for the first time, the other day, to take
notes from a book of reference. The seating
accommodation was all taken up-as it usually is
-with the exception of that at one taWe. Wot
knowing any better, I sat there and go •
A few minutes later an attendant asked me it
was a special student. I said I was a student, but
how in thunder was I to know whether I was
special or not ! Then said he, pointing to a notice
on the table, “You must not sit here. These
seats are reserved for special students. 1
him what a special student was, but he clidn t tell
me. I don't think he knew. I was forced to
leave-forced also, there being no other chairs
vacant, to leave my work undone. Yet at the
“ special table ” there were six or eight seats and
only one occupied ! I don t know vet what con-
stitutes a “special,” but I do know that if a man
wants a seat at the Library, it is well for him to
get there at 10 a.m. punctually, and it he wants; to
reserve his seat while seeking other books it is a
good idea to leave aporoupme and a plug ot dyna-
mite on his chair.
Avery well-
known Mel-
bourne solici-
tor recently
received a call
from a charm-
ing lady
client, who
wished to
have s o m e
unimportant
law business
transacted.
The job was
finished and
paid for.
About a
month later a
telephone
message was
received, ask-
ing him to
come to her
house imme-
diately, as she
was ill—not
expected to
live, in fact
—a n d she
wished to
make her
will. Being
busy, the soli-
citor sent his
clerk, who re-
turned with
the intimation
that the lady
was in bed
looking pretty
healthy and
more charm-
ing than ever in a maze of openwork lingerie, but
that she would not allow him to prepare_awdl,
and demanded to see his principal. V k er / el ‘’„
remarked the latter, “ she can get somebody else
Nothing more was heard of the matter for som
months when, in conversation with a fellow
lawyer,’he found that the lady had got somebody
e l se —the man he was speaking to and by the
judicious appearance of an alleged husband, had
blackmailed him out of £5O.
* * * *
“A Member of the Church of England
Mothers’ Union” wails, in Melbourne Age,
because she found a penny dreadful m a ready-
packed Christmas stocking she had pre-
sumably an exemplary tract was substituted for
“Calamity Kate’s Curdling Cuss to the gre
grief of little Johnny, who doubtless hndsita
heavy burden to own a parent who belongs to the
“ Mothers’ Union.”
A FLANK MOVEMENT.
HE: “I can't face your father to ask him for your hand; I’m too frightened”
SHE: "You needn’t he frightened in facing him; the great danger is W hen you turn your
hack, dear.”
There is a harmless old story, told by many
generations of grandfathers concerning a butcher
who consulted a lawyer re the theft of a bmp of
meat from the butcher’s shop by the lawyer s dog.
It is a story at which millions of people have laughed
heartily. Abraham’s family used to get it about
six times a year on an average. Lots wife was
doubtless sick of hearing it. That poor, decrepit
anecdote tottered into the columns of Melbourne
Age last week, the butcher and the lawyer being
located at Ballarat. A hundred years hence they
will appear again (during the silly season) as two
well-known citizens of the capital of Papua.
* • * *
“Hassan”: In regard to Xmas bush
stealing and its pains and penalties, a paragraph
(B. 28/12/’O5) would seem to encourage it. nut
there is another point of view. Were this pretty
flower only ‘‘gathered” no one could possibly
obieet. But these gatherers tear the bush down
bough by bough; I have even seen them cut a well-
grown tree down. And the cutting down of any
tree, save for some pressing need, is a thing to be
discouraged as firmly as the law permits. In any
case, I and some other Pagans believe that the
right place for flowers is not in a larrikin s hat or
a dude’s coat, but upon the stems which have
brought them forth. Nothing can possibly offend
a beauty-lover more than the sight of some low-
browed “ bottle-oh ” decked with beautiful flowers.
It reminds one of Titania hanging upon the neck
of Bottom or of a white woman married to a Lhow.
* * * *
Melbourne Detective O’Donnell must have
felt like a Czar last week, when he was the victim
of an attempted bomb outrage. Few Australian
detectives can hope to rise to a higher dignity
than a blow from a bottle or a loaded sock, and
the obvious inference is that Mr. O Donnell is a
particularly fierce and capable sleuth hound.
Recorded by the daily press
Detective O’Donnell has received a bushel of sym-
pathetic telegrams, and has also had a number of visitors.
Among the latter were quite a number of criminals, who
had passed through his hands—men who had done long
sentences on his prosecution, and who recognised the
absolute fairness with which he treated their eases These
men considered the outrage too mean to be considered as
the work of a criminal seeking revenge, and stated that
they would do all they could to ferret out the perpetrator.
Which makes a touching picture. Imagine the
hoarv old criminal, shedding tears of emotion,
pressing l the h&nd of the detective who nabbed,
him, atad murmuring, brokenly, “Yes, you always
arrested me like a gentleman ” ; or some other
grateful ruffian sending his written testimonial
from the fastnesses of Pentridge : “I wish to
testify to the merit and efficacy of your arrests. 1
was lagged by you six years ( ago; since then 1
have been lagged by no other.”
The fussy minus quantities who compose
the Melbourne Hospittle Committee have gone
one better than their recent foolishness m fritter-
ing away £50 to get their institution called
“Iioyal,” and have perpetrated what it is J?? 5 *
charitable to regard as an error of judgment that
should land them all in their own Observation
Ward. The Order of Druids, not long ago, voted
£300 for the purpose of obtaining plans for a per-
fect hospital, to be built on the present site and
an expert committee of two architects and
doctors was appointed to consider the desl |™5-
This they did, but when their decision was sub-
mitted to the general committee, some members o
the latter body proclaimed loudly that another de-
sign (not placed by the experts) should be given
first prize. The experts protested that this
particular design was not worthy of consideration,
but the committee men still demanded that their
pet competitor should get the reward. Even-
tually there was a compromise, on the under-
standing that the design of the obscure person
who wasn’t placed should obtain second prize.
The amended award went forth for consideration
bv the public meeting of the committee. Voting
was equal the first time, but during an adjourn-
ment several committee-men listened to reason,
and, at the adjourned meeting, the design
which the experts regarded as altogether out-
classed got first prize. The .most striking
feature of the whole thing is that while
this design is inferior to those placed second
and third, as well as to many others sub-
mitted. it.has not even complied with the condi-
tions laid down. Now the Druids, who put up
the money with a view to getting a design for the
best possible hospital, and not to enrich some
committee-man’s friend, will probably put on their
long whiskers and declare war. On the face of
things they have a grievance which would justify
any Druid in offering up the committee as a burnt
sacrifice to Odin or Todgers or some other ancient
8°d- , * * •
Beware of the itinerant sausage and the
wandering meat-pie ! Melbourne papers recorded,
on January 3, that Tlios. Woodley, of Narre-
Warren, went to Melbourne on January 1 to see
a cricket match, ate a meat-pie for lunch, and
died of ptomaine poisoning before daybreak.
Allan Evans, of Red camp, ate a sausage at a rail-
way refreshment room, and recovered with diffi-
culty.
POSES AND PIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Artist’s model. Wanted yourig figure. State
religion. Apply, ‘ Megilp,’ Age office. —Recent advt. from
Melb. Age.
Moves Uli Vie Boheme apace,
Sad indeed the future will be.
Beauties rare of form and face,
These suffice no more for Trilby.
Dimpled shoulders, rounded arms,
Bosoms like a plump young' pigeon
These are not sufficient charms
“What religion?”
Though the damsel may be fair,
Dainty and refined her poses
In her garb of light and air,
Limits novel Art imposes.
Creeds no more than limbs she hides,
Both must show no deviations ;
She must study books besides
Revelations.
Does the artist wish to scan
Red-haired lassies from the heather,
Firmly Presbyterian,
Posing in the altogether?
Baptists e’er they’d time to don
Dipping-gowns ; or would he see an
Anglican mid nodings on,
Or Wesleyan ?
Does he need some dark colleen,
Full, replete with Keltic beauties,
Always at her Masses seen,
And attentive to her duties?
No ! we’ll take of odds a shade
She’s, despite the wording vague, an
Entertaining, trimly-made
Little Pagan.
VIC.
C.N.


ELE£TR}£fICtN6INEtRIN6
by Post
Send now for “ Home Study,” post free.
Stott & Hoare’s Business College,
MOORE ST., SYDNEY. [lO
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
44 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances prop. |_ TD 5w uttle Co|llns st > MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
Pv „, for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
ROBEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The figures which follow are interesting chiefly
oecause they show how N.S.W. is wilting under Federa-
tion. On the unimpeachable say-so of J. Carruthers and
several suburban mayors, Victoria and other parts of the
commonwealth have N.S.W. in their mouths, and are
sucking the life-blood out of her, and gorging themselves ;
and the figures show the extent of the gorge and the
degree of N.S.W.’s consequent limpness :
Statk Revenues for December.
wo _. Dee.,’o4. Dec.,’os.
N-S.W. .. £909,075 £1,051,238 Inc. £82,163
Victoria .. 662,285 638,759 Dec. 23,526
Queensland .. 330,220 334,851 Inc. 4,631
Westralia .. 336,812 313,726 Dec. 23,086
Tasmania .. 93,681 86,904 Dec. 6,777
And since the opening of the financial year :
State Revenues for Half-Year.
„ July-Dee,,’o4. July-Dee., ’O5.
N.S. Wales ..£5,313,366 £5,717,475 Inc. £404,109
Victoria .. 3,530,812 3,515,262 Dec. 15 610
Queensland .. 1,766,850 1,909,143 Inc. 142,293
S. Australia .. 1,190,585 1,181,232 Dec. 9,353
Westralia .. 1,705,457 1,656,928 Dec. 48,529
Tasmania .. 448,324 454,338 Inc. 6,014
In the year before Federation began to cripple N.S. W it
was “a prosperous, thriving State" (vide, the anti-
Federal papers), and in the six months, July-December,
1899, had a revenne of £4,763,709, which included the
revenue from the Post and Telegraph Department and
the gross receipts from the Customs. Now it will be
observed that it has a revenue of £5,717,475 for the
corresponding six months; and that revenue is
apart from post and telegraph receipts, and only
includes, roughly, the Customs revenue minus the
cost of the Defence Department and some other ex-
penses. In other words, the State which is alleged
to have been cursed by Federation has prospered
so much that it has a half-year’s revenue £953,766 in
excess of what it had in the days just before the curse
fell upon it, and it has that excess after paying its pro-
portion of the cost of the Commonwealth Government,
and after the revenue of the postal department (about
£450,000 for the half-year), and the corresponding postal
expenditure, have been taken out of the State accounts.
On the other hand, Victoria, represented as the vampire
dressed in sister’s clothing which has got fat at the ex-
pense of N.S.W., has arevenue of only £3,515,202 now as
compared with £3,535,732 in July-I)ec., ’99. More-
over, without any change in taxation, the poor,
hen-pecked, ill-treated Ma State continues to thrive
so well on the alleged ill-treatment, that its six
months’ revenue is £404,109 more than for the corres-
ponding part of last year, while Victoria, which is
represented as rolling in fatness through its robbery of
N.S.W., is thriving so little that its revenue is £15,610
less than it was last year. For a country that is full of
woe N.S. Wales is doing remarkably well ; and for a
vulture that is supposed to be living on its Ma’s kidney-
fat Victoria is doing mighty badly
As a further proof of how N.S.W. is shrivelling
under the blighting influence of an unfairly-worked
Federation, these railway and tramway figures (six
months, July-Dee., in each case) are added :
1902 .. £2,123,334 I 1904 .. £2,298,253
1903 .. 2,124,030 | 1905 .. 2,555,134
An increase in railway revenue of £432,000 in four years
oiight to be a great help to Carruthers, and Tric’kett,
M. and the suburban mayors in proving their case.
State expenditure figures are as usual meagre—
only three Treasuries have enough energy to furnish any-
thing beyond annual returns :
Expenditure for Half-year.
July-Dee.,’o4. July-Dee., ’O5.
N. Wales ..£5,882,848 £5,764,768 Dec. £llB 080
Queensland .. 1.796,543 1,842,668 Inc. 46 125
Westralia .. 1,768,067 1,676,384 Dec. 91’683
From which figures and others previously pub-
lished the position may be summarised in this way :
.N.S. Wales.—Present deficit, £47,293, which compares
with the deficits at Dec. 31 in previous years this way :—■
1899 (year before Federation) .. .. £319,907
1903 (State expenditure enormously
increased) 753,520
569,’452
1905 47,293
In 1899 (six months) the Treasurer spent £4,763,709.
In the last six months, and apart from loan-money
J. Carruthers has spent £5,717,475. More of the blighting
effects of Federation are visible here. With a deficit of
£569,482 at Dee. 31st, the year 1904-5 ended with a so-
called surplus of £141,843. This time, with a deficit of
only £47,293, the year should end with the largest surplus
known for many years. But until the Treasury ceases to
treat land-sale money as revenue, the surplus will be
bogus.
Victoria.—How the expenditure is shaping there is no
way of telling ; and that being so no forecast can be
made. The loss of revenue this financial year has been in
Commonwealth refunds,
Queensland.—This time last year the State had a
deficit of £29,693, and it ended the year with a .surplus of
£13,996. It has now a surplus of £66,475 ; so, with
prudent management, Queensland should get a shock on
finding itself with a surplus of well on to £lOO,OOO on
June 30—a pretty large change from the deficit of
£432,939 which Philp showed in 1902.
S. Australia.—No expenditure figures available. ’The
House of Landlords has had a slice of luck. It refused
Price the increased land-tax without which a deficit was
threatened ; but the boom in minerals has sent up the
railway returns. Still, reckoning in the Northern Terri-
tory, there will be a certain deficit.
Westralia. —This State is now window-dressing by the
simple process of paying out of loans for works which
ought to be, and some of which used to be, paid for out
of revenue; and as it does not publish current loan
figures, the ruse won’t strike the public for some time.
* * , * -K
N.S. Wales has leaned upon Cohen to the extent
of £811,777 during the half-year ; one wonders how pros-
perous N.S. Wales would have to be before it would leave
off leaning on anybody. The only other loan figures are
supplied by Queensland, whose offence for the six months
has amounted to £133,293.
* * * *
'The S.M. Herald quotes, with evident ap-
proval, a London Statist article to the effect that, with
the return of better, times in Australia, “capital would
again flow in freely, and the imports into Australia would
again show marKed expansion. Then our great Australian
colonies would grow much more rapidly in population
and in wealth.” Certainly. Why should anybody be
poor ? All he has to do is to borrow money, buy his wife
an imported grand piano, his daughter an imported silk
dress, and himself an imported motor-car, and his wealth
will “grow much more rapidly.” That at least is the
Statist argument, to which the S.M. Herald seems to
say “ Hear, hear.”
* » * *
An unwelcome New Year’s announcement in
Australia is that boots have risen in price, manu-
facturers raising quotations from 5 per cent, upwards.
The reason given is an advance of from 20 to 50 per cent,
in the price - of pelts. Undoubtedly the cessation of the
drought and the resulting efforts of stock breeders to
stock-up has had an effect on hide prices. But the fact
remains that most of the leather used, in N.S.W. at least,
and probably in the other States also, is tanned abroad.
Australia exports its hides to be tanned, exports its wattle
bark to tan them with, and buys back the product in the
form of leather at a high price. With an export duty on
hides to keep them from going out, and a heavy import
duty on leather to keep it from coming in, there might be
less of the disease called commerce, but there would be
more work, more wages, and cheaper hoof-cases.
* * * *
There are now 17 co.’s laying themselves out to
do trustee business in Australia and Maoriland. A few of
them (especially in Maoriland) combine a general com-
mission-agency with the care of trust estates. A good
deal can be said against that system. The great merit of
trustee co. is, or ought to be, that it is a specialist;
and the more it is mixed with something else the more
the specialism is likely to be watered down. Moreover,
the trustee co. needs to be specially on its guard against
the suspicion of being a “commission fiend.” Already
there is a prejudice against what ought to be most valu-
able agencies because, so it is said, having- large amounts
of trust money to handle, they send it into channels
which will yield their friends a profit. There seems to be
very little in the objection so far ; but if trustee co.’s are
to make the progress that they ought to make, they will
have to take all sorts of care that this idea doesn’t grow.
The 17 trustee co. ’s have had the following ex-
perience during the 12 months covered by their last pub-
lished accounts ; the profits for the previous 12 months
are added for comparison :
Profits. Divi- To Re- Re-
, ■■■ A •. dends. serves, serves.
1904. 1905. 1905. 1905. 1905.
jg jg j £ £ £
Perpetual (Syd.) ..10,519 12,200 2500 9700 44,376
Wellington (M.L.) ..10,073 10,426 8100 2326 31,491
National (Melb.) .. 2,433 2,414 2400 14 23,959
T., E., &A. (Melb.) .. 8,578 7,100 4500 2600 17,722
Equity (Melb.) .. 4,780 6,210 2500 3710 15,122
Permanent (Syd.) ~ 4,226 6,724 2500 4224 14,023
T., E., &A. (Dunedin) 2,234 4,138 1500 2638 9,217
Westralian (Perth) .. 2,806 3,162 2100 1062 9,143
Perpetual (Dunedin) 2,057 2,302 1093 1209 7,350
Ballarat (Vic.) .. 2,797 3,050 1500 1550 7,215
Executors (Adelaide) 1,592 2,201 1074 1127 7,200
Perpetual (Hobart).. 1,361 1,535 840 695 6,63 S
Sandhurst (Bendigo) 2,386 3,091 1600 1491 6,501
(Queensland (Brisb.).. 1,576 2,122 1590 532 5,314
Tas. Pert. (L’ceston).. 1,482 1,844 630 1214 4,697
Perpetual (Melb.) ~ 2,009 2,198 1050 1148 1,677
Union (Melb.) .. 3,242 3,458 3322 136 1,513
But trustee co.s’ balance-sheets are often extremely un-
satisfactory documents. They give the minimum of in-
formation ; and some of the information they do give
doesn’t look too reliable. Some of the co.’s in the fore-
going list have written down securities hard ; thus the
Perpetual (Melb.) practically wiped out its reserves 18
months ag-o. Others may have their accounts still
stuffed with paper assets ; and as they lump all their
earnings, putting receipts from commissions and
interest on investments in one line, it
isn t at all possible to tell where the paper is. The
published accounts of the Adelaide, Westralian, T., E. & A.
(Melb.), T., E., and A. (Dunedin), Perpetual (Dunedin),
Sandhurst, and Union look reasonably satisfactory' ; those
of the Perpetual and Permanent (Sydney) and Ballarat
are satisfactory in streaks. The others are mostly very
unsatisfactory. The Perpetual of Sydney- has a “ reserved
commissions ” account—an apparently satisfactory way-
of putting aside a portion of the commissions receivable
but not y-et fully- earned ; some take credit for the whole
amount ; others (the National, of Melb., conspicuously)
apparently take credit for just enough to pay the
dividend, and so practically destroy the value of their
published accounts.
Trustee co.s’ profits are generally on a high
scale. During the boom some of the Victorian concerns
put their funds into rotten securities, which they have
since been writing- down, sometimes openly-, sometimes
out of undisclosed profits in the latter case the figures
don’t show the real profit on current business. As far as
the figures go, here are the earnings on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves) during the past two years,
together with divs. paid :
Profits p.c. of Capital Dividends
and Reserves. p.c.
1904. 1905. 19047^1905?
T.,E. &A. (Dunedin) £l4 7 6 £24 13 1 12 15
Perpetual (Sydney) 20 7 3 20 811 10 10
Permanent (Syd.) .. 12 19 6 19 6 6 8 10
Westralian (Perth) 16 4 0 17 9 9 21 20
Equity (Melb.) .. 14 0 1 17 1 1 10 10
Perpetual (Dunedin) 17 6 0 16 19 6 12* 12*
Ballarat (Vic.) .. 14 810 14 15 3 10 10
Tas. Perm’t. (L’ton.) 11 14 8 13 13 6 6 6
Sandhurst(Bendigo) 918 8 12 7 1 7 8
Executors (Adelaide) 950 10 59 6 7
Perpetual (Hobart) 816 6 912 6 8 8
Wellington (M.L.) .. 716 9 719 10 8 8
Perpetual (Melb.) .. 5 3 7 7 4 0 3 3*
(Queensland (Brisb.) 5 410 7 1 3 6 6
T., E. &A. (Melb.).. 8 9 9 615 1 5 5
Union (Melb.) .. 4 6 6 412 0 4 4*
National (Melb.) .. 410 10 4 9 7 8 8~
The figures, it will be seen, are very erratic, and this
prejudices investors against these stocks. Nevertheless,
there is an increasing demand for them ; and the return on
the investment has now been got down pretty fine in most
cases. The following list shows about how things stand
with some of the co.’s in this respect
Return on Return if all
Market Profit
Price. Divided.
Perpetual, Sydney .. £4 13 p.c. £22 12 p.c.
Permanent, ~ ..5 7,, 14 6 ~
Equity, Melb 415 „ 11 16 ~
National, ~ .. .. 511 ~ 512 ~
Perpetual, ..7 5,, 12 15
T.E. & A., 4 14 ~ 1113 „
Union, ~ .. .. 511 ~ 519 ~
Ballarat 4 6,, 8 15 „
Sandhurst .. .. 4 7 „ 8 8 „
T.E. & A., Dunedin .. 4 6 „ 10 17 „
Perpetual, ~ .. 510 ~ 10 3 ~
Queensland .. ..5 9,, 7 3,,
Westralia 9 0,, 13 11 ~
But, with regard to the second column above, it has to be
remembered that some trustee co.’s don’t disclose all
their profits, while others, as mentioned above, include
probably more than their real earnings—that is to say,
they- take credit for the whole of the corpus commissions
as the estates come in.
v * * *
The meeting of A.M.P. members to decide once
more on the proposal to pursue business in S’Afriea and
Britain is to be held on the 19th inst. The proxy-cnm-
ballot paper, with the “ Yes ” crossed out, ought to reach
the directors before that date.
Unable to answer the arguments against the
extension, general manager Teece adopts the personal
note. “Practically,” he say-s in effect, “the whole
provision I have made for my family consists of A.M.P.
policies ; and do you think I would recommend anything
to reduce their value?” No—not if he knew. But even
general manager Teece may do foolish things because he
doesn’t know. If he were infallible, the A.M.P. would
never take a bad risk. Yet it sometimes takes bad risks.
And it sometimes makes bad debts, and has to write them
off. Nobody supposes that the management makes bad
debts deliberately, but that doesn’t alter the fact that it
makes them. .The argument “Do you think I would do
anything to reduce the value of my policies?” is plausible,
then—and worthless.
Chairman Littlejohn says they want the London
office partly- for investment purposes—because of “the
facilities it will afford for the purchase from time to
time of colonial Government securities, which are invari-
ably at a lower price in London than in the local market.”
As to which only two things need be said—(l) They are
not invariably cheaper in London ; (2) if they were, it
wouldn’t be necessary to establish an office to buy them.
The society doesn’t need to have a London office to have
a London broker. But, says the chairman, “we cannot
take advantage of such occasions unless we are on the
spot.” Then what about “the practical annihilation of
time and space brought about by improved means of com-
munication ” mentioned in the manifesto? The directors
are shuffling. First, they wanted members to vote
“Yes "because time and space had been annihilated;
now they want them to vote “Yes” because time and
space haven’t been annihilated. This comes of not
letting one man do all the talking.
“ Surely the management, with its long and suc-
cessful experience, is in a better position to form a judg-
ment on this question than are those correspondents who
have assumed the role of hostile critics,” says chairman
Littlejohn. It ought to be. But the mistake the
management made was in giving its reasons ; and then
the public saw that the reasons were full of holes. The
management said it wanted to go to foreign parts because
(1) “The population of Australasia is practically sta-
tionary.” It was shown that the population had increased
by 7153,170 possible new A.M.P. policy-holders in 10 years ;
so that alleged reason collapsed.
(2) “ The average sum assured showed a constant reduc-
tion.” The society’s own figures showed, in reply, that
there had been a gradual increase in the average amount
of new policies from £251 in 1900 to £258 in 1904.
(3) “ The business now obtainable is of a less stable
character.” Again the society’s own figures show that
the proportion of forfeitures is less than half of what it
was 10 years ago.
(4) “Business is more difficult and costlv to get.”
Again the society’s own reports show that the expense
rate is being- reduced.
(5) “ Australia is a worked-out insurance field.” And
general manager Teece knocks that out by saying that
the reason the directors take another vote on this exten-
sion question is that, in the past five years, 80,000 new
members have been added.
So members might perhaps have relied upon “ the
long and successful experience ” of the management if it
hadn’t been foolish enough to give its reasons. As it is,
they have a right to conclude that the directors’ decision
is as bad as the directors’ reasons.
Once more, there are thrOe sources from which
bonuses are derived ; (1) Low expense rate ; (2) high in-
terest earnings ; (3) long life of members:—
(1) The A.M.P.’s expenses in its own country are only
£l3 11s. 6d. per cent, of premium income. The Scottish
Widows’ Fund, the largest and most cheaply worked of the
ordinary life British offices, claims an expense rate of £9
12s. per cent. But that is for mere commissions and
management expenses. Including all expenses, the propor-
tion is £l2lBs. lOd. p.c. of premiums. And in Great Britain
a vast quantity of business flows automatically to the Scot-
tish Widows just as in Australia a vast quantity flows to
the A.M.P. No single office which has to battle for busi-
ness—no single office doing business in Britain, but with
its head office outside Britain—works at under £24 12s.
per cent.
(2) Then as to interest earnings, the Scottish, Widows’
averageis £3 14s. 2d. per cent. ; the A.M.P.’s in Australia
is £4 9s. The A.M.P. has £19,602,000 of funds'. If the
A.M.P., confining itself to Australia, only earned as'much
as the great' British office, it would have £145,000 less
available for bonuses. That would mean reduction of
bonuses by nearly one-fourth. Yet, though their accu-
mulated premiums would earn so much less, the British
insurers would get the same bonus as the Australian
insurers. And the more there were of them, the less the
Australian insurers’ bonuses would be.
(3) The Australian death rate is 36 per 1000 less than
the British.. That means that, though he would pay in
fewer premiums, and earn less bonuses, the foreign
insurer would receive the same bonuses as the Australian.
Just in proportion as the British insurer got more than
he earned, the Australian would get less than he earned.
According to the Insurance and Finance
Review, general manager Teece says he would expect to
get a re-insurance business if the members voted
“ Yes.” “ Re-insurance comes from men who thoroughly
know 7 their business. They know the offices which pav
the best bonuses, and it is to their interest to choose
them, because any difference in bonus over and
above what it is paying is always pocketed by
the office which places the business. The A.M.P.
pays the best bonus; therefore the other com-
panies would come So it.” That' is "cheerful. The
Australian policy-holder is to provide the bonus—
“the best bonus”-and the “other companies” are to
pocket it. And it is for this that the Australian policy-
holder is asked to vote for extension 1 If he knows when
he is well off—if he would rather pocket “ the best
bonus” himself instead of letting the foreigner pocket it—
he will take all sorts of care that his “No ” vote reaches
the directors before January 19th.
A point to which the policy-holder has to glue
his mind is that the A.M.P. is a mutual office. It isn’t a
proprietary office, in which he is a shareholder. If the
Bank of N.S.W. makes ever so little profit in Great
Britain, or wherever it opens a new business, it is at least
so much extra profit for the old shareholders. But when
the A.M.P. gets new business, it also gets a new share-
holder, who takes the same share of the profits as the
rest, no matter how little profit there is in the new busi-
ness that he brings. The more of these new shareholders
there are whose business yields only a small profit, the
lower they reduce the average of profits, and the smaller
the bonuses become.
* * * *
Australia is getting some curious “arguments”
in favor of the A.M.P. directors’ proposal to rob the
society of its distinctively Australian character —the
character which has been one of its chief assets ; which
has caused people to take a patriotic pride in it, and give
it their business almost without being asked. R. M. Pitt
submits as a reason, that new policies in England run
from an average of £9lB each in the case of the Legal
and General to £3lB in the case of the Star, while the
A.M.P.’s average in Australasia is only £259. On the same
basis w'Ould Mr. Pitt recommend people to buy into a gold
mine which gave an occasional nugget rather than into
one with abigreefyfaverag-egrade? Everyone knows that
the Wealth of Nations and the Londonderry and Bayley’s
Reward —the big-nugget mines—haven’t paid one-tenth
as much in dividends as the Boulder or the Ivanhoe. The
latter didn’t have big nuggets, but they had more gold.
So, while the Legal and General was writing- one £9lB
policy, the A.M.P. wrote no less than seven £259 policies.
(The figures are for 1903 : Legal and General’s total poli-
cies issued, 1981 ; A.M.P.’s new policies, 14,534.) Also, to
show that the English business is less expensive, R. M.
Pitt lumps the expenses of all Australasian offices, and
says that the average is greater than for all British offices.
But the Australasian averag-e is .nearly twice as great as
the A.M.P.’s average alone, largely because several of
the other offices have done what Mr. Pitt wants the
A.M.P. to do and pursued business outside Australasia.
The fact that the rate for all Australasian offices lumped
together is larger than the British rate isn’t, therefore, an
argument in favor of extension ; it is, instead, an argu-
ment against extension.
* * * *
Understood that Sydney is to have another
bank—a branch of the Royal, of Melbourne. The Royal
seems to be undergoing a change of policy. For years it
didn’t trouble about branches ; it centralised its business
in Melbourne, and made big profits largely because,
having only one possible rush of customers to meet, it
was able to safely work on very low liquid reserves.
Lately it spread out to Bendigo ; how, it is understood, it
opens at Sydney under the former Sydney manager of an
Anglo-Australian bank.
* * *
Maoriland Minister Joe Ward and Maoriland’s
ex-Gov. Glasgow are going into the fish business, in
Maoriland to begin with, and later in Australia if they see
a likely opening. A co. with a capital of £120,000 is
behind the business—Glasgie is chairman in England-,
Ward in Maoriland. The idea is to fit out a dozen
trawlers ; a couple, worked by Wellington and Napier
fishmongers, have been secured already, as well as various
fishmongers’ businesses—including Fernandos’, of Wei-
ling-ton. Joe Ward’s syndicate had a couple of Brixham
trawlers out a few months ago, what time Joseph was
over in Australia smelling out the possibilities of a fish-
trade here, among other things, and they paint the pros-
pects with gold several inches deep. On their report
mainly J. Bull was asked to part £70,000 to set the things
going, and another £26,000 was expected from Maoriland.
On top of the fish business the co. proposes to go into the
fish-guano business, and gave l-12th interest in the con-
cern to the Fish Oil and Guano Co. for the right to use
its patents.
* • * *
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and Dairy
Produce Export Co. (Maoriland): —
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898 9 per cent. = £3442 £3500 £6,292
1899 £10,484 8 „ „ 4356 5500 £628 6,920
1900 9,492 8 ~ ~ 4500 5000 6,912
1901 9,151 8 ~ ~ 5344 4000 6,719
Premiums on New Shares .. 2500 9.219
1902 11,610 8 per cent. = 6000 5000 610 9,829
1903 12,213 8 „ „ 6000 3500 2713 12,542
Premiums on New Shares .. 5400 17,942
Loss.
1904 2,315 4 per cent. = 3927 11,700
Premiums on New Shares .. 1329 13,029
IQn , Profit. J 6 p.c. pref. = 4323) in 4 oc
1905 15,074 ] 4 p.c. ord. „ 4345 f ~ 6406
Of the profit shown as made in 1905 £11,470 is trad-
ing profit, £3321 is profit made on the sale of land,
and the balance is an unexplained addition to re-
serves, a small part of which may be premiums
on new shares. The paid capital is now £108,662
in ordinary and £75,000 in 6 per cent, preference
shares ; all the latter have been issued during the past
two years. In these two years, though £85,043 capital
has been got in (£75,000 of it preference), the liabilities to
the public have been actually increased by £4082, and now
stand at £94,274. Practically the whole of the new
capital has been put into additional plant and works ;
and meantime, so far as can be traced, nothing has been
written off either old, or new works. This must mean
that these standing charges will presently come with a
rush ; and, as nearly half the capital is now preference,
ordinary shares will probably be in a cold place. The
ordinary shares might easily have escaped the drag of
preference capital if, knowing what an erratic business
the co. is in, they hadn’t been so greedy after divs. ; now
they will probably have to pay dearly for it. Yet, on
paper, the position isn’t by any means hopeless for them.
For many years without a break the co. paid first 9 and
then 8 p.c., and, provided the old writings-off were
reasonable, the new works must be much less satisfactory
than the old ones if they can’t earn their 6 per cent. A
serious question, however, is whether the M.L. frozen-
meat export business wasn’t carried too far, and whether
the gilt isn’t off it for some years to come. M.L. stock
figures certainly suggest that this is so.
* * * *
Sydney Ferries, Limited, has now acquired
“ Clifton Gardens,” erstwhile Chowder Bay. A while
ago the co. bought Blue’s Point, and only uses it to tie
up an occasional steamer at; and it seems to have no real
use for Chowder either. But it has such an amazing
monopoly, fed at both ends by the State, that it has to
find some outlet for accumulating profits. It might
distribute them, certainly, but such gorgeous dividends
would attract attention. So it is content to invest its
funds and wait for the unearned increment, at the same
time providing against rivals buying these frontages and
starting in opposition.
* * * •
If Broken Hill shares don’t' soar it won’t be for
want of booming ; since the Melbourne-London crowd
mopped up blocks of shares in a number of mines a while
back, the drum lias been kept going vigorously at both
ends of the earth, and shares in the ten leading mines
have been pushed up in market value from £4,215,000 to
£8,100,000 inside 12 months. The public (or a part of it)
has been blind to the fact that a large part of the profits
declared by some co.’s hasn’t come, out of current work,
but is the result of sales of stuff which has been accumu-
lating for years past; and a co. can’t sell the same lot of
accumulations more than once. The development of
zinc-extraction processes has also been absurdly exag-
gerated. Here, for instance, is a table, - published in
several of the daily papers, purporting to show the vast
recent increase in the recoverable contents of the ore
(per ton): —
Gross Contents. Recoverable.
1902 .. ..£5 15 9 .. £1 15 If
1903 .. .. 6 4 8f .. 117 94-
1904 .. .. 7 2 .. 225
1905 .. .. 811 5 .. 637
So the public, if it didn’t know, would conclude that
£4 Is. 2d. per ton has been added to the value of Broken
Hill ore during the year. Yet, apart from the value that
has been added through the rise in silver and lead, not
more than perhaps 3s. per ton has been added during the
year. For years past some zinc-concentration has been
going on, and the Australian (German) Metal Co. has
bought tens of thousands of tons of by-products, from
Block 10 especially ; also, for over three years, the Sul-
phide Corporation has been treating by-products for zinc.
It is still treating them by the same method, and doesn’t
regard the acid process as offering any superior advan-
tages worth mentioning. The mining co.’s are not
getting more than from 3s. to 6s. for their tailings, and ;
that is not equal to more than from 2s. to 4s. per ton of
ore ; and from 2s. to 4s. is a long way off £4 Is. 2d.
Moreover, as shown already, the tailings had some value
before the past year ; so that even the 2s. to 4s. per ton
isn’t value added during the past year. There are
immense possibilities in the way of zinc production ; but 1
there clearly isn’t anything immense in the way of profits
for the mining co.’s ; and that is the only standpoint from
which to value the shares in these mines.
Broken Hill Junction mill is running on ore and
old tailings, and in a most objectionable way the reports
lump the things. The extraction is still poor ;in the
last run 20750 z. silver were recovered out of 50350 z.,
and 44‘6 tons lead out of 71'5 tons—an extraction of 31'2
per cent, of the silver and 62’4 per cent, of the lead. But'
a good deal depends on the proportion of tailings ; the’
first crop has been got from them, and what is left isn’t so;
easily recovered. Nothing special has been so far found
in the way of new ore bodies ; and no other Barrier mine
wants them so badly.
* » * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output for the year was,
5,007,6980 z. silver and 66,462 tons lead—besides zinc and
a small quantity of gold. Thus, on a year’s out-turn, a
threepenny movement in silver means £62,721, and a £1
movement in lead means £66,462.
* * * m
“Bromide”: Anxiety of Broken Hill miners
to get arbitration aw'ard fixed up was not so much fear of
slump (21/12/’O5) as fear of Government practically
abolishing arbitration. The conference which considered
the claim filed by the miners did good work ; the mine
managers conceded four out of six points; other two
remain as in previous award. The 10 per cent, deducted
from men who “ pull out” during currency of a contract
is in future to be paid to remaining contractors, and not
go, as before, into the co.’s coffers. Considering the
number who “ pull out ” during the year, this will mean
a great gain to the men and a considerable loss to the
co’s. Conference also decided that contract men are to be
told which timber depot they are to get timber from ; if
timber is not there, either the contractors have to be
paid wages while away getting it, or wages men are to
bring it to them—another big gain to the men. Have
myself lost half a shift looking for timber, and could not
find it. Bosses didn’t worry over it as I was on contract
—they’ll worry now. A list of earnings of each party
for previous contracts is to be accessible to men who are
asked to join parties, so that they can form an idea if the
place is good enough before signing. The preference to
unionists clause of the old award still stands. This was
the first conference held since 1892, the year of the big
strike, and general manager Delp-at remarked at con-
clusion : “I admit that I viewedVhis conference with
apprehension, but now that I find that you are prepared
to discuss matters in an amicable spirit I, for one, am
prepared to meet you at any time to di.scuss any question
that may arise.” The other managers agreed with him.
* * * *
J. H. Carruthers, chirping his little glad song
of the great things that had come to N.S, Wales under ,
his beneficent rule, said lately that a vast amount oP
English capital had been encouraged to come and embark
itself in the shale business, and that, through the develop-
ment of this great industry, 1200 men would shortly be
employed. Premier Carruthers probably didn’t intend
to play into the hands of a little crowd of London share-
pushers, but he did it, nevertheless; for his remarks
have been laid 'hold of as the warrant for shrill
screeches which have been rising lately from some
London newspaper offices. The first Australian
mention . that a shale scheme was prowling about
was made in The Bulletin eight or ten months


. ■
wmm
,: ■'
.
SSSK KW»jSi>y
,; Si
fa
gp
g&
£s
as
STU
Kill R&bbits
jj/WUxere «. Every-Acre I
* Airta'tee^Kound.
Write Us
*
or manures K
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, JNa
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining'properties under, working option of purchase for
"as" Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
The Insurance Journal and General
Financial Record, (London) of 15th August, 1905, "rote
thus with regard to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited “ Last year’s report presents the same
gratifying story of steady progress. It testifies eloquently
to increase in the funds, increase in renewal premipms,
increase in new premiums, and
arising from investments. It is, in short, on the
grade,” and its financial position w stronger than ever.
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.* . *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at Amencyp
price Large stocks of Morgans C ucibhs, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of ah
description. H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bouilce
street, Melbourne.* ' *
If vou want to borrow money, go to N.SM.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennejtt, Manager.* »
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for Uiree large
boilers each of 500 h.p. Superheateis, chain giate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also befell
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously co i
sidored by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed ‘ Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock bo.lers as
the standard for the British Navy.* t
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above anv other pipe. This pipe possesses error, ions
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 35 to 40 years without
any shm of decay, and may (last as long again. . Spual
pipe is manufactured by Mepban Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe wArks,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used fo? making boilers, fluming,'refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Mhler Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* . *
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Bran&t
Bros., Pitt-street,' Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.* . * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.* ,
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smellers, ’and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ore,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the man air er.
A 15 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Taniong Ranibutan Syndicate of the Federated
vr„i q v States The plant is similar in design to those now
woK at the Pioneer and Briseis Extended Tin Mines in
Tasmania. The 15 inch gravel pump will be of the latest
and most approved design, very strong and massive, and
will be driven by a vertical compound condensing engine,
self-contained and of 250 I.H.P. The centn ugal nozzle
pump will be driven by a separate vertical compound
engine and will be capable of discharging about 4000
gallons of water per minute with a pressure equal to a
head of 112ft. An Edwards type of air pump, a surface
condenser, and an electric lighting plant will be provided.
Mr T R. Toby is the engineer representing the Syndicate
and the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Mel-
bourne, is designing and manufacturing the plant. [C.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus Micro-
scopes and accessories can he obtained of Felton, Grim
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.
It is interesting to note that the “ H° r ri.sV>y ’
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
deputation fur reliability and economy, taring the past
vear hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
\Z electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines The,latest type of engine will run
at alostdf less than a farthing per brake horsey per
“°Up’ri"ht ” Water Tube Boiler firm R Hornsby and Sons
Ltd P , HaJ- street? Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
To mining speculators or company promoters-
to equip a mine with winding and crush-
?nd n acWnerv. Main shaft suuk 580ft. bode pyntic
martz from 3ft. to 10ft. wide. Tested by drives 600 t. in
Vencrth’ Crushed at public battery 5058 tons yielding
W?7oz battery gold. Pvrities saved 8 per cent, yielded
at Dapto and Cockle Creek from 4oz lOdwt. up to 9oz.
per ton. All particulars and samples of ore from W. D.
Heather, Mining Agent, Adelong.
Melbourne Exhibition Building, erected at the
. -LV-ieiuoui traders for the encouragement of
forS trade, is about to supply an antidote to its evil
infhienoes of yore. The A.N. A. committee is Preparing a
lnuugni es oi vwit and products, to
biir'Ssblayo/ Australian man uf act pres and products, to
ajfesss
tef ten SSZi .how, o'f fruit, vegetables,
There have bee produ ce, but this is the first time
*"*“ ln ““
character of an Australian institution.
ago, when it was said that some mining
had got newspaper-man Newnes interested 1 rather
vagant notions.* Newspaper-man Newne? seined gather
too influential a person to make an el ?emy > »...
the object of saving him from getting , t ke
tralia was one huge wild cat, he advised to mate
very careful inquiries about the , g like
He has had time to make inquiries, and ifwbat loo “ s
a very aggressive wild cat scratches him he will only nave
himself to thank.
The J. Bull public, which isn’t inthe same
position as Newnes, and generally can t afford
much money, now needs the advice formerly gwen to
the newspaper-man. All the advice that E * Tendon
are giving consists of piffle like this, from t
Daily Telegraph
“Immense shale fields, the largest lino
world, about 100 miles from Sydney, are i about t
be developed by an English corporation,- in wnnec ,
tion with the manufacture of lubricating and b« S,
oils. So important is the establishment of this
in Australia that, the Premier of New Son th VValet», nn 1
financial statement in September of this yea ? P
the industry as ‘ one of the largest ever established ffl
Australia.’ Many millions of tons of th . e J3ii.
known in the world are deposited in the feitile - I
watered valleys of Wolgan and Oapertee. A aimay, pi
about 27 miles is now being surveyed to link up this q
tile region with the Government main trunk lints, I
addition to shale deposits the territory is ridh in othjer
minerals and timber. The most modern electrical we
cutting machinery is now in operation making . ■
of about three miles long through the heart Of a moun-
tain, containing throughout its length rich p • .
shale. The export trade of Australia will be increased
through the exportation annually of hundreds of thou
sands of tons of shale to Europe and other parts,of the
world in connection with the manufacture ot ■ .
And so on. Set against all that the facts regard e
N.S.W. shale industry. It has been carried on hi
for over 40 years, so it isn’t one about which N.b. V\. Bnwi
nothing. There are quite a number of people living
between the Murray and the Queensland border who
wouldn’t have to go to a London newspaper office to find
out what shale was used for. As long ago as 1888,,4V,
tons of the stuff were mined; it was then worth *4l
10s. lid. per ton as an average, and a year or two lata
the quality was still better and the value TaOs. ppr ton
There was a gradual increase in the output til 18.12, when
74,197 tons were raised ; but the average value oy thgt
time was down to £1 16s. Bd. per ton. The industry it,
however, so erratic that within two years the output fell
from 74,197 to 21,171 tons; and, though the output has
been irregular since then, and has sometimes been higher
at the beginning of last year the only shale mine working
In the State was the New Hartley, at Canertee. rhe hs-
tricts where the “ largest known shale fields in the.woild
have been discovered are not new—they areAp fact, tne
districts where the N.S.W.’s shale co - s ‘ ,aV f k„ vn of
starving for the past 30 odd years, The best-know nof
those co.’s is the N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co whose pro-
perties are at this same Oapertee; it hasn t had fiend
in the past six years, and has reduced its reserves nbw to
£204. It had the pick of “ the largest known
in the world,” and that is what it has been able to do\\ith
them, notwithstanding that it has been worked with gieat
economy. This is the plain record of facts to be set
against the flights of imagination in the Bu i press. The
worst feature of the case is that, when the bubble is
pricked, N.S.W. will be blamed for the business, because
of Oarruthers’ incautious remarks.
You can’t beat shale for making a blaze on
paper. Five years ago sqme of the canniest men on
the Southern '’Changes lost their beads over reported
Tas. shale deposits. For a few weeks they ha 1 t e
greatest shale fields in the world ,
Lures they got from the analysts, and added them to
other figures that they got out of pnces-ourrent lists, and
thev built up fortunes that way. Then a great silence
fell upon the whole scheme, and the silence has been o
top ever since. » *
C. S. A. (Cobar) developments to date haven t
vet revealed the eastern wall in the crosscut. The only
level worked on (450 ft.) now shows close on 200 ft of lode
matter, some of low grade, and some averaging upjo 60
percent, lead, with a few oz. silver and a few dwt. of
gold. So far. however, there liasn t been any reliable
bulk test, and the policy now' adopted, of sending 300
tons from the dump to Cockle Creek works, is a good
one There isn’t much doubt of the vanes given from
time to time, and also there isn’t, much doubt of the
satisfactory opening-up of the noith and south drives in
the rich lead ore ; but, all the same, the con vincing test
at Cockle Creek will be acceptable. Diamond drills aie ex-
pected to be at work early in February to prove (or dis-
prove) lower levels ; but it is questionable whether the
policy of bothering with drills in a huge proposition
like this is wise. Main shaft sunk to say, 600 ft.,
and then a crosscut, would tell exactly and posi-
Uvelv what is happening below. But the promiscuous
wandering of the drill is often misleading, and par-
ticularlv so when a poor zone or horse of mullock
intrudes where rich ore was expected. With a shaft and
a crosscut the fact that it is an intrusion can be posi-
ascertained ; also its extent and surround ng
Circumstances can be noted. The public, in short, is too
rwX interested in C.S.A. now to be placed at. the
mercy of so unreliable a tool as the drill; and, s ® ell !S
that, whatever is met with down there, a shaft etc will
certainly be sunk, it seems a pity not to let the, shaft,
etc., do the talking in the first place. *
C.S.A. Co.’s offshoot, blocks Nos. 10 and 14
(Oobar) previously referred to as being a useful 40 acres
on the north end of the parent leases, was soon snapped
UP. Th°e r co. gets £ll,OOO cash and 22., 000 shares a„ d
underwriters guarantee a working capital, of *,20,000.
mocks are right on line of lode; therefore, if the worthy
parent lives down, the offspring should be a credit to the
family. , , * *
As exDected, the option over Queen Bee (Cobar)
by John Fox for the J. Bull people, didn’t even get to the
stage of putting up the £lOOO deposit. Seeing that under
Fox’s option the mine w'as to be loaded with a capitalisa-
tion of P £250,000, nothing better could have happened
than this failure. Shareholders had enough grit, this
time, too, to refuse permission for t ß e mevious
mine until the deposit was put up. H. J. Daly s previous
visit hadn’t been quite forgotten. Month’s rup of nearly
60 tons copper, with a couple of the re verbs, partially tmd
nn looks decidedly good ; and as the lode at No. 4 level
has been opened 14ft. wide and is 9 per cent, copper
there is not much doubt that good dividends can be paid
for some time to come on present capitalisation of 50 000
shares. Under Fox’s capitalisation, the opposite thing
must have happened ; so, in refusing to put up the
deposit, J. Bull and Co. have avoided an unpleasant ex-
perience. * * *
Bonnv Blocks, a mile and a half from Mt.
Boppy railway station (N.S.W.), and oil which there is
probably the largest gossan formation in the State, is
moving again. The vendors are mostly C.S. A. men, and
they are taking no cash out of the float. Assays from the
surface give some gold and lead and up to 4oz. silver
enough to go on with. Understood that an abandoned
shaft is to be deepened to 400 ft. before crosscutting, and
that the mine is to be equipped with machinery, rock-
drills &c. Capitalisation is £4OOO, in 160 shares of A. 25, 40
going to the vendors, and 120 to the public—which is
modest enough. Probably, in the present state of the
market, 500 shares could have been got off. The area is
160 acres, and there is no more waste ground than
necessary.
True Blue, Wyalong (N.5.W.),. now recognised
as the premier mine on tlm a iecoi( \
of gold tliis year. 'The level at 800 ft. ,lo^. 'f a hhd -
to the Brilliant shaft, a distance of 740 ft., ' wlfc " a ™
grade mineral reef averaging 2ft. all the J • . •
available for a distance of 300 ft New mach nerj is
erected at a total cost of £6OOO. But the profits won tgo
into many pockets ; most of the 8400 shares are in the
hands of one man, E. E. Tyler. #
Prince of Wales* (N.S.W.) is a Melbourne-
owned mine, which was bought into because heongmal
owner was reported to have won 25,0000 z from 75,0)0
tons. But the Vic. crowd which has got indownt
like calls, and is baulking at paying a pounds to
unwater the mine below 300 t. to prove if the go d goes
down. All that is being done is to crush from the
rvSS k n-« y bS°n out. 6 ShafU S to Agt.
a fesa jssv- s
leeward about £340, but even that is not ™ uc .“ the
tdajm. tliat has turned put .25,000 m. of gold is in the
balance. ’ , *
Ivanhoe Junctiop.V KalgoorUe, looks like pro-,
rec«mth^-puVfii?lmd^al'f-y < e^nj , 'report'tlfe directors.
more trial-crushings have been inade as no
pay-ore had been developed. |ln .Si'VifnSort
the iiiafhiure' tells an interviewer, oi a published repoi
SgS do«>, that
K “faiUn *•«::
are several thousand tons opened up. from f J
‘.Holden Linlx Kalgoorlie, has had a develop-
"tod thil is the first time any decent values have been met
~,c?h rj 0 now also owns the adjoining Croesus 4 P-
mine, long worked fruitlessly by an Adelaide co.
. ■» * * *
North End Kalgoorlie, gave a return of 1470 z.
GrJiszxxk .hiw h sii»>».
1 ( )06 before the 2000 ft. is reached. . , i^OOft
S Golden ,?SE,r,X a £JS£ Wta
started? 0 The bore previously sunk cut_. l9^ t : t ?3l o ft?
1477 ft., and the shaft passed through a rie V ' ■ -
Co. has £19,000 cash in hand, which ls.expec
sufficient to sink to 2000 ft. # *
4dwt. to .sdwt. gold. # »
. Queensland Menzies (W. A.) has paid the final
lhe n ooemng up d of the mine may give shareholders a fresh
Jun for their money, but it should be remembered that
it is very patchy, like all mines in the district.
Tvrtmviesi Consols (W.A.) closed the year with a
nrSfifeOO and instead of being in debt £2400, had
f ” edit t»l.n~ oi 41000.
gas&assj^a
.that it is hardly worth while looking yet.
* * *
Pin Gin (W.A.) looks as if it may turn out
.1° ' Since the State battery started, 436 tons
■yielded This place is not
f"bl fid
S,e X par U cels.° £
uture. * » * *
Commodore, Meekathara (W.A.), has treated at
te -ssas
hasfotiie very Revenue, has
N.'E. of Cue. -• • # , »
Those who run. the high-sounding Outtrim-
Howitt British Consolidated Coal Co. (Vic.) have come
mil with their balance-sheet just when the Coal Com-
r®rfew vraparJsa
face of all the cutting uy bufc . ’ the fai i lire to
publish the" details of the working account does
of°miniu r g n orth a e price" at which coa! is sold. . The Regis-
try-General stipulates for the issue of a working accoon ,
but the Outtrim-Howitt seems to he a ,'yHe attention
Perhaps the Commission may devote a little attention
To to matter, especially as the co. is a semi-State yen-
taw. Co. has sundry debtors £3072, while sundry credi-
tors amount to £lOBO, Inthis'ast
ail urob'abilitv, the liability of £6lB for deposits o
contracts, the receipt of which is acknowledged
rm the other side, so that the concern may be
viewed as having plenty of stocks on hand to wpe out
debts and orovide a silver - handled gamp to Keep
the bt rain off P the board during the. present distressful
weather Of course, this has nothing to do with tne
writine-down process, so consistently carried on until
outside of machinery and plant, there isn t mwch left to
whittle at. If Bent had the pluck to take over the lease
and work it for the railways and the public, he oug
soon to show solid profits. 9
North of England has every indication of
becoming another past number of the (Vic.)
district. Melbourne people contributed very la rgely to
the treasury, but the locals, to their credit, shrugged
their shoulders, and looked the other way whenever their
opinion was sought. Still th'e directors would come from
the mine with glowing reports, and a 10-head Wteiyof.
10001 b. stamps must be put up, 1 ed
spent freely, and a big block of stone opened
up onlv to prove it unpayable. This, ho\\evei,
is the present position of almost every mine in Maldon,
so that the only P people who profit are the spec. -sellers apd
the machinists who get the order for plant Sclent fic
methods of arriving at an estimate of the woitn or a
™ di. W rdi> V«wl«n .11
BBSTh VSS'fmA, s «'
quartz formations go, Nature has blessed Maldon
better than almost any other field in th ® &t f®\ h ' w
surface richness has not lived down except in the. South
German and Oswald’s, where in each instance theie is an
extensive system of faulting. What, the Mai o" 1^
needs to do is to satisfy himself that up-to date
methods have been employed to prove the alleged value
of the stone. Failing this, he should read the longest
of disappointments and then decide if he will nnest or
leave the field alone. v # *
Quite £lOO,OOO has been spent at Bendigo by J.
Bull on the Victoria Proprietary, tyhere, for seven year.
he has been shaft-sinking, crosscuttapg, and dritung, down
to 1000 ft., next door to the New Chum Go dfields, on the
far end of the New Chum line. London gettrng
rather weary of the constant drain and the constant
sinking, so some of the formations were tested. Stone
dealt with in 1904 from the 900 ft. and 1030 ft. »>akc
went about 7dwt., but a better shoot of gold*™
Lrot on to in .July,. and an average of 14dwt.
brought in profits of about £l5O0 p Perinop£h,
The board, with a little more prescience than most
Bullites show, spent this money in sHjking the boutben
New Chum shaft, to allow the formations to te worked
from the two shafts. That done and with . the battery
increased to 50head, 00. should be a
can turn its finely equipped: property to good account.
Bull has a very good chance, too,
Phiim Goldfields run of stone at 430 ft. to treat, as weu»»
any thing iMdovv the 900 ft. and 1030 ft. formations, and his
mine is well opened up. ,
* * y • T .
Five years’* results at Gympie (Q.).
Stone. Gold. . polls
, rn-.no oz. Dividends. * Oaiu.
ioni no too 117,062 £201,722 £96,642
voni " 140 776 140 510 263,874 76,500
W 3 •• 176 309 ■ 318,858 86,747
904 :: 209,644 US.Stt 239,004, 70,957
1005 213 454 138,403 195,8/5 05,727
This has a sick look ; and it looks sicker whenlit* is known
that the mostly Glasgow-owned Scottish. Gjmpiealo.
turned out 89,550 tons for 44,5080 z.-over a thud of the
tonnage and nearly a third of the a<r o tailed-
Eastern, which made fireworks 18 months ago, taile
off wretchedly; but lately it *° n «
Tf is second on the list. It paid *£68,400 in ans..
against £113,400 in 19 . 04 - J he T( f laS f s ° n T therefore
£78,375 as against. £53,625 in 1904. There isn t therefore
much left for tip others to be res ! for Gy mpm
has been a very poor prospector, and missed tdie liu B as
badlv as usual in its burst of prosperity a "hue ag .
Is still a shallow field, present hopes being mostly confined
ofche slate romid * about 900 ft. ; and 900 ft. is a poor depth
for a field that.is now 28.yearsold. O'l the whole, what
nrosnectimr, has been done during .the year has given
little^but disappointment; very little vigor has, howeve,
been put into the proceedings. The possibilities of the
Opener S i a t.es are large ; but Gympie dawdles along, and
so the field appears to be in for an even colder time than
it had during last* year. .
What looks like a continuation of the O.K. lode
«ysfturjarAtt wxaars
£&si£ at ttewrti”*• ?,
also looks like the same lode has bee " oveJ
the O K there is reason to suppose that the vein is over
a mile long. Whether it carries ore the whole distance is
another matter. # j,
Keith Maitland, new manager of 0.K., has
resigned • and the move was unexpected enough to knock
back'. No explanation is forthcoming ; as far
as can be made out, Maitland attended a directorsmeet-
in"- and had definitely thrown up the yob before tne
meeting was over.. It can hardly be the mine that Mait-
land doesn't, like, for a fortnight ago he told a northern
interviewer that, as far as he had gone, he reckoned it one
oAhe world’s best-which, by the way, is a pretty large
order, considering the little sinking yet done.*
')+ *
Southern speculators, who have got half an idea
that the silver-lead and tin mining stocks won t be good
to gamble in much longer, have lately had their eyes on
■Charters Towers ; they have been reckoning that that
field was about due for another boomlet. But the dis-
covery that the market last year moved up by almost
Imperceptible stages until the total value of Towers stocks
isTverv near the point reached in 1903 has damped them
Thev reckoned without the Charters Toweis local
speculator, who doesn’t, as a rule, leave much meat on
the bones. ' # * •
Mount Hector, Gladstone (Q.), floated by G. C.
Willcocks into a co. in 1000 sha'res at £25, is a low grade
■(relatively speaking) copper proposition, carrying some
pennyweights of gold. Find is not a new one by any
means, and, from all that is known of it, should, if
worked on a large scale (say 2000 tons per
week), he capable of .success. 00.. proposes, for
a start to have a blast furnace of a capacity
of 100 tons per day. Looks as if this was arnved
at to Suit the transport arrangements rather than
because it is the best scheme for working the ore body.
The ever-doubtful traction engines are to be given anothei
chance ; so far, they have been worthless in connection
with nearly every mining enterprise in Queensland.
Perhaps Willcocks, who should know as well as any man,
has satisfied himself on the point; but it is a certainty
that the track will have to be pretty solid macadam or
corduroy for the engines to do really good work.
' * * * *
In Queensland the promoter of a gold-show
rarelv fails to sav that the stone is just like that
obtained at Mt. Morgan.” From Stanthorpe to Thursday
Island one can meet with the tale any day in the week.
But if Mt. Morgan is the gold-man’s standard it does
not vet serve the same purpose for the copper-man. His
alpha is O.K. St. George copper mine, just acquired by
Brisbane after being worked to no very great purpose by
Cooktown people, is interesting because, so the report
gavs —“ The now famous O.K. mine is only about 30 miles
from the property, the latter being a continuation of the
same cupriferous belt.” This recalls the Barrier wild-cat
floated lon*'- ago oh the strength of a report th’at from the
top of the outcrop vou could distinctly see the smoke
from the Broken - Hill Prop.’s furnace-stacks. The St.
George has been favorably reported upon by Leonard
Green, but a lot of money will have to be spent before , his
hopes regarding the contiguous anthracite coal will be
realised Also, for the new-comer to do any good, the
copper market will have to very nearly maintain its pre-
sent inflated condition, and transport difficulties will
have to lie overcome
■ * * • • *
Woodlark Island (British Papua) is producing
gold all right. Some time ago a couple of very rich
parcels went through at Aldershot, and just before the
holidays 60 tons and 26 tons from the Woodlark King
and Illawarra claims were crushed at the Venus Mill,
Charters Towers. The yield was equal to £l9 16s. 2d.
and £l7 16s. lid. per ton respectively, or, roughly, soz.
and 4oz. stone. This is a very attractive return, but loz.
stuff, at Charters Towers is a much healthier game for the
mine'r. # , . •
At the last board meeting of Willcocks’
Oloncurry Syndicate it was decided to go on at once'
with the erection of smelters in the Cloncurry district
(q ) Thi9 on the recommendation of Thomas Gibb.
Syndicate has acquired just about/iO leases Nylnch Oibb
estimated had been developed sufficiently well to warrant
the smeltehs. The works will be elected between
Cloncurry township and Devoncourt. This is a wide
range, but the site will most likely be about 20 »®de»
from Cloncurry township, in the centre of the mllcoefcs
leases. „ ,
* * *
Vic. Attorney-General Davies assured Donald
Melville in the House of Rich Landlords, the other day,
that the Government “ couldn’t think of running motor-
buses in opposition ” to the grasping and incompetent
Tramway Co. because “ it would be directly contraiy to a
promise he had given when the Tramway Bill was before
the House.” Davies seems to think Ins promises and
intentions have the force of law.
What is the game in connection with the pro-
posed railway to Pilbarra goldfields (W.A.)V Recently
the Government called on the world to come forward and
offer to build a railway through 178 miles of almost fiat
country ; 3 per cent, interest guaranteed, together will#
half of anv profits over 3 per cent. To the snrpiise of
Groperdoni nobody took the job on ; only one tender
sent in, and that was without the deposit of L25,t00
stipulated f r. The nearest and best sea outlet for rii-
barra is Port Hedland, where the biggest steaniers on the
coast can lie alongside the jetty as safely as at Fremantle
and navigation is always possible despite the 30ft- l ae
and fall of the tide. The superiority of 1 ort Hedland
not questioned until Dr. Hicks, who repres. :,t s Hoebourn.
was included in the Rason Ministry. Then _the claims qf
Point Simpson were suddenly advanced with tremendous
energy, and a proposal was made to construct a light
tramway from there to Nullagine. boint Simpson is an
open roadstead, frequented by willy-wd es, w
bobs and other festive visitors, and it is 100 nil'esfurther
from Nullagine ; but it is in Roebourne electorate. Still
no deposit accompanied the Pt. Simpson offer, and it looks
as though the State will either have to build the railway
itself or let a promising mineral country languish.


WATSON’S WHISKY
Resells Waver ley Brewery, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF H*AVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
We WOULD BE PLEASED TO GET IN COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE INTERESTED IN WIRE CLOTH.
We WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075;
Aboriginalities.
OBVIOUS IMPOSSIBILITY.
STONEDROKE (as benevolent gent assists him to
his feet): “Thash right, thash right, rob me!"
jN.S.W. pastoralists propose to entice
hither a learned European person, who believes
he can, for a few thousand pounds, rid the
country of its few billion rabbits. Some £15,000
is to be raised, and the amount is already
promised. The idea is to introduce a
disease which the learned European per-
son declares .will be fatal to bunny and yet
rather pleasant than otherwise to domestic ani-
mals. It is' proposed to begin operations on an
island—to cart thither rabbits, goats, cows and
pigs and see what happens to them. An alterna-
tive idea is to go into the Neverest-Never r Never
and begin work there, but.as the learned European
person’s disease may break loose, and there is no
outback so remote as to be safe if it did, there are
doubts about this proposal.
* * « *
“ Elmore ”: Re blight on peach trees. I
have never tried “ The Trooslian’s ” “ Old Map,”
though he may be pretty good ; but I have tried
every poison spray, with only moderate results.
The very best remedy is common meat arits
(purple ones). Leave a bed unmolested within
100yds. of any infested tree and they will clean it
and send no account in for the job.
Householders will find that for uni versa-
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &e., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
Drifter” : An excited Chinaman is not
particular whom he hits so long as he hits some-.
body. He is a genius at running amok. I was a
freckle-faced outlaw kid at the time, and lived on a
farm by the Old Dog Trap Road, near Guildford.
The Chows used to pass the house, bound for
Sydney with cartloads of vegetables. One day
the devil prompted me to roll some red clay into
a hard solid ball, and to lie in wait. A mild,
stately old aunt of mine was sitting on the back
doorstep sipping a cup of tea. A Chow drove
past close to our fence and stopped the clay pro-
jectile with tremendous concussion. In seven
seconds he was round the house with murder in
his -pye and a big stone in his vegetable hook.
Auytv was gazing dreamily over ,the tree-tops
vlg&i. he released the missile. It exploded
against the weatherboards beside her, and aunt
was momentarily blotted out in a shower of
splinters and red bombshell dust. Then the
triumphant Chow ran back to his cart yelling
Yah ! blastu lallikin ! Whaffor ? ” That night
when the old man came home, we all reported that
a mad Chinaman had attacked aunt on the door-
step and thrown disused tombstones at her.
* •
About a camp :
Last Boxing Day they arrived by the Western mail at
Lulomogo. There were five of them, and all carried
weapons. Three were armed with guns, one with a pea-
rifle, and the last bristled with an arsenal of mouth-organ
and accordeon.
After a systematic inspection of some tents which were
rigged in the station y;p'd, they removed themselves to
an adjo.ning common, and proceeded to pitch camp.
How they came to pick on a spot like this for a week’s
shooting I know not. There is no water for five miles,
and the game consists solely of half-poisofied rabbits.
However, they started to pitch their tent close to a
main strbet leading to the local Universal Provider}'.
Tlie ridge-pole they suspended between two young pines
which were fairly alive with small insidious black ants.
Then they pulled pine boughs for a bed, during which
operation the ants got in some remarkably good work.
The ants generally took great interest in the camp, no
less than 14 varieties joining in the inspection.
The next item on the programme was some shooting.
It being 107 deg. in the shade, bunny refused to leave his
burrow in the middle of the day and get his countenance
sunburnt, even to oblige the Sydney visitors. They then
returned for dinner.
They lit a fire to windward of some high dry grass,
which promptly got alight, and after twenty minutes hot
work getting it out, they had to face an infuriated cocky,
who owned the adjoining wheat paddock and some very
strong language. After digesting a few home truths and
washing in a billy-can they got to the dinner. An argu-
ment started as to where the butter was put. Two got to
blows, and while they fought it out the fifth fellow (of
course, the third and fourth fellows were picking up the
two fellows who were fighting) found that the butter had
melted and soaked into the sugar. That “caked” it.
They began to think things were going against them—in
fact, the only things that did stick to them were ants and
grass seeds. When they found that the heat had melted
the glue in the accordeon, they unanimously decided to
return by that night’s mail train.
• * * •»
“ The Mussel ” : The pen is mightier than
the sword, and women are mightier than China-
men. The foregoing is apropos a scene I witnessed
in the victoria Market, Melbourne,
the other day. When I arrived on the
said scene there was a large, interested
crowd stitfd frequent bursts of applause.
Three gesticulating Chows, surrounded
with vegetables and voluble as monkeys,
were confronted by a large, calm, white
woman. She stood erect, holding out
her left hand—evidently for change.
The Chows still'chattered arid'gesticu-
lated.' She seemed to 'grow tired, and
without sneaking picked-up a vegetable
marrow and hit one* Chow on the face.
He stumbled backwards over a heap of
potatoes. She still kept calm and cool
and held out her left hand. The three
Chows got vei-y agitated. Her right
hand reached slowly but surely for an-
other marrow. Another Chow went
down. Great applause. The woman
held out her left hand. Twice after that
she threw a marrow, and each time a
Chow was bowled over. After each
shot she held out her left hand. A
small weedy,man leaped over a pile of
cabbages and danced round the Chows
in a fighting attitude. He was just
about to strike one when his wife—the
woman waiting for the change—pushed
him gently but firmly out of the imme-
diate circle of hostilities. Then she
put out her left hand, and this time a
reluctant Chow placed her change in it.
I saw her later, but I only heard her
speak once. A heavy bag of vegetables
was lying on the footpath. She turned
to her weedy husband and said shortly,
“ Here, you carry that! ”
“ Methody ” : Parson Paine, of Ash-
burton (M.L.), whfen cruisiilg round the country
preaching prohibition, once struck a bad snag and
got some back talk where he didn’t expect it. At
a farmer’s house he ran against William Shultze,
alias “Old Bill the, Dane,” an itinerant bag-
mender. During a hot engagement, lasting half
an hour, William kept up his end as vigorously as
his supply of English would allow, and showed no
sign of surrender. The parson then, with the
consent of the boss, suggested prayers for the
household, and when he got Bill on his knees he
took the occasion to enlarge on the evils of drink,
and gave the Lord some useful hints how to deal
with men like old Bill. When prayers were over
Bill turned on his opponent, and remarked:
“ You calls dat fair, Mr. Parson ? First you take
away mine glass o’ peer, den you takes avay mine
shmoke-pipe, den you gets us lie down mit
prayers, and den you shoomps on us and gives der
show avay to der Lord. You calls dat fair ? You
calls dat shoostice ? You vas not shentlemans ! ”
* • » *
‘ ‘ San Remo Be busted towns (B. 20/7/’O5).
Does anyone know of an absolutely-deserted town-
ship in Australia—houses left standing, furniture
intact, and so on ? In the U.S.A. during the
roaring gold and oil days several fair-sized towns
were left absolutely as cities of the dead. I have
heard about a small deserted place (40 odd houses)
named Scarborough, situated upon the old waggon
road midway between “ The Dawson ” and Cler-
mont (Q.). In their wanderings, drovers, stock-
men, ’roo shooters, &c., sometimes discover wholly
deserted homesteads. Know of one such in
the Capella district (C.Q.). House completely
hidden with undergrowth, &c. It is intact, furni-
ture and all, including an ancient sewing machine.
Wilbea ” : Pooh Bah isn’t in it with an
official under the British New Guinea Govern-
ment. Supposing the natives in his district com-
mence raising Cain generally and head-hunting in
particular ; as a constabulary officer he goes out
to make arrests, committing the prisoners to his
own care as gaoler. He then holds Court, and
proceeds against them before himself as magis-
trate. The cases being very carefully considered,
in this capacity, they perhaps are sentenced and '
again handed over to himself as gaoler. They
may perhaps lay a complaint about him to the
visitinsr justice, who happens to be himself also.
Complaint against himself dismissed by himself
as being without foundation. , Then, being rather
muddled as to what he really is, he has a drink.
* * » •
Botanist Bailey, of Queensland, when
someone said “American Burbank” to him the
other day, lifted up the top lid of his left eye
(which has lost its hinge), grabbed his angora
whiskers with the other hand, and proceeded to
make a few remarks :
Been doing good work, did you say? But have there
been practical results? There do not appear to be many
evidences of that. To me it seems that there has been a
lot of booming going on with nothing very much better
resulting. I read the other day that Burbank was looking
after 150,000 experiments. Did anyone ever hear the like ?
A'prickly pear that grows no spines and bears a luscious
fruit interests us a bit in Queensland. But even if all
that is claimed is true Burbank’s pear won’t root ours
out and take its place. It is well known, too, that every
plant allowed to run wild degenerates quickly, and
Burbank’s pear will probably get back to the coarsest
curse we have if planted out. Follow up the pear and you
will occasionally find leaves with very few spines ; others so
thickly studded it would be hard to put the little finger
between. These will reproduce for a time. Take the
choicest tomatoes and let them grow wild. In a few years
you will see them back to the cherry variety which may
be found wild in N.Q. At any rate we don’t want to run
risks with his spineless pear here. And I want to see
some practical results before I believe in Burbank as a
great man in the scientific world.
» * • •
Out near The Edge in Queensland a mail-
man has been missing now for quite a while. A
police telegram explained that “ the buggy was
discovered three miles from a station, with the
man’s hat in it. An empty whisky bottle lay on
the ground. There was no trace of the man.”
North,Queensland is the land of mysterious dis-
appearances, where all the side tracks lead to
Sheol. A mail is walking along carelessly and
thinking of nothing in particular, and’he drops
down a crack in the drought, and unless someone
Sees his hat blowing through Port Darwin there
is no more heard of him.
“ Hassan ”: “ W.P.8.” (B. 21/12/’os)asks
for the specific name of the Bugong moths, and
desires information on their present habitat. The
name is Agrotis Spina,, and they have gone along
that road “ which, to discover, we must travel
too.” They lay, some time back, in millions upon
the seaward beaches and the harbor foreshores.
I have found them six inches deep in little shel-
tered bays in Middle Harbor. They stole the
honey from the flowers that bloom in the spring,
so that the bee-farmers had to feed their bees what
time the bees usually begin to store their hives.
They appear every , year, but only occasionally in
the numbers that of late swarmed into the houses
and about the lights of Sydney. They are harm-
less to clothes, but the caterpillar is a, wheat-eater.
The blacks, I am told, used to eat them, but the
musty flavor of the beast is not inviting. I can
remember one or two former plagues of them, but
none so severe as this last visitation. At any rate
we have probably seen the last of them for a few
years.
• * * *
“ Outcast : Has the S. Australian Govern-
ment given up the idea of trying to keep the
Northern Territory free from leprosy ? It looks
like it. About the end of August, 1905, a half-
caste black boy was sent to the leper station, and
certified to be a leper. But his detention at the
Island was apparently too costly; he had to be
fed, and a Chinese attendant or guard had. also
to be paid and fed. Anyhow, on or about
November 10, the boy was taken some distance
up one of the creeks and set at liberty, two black-
boys and a few days’ supply of provisions being
left with him. Subsequently articles that had
been made use of by tne unfortunate boy were
burned, and the attendant’s clothing was also
destroyed. These latter steps seem to show that
the disease was still believed to be leprosy and,
as it is not given out that the patient was either
cured or relieved, whether he returns to his white
friends or lives with the blacks (the latter is ex-
tremely unlikely), he must be a source of danger.
I don’t believe the medical officer is to blame ; but
somebody ought to find out who is.
“ 8.5.” : If “ Krex ” (B. 28/12/’O5) got rid
of the bull-ant by making a small Sheol on top of
him, the battler concerned must have been a
scanty and recent settler. I have tried the fire
device, but after keeping up the blaze till firewood
got distant, sufficient bull-ant was still on hand to
compel me to shift camp. The only way to drive
out bull-ants is to put Satan on the job at a fixed
salary and commission.
THE MOTHER OF THE WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the little grey bush mother lies white-shrouded,
stark, and cold,
To pay the last grim debt of all to Nature—and the
mould;
Ere the little haggard body crumbles slowly back to clay,
What shall the wise men think of her ?—what shall her
children say?
What shall they think, and say, and write of her who
gave them birth—
The little grey bush mother—and the dearest one on
earth?
And standing there bare-headed ’neath the brassy Western
skies
What pictures shall come crowding past before; their
moistened eyes ?
We say it, and we’ve said it, and we’ll say it all again :
“The little mother lived for good when all things else
were vain.”
Oh, Grave, where is thy victory? Oh, Death, where is
thy sting?
Ah, where, indeed, when Life is but one tale of suffering ?
She bore the brown bush children who are fighting, side
by side,
To make this fair young land of ours the world-wide
nations’ pride ;
She bore the brown bush children who, whate’er their
fate may be,
Will always think of one through all ; and that dear one
is She.
And high above the Plain of Things, this truth eternal
stands:
“She labor’d where the idle rich would scorn to stain
their hands ;
The pages of her life are marked with sweat and salty
tears, ’
But oh! she stands the First of All amongst our
pioneers.”
—W pagan ones will kneel around bare-headed in the
sun,
For she—of all—believed in Him ... and “ God, Thy will
be done ! ”
For her we hushed the pagan voice, for her we learned to
live
The lives of smug hypocrisy .. . and may the Fates for-
. give!
When the little grey bush mother whom we loved has
passed away,
We’ll kneel beside the open grave, her godless ones, and
> ' pray ;
We’ll breathe one prayer—one honest prayer—to crave
eternal rest.
For Her who is the best of all—the Mother in the West,
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
SHIFTIN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
t J OME fellows skite of wheelin’ loads o’ muck,.
. And others earn a crust at shiftin’ rocks,.
* / Or act the ’orse bc’ind a railway truck,
Or chuck about the tarry pavin’ blocks.
At liftin’ wool from greasy jumbucks ’ backs,
The bob you earns is earned almighty dear ;
An’ shiftin’ trees with extra ’eayy axe
Ain’t ’arf as good a game as shiftin’ beer.
There’s money, too, in shakin’ ’ides an’ ’oofs ;
An’ furniture’s a steady-payin’ line ;
An’ diggin’ lead from off deserted roofs
Some fellers call a reg’lar silver mine.
There's profit , too, in shiftin’ things away
Whose owners doesn’t ’appen to be near.
From all such games I tell you I’m away —
Give me a steady job at shiftin’ beer.
It never feels too ’eavy to yer ’and —
It’s simply play to swing it shoulder ’igh;
An’, while yer work, yer feelin’ simply grand.
At knock-orf time yer ’earn a bloomin’ sigh.
I d work at it until I’m bent an’ grey,
Through all the bloomin’ seasons of the year,
‘Quite satisfied with twenty hours a day,
And d steady, ill-paid job o’ shiftin’ beer.
N.B.W.
NULLA.


Which Salt?<
Salt for the Bones, salt for the Brain,
Salt for the Nerves, relieves the Strain,
Salt for the Country, salt for the Town,
Salt to keep people from breaking down.
Salt for the Kitchen, saltifor the Table,
Salt for the Delicate, salt for the Able,
Salt forthe Simple, safljt for the Wise,
Salt for the Children, fijncreases thejrsize.
Salt of the Earth, with but a Fault,
Salt of Life—lt is <
CEREBO
Wholesale Agents;—Harrison & Attv/cod, Sidney.
The Late V. J. Daley.
Viotob Daley, living his Bohemian life,
taking, as regards ways and means, the irrespon-
sible view of the skylark, died poor, and in conse-
quence of his long illness he died in debt. His
family, consequently, is left in greatly im-
poverished circumstances. Daley’s memory needs
no monument ; his work is the best of memorials.
But the public whom his minstrelsy charmed
might well take over some of the burden of main-
taining his family, as a tribute to the poet. Any
money sent to The Bulletin for a Daley t und
will be gratefully acknowledged and: applied
strictly to the assistance of his family. *
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteracts the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.
WEDDINGS
PenjaQd Presets- N
NO two alike. We list those we send to
6Ach recipient, and so save duplication.
THE enormous variety of our selection of
articles appropriate enables us to
supply the unusual demand.
WE stock only goods of high merit, and
specialise in solid silver, and best
qualities only of electro-silver.
THESE, however, we bring within the
range of between 15s and £5.
London Prices Only—Plus Duty.
Fairfax St Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Strictly Cash.
Plain Figures.
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons in Cases, 16s 6d.
Various Designs.
“M.P.A.”: A drover living at Kangaroo
Flat (Vic.) has a cockatoo that follows him about
like a dog. Cocky flies along the road lodging on
houses and trees, but always keeping the boss m
sight. It has been known to follow him some
eight miles from home and back. It talks well
and keeps up quite a running fire of conversation.
It is a common white bird with a yellow top-knot,
one of the species that performed so quietly in
Marzella’s show at Rickards’ what time the
bigger and gaudier fowls were making a noise.
* * * *
“ Roma ” writes :
There are as many methods of courtship as there are
minutes in the year. When Igoto a new eountry-plaee
I always watch for the symptoms.
The girls in this part (South Gippsland) assist with all
out-door work, such as harrowing, sowing, tying-up
sheaves, etc. (harvesters are not used among poor
cookies). After a hard day’s work, the washing of feet is
always an after-tea performance ; the ablutions generally
take place in the one living room. On this scene, a
young man appears. Very little commotion ensues ,if
possible the girls do a flit to dry their feet and put on
their stockings. Otherwise they stand their ground
while the male eligible “ slings off ” at them about the:
size of their walking furniture.
After this, the evening visits continue, but the girl he
“slings off” at most begins her feet-washing a bit earlier.
Next step in the courtship ladder, the young man finds
excuses for calling in the morning, and Sunday afternoon
always sees him at tea. By this time he is familiar
enough to aim “ cherry bobs” at his particular “bit of
fluff.”
Next, father is interviewed and generally acquiesces.
The engagement is usually sealed by some present, such
as a Waterbury watch or silver brooch. Then the neigh-
bors know that the young couple are “ goin’ to do it.”
During the few months that intervene between the
engagement and the “ hobbling,” the swain positively
forbids his young woman to work hard. “ I’m sugared if
I’m goin’ to let you knock yourself out for your old man,
is the common phrase. Last of all comes the marriage
bells (often only one bell, and that usually the one taken
from the working bullock to make a noise for the
occasion). The girl makes her own muslin dress, and
crochets or knits all lace for her “ clothes,” or “ trossow,”
as it is locally called. The wedding takes place at one
end of the living room, which for the occasion is decor-
ated with gum boughs—while the blow-flies gather at the
other end. .
When the “spliced pair ” are leaving to spend their
honeymoon in Melbourne the)' are showered with sago,
barley, or any cereal that happens to be plentiful (rice
is too dear). One couple was covered with flour by some
local hooligans. Old blucher boots are invariably thrown
at the very last moment to bring luck.,
* * * *
“Alec Zander”: What a multiplicity of
uses the kerosene tin is put to in the bush ! It is a
water bucket and a boiler. The women use it as-
a copper for their clothes. Cut down, it is used
as a baking-dish, wash-bowl, and water-trough for
the chickens. The dog and the horse drink out.
of it. Houses are made of it in some parts, and I
have heard they feed the goats on kerosene tins,
about Byrock, but I cannot vouch for that.
* * • *
“The Moocher”: Be “Krex’s” and
“ Stilt-Walker’s” methods of getting rid of the l
bull-ant (B. 28/12/’O5). I have tried “Krex’s
fire cure, and have also used various concoctions,
including some that smelled worse than the Tainted
Fish Party; but they invariably proved use-
less. Best thing I know of is simply this.
Clean out the unburnt tobacco from the 1
bottom of one ancient strong pipe; place the
product, fresh and hot from the pipe, just inside
the bull-ant’s front door. The bull will go—like-
wise the cows and calves thereof. Have tried-this,
simple remedy on about every brand and breed of
noxious insect, and never knew it fail to clear
them out of sight with half-a-dozen applications.
THE BETTER HALF.
GOGGLES: “My automobile has broken down, and
I require a strong person to assist to push it
along to the blacksmith. Could you ”
THE WORSER HALF : “ Werry sorry, mister, but
the missus ain't at ’ome just now.”
GROSSLY DECIVED.
BUSH BUNG (with unnatural courtesy): “ Goo'-
day, mate; come far?”
STONY TRAVELLER (with hope): “Twelve mile,
boss.”
B.B.: “ Twelve mile! Why, it's 102 in the shade.”
S.T. (prospect of beer greatly heightened): “ Twelve
solid mile, boss, and mighty hot, as you say.”
B.B. (with interest): “Take any short cuts”
S.T. (prospects up 200 per cent.): “Not one;
kep' the bloomin' road all the way.”
B.B.: “ Well, did yer see a black heifer strayin'
anywhere along the road?”
S.T.: “ !!!! —!!!”
“Bunny”: The rabbits in the Western
third of N.S.W. (particularly West-o’-Darling)
.are having an unusually hard time. So desperate
are they that they have destroyed thousands of
acres of mulga. I have seen mulga barked to the
height of 6ft. or 7ft. in hundreds of instances. The
twigs find branches are stripped as far out as the
rabbits dare venture. They are travelling in
myriads to the Darling, in. which vast numbers
are drowned owing to weakness. No Darling
dwellers are eating any fresh water fish just now.
They are afraid of phosphorus poisoning from fish
that have devoured phosphorised rabbits. So
great is the stench from dead rabbits at White
Cliffs that dust storms are now piously prayed for.
The surest way to exterminate bunny (as has been
pointed out by “D.H.R.”), and to make profitable
use of the Wasted West is to cut it up into home-
stead leases.
* * * *
“8.5.” : “Ed.” (B. 28/12/’O5) errs in say-
ing that the mistletoe attacks all trees. Here
(Northern Victoria) native pines and belars have
not as yet been touched by it. He also says it
spreads slowly. Well, old residents aver that a
comparatively few years ago it wasn’t noticeable,
and now it blots the landscape in all directions.
It doesn’t spread, slowly ; it spreads like perdition.
» *• * *
“Go on the land, young man.” In a
recent Fitzroy (Vic.) maintenance case, a Fern-
tree Gully farmer, whose son was sued for the
usual thing, swore that the said son, 21 years of
age, received 10s. a week from him, the excessive
wage being paid owing to parental love and affec-
tion, as he “could get as many capable farm
laborers as he liked for Bs. weekly.”
• • •' •
“ Ailath ” : Re Edward:Vll. and the bird
that fell on his head, and the innumerable cable-
grams about the episode. The best part of an
elephant fell on a friend of mine while shooting
in India, and somehow caused his death. When
I offered sympathy and denounced the perpetrator
of the outrage, my friend, simply gasped, “What
d’ye want to talk about it for ? ” A few minutes
later he remarked, “ We’ve had a ripping day but
for this,” and passed in his checks. And not even
the local rag mentioned the event.
“Mar.”: Have not
seen any reference to
the goanna’s snake-
like powers of fas-
cination. Saw*, one
day, on the topmost
branch of a yellow
1 box, a ’p° ssum
creeping slowly
downward a n d
uttering piteous
cries, his dis-
tended eyes fixed
.on a big goanna
lying flattened
and motionless
on a limb lower
down, the go.’s
eyes being also
fixed on those
of the scared
animal above.
The latter con-
tinued his de-
scent voicing
his alarm the
whole time,
his pace get-
ting slower
and slower
until he got
within a few
inches of the
go. Just then
my dog bark-
ed and spoiled
the snow.
The go. slip-
ped up the
tree past his •
intended vic-
tim, while the
’possum took a
flying jump
earthward of 15ft.
or so, landing
plump on top of the
astonished dog, and
was away and up an-
other tree while the
flabbergasted canine was
observing “ Whaffor !
Once saw a brown snake thus operate on a frog.
Froggy kept up a plaintive croaking while slowly
nearing the snake, and also during the sliming
over and swallowing process, giving a na
strangled croak as he disappeared. 1 killed tne
reptile and released the frog, which hopped out
feebly, and appeared to be suffering from shock to
the system. He soon recovered,
showed his gratitude by hopping into a billy ot
cold tea when I wasn’t looking.
* * * #
“Warratunna” writes (rather illegibly)
from Central Australia :
Those who describe Oodnadatta as being in a desert of
sand, make a great mistake. Oodnadatta is situated
amidst what is known as tableland country and a more
stony place one would not wish to see. A few miles to
the south is an exceedingly rough range of large red
boulders extending around eastwards, with large water
courses running towards the town. These are timbered
with gum and gidgi. About a mile westward of the town
is what is known as the River Neales. This large creek
has beautiful permanent fresh water holes m which
abound numerous fish. The nearest sandhills of any area
are about fifty miles to the southward: They form the
main part of a horse and cattle station. This station and
the adjoining ones are producing as fat and as well
conditioned cattle as ever went from any part of North
Australia. This district is also noted for its excellent
horses and the great staying powers which they possess.
The country (especially to the south of Oodnadatta) has
one of Nature’s greatest gifts-abundance of water. There
are artesian and practically permanent surface waters in
fact it’s as well-watered a district as there is away from
Australia’s coastal country, and, with three inches of
rain, will produce sufficient feed to fatten the stock and
keep them in good condition for over a twelvemonth. Of
course, like all other inland countries, it has its good and
bad seasons, but the bad ones have been a thing of the
past this last four or five years. ' , .. ...
Having spent half my life in Central Australia, I have
noted what it is capable of at present and what its capa-
bilities, mineral and otherwise, would be if it only had
the capital. Also it has irrigation possibilities. When
the railway goes right through there will be an awaken-
in#, even in Central Australia.
* * * *
Order lately received by a Vic. country
storekeeper : j
Sur pies send thes guds at wons i wunt them fer krismus
6 pownd kurins 6 pownd rasints them butes you sent aint
ther rite butes they is 9 i tak 7 yu must think l got fete
lik dam blakfelers kanoos 1 bag flower 6 pownd sager 6
pownd rise i ad a bad Are toosdy burned nerly al me gras
and fritenedther doos out of the, cows ole wumans bin
sik ever sins 1 pownd bakin soder ljpakit eawn flower fer
grooel theygawnof ther milk andgot sor tits and wont
fede 10 pownd bakin gud bakin no dnde.orse like las tim
with aide a hinsh thik 1 bag shuger it giv pertikler el
to the rabits and snaks burnd em rite out 1 tin trekel b
tins o-em tell the bucher to send 12 pownd rostin mete
and ther bil and i wil settel him wen i cum in al is wel
barin the mi sis and cows of ther milk with sor tits and 2
kids wijbh meesels opin vur ther sam mery krismus as it
leves me at presint 1 boks hanterpilyus pils l.pakit spise
1 tin peper.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear ow'd.'l., No liability is under-
taken re contributions otdiintarily submitted , whether
sent by post, or handed in ; • and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Alice G. : A very fanciful picture. The wages
of sin, in reality, often only run to clothes and rent... •
The Bud: A rather pretty jingle, but very small and
slender. Couldn’t you get a larger and more definite
subject?.. ..O.: You cast.no new light on Kelly’s motor
car Seefo-Irony: "New Year’s Greetings” rather
hopeless... .Mahamitt: “ One for Essex ” quite incompre-
hensible and rather belated E.A.A. : If anything
‘ ‘ happened,” as you put it, to ‘ 1 Akenehi ”or Tryphena,
probably vou could fill the place. And both these ladies
say that if £lOO,OOO happens to them you can have their
job. But alas! how seldom £lOO,OOO happens.... K.
‘‘ Until ” hardly strikes us Thomas: A wild and reckless
poem suggestive of an excited goat hurrying over rocks....
Nimbus: Not much in either... .Chris. N. : Ideas better
than execution.... Mary L. : “ When ? ” has good points,
but is faulty in form Nulla: They don t quite reach
the mark, and your difficult “fist” is against you in any
case H.C.H. : Entirely conventional in manner....
RitaS.: Versification painfully rocky. . i; A.G. . Katner
smart, but the ideas are well worn... .C. Gil. : Not quality
enough....Josa M. : “Barbara” is rather tee We----
Edgar D. : Very nearly scored. Might have been better
worked 0ut.... Fenton : Somewhat out of our line...
C.A.B. : Capital story for, sa.v, the Units Own Paper.. ..
J. Bernard: Cheap melodrama 0n1y... .1 ussie : Hies on
at too many tangents... .Gordon B. : Style too stiff
and preachy J.G.O’D. : Strained and straggly... ..
Nat: Workmanship inferior... .Henry J. : ’ y ? u T wl ,.
probably improve much with pi act.ice Alt red .J ay •
Good style, but interest hardly vivid enough... .belle .
Your former copy must have miscarried. You have
poetic feeling and some grace of expression, but your
verse is derivative and uninspired.... .S.S.S. : how in
creation can we tell till we’ve seen it Mac. . the
subject is quite beyond you, and you shouldn t use
scientific terms that you can’t spell properly.. . .A.l'.it. •
Nothing in it.... John D. : Too trifling. Also, other State
stamps are useless unless loose.. .Josa M. : Weak , but
shows some possibilities Gilrooney : Very f° rc ® d 1,1
places... .H.A.M'Di: Not quite well enough handled.. ..
A.W.N. : Realistic, blit roo fragmentary 3.A.U. :UJ
It would not be honest to offer them to another pape'r
without stating that they had already been printed, (f)
Unless you sue for the value there is no remedy . .I'.G..
“ Belle Dame” isn’t quite satisfactory in the handling....
Cazie : Some narrative-gift, but rather crude anil prolix
of style... .J.A.D.: Graphic enough in its way, but quite
out of our line.... G. Bung: Interest too weak... .Black
Swan : Good, but hardly good enough.... Jephson McG. .
Part of it is funny, but the rest is inferior work....
J.W.R.S. : About a score of Daley obituaries came to hand,
and some had to be retrenched... J.ft. : Calculations based
on the “ fact ” that the world’s' population doubles every
70 years are obviously silly. What’s going to hiipptn in
2900, when “there are to be 16,648,000,000,000 in the
world,” doesn’t therefore interest us in the least .... iom
K : Agree with a good deal of what you say; but its a
mournful fact that Australia, as yet, has a gun only for
every tenth fighting man, very little artillery, no warships,
no effective coastal defences. An Asiatic raid under sucli
circumstances would be deadly. We must prepare and arm.
.... G. W. P.: Cheer up : your rain poem is the saddest thing
the office has struck this year A. J. Rindell : It’s quite
impossible to answer you definitely, as the questions both
depend on the rules for the contest—which you don t
send. Competitors would be bound by the rules, what-
ever they were, as regards protests, performances, eye. It
there were no rules adopted, then a court of law—it tne
matter came before a court —would probably decide by
following the general custom of such contests elsewhere.
Cunctator: Your inferences are mixed, and Edward
VII. does owe his comfortable job to his Stuart descent.
George I. was called to the British throne because he was
the nearest Protestant representative (at that time no
Roman Catholics need apply) of the Stuarts, who was
then in the reigning industry. If he hadn’t been descended
from a Stuart he would have had no more pintfice than
the late Henry Parkes... .Edelweiss : All hopeless...
Kerani: Is it original?.. ..Cunctator : Yes, you are the
devil of a lingerer. All your pars aire about long-since-
passed matters... .Derwent: You make your point
clumsily; may do to illustrate, in which case you 11 be
advised... .Onlooker: (1) The Bulletin didn’t “ champion
Roth ” but printed a correspondent’s letter in his favor
responding to another correspondent’s letter very much
in his disfavor ; (2) The Bulletin is tired of the subject of
Roth’s character and leaves it at that... .Gilgi: 1 Amicus
ambo ”is impossible Latin, “ load-star ” and prevades
and many other words are impossible English ; and when
we add that all your phrases are potted and all your ideas
old, is it worth while, think you, to write more Xmas
dream poetry? Other item better hut not up to the mark
... .Lachlan : “ Forest Home ”is pretty in a conventional
sort of way. The “ sylvan scene,” the “ placid dream,
the “ sunlit flowers,” the “ dell,” the place where fancy
ever strays,” the “sequestered spot,” the sighing
breeze ’’—all these things are old, accursed and baggtd at
the knees H.R.M’D. : Both very weak. .. .J. 8.0. :
Hazy idea and painful versification Southern Gross :
Sorry to have to confirm your own estimate of it as
doggerel... .Blazer : W.P.B. accordingly... .H.M.M.: Not
skill enough... .Acre : Too roughly put together....
Maria D. : Very limp and inaccurate.. . .Jake : Incom-
petent and slovenly treatment of a good idea.... Demon :
Consider yourself duly exorcised !... .R.M.F.: Don t
object in the least to the principle of Japan for the
Japanese ” ; but when the Jap, or his Australian syrn-
pathiser, demands for hjm privileges in Australia that he
never dreams of granting to tlie white man m Japan, it is
time to point out how he runs things, in the hope
that Australia will bike courage and do likewise
... .Unsuitable : Fred’E.
TO ARTISTIC (AND' INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A. W.: Neither very good ; they might just get through
if the jokes were better, but the jokes are JJ t better ,
they’re worse... .T.D.: “ Putting the Umbrella to Bed
is an old drunk joke... .Nollo: Drawing poor, and joke
too—too— too obvious R. Dupp : Curious sort of pic-
ture. Jest attached too Noachian... .Bryn Mawr : All too
stiff. Some of them have very poor jokes attached, ana
some no jokes at a11....C.D.: “As He Took It very
dull ... W.E.J.: Drawings pretty good, but gags im-
possible... .B. Sheldon: Declined.. ..Blue Spec: One
nightmare to hand... .Coulter : Show some promise cer-
tainly, but still far too crude for publication. If you 11
call at The Bulletin office, happy to show you some
originals... .Unsuitable : —W.K., Ernest L.


/Vi elerfrt c aj
Scljool^
(jpen os
fa* Stu<Ae*rtl of -fe *7ew Africalfur^l
of M&lt. Will end
oj, A ye
order tei»>£. j) r j w fevwftT' y^-
9°
v 'wlT§ y
1 1|— f ' mk/*r
: fgrfecfe.-Pigling *(
" j Wf" Wi?a 'ffoje wrtf |
" o!lfey c«/m frowrfe
3|AKC Pod
Sj>oil c fy ,e Jd
TTe y°^Aus'fr^liX»r's
"butnjjtioJj oj KsVcretyce
is due io \*i of
' §ootj Kei
Lfi+i h* *« Aj>/>i‘v> WaSs
Ao\ Bribes »$
/To be sent fb
/ [ondon to Consult' ,
/Witt) % Un^erW
m
me WMF/
of V,cjffy/wfy JJ)
y cG 5 fof>>e. % hohJ^^y
i>C»l of tf)Cn-) "to >tjO»iC->« le*>dcKs t ,
v *'»° c Urged /of- for f3 —
(J^pl^,
l_J /Am& n bs<> xt"
8c»x4190 wl)0 O'r'JeKcd
D zfi ye\K 5 '
PARTLY VICTORIAN.


Cabled that while King Edward was out
shooting recently, a pheasant fell on his
head, and as Edward didn’t happen to have
his crown on at the time, It hurt him very
much Hold on, though I Was It a
pheasant or a peasant or an emu or a
pterodactyl ? After all, It doesn’t matter.
s The Item is over a week old, anyhow.
A MELBOURNE SENSATION.
/ "In the first place,"
said Mr. Wade, “there L an absolute Prohibition
under sectionTO against any Person under th
age of 17 years being. In the bar of licenced
premises tor any purpose. If a person u
that age is found in the bar there le an o
gallon upon the licensee to forthwith have h m
removed. The penalty Imposed Is £2 for non-
pompliancß with that duty. Section 8 ? rov jL
'that no person under 18 shall be supplied with
liquor except In the case of sickness or acci-
dent in practice tbeßo two aectlena.,wlll have
S” effect of excluding from the bar tor any
reason whatever a person under theageqtl.
but a person between 17 and 18 may be allowed
, mslde the bar, and he may Obtain liquor In the
case of sickness or accident. 3ocUon9provlde
that anyone who sends a person under the age
of 14 years to licensed premise? dor the pur-
pose of. obtaining any liquor shnK be liable to a
IZlly not exceeding 40s. section ope-
rates quite independently of sections 8 and 10
and imposes an obligation on the person. who
sends, whether a parent or pnyone
’though there is no penalty on the P®” 0 " **“*
Itg a child over 14 years of age for
Itthat child Unde hid way. into a h»r the
eee'must turn him out.”
The table of precedence which has been »PP>oved
by the King and published by the Oov.-Generai make,
no reference to the clergy.
Cardinal Moran and Dill Macky • “ Where o w
Flunkey’: “O i, you be blowed I We’ve all had enough
i of you. You don’t count I’’
“ Master Edward Cahalan, ol
Liverpool, aged 144 years, has
ceeded in winning a bursary ex-
amination in connection with St.
Joseph’s College, securing an ■**"'
gate of 1262 marks for Christian
doctrine, English, arithmetic, alge-
bra, geometry, history, and geo-
graphy.”
explosives been con.
53ned In an Iron bomb, the consequences would have bee
much more serious.”
yes, or had the bottle
been charged with Mel- .
bourne whisky ! The
imagination stands £ IfrAA
appalled. gggjfcJ
Publican (on reading above item) : “ And to think
a boy like that, with all his eddlcation. wouldn t
be capable In the eyes of the law c°melnt
this here bar and get a jug o’ beer lor his
pore ole father’s dinner I Oh 1 it does make
me so wild, it does 1
email Bov “ Dad wants. slxpen’orth o’ beer, and
LJI Llrtt i •• My boy, thl. But. public-house. If. » „
.«-asifasyss£SS£sHa.r* ,, “’-
’ere Llkker Bill; and you was to take It outer this
•' Detective O’Donnell has received a bushel of sympathetic tele-
grams, and has also had a number of visitors. Among the latter
were quite a number of criminals, men who had done long sentences
I » Detective O’Donnell states unhesitatingly that
s sszsl Wisrs
w- - - - r sssr a
in the drawing-room on the couch. D< *ectlv on the
it would be better if the little girl occupied heruB “ d , li{e . A s§§
top floor, and this decision undoubtedly saved the child s i.le A g*
The "ouch on which it was intended that .he should sleep g
w« one of the articles Of furniture that suffered most
In the explosion and the subsequent fire.
Jubbs: “ What oh I letting your mustlvy grow ?”
„ ... . .. Yes i know it’s very unswagger, but, fact is.
T “ b S.'r. »•; 1 in .own .« -■ “«*» -
account of my juvenile appearance.
THE COUCH THAT SAVED MISS O’DONNELL’S LIFE.
“ Pins has saved the lives of lots of folks by their not
swallerlng of ’em."— Schoolboy’s essay.
on his prosecution, and who recognised the absolute fairness with
wftich he treated their cases. These men considered the outrage
too mean to be the work of a criminal seeking revenue, and stated
that they would do all they could to ferret out the perpetrator.
LAW, LIQTOK, ROYALTY, &c.


PHOTO
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R- OENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Marlin, Paris, France.
m
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SUNS, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Died recently, up Bellinger River (N.S.W.)
way, aged 92, Samuel Lucas, who made the first
travelling threshing machine used in the Windsor
(N.S.W.) district, and invented and patented the
first Australian gold puddling machine.
According to British Australasian
T? e f le i S - vdne y piano manufacturer, is
visiting the United States, and has found his son, who
yard 166 JearS ag0 ’ servin £ as a marine in Brook-
An ancient named Parkinson, one of
Havelock’s Indian Mutiny men, died recently at
I arramatta. An Australian old age pension
saved the British veteran from dying in the gutter
or m gaol on a charge of vagrancy. Even Aus-
tralia has its uses.
Home Secretary Peter Airey and Speaker
Cowley helped to carry Hugh Nelson’s coffin from
the hearse to the grave. Add A. J. Tliynne and
j j lv ?n, who assisted, and the group of live
and dead make a fair reflex of the mixed state of
Bananaland’s politics.
A colored person named Scarboro has been
gaoled more than once at Auckland (M.L.), for
committing a curious sort of assault. Whenever
he comes across a woman near a pool of water he
pitches her into it and makes off without saying a
word. At present he is doing a couple of months.
Tim Coghlan, as Acting Agent-General at
London for N.S. Wales, saved more than his first
years salary by collecting £4505 as rebates due to
the Government on shipping freights during the
last 10 years. No other Agent-General seems to
have had energy enough to gather ip these back
moneys.
Policeman J. A. G. M‘Hale, whose death
is reported from London, drew altogether a little
over £2OOO as pension from N.S.W. for shooting
bushranger Dunn, and getting a return bullet
himself, near Dubbo in 1805. M‘Hale and Dunn
were both indifferent shootists. Dunn recovered
sufficiently to be hanged.
Charles Perkins, an English sport who
was killed in a motor accident a while ago, left a
fortune of half a million. Hardly necessary to
mention that the Perkins money was coined in a
brewery. Beer manufacture is the one flourishing
industry left to England nowadays, and there’s a
malt-liquofish flavor about the plebeian name of
Perkins.
The recent death of Dr. Stanton, Anglican
Bishop of Newcastle (N.S.W.), recalls the fact
that Brenda station, near Goodooga, was left to
him some years ago in trust for the Church. Dr.
Stanton knew all about the Vineyard, but very
little about the pastoral business. The story goes,
vouched for by many unreliable authorities, that
the manager wrote to the deceased prelate inform-
ing him that the proceeds of the sale of wool had
been paid into the Church account. On receipt of
which intelligence the Dr., in his zeal for the
welfare of his diocese, wired back to the manager :
“ Congratulate you on success ; shear again imme-
diately.”
EDWIN THOMAS SMITH, OF ADELAIDE.
Passed out on the last day of the year, at
Rand wick, Sydney, Patrick McGann, said to have
been born at Galway, Ireland, on St. Patrick’s Day,
1802. He was therefore in his 104th year!
His son, who is in his 72nd year, states that old
Patrick arrived in Queensland about 1872. It is
alleged that McGann is one of the very rare
centenarians who are backed up by a reliable-
looking birth certificate. (The Bulletin hasn’t
seen the certificate.)
“Charley” Chappie, a man whom every-
body that ever had anything to do with mining at
Broken Hill knew, died last week near Adelaide.
When McCulloch, Harvey Patterson, Bowes
Kelly, and the handful of west Darling sheepmen
decided to form the 13. H. Prop. Co., Chappie was
appointed sec. pro. tem. ; Knox, M.H.R., who
had been a clerk in the Rank of Victoria, got the
job later on when the office was shifted from
Silverton to Melbourne. Like the rest of them,
Chappie left the Barrier early, and poured some of
his mbney out on a vineyard south of Adelaide. He
married Nellie Harley, a popular “serio-comic”
of 20 years ago. She had been the wife of long-
forgotten Oscar Smith.
Admiral Rozhdestvenski now tells the
public that a British fleet was mobilised
at Wei-hai-wei to wipe him out if he defeated the
daps. Admiral Ro. wasn’t much as a fighter, but
he should make a good novelist. If some one
would lend him a turtle to ride on he might equal
Louis de Rougetnont in wild sea romance.
The late Hugh Nelson, of Queensland,
made a hobby of scientific subjects and anti-
quities. Maps had a strong fascination for him.
His collection should be secured for the Queens-
land Public Library. He was a member of the
Ideographical Society, and almost his last public
appearance in Brisbane was at a lecture on the work
of the recent Antarctic expedition.
Chief Justice Madden, of Victoria, goes
for a twelve months’ holiday. The senior puisne
judge, Edward Dundas Holroyd, son of a London
Commissioner of Bankruptcy and grandson of a
judge of the King's Bench, will till his place.
Holroyd will pass into his 79th year on Anniver-
sary Day (26th January), and has been 25 years
on the Bench. It is rumored that Iceberg Irvine,
a barrister of over 20 years’ standing, will be
appointed an acting judge.
Christian Hansen, an old Danish resident
of Bendigo, died the other day. Hansen de-
veloped an odd form of human vanity 26 years
ago, when he gave the order for his coffin to a
local undertaker, with a view to treating it as a
matter of vast importance for the rest of his life.
Hansen delighted in taking his friends along to
the coffin shop to inspect the box which he had
designed for his mortal remains. His last tene-
ment ! It didn’t occur to Hansen that nobody but
himself could feel interested in the one piece of
personal property that was going to be buried
with him.
Dr. Laing, the Presbyterian minister who
died the other day at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.),
was frequently confounded with the historic
N.S.W. Dr. Lang family. Quite recently Dr.
Laing was referred to in the London Guaiu>ian, as
a son of the great but short-tempered ecclesiastical
tribune. Dr. Laing was a Londoner, educated in
Scotland, and held a good many of Dr. Lang’s
political opinions, but, though he passed a long and
arduous life in N.S.W., he did not rise every
morning, like Dr. Lang of the Wynyard Square
statue, and search the horizon for prospects
of a row. He thus finished up his 72 years, with
a character for homely virtues rather than for
desolating shindies.
The retirement of Tasmania’s boss police-
man recalls yarns of the patriarchs of the service.
One of them, long ago, looked after the morals of
Latrobe when old Henry Douglas, brother of
Adye, was sent there as P.M, One morning
writer met the fussy old P.M. fuming. Asked
what was the matter, the old man pushed out a
letter from the patriarchal policeman—“ I regret
I have to go to Sassafras on urgent business, so
cannot be in court this 'morning. There is one
trivial case—Thomas Smith. I would riot give
him a sentence; let him off with a caution.”
“Heep! Heep!” snorted the ancient—“ con-
found his impudence. Teaching me my business !
Let him off with a caution, would I ? I’ll teach
him—l gave the beggar six weeks with hard labor.”
So far as is known the late Hugh
Nelson, ex-Premier of Queensland, was
lucky in financial matters to the last—at
least no one ever heard of anything falling
on lnm as things fell on MTlwraith.
Morehead and Pattison. He was a pas-
toralist who got mostly out of the cow and
grass business before the Great Drought.
Only a casual flying brick or two of the
tumbling banks are known to have struck
him. He didn’t buy Mount Morgan shares,
as so many Queensland politicians did, j ust
when the price had soared so high that you
couldn’t hit it with gun-shot. He never
fooled on any large scale with wild cats.
He held office, mostly as Premier, for five
years, and the very day he left off being
Premier he became President of the Upper
House so as not to lose 24 hours’ pay. Close
on 13 years of consecutive official’salary did
Hugh Nelson draw before he died.
The recent death in England o'f H. E.
Gurney recalls about the most disastrous
financial crash in Fog City since the South
bea Bubble. Gurneys, the bankers, were up
to the middle sixties regarded as the posses-
sors of colossal wealth, and Gilbert cited
them„ m the Judge’s song in “Trial By
Jury as about the biggest imaginable
thing in millionaires. But a silly boom in
hole and corner railways and other impos-
sible investments led to a run on their bank,
which had just been floated into a company
oil the representation that the Grurneys 5
annual profits were ±121,0,000. The collapse
wmch followed revealed that the show
hadn t been really sound for several years.
Gurney just dead was prosecuted, but
without success. Since then he had been
living in more or less honorable retirement
in the English back blocks.
it Anybody heard yet of an Australian
Rhodes scholar” who intends to bring
his bright (but mostly perverted) brain back
to Australia ! The Bueletiv hears that two,
anyway, who had begun to do decent work
in Australia before they were sent away
for Imperial ” varnish, are preparing to
enter the Indian service.
With two exceptions the whole kit of
Anglican bishops who were present at the Synod
a month or two ago signed themselves by the
names of then- sees. Here is the beautiful list of
italics) ° Sl^na^ures Abe honoiable exceptions in
. f V° a | nnen i dl^ r ourselves and all our work to the blessing-
of God and to your continued prayers, we are Wm Sz
Sydney H. L Melbourne, St. Clair Brisbane, George H
Newcastle, Charles E. Bathurst, Nathaniel Bishop of
Rockhampton, G. G. Uoulburn, Arthur V. Ballarat, C. O
B. I erth, E. A. Rivenna, H. E. Grafton and Armidale
H°A Bendh-o ?T5 &i,bert Bishop of Carpentaria |
p- , B ? n <hg°, J. H. Wangaratta, A. W. Gippsland, J. E.
iasuiama, George H. North Queensland, E. Bunbury.
A. W. Gippsland” and “George H. North
Queensland are especially beautiful. Why on
the same Principle shouldn’t the ancient whaler
call himself ‘Bill Murrumbidgee ” ?
The late Hugh Nelson had no equal in
Queensland politics for complacency. Nothing
tfTfh t 0 S fb ft f !\‘ S e( l ua niniity. At the time
that the wrath of the people was kindled against
Premier MTlwraith for complicity in the Q.N.
Bank scandals, Nelson was a colleague, and in the
absence of the Premier, who could not face
Hif ricjuse, he was in command of the Ministry,
ihe debate was one of unparalleled fury, but
ft* u h T“ gi ! aII wit hout an outward
sign that he had m his pocket M‘Uwraith’s resig-
nation. He looked so wooden and absent-minded
that people almost fancy t ,at he fo.-got he had
ment a 1U1 ; let the row was suffi-
cient to rouse Buddha from his contemplations
and remind him of all too documents he had
mislaid in all the ages.
MR. SYDNEY PARKES, son of the late Henry
Parkes, and his bride, MISS EDITH
MORRISSEY. Mr. Parkes is an accountant
in M'Arthur and Co.’s, Sydney, and was
married recently.
The Morgan Government now sees the
mistake it made in sending Moneybags Plant into
the Fossil Chamber of Queensland. He went
dead against the Monopoly Tax Bill, and wanted
a proviso in the Workers’ Compensation Bill to
the effect that the men should pay half the
insurance. Plant had the reputation of being a
progressive nabob, but it is feared in Labor
circles that he has been getting credit for the
interest Mrs. Plant has always shown in the cause
of democracy.
Archbishop Smith, of Australia, is going
on another trip to England, and so is an exceed-
ingly well-dowered Australian spinster. The
Sydney diocese will, in Mr. Smith’s absence, be in
charge of Archdeacon Gunther, who is a native of
Wellington (N.S.W.), (17 years of age, and who
has been for nearly 40 years incumbent of St.
John’s, Parramatta. Parramatta is the historic
parish of Samuel Marsden, the early blacksmith
parson, whose flour-mill, Wentworth said, knew
no Sabbath.
For about the tenth time the death of
Daniel Cameron, of golden horse-shoe fame, is
reported. This time he died at Lilydale (Vic.) at
the age of 87 years. Mr. Cameron came to Vic-
toria in 1851, and was elected to the first Legis-
lative Assembly of Victoria. It was on the
occasion of his election that he rode the golden-
shod horse. Several versions of this incident are
given, but it is generally understood that it was a
circus horse that was shod. Anyhow, the diggers
at “ The Woolshed ” (The Ovens) raised enough
money in one day to qualify Mr. Cameron for the
seat, The old man is now buried all over Vic-
toria, and his tombstone is numerous.
John Shaw—who was John Shaw of The
Bulletin in the very long ago—now dead
among the apple trees of Toongabbie, near
Parramatta, belonged to a curious, pleasant
bygone type of N.S.W. journalist. They were
men of persiflage who could write brilliantly
about nothing, arid who had no desire to shift the
earth or to repair the universe. Garnet Walch,
Harold Stephen, Henry Kendall and Shaw were
all clever and erratic, and took the world as a
rather amusing institution, and creation generally
as a theme for an airy paragraph. In tho/se days
Shaw’s pen ran short distances in a particularly
brilliant fashion. He had travelled much and
was great on European romances and Napoleonic
themes. London publisher Routledge spoilt his
most sustained effort after literary fame, by holding
over his novel (alas ! it was only a bushranging
theme) until .three or four, other novels dealing
with the same inferior,subject had struck a rather
tired public, and when Shaw’s work appeared it
looked in consequence very like a steal.
Thus a Queensland pressman :
The chance of his life came unexpectedly to the late
Hugh Nelson, of Queensland —the ancient who passed out
on New Year’s Day. It was not of li.s seeking, but he
made the most of it. Griffith and M‘llwraith were in
power, and were riding the tall horse with great reckless-
ness. If either of them had possessed the gift of foresight
the yawning' ditch ahead must have been visible. Nelson
was leader of the Opposition at the time, and de-
nouncing the mad extravagance of the Griffilwraith for all
he was worth. A general election was in sight. One day
Nelson got a wire summoning him to Brisbane, and l.e
broke off in his denunciation and went. When tie
got down he was faced with the strange request that
he should become Treasurer of the depleted Exchequer and
join with MTlwraith and Tozer—men whom he had
almost declared unfit to live. He joined promptly, and
went back to run that election on a new basis. He was
like the man who bit off the middle of a great cuss word
about the evil effect of titles on hearing that he had got
one himself, and adroitly switched off his oration on to
the question of the whereabouts of the Lost Ten Tribes.
Griffith left the Ministry and climbed on the Bench before
Nelson came in. MUlwraitli fled to England soon after
Nelson’s advent, and the pirate who had scrambled on
board so unexpectedly became captain of the ship. Nelson
was fond of referring to this incident. It amused him
tremendously. Strange things were considered amusing
in Queensland in those days.
According to the Sydney Freeman’s
J ournal :
It may he mentioned that the cartoon in the Christmas
Bulletin parodying the Crucifixion, and which accom-
panied some verse by Daley, was strongly disapproved of
by him. The irreverent character of the drawing angered
him very much.
And this'is-the same yarn from Sydney Catholic
Press :
Victor Daley was greatly upset by the illustration
accompanying some verses from his pen in the Christmas
Bulletin. “He did not see the picture until it appeared
in the paper,” writes his friend, Mr. W. J. Spruson, “ and
he expressed to me and others his dissatisfaction with it;
it utterly failed to illustrate his verses, and, apart from
that, shocked his sense of reverence. Daley never wrote
an irreverent line.”
The Bulletin greatly doubts whether Daley ever
said anything of the kind. - At all events, the
poet, on one of his good days many months ago,
carefully planned out that drawing to its smallest
detail, and artist Norman Lindsay, with a special
desire to oblige a sick friend, followed his ideas to
a hair —“ Satan astride the cross smiling in
mockery ; ” the “ tall, full-fed Roman centurion, a
mitre on his head; ” and the pierced side from
which ran “a stream of ruddy gold”—they were
all there. Still, Spruson is on an easy wicket
now that Daley has passed away. As a
rule, a man of note isn’t cold in his coffin
before some small Jones, who has a personal
grudge against Smith, rises to state that the
deceased spoke bitterly about Smith in his last
moments, and said Smith wasn’t much good.
It may be that the poet’s mental oiulcolc
changed in his last hours, but that doesn't seem
probable. Victor Daley didn’t appear that sort of
man. But The Bulletin can fully understand
that Norman Lindsay’s powerful p ctuie didn’t
find favor with the Consecrated Press. There
was no semblance of irreverence about it, but
every line of t was bitterly true.
To make a man President of a Leg.
Council is mostly a roundabout wav of
giving him a pension; and pensioners live
long, as any insurance office that deals in
annuities will tell you. Hugh Nelson, just
dead up North, was only the fourth Presi-
dent its Council has had ; and of those four,
Joshua Bell, the present Lands Minister’s
father, lasted only a couple of years. That
leaves a good long stretch for the other
three. Victoria has only had five Presi-
dents; and it would only have had four if
Zeal hadn’t been a friend of David Syme,
who threw him into Federal politics, where
he still yaps with great ferocity. For
over 30 years, until Francis Suttor was
appointed, N.S.W. had only three Presi-
dents ; old John Hay alone lasted for over
19 years. Curiously, in Tasmania, where
every member of the House of Dodery is sup-
posed to go on being an incubus for about
100 years, the chair sees the quickest
changes. The explanation seems to be
that every member of that House looks
ancient and venerable enough to deserve
a big chair where he can go to sleep com-
fortably.
The late “ Jack ” Want left between
£lO,OOO and £l2,ooo—not much for a man
who was pretty well at the head of a lucrative
profession. But no profession compares with
“ business ” as a money-getter.
Queensland also has a publican M.L.C.
Peter Murphy, proprietor of the Transcontinental
Hotel, Brisbane.
Premier Bent’s latest reminiscence is that
he once endeavored to become an honest, horny-
handed Victorian selector, but that a rich land-
owner dressed himself in rags and applied for the
same bit of land which Tommy wanted, and it
wasallotted to the rich landowner on account of
his poverty. Then he offered to sell out to Tommy
at £25 profit. Tommy frankly admits that his
language on that historic occasion ranged from bad
to pretty awful.
The clawing at each other of Cardinal
Moran and Chief Justice Darley over the Irish
Home Buie question suggests that the churchman
went into politics rather clumsily, and the Judge
went into them head first and ridiculously. So
far, the Judge has struck the bigger snag of the
two. The fact that he should have put on paper
the statement that anyone who wanted Ireland to
have the same self-government which Australia
enjoys is “ disloyal” shows a shrieky, ill-balanced
mind that no one expects to meet with in a grave
and aged occupant of the judicial Bench.
Importer man Hertzberg, the windy head-
piece of the Tory Chamber of Commerce at Bris-
bane, has lately been attached to the Waterworks
Board, which, being interpreted, meaneth fees.
One of his first suggestions in his new capacity is
that all future works should be built out of loan
money instead of out of revenue. Up to the pre-
sent the dry bones in charge of the water supply
have steered clear of financial rocks and loans.
Hertzberg says that by adopting his method the
rates can be reduced ! Hertzberg should try his
great device on his own business first, and see if,
by paying wages out of loans, expenses can be
reduced.
PATRICK M'GANN, born Galway (Ireland),
St. Patrick's Day, 1802, died at Sydney,
December 31, 1905, in his 104th. year. This
portrait was taken seven years ago.
“ H.” writes :
A curious episode occured in connection with the death
of the late Bishop of Brisbane—an episode which the
good church people have taken some pains to hush up.
Said that, by the orders of some enthusiastic cleaner-up
who was making Bishopscourt ready for its next gaitered
tenant, the deceased ecclesiastic’s library, including- bound
sermons in manuscript and much theology, was thrown
upon a dray and taken to a second hand bookseller’s es-
tablishment. A day or two later, the story goes, the Bishops
of Carpentaria and North Queensland heard of the trans-
action and rushed to recover the property. It was pointed
out to them littered all over the floor. The proprietor
had been wondering how he would get rid of such unsale
able stock, and the offer made by the two bishops was
promptly accepted. This was not the worst, however,
for it became known that certain other personal effects
which the late ecclesiastic had left behind were in an
auction room. The two prelates fled there also, and on
arrival they found that the sale was in progress, and that
the late prelate’s trousers were being displayed on the
end of a clothes’ prop and offered to the highest bidder.


ALL UNDER ONE
m
f !
nirst
ram
m
11
"ALL IN A NUTSHELL.”
All as neatly arranged
as the HOME NEST of a
Clever Housewife, and
as completely in worK-
ing order, and always
as ready for PRESENT
WANTS and FUTURE
EMERGENCIES as
THE BRAIN OF A
BUSINESS 6IANT
for the ACTIVE WORK
that claims HIS MIND’S
BEST SKILL.
Anthony Hordern &• Sons
Palace Emporium, SYDNEY.
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS * *
WITH A
GILLETTE RAZOR
YOU CAN
SHA VE
/'"'V.CV.
Hoksebac
&
¥ *>’
r s^ v i
6/U*
>1 a\>
vHA\/£
,o> V
%
c 4fi
S *tAV*
u cO^
4//V
<*V>
S**AVs
«V
“A*?
*©
S'*
//V
~ *****
Send for Descriptive Circular. 30 Days’ Trial given.
Money refunded if not satisfactory.
52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 143, Melbourne. Box 494, Wellington, N.Z.
‘For Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
OF a
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book,
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1. 2. S, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne. ,
IT
'dazzles the world.
DR. SHELDON’S
fNEW DISCOVERY
[FOR HOUGHS, . . Prle®
I .OLDS and .
CONSUMPTION, 1/6 * 3/*
CURES WHERE ALL
ELSE FAILS.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS^
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks. ,
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
< able prices. .
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surglo iS»", l . ra "”" t
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL 'find
THAT . . . j
Neale’s Temperance Hotel j
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes walk
from GP 0? Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 pei
week. Telephone 1640.
Fussells
■ UNSWEETENED
It does not
thicken. It ,
is absolutely pure. It is Sterilized.
.As Supplied to H.B.M.
Navy & Army.
HTIITt'^RAND.
Fop Infant Feeding
it is Perfect.
MILK
FDdSEIiL ft CO.. LID«
j ,n London. England* „
idiMult, MWNiiIjNMMi l(li
Sofa Agents tor Mew South Waloa t—BURNS, PHILP & CO. s Lt&»
u
Look for
the name
08-MHJK
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing. prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart ana
economical.
WOOn-MiLXE RHOESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoo and
Kuhn nr St nr. 3.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY. Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia: Perth. Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgrorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane. Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Rroksn-hill, Aew
South Wales.
RUBBE.R
H&ELtS
«GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
“ O’F.” : I lately witnessed two quaint
instances of deceptive appearances. A gushing
damsel remarked to an acquaintance. What
lovely teeth yours are ! I wish I had them.
“ Here, take them/’ said the girl addressed. Her
offer was not accepted. Shortly afterwards, m a
restaurant, a well-known dentist’s wife informed
a waitress, “They made your teeth too square.
“.They’re not made,” returned the ministering
angel; “they grew.”
“Britain, even with her fleet, is but a
passing guest in the Far East.” —A Jap writer in
L’Illustbation, Paris.
The Chinese invasion of S’Africa has been
of at least one advantage to Australia. When a
particularly atrocious crime is committed nowa-
days in the Transvaal the newspapers usually
record “Chinaman suspected.” It used to be
“Australian suspected.”
“ T.D.,” from London :—
Have noticed here in England, as in Australia, that
Jews never employ people of their own persuasion in
domestic service. Preferably they take the Irish Bridget
in to do the cooking and scrubbing and dusting. Come
to think of it, although I’ve been to many Hebrew houses,
I never saw a servant with any but the snubbest of noses*
Same rule seems to apply in a more limited degree in
business. The manager of a leading Jewish commercial
house, unmistakably Gentile himself, told me the other
day that, although he had been with his firm for JO yeais,
he had never known one of the long-nosed to be given a
chance ; and he added that several other big Jew-owned
concerns were run on similar lines. Reason seems to be
that the nasal person has an instinctive distrust of any-
body with the same brand of proboscis as himself. I he
noses of a feather do not flock together.


ttE ST
e
mm
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
IVII DOOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH «. WELLINGTON*
A PRETTY WOMAN fades early unless she gives
careful attention to the preservation of her complexion.
Every sign of wrinkle, sallowness, or blemish should be
arrested with the least possible delay. A few applications
of Dr. Lykuski’s great discovery—Valaze—removes all
imperfections and brings the lilies and roses of youth to
the oldest face. Is the most exquisite preparation for re-
moving wrinkles, freckles, tan and all other facial dis-
figurements. It is delightfully pleasant, and makes the
skin beautifully soft, white and smooth, A scientific
product of blended fragment herb essences and healing
balsam to promote the beauty of the skin. Specially use-
ful in allaying the dry and parchment-like skin caused by
Australian hot winds. Price, 3s. 6d. and 6s., posted 6d.
extra. New importations from Vienna. Comtesse
Potocka’s “ Voskpasta,” to be used with “ Valaze ” Herbal
Soap, 3s. per jar. A delightful preparation. Comtesse
Potockas ‘Creme Promenade,” for outdoor entertain-
ments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful beau tifier. “Valaze”
special “Blackhead and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed,
3s. 6d. per jar. “ Valaze ” Massage Rollers, for use in
your home. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service,
Sydney, leading chemists all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubin-
stein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to
Beauty Free
Ifc is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for' 3s. 9d. or 13s., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
A woman writer in the Tasmanian Mail
complains that “ there are far too many odd holi-
days in Tasmania. Business is interfered with
generally, and good honest work is being looked
upon as a form of slavery by the rising genera-
tion.” Even in Tassy, seemingly, the greybeards
are persuaded that their young days were bustling
times when Toil was spelt with a capital T and
poor old Slowbart was full of business.
H/GH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD
WHISKY
.. .■ QUALITY and AGE.
OUPUY
BRANDY
orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dear Amu.- BTBI,EI ’ 9 ' 1906 '
■ Whenever I feel matinee-ish on a Saturday I go
into 1 aling s any time between eleven and one and,
so considerable is the entertainment received, that
it s a shame to take it without payment. Paling’s
is a magnet to the music-struck. The young
female person who tries to look like what she
thinks would be the materialisation of a tone-poem,
h!! vi h n° ° r { oun “. fetllale persons who intend to
be Melbas, whose heads have grown out over
the George-street sidewalk and who see decora-
tions on their breasts, haunt the place. The tone-
poern girl has a long slim neck and fingers ; on the
lirst she wears no collar; on the second she wears an
absence of gloves; and she gives the impression
of breathing hot vapor. If a heavy musician
who fancies himself like a music-drama talks shop
to her, she grows incoherent trying to extract a
metaphysical meaning from this or that composi-
tion that she chances to be studying. She adores
yhopm, and the vertical line between her brows
is there through her efforts to knit a strand of
thought into a definite pattern and present it to
fiazon or Lauranee Phillip, or Sykes as an
original opinion. Her hair looks as if it had been
dressed with the bellows. She moistens her lips
engagingly and wears a blouse that shows con-
siderable girl at the shoulders, and holds up her
skirts to display more girl, in transparent hose,
about the ankles. She’s rather pretty, wears
flowers, carries a music portfolio, and worships
her teacher—even if the teacher be a woman
And shed rather go without a days food than
miss her Saturday morning’s loitering on Paling’s
premises. She and the other enthusiasts, male
and female, who are concerned with Liedertafels
and Philharmonics, have to be gently driven out
at one o clock, and then you’ll see them cumbering
the footpath and talking shop with the ’cellists,
violinists, and conductors. Generally the veterans
are unsympathetic to musical romantics. “ Bother
the lilies and languors of Ghopin, you should see
the vegetables in my garden this year.”
Upstairs the teaching-rooms are full of the
coming prima donna, tootling up and down
the scales, putting the finishing polish on “Ah
fors e lui” and “Out on the Pocks,” and fired to
incandescence by reports of Melba, Crossley, and
Castles fame. On other floors experts are “ try-
. pianos for family groups. Australia is a won-
deifully musical country, and the sale of pianos
last year was a record. Yet parents as a rule no
longer insist that their offspring who have no
taste for music shall learn. The old sentence of
solitary piano without the option is dying out.
Talking of the expert musicians : Signor ITazon
is at Newport, fishing; Herr Kretschmann is at
Port Packing—probably fishing also. He is a
veritable Santa Glaus to children, and gets
bushels of post-cards from youngsters. Mrs.
Quesnel went to Melbourne for her interlude
Sykes went to help ITazon to fish, but as he
couldn t get a fresh buttonhole every day, he
returned. Phillip Leminone—the bush folk ’still
call him Moloney—and Pivers Allpress don’t
find holiday resorts to resemble a pink tea on a
moonlit lawn. They lullaby in the city. Lem-
inone has definite news of Marie Narelie, whose
concert tour he will manage. She comes here
about the end of April. Up to the time she
leaves London every week of her time is engaged.
No peri ever put a grey eye to the knot-hole in
Lden s gate with half the longing that Sydney
women have in their Dalgety-ward -gaze these
muggy months, when the thermometer is up and
the human spirit down, and one’s as. gay as a
bucket of ashes. These are months when one
breathes warm water. Soon as the Federal capital
is built we’ll all manage to spend the glue-like
summer moons in Dalgety—Dalgety, where, I am
assured, one floats through the atmosphere, where
the winds blow off the Snowy Mountains, ahd
the Snowy Piver purrs or roars through the
green land, and the nice cold fish * rise cour-
teously to one’s baited bent pin. If the men
who oould don't soon become the men who
did in the matter of that Federal capital
and hurry up the building thereof, some of us
will die of Sydney weather and come back after
the croak, specially-prepared and very horrible
kinds of ghosts, to haunt the legislators.
Hundreds of Sydneysiders are camping out in
our sunlit coves of peace round the harbor, and
hundreds more of country and bush, people are
living under canvas about Lawson and MoSs Yale
As an advocate of the holy hush puts it in large
language : f i
Our civilisation has grown so complex that a iong dor-
mant instinct of revolt is awake. The individual, chafing
under his burden of social observance, wants to return
for however short a time to more primitive life and feei
his self-sufficiency. The desert, which is the most primi-
tive thing on earth, offers an opportunity, &c.
As yet none of Sydney society has sought to re-
cover her or Ins self-sufficiency in our Great
Western Desert, but no doubt it will have its day
The Tourist Bureau will put it on the list as an
unrivalled health resort for the winter—a place
where the illimitable spaces are good for the soul
to roll on, and where the harassed spirit can climb
a tree and breathe, and the wearied brain can rest
itself looking at the cubic miles of nothing.
The fashionable and somewhat precious stone
of the moment is the peridot. Lady Northcote
was the first somebody who appeared in Sydney
carrying many cargoes of the pale-,emerald-like
stones. King Edward gave the peridot its vogue
when it became known that he was handing it
out as his chronic wedding present.
Mr. Percy Hunter, who has left Sydney D.T.
tvqbillet on the just-inaugurated
JM.o. W. lounst Bureau, married some few years
ago the youngest daughter of the late David
Blair, of Melbourne, a veteran journalist and
litterateur. They live up the North Shore line
ai , e -rP us *b -* n a moated grange belonging to
Mark Foy, and cultivate a small family of boys
and some fancy poultry.
Miss Bertha Dawson, daughter of Mr. Stewart
Dawson, has her portrait in A recent number of
the Sketch. She is a pupil at Beerbohm Tree’s
School of Acting, and was recently announced to
make an appearance at the Court Theatre.
I he nurses of “ The Women’s Hospital,” Crown
and Albion streets, Surry Hills, are organising a
fete and concert, to be held on the afternoon and
evening of the annual meeting, which takes place
on h ebruary 9. The proceeds of the fete will go
towards the funds of the institution. Judging
from the interest already shown, it promises to be
a great success, and the nurses hope to hand in a
substantial cheque.
The Joseph Wards of Maoriland leave for
Europe and the Postal Conference at Rome early
in J ebruary. They will be accompanied by
daughter Eileen, who has a Voice of such unusual
power and beauty that Maoriland, ever on the
watch for a dress circle seat for itself amongst the
nations, looks upon that Voice as something of an
unexploited national asset, and is inclined to float
a loan on it. The island hopes that Joseph will
have the Voice “finished” whilst it is abroad,
and then published for the glory of the community
and the advertisement thereof. If he doesn’t,
Maoriland will say once more that no person
named Joseph was ever quite satisfactory. Which
is true; the trouble is that probably no person
na med anything else was ever quite satisfactory
With the Wards go private secretary Wilson, a
young man who looks—well, the private secre-
taries of Governors and Cabinet Ministers are
singularly alike. Perhaps the Almighty made
*bem a type apart from the common or Garden
Adam and Genesis forgot to mention the fact. It
nearly forgot to mention the making of the Stellar
system. “He made the stars also.” As if
that were a side show. The private sec. looks as
if he’d been carefully winnowed out from the
ruck and given power of attorney from Fate. His
artfulness is something incredible, and he has the
buttoned-up aspect of one who knows the inner
mysteries of empires, but would rather be done
brown at the stake than mention them.
Mrs. Eb. Vickery insists upon her bantling, the
Women s Branch of the People’s Reform League,
cackling on strictly Christian principles. Each
cackle or meeting, is opened with prayer. It is
hard-shell Baptist prayer, of course,
keeps out Jewesses, who would be excellent mem-
bers. Also, ladies whose husbands are in Parlia-
ment and have R.C.’s amongst their constituents,
won t attend because of those prayers Mrs.
Vickery was, before her marriage, the (paid)
organiser of the Women’s National League in
Melbourne. Her place was taken by Mrs. Bar-
ungton, that lady who spoke in Martin Place
wearing cap and gown.
Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s steamer, the
Lady Hampden, was crowded with the “best
people ” bn Saturday to watch the racing for the
Rawson Cup. It was a charming afternoon, and
the Club and Providence provided everything that
a „ V oman C01 »Id desire—except clothes-pegs. The
wind was, pArhaps, a trifle strong, but the Lady
•Hampden provides quite a wealth of sheltered
nooks. Porpoises made occasional appearances,
but hearing themselves dubbed “horrid sharks,”
•promptly retired in .disgust. Open boats were
darting about, and turning up-side down
frequently in the stress of the racing, and
away down in an isolated quarter of Wat-
sons Bay a big sailing craft went over,
and was righted by the police boat. The
Lady Hampden pulled up at the Lightship, and
then started across the Heads to Manly. The
water wa<g choppy, and the skipper drove her fast,
so great green waves with foamy crests came
tumbling over the low freeboard and drenched
the women who were discussing the higher criticism
on that side. One handsome dame in black satin
and costly lace was soaked to the waist;
she opinionated, and then retired from 'public
view. Here it was that the oversight of not pro-
viding clothes-pegs was felt keenly. It - was a
case in which necessity had to supply some invem
tion, and a tall dashing girl, m white silk and a
genuine Panama, commandeered two admirers
with walking-sticks. Over the sticks she hung
her dripping draperies, and in the sun and the
wind they dried whilst she dreamt a sea dream.
Altogether it was a delightful afternoon, and, but
for the absence of the cipthes-pegs, would have
been perfect. * r
Curious how soon a Big Gun becomes known by
sight to the. man on the tram and the sort of shop-
keeper who fondles his door-post with his shoulder-
blades most of the morning. A few days after his
arrival in this port Vice-Admiral Fawkes
condescended to walk by the Quay up George-
street North, past the Dago and Chinese fruit-
shops, and Dutchy’s monkey-shop, and the office
of the Chinese Times, and the old clo’ shops, and
the restaurants where you get three courses and
fruit for fourpence, en route to the Royal Naval
House. He was all in white drill—probably the
naval stores were out of samite—with a modest
peaked cap, unadorned. Nothing denoted his
rank save fine auriferous areas on his shoulders
yet the man on the tram and the foggy-eyed shop-
keeper knew him instantly. “ That’s ’im-that’s
the Admiral. He wouldn’t pdwn well in them
Like his piekchers in the papers, ain’t
h ®/. Someone added that he had a good billet,
with a fine, steady water-frontage. Someone else
said, coarsely, that a whisky frontage would be
good enough for him.
Apropos of Socialists and the marriage- tie,
round which so much hobgoblinistic romance has
DR. JESSIE ASPINALL, lately elected to staff
of Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
been woven by anti-socialistic talent: One of the
January brides is to be Miss Lillian S. Locke,
Victoria s gifted and very popular lady organiser,
whose marriage with Mr. George Mason Burns,
M.H.A. (Las.), takes place ere the New Year is
many days old.
Treasured djSouthwell) for the Signora Fabris
fund will be' rejoiced if intending subscribers
would hurry up with their mites and so help the
old time operatic, favorite to depart in peace for
Genoa She desires to'leave about Feb. 20 and
spend her last years amongst her kinsfolk.
lhe Misses Mahony, two popular sisters who
have been for years at the Oxford Hotel, htyve
leased the Kiosk in the Domain and now give
the lunch and afternoon be a that nourishes the
body, and elevated the chapter.
Sydney streets are full of the handy man—
which is only natural with eight warships crouch-
lug irr the harbor. (They ~*vill leave to-morrow
for Hobart.) Quite a niifnber of the navy must
have come into ,collision with other handy-fisted
men, judging by' the faces disguised in court
plaster. About nine or so a.m. a patrol of blue-
jackets “does” Lower George-street in search of
derelicts to whom beer and a bar were more
attractive than their own cannon side. This
patrol, which is led by a petty officer, gives great
joy to the little Dagoes, and when a marine with
an awful headache and a black eye is dragged to
light, the youngsters feel as if'one day at least had
had a deed to crown it.
Mrs. Percival Bedford, a daughter of late Chief
Justice btephen, whose husband is, somewhere
about the pinnacle of the Perpetual Trustee Co.,
goes off with her daughter for a trip by the
Mongolia.
The Brescians, a variety troupe of eight' per-
foimers (who are all brothers-in-law and sisters-
-111-law), are to come here under Mr. Edwin Geach’s
management. They paid income-tax in Wel-
lington (M.L.) for last year on £14,000. Appa-
rently, there are worse things than being a troupe.
The Italian warship Calabria, bringing Prince
r erdinand of Savoy, came in on Sunday, and the
ironclads in harbor broke, the Sabbath calm with
blank •cartridge. The Prince is a Germanic-look-
mg youth of 21, with a Kaiser moustache.
The presentation, thing suitably inscribed still
goes into the keeping of Mr, E. “W. O’Sullivan,
lhe Bel more Market Defence Association has
given him a silver coffee urn. The giver’s name
sounds like a fighting combine, so O’S. probably
stood by the Markets at a time when the cabbage
and rabbit stalls were in danger of the enemy that
stalketh honest labor. If the O’Sullivan were to
put his presentation trowels and other “in-rccog-
mtion-of ” ware on the market, the price of silver
would go down as visibly as Governor Brassev
used to do when he fell off,
corespondent mentions that Mr.
M. K. Ewing, late Senator, formerly of Sydney
who married a daughter of Chief Justice Stone,’
leaves Perth shortly to settle in Tasmania.
Signor Steffani, writing to a friend here, tells
how he was seated near to Florence Schmidt
at the concert at which Amy Castles made her
now memorable re-appearance. They “shared
mutual amazement at the soprano’s performance,
lhe memory of her beautiful voice, style, feeling
and self-possession is with me yet. She is too
stout, but, for all that, very attractive-looking.”
The health of Madame Steffani has been so bad
that her husband is almost persuaded to return to
Australia. Fogs and grey-blanketed skies do hot
suit the Milanese. As for Miss Maud Fitzstubbs
the. success of her twins makes her letters to her
people m Sydney akin to a long, loud, clarion call
Amongst the patrons they have secured is
a German “one of the largest manufacturers of
picture post-cards in the world.” He has had the
twins photographed at his own expense and pic-
ture-carded as “London’s Coming Favorites,” and
by now the brace of faces is going through the
post. As advertisement is the breath of an
artiste s life, this is the sort of thing they’ll like,
lhe clever youngsters were to appear at the
-Pavilion Theatre at the end of November at a
salary of £22 a week. Miss Fitzstubbs had “ set
her march to a song to introduce into panto., and
that nice Katie Vesey (Soldene’s niece) is going
to sing it. /oe
These successes are authenticated, but the worst
of giving them publicity in Australia will be their
disturbing influence on all the little girls who can
smg a little and dance a little. Now “all God’s
mud will make fresh moan for recognition, ” and
Australasian Agents-General will start writing
letters begging us to stop the rush of singers to
London, because they are sick of taking round the
hat for them.
A bit of bad news from abroad is to the effect
that “ Mr. Charles Dan by, who often delighted
Londoners in old Gaiety days, has undergone an
operation for cancer, losing his tongue and
part of his lower jaw.” There are two
Charles Danbys on the stage. One of them
is Miss Alexia Bassian’s husband. Whilst he
was here he was suffering from some mouth
and throat trouble chat was diagnosed with a
serious name. If the victim is the poor little
Armenian’s mate, Sydney will feel extra sorry for
her. She had throat trouble of her own to battle
against.
Lady Northcote’s “adopted” father is
proving that he isn’t getting poor. He gave,
the other day, a donation of £lO,OOO to the
Queen’s Fund for the unemployed. Early last
year he gave to the London King’s Hospital
funds sufficient S’African bonds to yield an income
of £ll,OOO a year.
Mr. Ernest Watt, one of the local shipping
people (Gilchrist and Watt), challenges the literary
world with a translation of Prosper Merimee’s
famous “ Lettres a une Inconnue.” The book—
Sydney readers are rushing it —is called in this
edition “The Love Letters of a Genius.” Mr.
Watt and his wife—he married one of the
prettiest of Sydney girls, Weston by name—
is in London. One of his brothers, Captain Watt,
is on the honorary staff of State Governor
Rawson.
A woman’s weekly paper is in course of incuba-
tion in the lair of the Evening News, and is due
to break out shortly.
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
. “.A South Australian Association has been
formed at Perth to gather together the exiles from
Tortoise Town in a brotherly bond. The Associ-
ation seems to be characterised by a Holy City
taste for giddy dissipation, for its first act was to
organise a picnic to the Perth Zoo and look
solemnly at the bears. It reminds one of the first
downward step of a young man in the Scotch
Highlands as described by the sorrowing and
reproachful neighbor : ‘He goes about a good deal
to funerals.’
‘ ‘ The cremation of Charlie Chappie, the Broken
Hill man, in Adelaide recently was about the
most successful and sensible effort of the kind on
record in the Tortoise Town creamery. Instead
of the usual gaping crowd and the funeral service
in the crematorium chapel, the affair was finished
and done with before anyone knew anything
about it, and the funeral was advertised next
morning to start from the crematorium for the
North Road cemetery. It is a much saner pro*
ceeding to bury the ashes of the burnt dead than to
carry them round in a jar as a household treasure.
The cremation took three-quarters of an hour,
the shortest time.on record for Adelaide.
“ S. Australia still has on deck half-a-dozen of
the people who arrived in the Buffalo in 1836,
and were present when the ‘province’ was
' proclaimed ’ the same day—December 28. One
of them, H. T. Morris, has treasured up some rare
records of the occasion. But the thing that he
remembers best is something that isn’t on the
records. Commander Hindmarsh’s wife wasn’t
too well, and between her illness and the bustle
over the landing the proclamation was post-
poned for a few hours. Meantime the
marines got gloriously drunk; so when the
flag was hoisted, and the salute ordered, the
men had so much difficulty in keeping in a straight
line, and fired so erratically, that the Governor
ordered the salute to be done over again. And
they did it; but this time it was worse. Then
Hindmarsh gave it up as a bad job, and reckoned)
that the ‘province’ would pull through some-
how.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


POST
FREE
K
AUIY
IY
faq*: wtr.AM t. -SKis moo
Every pot cfintains Government Analyst’s certificate.
OORDON & NICHOLLS, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
gtocknc
(Dress
Shields
After Le„ g 0 „„,-..„ ee , SUMMER /S HERE !
THE TRYING DAYS ARE AT HAND WHEN
GOOD DRESS PRESERVERS become a Necessity.
There is just
One Reliable
Maker—
KLEIN2LRT.
Shun the “JUST
AS GOOD.”
None such are made.
To misnre Personal '"'ornfo-t. Ladies ’ y AMPLE SIZE.
and only those that bear the KLEINERT Trade Mark. 3gB(J
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
.. Leading Drapers. »»
TRADE MARkJH E VARNISHED BOARD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 9, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The start of 1906 was a notable reconciliation
season. Half the couples who had been living in
a semi-detached state for many months in this
city crashed into each other’s arms. In a caf6
the other night, three reconciled pairs gulped
down the stout and oyster of good cheer, and
looked lilce so many gay and blessed honey-
mooners new to the bonds. The sight was
edifying. But it is sad to think that New Year
is only an annual event. The reconciliation that
advertises itself in a cafe is not likely to last more
than six months. It will probably want another
New Year about June.
The advance G.-G. guard who flies'the Union
Jack as he canters ahead of the Excellency’s
chariot, looks more than ever like a circus agent
when the chariot contains only an earl or two in
wide-awake hats. All the tram-travellers on the
St. Kilda track eyed the turn-out and the fancy
Tommy atop a mighty steed with broad grins, the
other day—the three tweeded occupants of the
G.-G. chariot being such a drab and dull party to
sit behind a gorgeous herald with the flag of .Old
England held aloft grandly in his martial fist. At
any time the advance Son of Mars with the flag
unfurled is a ludicrous figure suitable only to a
London Lord Mayor’s Show.
An apostle of New Thought (as the Yanks
know it) is at large in this Bent capital. He is
settled in luxurious hotel quarters. As a rule, the
lecturer and consultant is a penniless person, who
has to beg that a small coin be paid by every
person interested in his lecture or parlor tete-a-
tete. But the present apostle c...nes in style, and
Occultism goes up in consequence. Presently, he
lectures, but up to now he has been busy in
consultation. A number of eerie folk, who are out
of sympathy with the world and its old ways, are
■keen on spooks and the Yank interpretation of
things spiritual. They’d rather the devils they
didn’t know than the devils they do. The “ New
Thought,” as a cult, doesn’t seem too woeful.
Its followers look woefully anaemic on it, though;
Talking of souls. A Yank fashion-leader who
makes a hobby of aestheticism and a dream philo-
sophy elected to search for her soul in the highest
ether and, finding it, to hold communion and dig
out the eternal Truth. She started off with a
rigorous fast, the idea being that the search for
thC soul was liable to be hampered by too much
cabbage and corned beef. So she fasted, the New
York papers reporting the performance from
. meal-time to meal-time with terrible accuracy.
One day passed—the dame was holding out
bravely. The second day passed. Her pangs
were considerable and the soul as remote as ever.
On the sixth day the dame walked abroad—at
least she dragged her inert limbs along a country
road—and suddenly realised a hot and savory
meaty odor. She struggled into a farmer’s cot-
tage and begged a meal. She wolfed it, and the
New York press solemnly gave out that the
fashion-leader’s attempt to arrive at her soul had
failed. But she had a delightful fit of indigestion,
and saw several nightmares in her sleep.
The Players dried up after one “In Town”
performance last week. The show was put on
hurriedly without due rehearsal. The Greig
brothers and several assistants played “prompt”
visibly in shirt-sleeves and profuse perspiration,
still the show wouldn’t gee. The ballets, though,
needed no “ prompt.” They were “ just ripping,”
In the lead was Miss Molly Wilson, daughter of
the Elemington starter and grand-chick of oculist
Gray.
A team of amateur mummers nearly went crazy
recently when they discovered that their “star ”
had a bad memory, yet her manners were so gentle
that swearing at her in times of lapse became im-
possible. On one occasion the ire of the actor-
manager reached the explosive stage, and he
murmured, “For the Lord’s sake, say something,
Don’t stand like a fool! ” That, and nothing
more. But she immediately interrupted the per-
formance to mention the fact that such a remark
was ungentlemanly—and the actor-manager nearly
took a violet fit. This is worthy of the travelled
She who reports that the Niagara Falls are nice,
or the Pyramids look massive. The young person
should have heard, say, , the great actor-
manager. In moments of excitement at rehearsals
he would kneel solemnly down on the stage,
stretch his arms to Heaven, and pray to the
Almighty ; that this daughter of a
sea-cook, this female ox, should
receive appropriate punishment in the next, if not
in this, world.
Mrs. Joseph Glarke, the widow of the late
“Joe” Glarke, is going to England with Janet
Mrs. Clarke on a Visit to her only son, Mr. T. G.
Clarke. Also Miss Glarke, the eldest daughter of
the Archbishop, is engaged to be married to a
wealthy Englishman. This is all the Clarke news
at present.
It’s regarded as an unfortuitous thing that a
minister of the name of Drought should be located
in Toorak, where all the weddings of wool take
place. To have a Drought breathing a blessing
upon a sheep-king and his bride !
A good-natured Dives has sworn off card-
gambles with the second sex. In a big private
house recently, the stakes were on the table and
the game was near the finish when the electric
lights were suddenly switched off. and in the con-
fusion that followed the card table was upset. By
the time some more light was thrown on the
subject the cash (what was left) had got badly
mixed, and the girls laughingly voted that under
the circumstances the poor should profit by it.
Vague allusions were made to a poor-box some-
where on the premises—probably in the dog
kennel or the fowl-coop. Dives went home
frowning.
Captain Fitzpatrick made moist, urgent tracks
down from the Gulf of Carpentaria territory
to start the New Year in the more habit-
able quarters of this State. One of his first
public appearances was made in company with
the Northcote Dame and the Jersey Countess.
NASTY.
OLD MAN'S DARLING : “ Jane, I believe you have a young man in the kitchen.”
JANE (under notice): “ Yes , mum, I have. And let me tell yer that a young man in the
kitchen is better than an old man in the droring-room.”
The trio visited some hospitals and looked round
a little, don’t you know. Toorak doesn’t know
what to make of it all. Fitz. ife going strong with
the two sets of Vice-Regals.
There’s money in a fancy dip into the wet from
all the Kellermann accounts. Annette is earning
a pot ■' of gold per week at the London Hippo-
drome. She writes in buoyant spirits, and takes
great lusty joy in the fact that her “ coo-ee” is
nightly taken up with more vim, and that latterly,
in response to obstinate cries for more, she has
had to reply with three extra “cob-ees.” In
Scotland Annette's wet frolics met with the en-
thusiastic approval of Edinboro’ town, and the
Lord Provost (the lordly Cranston) made himself
' particularly affable to the nut-brown nymph.
All along she has taken the British fancy,
and is so well stocked with coin of the realm that
she proposed (by fhe New Year mail) taking a
month’s rest in the South of France.
The fashion of the brief puff sleeve is a trying
one. In the best of instances, when a rounded
pearl-powdered arm is displayed, a raw funny-
bone often obtrudes from the upper frillies. It
nearly always looks raw, from either sunburn or
frequent abrasions caused by an absent-minded
owner*, In the worst instances, the brief puffie is
an annoyance ;; a , red scraggy arm with the
contour of a lead-pencil is exposed, and the bony
.elbow is a sin. against Art. A bit of leg, say,
above a brief sock would prove ever samueh more
pleasant and sightly. The forearm of very few
of the sex is worth display. The Fashion
Authority must have had a spite against all
femininity When he prescribed a short sleeve to
cover merely the vaccinated area.
Engineer-in-Chief Thwaites, of the M.B. of W.,
faced the Eden Chant, last month, with a rural
maid—Miss Margaret Barton. The joining'was
as quiet as a Quakers’ meeting. Dr. Bevan, in a
wonderful nimbus of snowy wool, made the con-
tract safe and sound.
A mid-summer announcement is the engage-
ment of Miss Kathleen Ogilvie, one of the local
Gibson flashers, to Mr. James Graham, a South
Yarra Johnnie. She is stylish, chic, and some-
thing of a frilly sport. The lucky he is the most
painstaking man in circulation here.
A son 6f Surgeon O’Hara landed home as a
Christmas surprise packet with a wife from Fog-
town. The first query of Mrs. O’Hara, as soon as
she had recovered from shock, was— “ls she
nice?” The Surgeon’s first query was an
explosive roar—“ Is she good-looking?” She
was both, and the blue flames of Good Cheer in
consequence mounted higher than ever from the
plum pudding.
By latest globe-trotter accounts, the Misses
Landale of sportive memory were in London air-
ing some remarkable chiffons branded “ Paris ” on
the near shoulder. Their get-up was more bizarre
than ever, but there’s less time to take note of
it in the Smoke where a thousand dazzlers
are counted for less ;than a sneeze or two in
Collins-street.
The usual swagger contingent from Toorak and
thereabouts didn’t climb the Bass Straits boats this
Christmas. Only a dozen fashionables followed
in the wake of the Bowes-Kellys for Slowbart.
Perhaps with the arrival of the Fleet at that town
at the end of this week, the society chicks may do
a hustle across. > ■
The old ‘ d ingers of benzine were revived to
memory, the other day, in the Sainted City, when
a bride elect, in the act of cleaning a pair of gloves,
struck a match and set herself a-fire. She was
put out before any irreparable damage was done,
but some skin had to be borrowed from one of the
members of the family to patch up her
scarred flesh, and the marriage is deferred till
the girl is repaired. Why be scarred and tor-
tured for the sake of fourpence ? That’s all the
cleaning of a pair of gloves costs.
, Desperate efforts have been made to boom Polo,
but, despite high social aid, the sp it doesn’t
boom any. Weather is dead against the matches.
A top thermometer score has been the rule at-
each of the three last tournaments. On Saturday
last, to make sure of cutting down the attendance,
the weather was desperate. It blew with a
hundred-Bent force, and the tepid dust smac ed
mankind in the eye. That was enough to keep the
she-barrackers indoors, and the whole promised
phalanx of Vice-Regals and co. remained away from
the Kopyong field. The marquee flags flapped
wildly in the breeze, but the signs of festivity
fainted away at that. In a roasting-hot match.
Geelong and Melbourne battled for points, but
against weather and blank audience-spaces the
scores counted very little to either team. Satur-
day’s weather ought to be sentenced to six months’
solitary confinement without the option,
The Waxellency tucks a serviette into his vest
and prepares for several feasts of plenty and soul-
flowings for the next fortnight. The air is full of
farewells, and the ring-a-ring-a-rosy set of curls
about the Madden pate have a gay and festive
kink that proclaims that he’s off the chain and the
bench for a fine stretch of months.
Mr. Laurie Grieg—the plump he-star of The
Players—gets a chance to foot it in “L’Aiglon”
and subsequent Williamsonian shows. The said
Laurie has cleverness and a fat cheerful patter
that should avail him something.
At latest Miss Carrie Moore had left “The
Blue Moon,” and was lost to the sight of Aus-
tralians in London. Tourists agree that Carrie
was a most fetching sprite in the show.
Miss Jennings, one of the rare beauties in the
Musgrove ranks, got away to the land of dollars
with the co. She had hard work to manage her
inclusion in the team, but a friend or two at court
pulled it off. A South Yarra product, she was
the biggest and most splendid specimen of the
virile Australian that manager Musgrove shipped
away this trip.
The one exciting item of news from the land of
sudden eruption is the re-marriage of the pretty
defendant in the Banks divorce suit that set
Sydney by the ears list year. The partner, is
highly eligible. It’s likely now that the interest-
ing young brunette will give up her mumming
career.
A son of Rep. Harper had the starch taken out
of himself and his petrol car at the start of the
year. He had aboard the Talbot staff, and the
weight of his brace of caddies or the pride of
taking them up to the Macedon cottage in sight
of the grey Exes, becoming too much for the car,
over went the machine, casting the party out per-
emptorily. They were sorted out and conveyed
to the cottage, where the laying on of ointment
and medical hands brought relief. A dislocated'
shoulder or two and a large assortment of blue
bruise were the principal results of the spill. But
the car is very, very sick. In all the recent motor
breakdowns the car has received the most serious
injury.
Miss Minnie Everett is bouncing springily about
her ballet again, and looking fitter than ever,
though her illness had her hors de combat for a
few weeks. She is giving close attention to the
“Utopia” production, having some quaint specta-
cular effects to work up for her light-toed legion.
Things in Melbourne were so dull for the start
of 1906 that a host of flatterers and tweed sports
started off for the Terang New Year race meet-
ing, and had a brisk time in that western city.
All the wool clans turned out on wheel. ,and lots
had motored up from town. Miss Ruby Madden,
Miss A. Fairbairn, Mrs. H. Grim wade, and Miss
Fisken were atfew of the Melbourne flock. The
Claude Palmers dispensed hospitalities and plied
attentions all. dayj A feature of the meeting was
the new scratching board, which renders the num-
bers visible from evfery point of view, save that of
a'spectator who stands on his head. This is an
idea of one of the Osborne clan. Surprise is all the
keener at that, for whatever else the Osbornes
may be blamed for, ideas are seldom put down to
them.
The Talbot staff is getting a move on. The
infant Aide packs up his sponge and tpoth-brush
almost immediately for the land* of cakes, having
been appointed to an adjutancy of the Seaforth
kilters. Capt. Buxton —the youth with the
monumental chin-stakes himself off to his Rifle
Brigade in England. Mr. Victor Hood—a lisping
Aide who has been on service to the Le Huntes—
takes on the P.S. post, and one Crichton becomes
first Aide.
Fancy-dress carnivals are reported as having
enlivened the goose season at several mountainous
hotels; At one of these raree-shows a well-known
Melbourne doctor is reported as having trans-
pired in the character of “A Bed.” What
amount of clothing or what shortage of covering
would constitute a likeness or resemblance to a
bed on the part of a masquerader ? And what
fun could a man get out of bringing his bedding
into the presence of a French maid, a Mercia, a
Geisha, or any of the other frisky maskers? And
what if a girl went as a sea-bath, or a dame as a
deck-chair ?
The. Sounds trip has been spoilt in the eyes of
the cheerful heathen by the rush of holy Shepherds
aboard. Bishops of great tonnage and divines of
severe wire-netted countenances have all made for
Maoriland this hot se.aspn, to the disgust of the
Pagan tourist. Qne letter from a pilgrim making
for the' Sounds describes the preponderance
of the Shepherd on the cruise as' being too,
too terrible. The Cloth, got on her nerves
and jarred her all the route. The fat
Fathers, she writes, are red and jovial, but
their bulky company is not endurable at every meal
or during all the intervals between food-times.
The non-celibate parsons are a miserable kind.
They look dyspeptic, and there ,is no enjoyment
in them. Bishops must be worse. Their efforts
to be amiable and their endeavors to maintain
mitred dignity, at all hazards and against; all
temptation, must result in a horrible strangling of
sociability.
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Fairbairn are still meander-
ing up hill and down dale in the Cold Country.
And nearly always a golf-kit is at hand.
The 1905 Christmas season was reiharkable for
the many drowning tragedies which were wholly
attributable to the victims being unable to swim.
Out of the twenty or thirty persons drowned in
Victoria during one week, two-thirds were non-
swimmers. Of the. six washed into the sea at
Sorrento, not one could swim a stroke, and the
sole survivor contrived to save himself by hanging
on to a piece of kelp. Had these six been
swimmers, there is very little likelihood that any of
them would have suffered more j;han a drenching.
Yet throughout the State every discouragement
is placed in the way of persons desiring to swim.
Apparently to conserve the interests of baths
lessees, bathing on the, long stretch , of beach and
rive.’ that faces nearly every Melbourne suburb is
forbidden by law, and persons are fined for ventur-
ing to make themselves clean in a,neck-to-knee
costume that would pass a jury of Scotchbyterian
parsons. Mg .
In some of the public hospitals the Nightingales
have hard work to sort out the visitors, and fix on
' the bona-fide wife or the genuine husband, as the
ease may be. One nurse explains that in some
instances the man the whole staff has been treat-
ing as the sorrowing husband turns out to be an
interloper, and at the last moment the true liege
lord casually drops in to see the missus. Some-
times the interloper • and the legitimate partner
meet at the bedside—in. which case one of two
things happens. There is a holy row instanter, or
the two men casually take in the situation, and
neither turns up again. This kind of patient
either lapses into marble silence <sr she blubbers
out romantic De Rougemont stories of the men
that have loved and -lied for her. The vanity of
a sick woman \vhose teeth and hair lie on the
chest of drawers, and whose complexion has been
drowned in carbolic, is the most vital thing in the
world.
They’re engaging a large soft Senator to a musi-
cal M e lbournite who can conjugate the amorous
verb in four languages and make eyes in seven.
She is also credited with a cultured taste in poetry
and the piano.
Colonel Egerton still lingers at the Northcote
mansion. The jolly round man appears very
much out of place. He looks as if he were always
on the point of prodding an Ex. in the ribs
and was only restrained by guestly considera-
tions. The drollest picture furnished by the
Northcote menage is the bulky little Colonel
stepping out with the long, rusty-whiskered
Jersey. Earl.
All doubt as to the claims of a foreign Baron
were set at rest last week by the G.-G. dame
requesting,' through one of the staff, that he should
spend a Saturday-till-Monday spell at the V.R.
eyrie. The Baron’s early worshippers are taking
him more Seriously than ever, now.
Dr. Violet Plummer has no she-rival in the
Holy City. A week or two ago she broke away
from the Adelaide pulse and made for Sydney,
leaving the patients to postpone complications
and climaxes till her return. She left no locum
tenons —because there is no other lady doc. in that
cicy. Here in Melbourne the she-practitioner is
numerous. Mrs. Buchanan (Dr. Freda Gamble)
alone has given up pulse-reckoning for family
interests, but then her husband has a good prac-
tice,, and she can afford to be contented with the
profession of matrimony.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
i 324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS—If
anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ” it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, anff gentle,*
POLITICAL
POINTS
A military “ chair ” will be established at
Sydney University by next September. The yarn
that, to meet the most pressing requirements of
the Australian military administration, a tailor
will be appointed Professor is probably untrue.
Even with the passage of the Shires Act,
Local Government is to be a very gradual thing in
New South Wales. It is calculated that it will
take nine months to get ready for the shire elec-
tions ; and then there is still another Act to pass
before the scheme of Local Government is com-
plete.
Four years ago the
Queensland Parliament gave
permission to a syndicate,
of which very little has been
heard since, to build a rail-
way from Normanton to
Cloncurry. It was pledged
to construct this 260 miles
of line in five years, but it
was provided that if 150
miles were constructed by
the end of five years, the
Commissioner could grant
an extension of time for
completion. The syndicate
was to deposit £lO,OOO, re-
payable when 100 miles of
line were built. If the line
wasn’t built the £lO,OOO
was to be forfeited. A
special proviso was inserted
in the agreement that the
syndicate should not be
entitled to any compensa-
tion if the State built a
competing line. The syndi-
cate hasn’t even started
work. It hasn’t a ghost of
a chance, even if it starts
now, of finishing 100 miles
of line in time to save its
deposit. According to its
agreement, the £lO,OOO will
be forfeited in a few months.
But something has bitten
the syndicate, and with the
sudden energy of a concern
which has sat on ants it
demands the deposit back,
and if its lost £lO,OOO isn’t
forthcoming the syndicate
will doubtless howl about
“ breach of faith ” after the
fashion of syndicates. The
syndicate is a brassy institu-
tion.
A recently returned
tourist is Mr. James Miller,
of Miller and Co., Mel-
bourne, who are guilty of
making things in Australia
instead of importing them.
Jle reports that he did not
find either in Canada or
England any signs of Aus-
tralia’s alleged unpopularity.
Naturally. He didn’t talk
stinking fish yarns, and
didn’t therefore get them talked backed to him.
N.S.W. State Premier Carr others is a wily
man. He has been struck with sudden sympathy
-and he says N.S.W. in general feels likewise-
for the starving Japanese? and he proposes that
Prime Minister Deakin should spend a lot of
money sending food to them. Then, when the
next year’s Federal accounts come out, Joey
Carruthers would point an accusing finger-nail at
the total and yelp “Federal extravagance.” If
he sent relief himself, the cost of it would appear
in his own State accounts as his own extravagance,
and Joey takes no chances of that kind.
A Port Adelaide alderman, returned from
a trip to the Cold Country, has been telling how
the Briton has municipal rates piled upon him.
In the borough of Poplar (East London) the rate
is about I2s. 6d. Away north in Inverness (says
the alderman) it is 20s. Bd. in the pound.
Sydney Telegraph gives voice to a wail
that, owing to the Aliens’ Act, Australia loses
the chance of getting 15,000 Chinese students,
each spending £6O a year. But since when did
Australian ambition run in the direction of keep-
ing school for the Chow ?
In a report of the proceedings to hand
from S’Africa, the counsel for Willis, in argument
for a remand, said: “Had the Crown (N.S.W.)
acted with proper rapidity, Willis would have
been in Australia by this time.’’ Which is rough
on Joseph Carruthers and his Attorney-General.
Secretary Roseby, of the Sydney Charitable
Society, who ought to know :
I am of opinion that Sydney to-day is much better
commercially than it was this time last year. I think I
can even g-o so far as to say, better than for some years.
More of the evil effects of Federation !
Cardinal Moran says Carruthers is as good
a Premier as N.S.W. has had this last 20 years.
Let’s see. Stuart, Jennings, Dibbs, Parkes, Reid,
Lyne, See, and Waddell. The compliment isn’t
a big one when the row is looked straight in the
face, but there are a couple beside whom Joey
looks like a boy in knickers.
With this year begins the return of
Kanakas to their homes from Queensland. It is
a much-deplored bit of “Federal tyranny and
cruelty,” this repatriation ; but it happens, unfor-
tunately for the “ secesli ” party, to be a matter
of State, and not Federal, enactment. It was
the old Queensland State law which decreed the
repatriation of time-expired islanders.
“No unemployed problem in Germany”
—so Sydney Daily Telegraph heads the report
of an interview' with James Burns (Burns, Philp
and Co.), just .back from foreign parts. But,
having found a country where there is no unem-
ployed problem, the Telegraph continues to
curse that country’s policy of High Protection,
just as if it believed that an unemployed problem
was a bad thing to be without.
It is now proposed that the building put
up as an Inebriates’ Retreat on the Hawkesbury
River (N.S.W.) shall be used for some other
purpose. The law which was to catch the dipso-
maniac for medical treatment had so many
elaborate regulations cobvvebbed round it that
no chronic drunk can be captured unless
he wants to be, and even then he can
only be secured with such difficulty that the
chances are he goes away on a fresh drunk in
the middle of the proceedings and loses all interest
in his own arrest. Moreover, the legal processes
are so expensive that only a rich inebriate can
afford to capture himself.
A BASE ADVANTAGE.
“Old Pat’s playin’ a shine game. He’s getting ahead of yer, Bill.”
“ That’s orlright. I got the marker squared; and if Pat gits
too far ahead, ’e’s goin’ to start ’umming the ‘ Boyne Water’”
S.A.’s anti-opium-smoking law, to bo
worked in conjunction with the new Federal
prohibition, is pretty thorough. Possession,
manufacture, smoking, aiding others to a pipe,
or running an opium den carries a fine of £lO to
£5O for a first offence, and for a second conviction
the penalty is a £5O fine and twelve months’
imprisonment, or deportation, for the offender.
'N.S.W.’s proposed Act, it is said, will be equally
thorough.
The new Queen of Norway—King Ned’s
youngest daughter—has only one child, a boy, born
seven years after her. marriage. Norway has
selected an inexpensive Royal Family. But it is
also a family that seems liable to die out soon, and
then perhaps the Bernadottes will try to climb
back on to the frozen throne, and the Republican
party will argue the point, and all the one-horse
princelets of Germany will apply for the vacant
job, and the Czar and the German Emperor will
both offer good advice and moral support.
The lazy habits of the average Victorian
shire councillor or Water Trust person seem to be
incurable. As long ago as 1903 an engineer drew
up plans for a storage reservoir for the Avenel
(Vic.) Water Trust. It was to cost £6OO, and the
Water Supply Department notified the Trust that
the money was available. But the Commissioners
were too languid to do anything, and lately for two
or three weeks Avenel has been without any water
at all, and has been saying things to its Water Com-
missioners that have affected them about as much
as a cherry-stone thrown at a pyramid.
Kaiser William has formally declared that
the Twentieth Century belongs to the Germans.’
Well, 50 years ago,
the Emperor of the
French remarked to
his Empress, Eugenie,
that the Germans
were the People of
the Future. And
this is the Future.
THE-RE ID-PA TENT-HALF-YEAREY-SLOW
FIRING-DISAPPEARING-GUN.—TO OPEN
FIRE SHORTLY.
There are in Newcastle, N.S.W. (say
Labor Senators), men who were brought out 40
years ago as miners under contract. They are
still regarded with contumely as blacklegs. And
that slur will go with them to the grave.
S.A. celebrated with much fervor on Dec.
28th its Proclamation as a “ province ” (it is proud
of never having been a “ colony ”) in 1830. The
gum tree under which Governor Hindmarsh read
himself into office at Glenelg still exists as a
broken-down ruin, and a handful of the pioneers
who came out with Hindmarsh in the Buffalo
remain, and are made much of on every 28th. All
who landed up to and including 1840 get special
honors on Proclamation Day, and there are still
some scores of them.
The Balmoral Shire Council (Q.), the
other day, put up a record that will take some
beating. It sold a widow’s house and ground for
£l, rates due. The woman brought the matter
into court, and the case went against the council;
“£250 and costs,” said the Judge, holding his
nose with both hands. The bloated capitalist
who invested in a sovereign’s worth Of house and
land didn’t lose his bargain, though. The Bal-
moral shire has to stand the loss, and its remark-
able council hasn’t resigned yet.
Speaking recently of Canada’s wholesale
annexation of the much-desired immigrant, Deakin
bewailed the fact that the Dominion has a big
pull over the Commonwealth since the Canadian
Government has power to deal with land, while
the Commonwealth Government “can’t grant
an inch of land to anyone.” True enough ; but by
a stiff graduated land-tax the affable Alfred might
indirectly make available enough land to accom-
modate 1,000,000 immigrants. If Alfred would
only cease to be affable and Do Things !
Trickett, of N.S. Wales’ House of Fat,
boiling over at the preliminary Secesh meeting
regarding the infamy of the Victorian plot.against
Sydney, said that the capital site chosen was “in
the most remote corner of the State.” Poor old
Trickett apparently never heard of either Went-
worth or Tibooburra. Anyhow, they are both in
corners of the State, and both vastly more remote
from Sydney. And, as a matter of fact, three-
fourths of N.S.W. is more remote from Sydney
than Dalgety is, but no one expects Trickett to
know an obvious little thing like that, which
anybody could find out by looking at a map.
A Mr. James Miller, who has returned
from a visit to Canada, reports in Sydney Tele-
graph :
If our land in Australia was as' accessible as land is in
Canada, we should soon immigrants here. We have
great pastoral estates absorbing splendid land. In Canada
there is nothing of the kind.
There Mr. Miller strikes one half of the secret.
The other half is that Canada has a tariff which
finds abundance of work for its town population.
A country which has land to offer to the agricul-
turist and a steady job to offer to the artisan will
always get immigrants.
The Syrian Malouf who, after getting the
hospitality of the Commonwealth for a time on
exemption certificates, now wishes to break his
promise and bond, and stay here permanently,
talks of appealing to the Privy Council against
his deportation. Well, the Privy Council is
very remote and inconvenient for Malouf while
he is in Australia, while if he were in England he
could sit right on the august body’s doorstep.
And a commodious steamer which would hold
Malouf comfortably leaves Sydney every few days.
What’s the matter with rushing Malouf off to the
Privy Council right now ?
British ex-Prime Minister Balfour the
Golf-player (somewhat reminiscent of Egypt’s
Ptolemy the Flute-player) declares that it is a
“foolish and atrocious falsehood” to say that
Chinese labor on the Rand is equivalent to
slavery. This is good enough for Balfour mooning
superciliously in his library over some rare edition,
or bending his powerful mind to the ill-usage of a
small ball with a long cleek ; but if Balfour were
a shoeless, half-naked and newly-flogged person,
revolving rapidly in a mine-compound to try and
overtake his own back and see what had happened
to it, he would probably say that if it wasn’t
slavery it was a mighty good imitation.
One of the letters that Melbourne Argus
seems to write to itself gave birth recently to a
lovely myth in connection with the amended
Factories and Shops Act, said myth being that
“if the employees sleep on the premises they are
to be considered as working during their sleep.”
The imaginative daily was good enough to print,
a day or two later, an official reply that “the
allegation is too ridiculous to need refutation.”
Still, the unscrupulous allegator got a good start,
and the Women’s Irrational League will probably
adopt the foolish fiction, and the Tainted Fish
party will send it to England, and for years and
years the refutation will toil after it in vain.
The British War Office has in the past
bought war stores on behalf of the Common-
wealth. For this service it charges SJ, per cent,
commission on the amount expended. The British
War Office has scooped £10,095 from the Common-
wealth from this source alone. Most of this
money was paid over by the Reid Foreign-trade
Ministry, which never even murmured at the
extortion. Deakin, however, sees that it will be
cheaper to do without the War Office, which
seems to have a bigger palm than even a Victorian
butter agent or a N.S.W. land agent; and he
proposes to appoint an expert at a decent salary
to do the buying for Australia. But why cannot
wo make our own guns and our own warlike
stores, and do without both the expert and the 5|
per cent, commission ?
Western Victorian squatters and specu-
lators are making a great effort to boom a railway
line from Ballarat through several large estates to
the Hamilton-Ararat line.
Bent was banqueted
at Lake Bolac re-
cently by various
landlords and
shire councillors
for the purpose of
“chewing his
ear ” in this mat-
ter, and wonder-
ful tales are being
circulated con-
cerning the way railway commu-
nication will “facilitate settle-
ment” in this, “the garden of the
west.” Compulsory resumption
and a stiff land-tax would facilitate
it a lot more, but the railway
ooomers are as silent as Pharaoh’s
tomb regarding these items. Most of the
people who bit Bent’s ear the Other day on
the subject of facilitating settlement are them-
selves blocking settlement all they know.
Section 6 of T. Bent’s Closei Settlement
Act was operated for the first time the other day.
Under this section a party of men, desirous of
settling on the land and knowing a suitable estate
the owner of which is willing to part on reasonable
terms, may call upon the Government to buy from
the vendor, and hand the land over to the appellants
under the terms of the Closer Settlement Act.
The Government, if satisfied that the security is
good enough, buys, and the would-be settlers get
the land amongst them, paying off their liability
by instalments spread over 31£ years. This is the
simplest, cheapest, and most efficacious feature of
Tommy s Good Intention, the Closer Settlement
Act, and when it is fully understood it will
probably be much used.
The S.M. Herald’s latest anti-Federal
correspondent was a person who inquired, in a
bland, affable sort of way, why the Australian
Constitution gave N.S.W. the sole power to select
the Federal capital if that power wasn’t intended
to be used. If he had asked why, seeing that the
Constitution gave strict instructions that the
Herald’s “Mr. James” was to be hanged in
front of his own office, that suspension hadn’t
been attended to, the Herald, if jit printed the
letter at all, would certainly have appended a
vigorous footnote stating that there was no
such thing in the Constitution. That would have
been a personal matter affecting “Mr. James’”
belltopper and dignity. The other lie being only a
national matter there isn’t any vigorous footnote.
It is gratifying to know that the N.S.W.
Liquor Act is to be administered rigorously—not
“with discretion,” as the police at first suggested.
Administering laws “ with discretion ” means, in
effect, that they are allowed to fall into habitual
disuse, and are only revived to satisfy some
grudge or freak. All laws should be administered
strictly. When that is done, the fool legislator
who is responsible for some statute that looks as if
it had been composed with a shovel falls into the
disgrace he deserves, and the statute is amended
or repealed. One great reason why the fool legis-
lator can exist is that the statutes he produces ate
administered with so much discretion that their
foolishness isn’t made as conspicuous as it
should be, and one reason why Parliament is able
to shirk so many questions that it should tackle is
that police discretion is allowed to serve instead
of law. There is an uneasy feeling, by the way,
that the force is often paid for its discretion, so
discretion is an unwholesome arrangement all
round.
A week or two ago, David Fell, M.L.A.,
who is supposed to be something extra in the way
of honesty and integrity as politicians go, lent
himself to the Sydney Telegraph’s unscrupulous
howl against the proposed Australian capital at
Dalgety on the ground that “the nearest com-
mercial centrewould be Melbourne.” Now both the
map and the report of the N.S.W. commissioner
who dealt with the question of capital sites show
this statement to be flatly untrue, the proposed
capital site being a good deal closer to
Sydney than to Melbourne, so The Bulletin
is waiting for Mr. Fell to withdraw the
support that he gave on this point to
the anti-Federal insects, and to explain that he
was misled. So far the statement of a wholly
untrue reason for rejecting the proposed Federal
capital still stands before the public backed by
Mr. Fell’s name, and, unless he withdraws it, the
common opinion that he is something extra in the
way of political honesty will be badly damaged.
The new Federal regulations prohibiting
the importation into the Commonwealth of opium
except for medicinal purposes have been framed
with a good deal of acuteness, and, if administered
well, should do much to stamp out the opium
habit. Only licensed chemists and doctors can
sell opium. They must dispose of it only to
customers requiring it for medicinal purposes, and
must keep a record of each sale. Since the
Customs will keep a record of the amount of
opium issued to each retailer, any distributor who
is circulating more opium than would seem to be
reasonable can be watched. Methods of evading
the law that suggest themselves are smuggling
(which, of course, can never be wholly stopped)
and the sale of pseudo-medical opium pills. (A
Chinese opium fiend, confined in Sydney
gaol, for a long time fooled the. medical
staff into supplying him with opium by simulating
an intestinal trouble for which it is a specific.)
But with all possible leakages John Chinaman
and his degraded white brother will find an opium
drunk a difficult and expensive luxury in future.
“ Wal. D.” : S. Aus. Laborites are pre-
paring already for the next Federal elections,
which will happen this year. It is certain a
Laborite will be run for Adelaide, in place of the
sadly-disabled C. C. Kingston; and Batchelor,
Hutchison and Poynton will probably easily hold
their seats. Denny, for some years a member of
the State Parliament, may want a city seat; but
if he appears in opposition to a Labor man he will
go down. Holder will be unopposed, and Glynn
may be, though the Protectionists should see to it
that he isn’t. Bonython will have to do all he
knows to hold Barker, even if Darling does not
carry out his threat of tackling the paper knight.
Even with this fight looming, a Labor candidate is
talked of ; and if it goes beyond talk, the result
will be to put Darling in vice Bonython. If it
hadn’t been for Bonython and his paper, the
Laborites wouldn’t now have a Premier in office ;
and it would be a fair and decent thing to give
Langdon B. a lift now in return. As to the
Senate, the Laborites are sorrow* d ; it will be a
very difficult matter to shift Playford, Symon, or
Baker.
MONARCHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is cabled that the Czar has had a recurrence of
epileptic attacks.
Through the night that madness brings
Wander they, the race of kings.
Once, around them and their queens,
. Shone a glory golden,
Now they join the Gadarenes
Of that hillside olden ;
In th’ abyss their feet have stepped ;
Monarchy is epilept.
Dying hlood, for kver wed
With itself, breeds offspring dead.
Brainless infants wake and wail
In those beds unhallowed ;
Where Gomorrah’s lights burn pale
Kings and queens have followed !
Murderous, wanton, false, inept—
Monarchy is epilept.
Imbecility and rage
Shake those puppets on the stage.
Bloody froth and slaver thin
From their slack mouths trickle ;
Time has ta’en liis harvest in
With relentless sickle.
Out as refuse he it swept,
Monarchy the epilept.
vie.
R.P.R.


No matter
what you
want in the
shape of
Musical In-
struments
V® Paling" s
can supply
you at low-
er prices
than any
other firm.
Call or send for
catalogues of Pianos,
Organs, Music, or
Band Instruments,
Just say which
Catalogue you want,
it will be mailed
free.
*
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
46
Ronisch
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
These emi-
nent Piano
make r s
were es-
tablished
in 1845.
Their In-
struments
have been
sold for 60
years with
great satis-
faction to
the Buyer.
Catalogues Free.
Sole Agents—
Paiing'’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney,
58
If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, why
not ex-
change i t
for a new
one from
Paling’s.
Call at Paling's, who
will toll you how to
make an exchange,
and, at the same
time get a Catalogue.
*
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
34
Sola's.
bj r \
all first-
cla JB stores N.
in Australasia,
No. 81761 2-BLADE X ' ..
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 2-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BIST.
0
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
PriC6 26j POStOd 29« Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established ‘25 Years.
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Farms of South Africa
Black, White,
Cream, or Bhu.u
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches.
Post Free any address,
3 for 10/-
These feathers cannot be
bought for twice the money
in any other house.
Choice Natural Boas, 21s. Length li yards
No costume is complete without a Boa.
Write to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST., SYDNEY:
Also at Bourke and Swanston sts., Melbourne.
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
Mention The Bulletin.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES-
PLASMON
y t . COCOA
£? non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cuds of
fcny ordinary cocoa.
Buys a
Splendid
MEDICAL
BATTERY
A genuine Medical Battery that IS a
battery and not a toy. It will do all that
is claimed for it. It is a cure for -Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Nervous Dis-
orders, etc., and is highly recommended
by the medical profession. It can be mncffo
very weak or very strong, as preferred.
Costs little to maintain and is easily
operated.
Price 35/
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
HEW NH HOME
MEDICAL APPARATUS
WITH DRT BATTERT
OSBORN &
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
Limited.
WATER BAGS! WATER BAGS!
COOL DRINKS AND FIRM BUTTER
IN THE HOTTEST WEATHER.
Our Water Bags are made by our Own Men of the Very best canvas, and are of the “ Finney, Isles ” Standard
each
12in. Hand Bags 9‘d.
„ „ „ All Hand Work 1/-
„ „ „ With Gusset 1/3
~ „ ~ All Hand Work 1/6
16ln. Cart or Dray Bags. All Hand Work .. 2/-
18in. „ „ „ „ „ 2/3
Saddle and Horse Neck Bags 1/6
„ „ „ „ „ All Hand Work 2/-
Our Special Saddle Bags, large Leather flap, all
Hand Work .. 2/- & 2/6
12in. Hand Made Drum Shape Water Bag .. 1/8
16in. „ „ „ „ „ „ 2/-
A convenient shape for use when driving.
Long Verandah Bags, with Wooden Tap.. 2/8, 3/3
each
With Canvas Spout or Wooden Tap, Extra
Large Size, all Hand Work .. .. .. 4/11
Long Combination Verandah Bag, with Wooden
Tap, and our New Charcoal Filter .. .. 4/3
The “Commonwealth” Combination Bag and
Butter Cooler, with Wooden Tap .. 3/11
The “Success” Butter Cooler, our Special
Cooler, Best Canvas, Strong Tin Lining .. 3/9
The “ Success ” has sold to the number of many thou-
sands, and is likely to remain a favorite with
families who appreciate well-kept butter.
NAVY CANVAS.
24in., 9J,d., 10Jd., 1/-, 1/1,1/2,1/3 per yard.
36in., 16,1/9 per yard. 72in., 2/6, 3/6 per yard.
Those who invest in one of ouf Water Bags have good reason to say, as they enjoy a glass of really cold water,
and note that their butter never turns to oil, “ For Water Bags and Butter Coolers You Can’t Beat Finney’s.”
Finney, Isles & Co., Li United, The Big Block, Brisbane.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Mecfa.lB^
Works: Birmingham, Englarid
These series o!
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, lheyglme
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.otting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Samole 80~.
W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S
ANIMATO6RAPH.
The
BoBt
Living:
Picture
Machine
Extant.
£
Large
Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
IV. WATSON <& SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
- MELBOURNE .
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of •
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Bach Capsule hears the name §v~


“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
A Word about Pills,
Many people have no hesitation in taking a
dozen bottles of medicine in liquid form, pre-
scribed by a doctor, but view with alarm the
suggestion to take a course of pills. This mis
apprehension is no doubt
due to the impression that
pills are merely purgative,
which may be correct in
some instances. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills,
however, are not merely
purgatives, acting upon
the bowels only, but con-
tain more important pro-
perties which influence the
liver, the kidneys, the
blood and the whole
■ system, evidence of which
is not wanting. Thou-
sands of testimonials sent
us voluntarily and gra-
tuitously from all parts of
.Australasia verify our
statements of what Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will do and are doing every
day. You will find neigh-
bors, friends and relatives everywhere who have
been restored to health and who can testify to the
marvellous blood-purifying and healing properties
of these pills. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood-purifier and a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments. They do not weaken.
They do not sicken. They do not gripe.*
n
DIRECTIONS
MOULTS TWO Tt POUR PIU.S
CHILORCN A HALF TO A
WHOLE PUL QI3SOLVEO
IN SWCETENEO WATER.
To be token More
retiring.
■it*
RESCN’S select STOCK ALE 8c laser
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
/ ' .
Brewery and Officer:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN,- SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Detective O’Donnell, of Melbourne, who had
some trouble with a bomb last week, blames Isaac Moses
for it. He says that he has lately been prosecuting sundry
Ikeys of various shades of illegality, and adds that ex-
constable Crowe, who had been writing pamphlets about
the “ betting evil,” was recently knocked on the head;
that a Prahran tradesman' who had assisted the police in
these prosecutions had his windows broken three times ;
that police-clerk Johnston, also mixed up in the same
matters, was assaulted ; and that ex-sergeant O’Hare, who
gave evidence on betting before the Police Commission
likewise had bad luck with (ns windows. Still, it is a
long time since Moses took to direct violence. He cer-
tainly threw things at Titus, the Roman, but there is a
great gap between Titus and ’tec O’Donnell.
» * * *
At Flemington, on New Year’s Day, Ikey Mo.
did quite a brisk business in laying the “double” —“20
to 1 the double ! ” —Standish Plate and Bagot Handicap.
“Twenty to 1 the double!” starters for
the Standish, and the winner was a 20 to 1
chance. Also the runner-up was an 8 to 1 chance,
and the third horse went out at 20’s. Probably
there wasn’t a punter on the course who managed
to get one leg into Ikey’s double. The Bagot
had eleven starters, and the winner’s price was 20 to 1,
the second and third going out at 10’s and 15’s respec-
tively. The winning combination, as it happened, was a
440 to 1 chance. Had the second horses been the winners
they would have represented a9Bto 1 chance. The two
“ thirds ” amounted to a 335 to 1 chance. Ikey was quite
safe in yelling “20to 1 the double.” The racing clubs
should give greenhorns some measure of protection
against the noisy beast. Hfe ' ought to be subjected, as
far as doubles are concerned, to a “ minimum odds rate ”
—say 40 to 1.
•*•***
When they really mean to suppress betting in
England, they have a fairly sudden way of doing it.
Lloyd’s Weekly, of Nov. 25th, reports that, “ for using a
small shop in Red Cross-street, Borough, James Goding
was fined £4OO and costs, at the Tower Police Court, while
another man was fined £3O 10s. for betting outside the
shop.” Fancy a Sydney magistrate firming Ikey Mo. £4OO
for using a Pitt-street shop for betting purposes ! Imagi-
nation staggers on its throne at the idea.
* * » *
Pony racing in Melbourne is alleged to be
getting purified through the drastic treatment of its new
manager, Jack Wren. All the same, the allegation is
absurd. The men who race ponies and the boys who ride
them are mostly incapable of being converted to honesty
bv anyone ; and as to whether their tactics are glaringly
crooked, or less obviously cronk—well, what difference
does it make to the punters who pay the piper ? Horse-
racing is a dirty business these , times, and pony-racing is
dirtier.
• j;: * * *
“Squidge's” view of the case: “When Jack
Wren took over the Melbourne pony courses, he said that
he was going to purify the -sport. No one in Australia
probably knows more about the crookness of the man
who lives on the game, and no one is able to get better
information about the particular ‘ lurk ’ that is. on than
Wren. He has armed himself with a set of rules that
make the stewards, who, after all, are J. Wren, absolute
czars of the course. Any horse that somersaults in the
betting, or excites suspicion in any way before the race,
can be dealt with by the stewards, and, in addition, the
stewards can take the jockey off and put up a lad of their
own, who will be paid by the owner of the horse. Book-
makers must show their books to the stewards when-
ever asked, so that the ‘ extent and nature ’ of their bet-
ting operations may be seen. If with rules of this sort
Wren doesn’t manage to put a nice clean polish on pony
racing, then all the stories, about his past and present are
untrue, and he is only an ordinary kind of person after
all.”
* * * *
The brisk nor’-easter, bright sunshine and a
cool atmosphere supplied ideal conditions for Prince
Alfred Yacht Club’s postponed race for the Rawson Cup.
Sydney Harbor looked its best, and the yachtsmen
gazed lovingly on the green, sunlit water and swore it
was an ideal day for the sport. Certainly the club never
had a better or more graceful start. Tne eight beautiful
white-winged yachts came plunging through the choppy
water, soared round past the starter’s boat, and, lying
over, sails close down over the water, drove away on the
long thrash to Manly. Behind them raced the Lady
Hampden, with the officials and guests on board. The
fleet worked into the bays along the western shore,
Janet and Culwulla creeping up on the long starters,
and Sunbeam, the scratch boat, making no headway at a|U
At Manly they swept round the buoy behind Cooya)
Scotia, and Kukuburra,. and with spinnaker- square and
topsails hoisted, ran across the Heads for Shark Island.
At Quarantine Point Scotia was up with the leader, and
the Janet was rushing through the water, and away in
the rear the Sunbeam began to flash along. At the
island the leaders were Scotia, Cooya, and Janet. At
Fort Denison Janet had run into second place, and kept
the topsail aloft awhile on the thrash to the Pile Light.
Scotia hung up a moment or two under Bradley’s Head,
and the Janet rushed past, leading round the Pile Light,
squared away a good two minutes ahead of Scotia, and
ripped through the water to the Fort an easy winner by
In>in. 12sec. from Scotia, which beat Culwulla by 28sec.
for second position.
* * « *
The Rawson Cup, the race for which was post-
poned till Saturday last on account of the death of the
donor’s wife, must be won three times to become the
absolute property of the winner. Its first appropriator
was Dr. Marks in the Culwulla; the following season he
gave it up to Mr. A. E. Cutler of the Kukuburra, who last
year passed it on to Mr. Brockhoff of the Fleetwing ; and
now Janet’s victory on Saturday takes it on to Mr. J. A.
Muston. Kukuburra had more than a possible on
Saturday for a second leg in, but lost her spinnaker over-
board rounding Fort Denison, and the yacht was brought
to a dead standstill till it was hauled aboard. A beautiful
bit of navigation in connection with the same race took
place at the Pile Light in Watson’s Bay. Culwulla came
up with Cooya at the Pile Light, and then hung in the
wind a moment to let Cooya round first. It looked very
courtly and graceful, but as the Cooya swung round,
Culwulla glided under her stern and, rounding the Pile
Light with only inches to spare, bore away into third
place. A dainty manoeuvre, and worth all the rest of the
race from a spectacular point of view.
* # * *
Sydney Sailing Club’s race on Saturday was full'
of excitement for the spectators but a very damp busi-
ness for the competitors. The stiff blow bowled the open
boats over like ninepins, and, what between capsizes and
lost opportunities, the men who laid the odds must have
had a lucrative time. Vision, with George, Ellis in
charge, was evidently out to win, for that wily shellback
threw away no chances,- and opened out a marvellous bag
of tricks. Nevertheless he should not have won the race,
and could not have done so had not Firth, in the Zena,
thrown away his chances by rounding the buoy at Taylor
Bay on a Saturn-like orbit.
* * * *
The sailors of the warship Torch, which left
Sydney last week, took with them the championship in
five-oared whaling-boat racing, a sport to which
sailors are partial. Last year, to their surprise, and
mortification, the Torch men, the cracks of the local
squadron, were defeated in hollow fashion by a crew of
land lubbers from the Sydney Fire Brigade. Besides their
good money the Torch individuals lost the respect of the
fleet, and since then they have been nursing their wrath.
The defeated crew kept together, and for a year trained
assiduously for the return event. Either because their
dander was up, or because the firemen had not taken
things with sufficient seriousness, the sailors won easily
this time, and went away waving their salt horse in
triumph.
* • * *
Now understood that Victoria will not be repre-
sented by an eight-oar crew in Westralia, the Associa-
tion’s attempt to raise the necessary funds failing to
realise the required sum by £7O. The sport is a languish-
ing one in Bent’s State, and the Association hasn’t got
the £7O. Westralian teams have come east repeatedly,
but an eastern crew on the Swan is as rare as the song of
the bird the river is named after.
* • * •
Stanbury’s terms for the match with Towns
for the world’s championship have a decidedly
vindictive flavor. In the previous match Towns (as
champion) demanded 75 per cent, in case of defeat, and
equal division if he won the match ; but Stanbury stipu-
lates for 75 per cent., win or lose. The champion always
has the right to make the terms, which the other must
accept or leave alone; but if each successive champion
kept on making the conditions more violently unaccept-
able, championship sculling would soon die out. Suppose
a champion demanded all the gate and a bonus from the
other man, win or lose !
« * • *
It was understood that the S. Australian
cricketers coming to Sydney for the return match were
merely sheep for the slaughter, and that the tragedy
to be enacted at Sydney Cricket Ground was a sad
necessity, in order to collect the shekels of the public.
There were four colts —C. E. Dolling, H. S. Jarvis, G.
Hutton and A. Wright—in the team, and general sympathy
was felt for them—“ they being so young, too 1 ” , Darling
had the impudence to win the toss from Noble, and sent
Olaxton and Hack to the wickets, and then the woe began.
Claxton was caught for five. Darling himself fell a
victim to Cotter when he had scored only 14. Hack
struggled along to 32, and then went down to Garnsey.
Gelns created a diversion by scoring 101 in spite of a bad
hand. Only three of the colts were playing, and they
failed miserably. Dolling made 13, and Jarvis and Wright
three and 0 respectively. The Crow-eaters’ innings ended
for the remarkably modest total of 257. Mackay and
Trumper then opened for N.S. W., and when the stumps
were drawn they had knocked up 55 without anything
serious happening to their sticks. Sunday and Monday
brought rain, and it was not till 3.10 p.m. on Monday
that play was resumed, when the great Victor vanished
for 16. Mackay stuck to his willow, and piled up 105. Other-
wise things would have looked very blue for N.S.W., as
the great and only Noble was caught by Claxton off
Reedman when he had made 43. Diamond left 15 behind
him. Cotter carefully deposited an egg on the scoring
board, and started for the pavilion. Rev. Waddy fell for
four; Macartney just avoided the reproach of the fowl by
scoring a solitary ; Redgrave brightened things up with
eight, and the day ended with eight Waler wickets down
for 201 runs. Flay resumed at noon, Tuesday, in dull but
cooler weather. Carter, who had carried his bat the night
before for six, increased his record to 40, and as The Bul-
letin goes to press N.S.W. innings has closed for 269, and
S.A. has lost five wickets for 102.
* * * *
Old “Jack” Reedman keeps the ravages of
Time away from his muscles very well. Sixteen years
ago, he held a place in the first South Australian cricket
team against N.S.W. ; and he is still there. • Reedman is
the only member of the present S.A. team who has scored
over 1000 runs in inter-State matches. His score of 31 on
Saturday was well put together, and was an object lesson
in coolness to the younger players on his side.
■k * * *
Victorian wicket-keeper Carkeek is well in the
running for the position of “stumper” in the next Aus-
tralian XI. In the recent match wherein N.S.W. piled up
the mighty total of 805 (which, by the way, is the highest
on record between Vic. and N.S.W.), only 15 sundries
were recorded, and two of these were wides. In batting
Carkeek scored 0 and 30 (third highest total). Against S.
Australia, Carkeek kept wickets finely, besides scoring
52 (top score) and 15.
* * * *
“S.R.”: Re bush racecourses. During Christ-
mas week another jockey was killed by colliding with a
post on one of our bush courses (Q.j. High time the
Government dealt with this sort of thing. Any club
racing on a track which is not properly railed off should
be held liable for accidents. These posted tracks are
regular death traps. Racing is dangerous enough upon a
railed track to suit any barbarian.
James Waugh, an ancient British horse trainer,
who died the other day, was often talked about in this
country half a century ago. “ Plunger” Robinson, the
' first .Australian to keep racers in England, put them
under Waughfs care and gave the then young man a big
lift into notoriety. If Robinson dropped a lot of coin he
hadn’t his trainer to blame, for Waugh was a master of
his business and a high-principled man. The luckiest
employer he'ever had was the Scottish ironmaster, James
Merry. He won the Epsom Derby with Merry’s famous
horse, Doncaster, and in the same year the stable scored
heavily with Marie Stuart, the mare being so nearly equal
to the horse that her sex allowance enabled her to beat
him .by a head for the . St. Leger. On the death of Mr.
Merry a year or two later, the Duke of Westminster
bought Doncaster, and in the sons and grandsons of the
old Derby winner—Bend D’Or, Ormonde, &e.—that
bloated landowner had an extraordinarily valuable lot
of horses. They won tons of money on the turf, and pro-
duced more tons of money at the stud. James Waugh
may be said to have earned a claim to sporting celebrity
in the fact that he was Doncaster’s schoolmaster.
■ -* * * »
In the football match Maoriland v. Scotland,
MacTavish’s extreme caution let him in badly. The
Scotch football people, sooner than guarantee £250, pre-
ferred to give the Maorilajlders all the profits. Gate-
money amounted to £l3OO, of which the Maoris gathered
in £lOOO. So MacTavish is out £750.
* * * *
Now definitely arranged that a British Associa-
tion football team representing England will tour Aus-
tralia either this year or next. The trouble in England
is to get good amateurs ; all players there apparently
turn professionals as soon as they develop sufficient, skill
and stamina to make them acceptable as such.
* * * *
Dunedin (Maoriland) is 'whooping over the dis-
cover!' of a youth named Sharp, whom it believes will
one day be a greater runner than even the mighty Alfred
Shrubb. With 120yds. handicap in two miles, he showed
a wonderful burst of speed at the finish, and his time for
3400yds. was 9min. 34 3-ssec. As Shrubb’s time for the
full two miles is ffmin. 9 3-ssec., Sharp will have to become
a lot sharper before he wipes out the records of the now,
fallen Englishman. 1
*• * * *
Cyclist Henri Mayer is not only a cheerful
crank but an ingenious advertiser, and his vagaries keep
him well in the public eye when his performances, on
account of their excellence, have become monotonous.
He usually races in odd shoes for luck ; wears his stock-
ings round his neck, takes his dope out of a bottle
labelled “ Poison and Sudden Death ” ; and has'now made
a request that he be granted number 13 in the League’s
list for the Summer Nights’ Carnival. There are whispers
of intense rivalry between the Australian cracks and the
foreign riders, and it is said that, notwithstanding all the
rules and regulations to the contrary, teaming will be
indulged in by both sides. If this is true, it would be
better for' the League to allow teaming, and insist only
that the teams should publish their composition. It
would probably make for faster racing and increased
excitement.
* ' • * *
Judging by the detailed accounts, the motor-
bike racing at the recent Newcastle (N.S.W.) cycle
meeting was fairly fierce. Doherty drove his machine at
the rate of 43 miles an hour round a track which was said
before the meeting to be unfit for high velocity. The
fact that the Newcastle meeting was highly successful,
and that the motor-cycling proved a considerable draw,
will probably cause the Summer Nights Syndicate to
arrange for similar displays at Sydney Cricket Ground
during the January and March shows.
The Westral wheel race meeting seems to have
been a deadly affair. -'-One cyclist sustained a fracture of
the base of the skull, another received internal injuries
which will probably cause his death ; nearly a dozen fell,
but sustained nothing worse than track-rash ; and a
sweeper had his shoulder dislocated by being run over by
a man who was training.
A curious position has arisen in England. Many
of the early Parliamentary Acts authorising the construc-
tion of railways contained clauses which gave owners of
private carriages the right of running on the rails. In
those days there was a vague idea about a confused traffic
of slow trains, tram-cars, horse-trucks, buggies, wheel-
barrows and sundries. But for many years no pri-
vate individual claimed the right to run his wheel-
barrow or other vehicle on the railway,'and the clause
was forgotten. Then the motor-car came along with its
own propelling power, and now the railway companies
are being badgered to allow them to use the rails. The
companies have refused with considerable emphasis, and
motorists are combining to raise a fund to take legal
action to compel the companies to act according to their
charters. There are fine large possibilities about riding
on a crowded railway track that make it an ideal mode of
travelling to recommend to one’s best creditors.
-** » »
“ 111 fares the land,” etc. England’s steel mills
are closing rapidly. Its boot factories, are being dis-
mantled, and American footgear dominates the market
in Northampton itself, once the centre of the world-wide
British boot and shoe trade. Its woollen and cotton
industries are stationary. Its unemployed problem
grows bigger every day, and men like Lord Rosebery
admit they have no remedy. Still, it is a great country,
and (whoop !) will shortly have the finest motor roads in
the world. Two companies have been formed to build
roads specially constructed for motors, one from London
to Preston Park, outside Brighton ; and the other
through the west of England into Wales. The first
road is to cost a million, the second more, and the
money was offered several times over before the
authorising Bills had been passed by Parliament. The
tracks are to be built by private enterprise, which will
charge for every vehicle using them, and only motor-
driven vehicles will be allowed thereon. Over.these roads
the American millionaire and the Jerusalem tourist will
rush headlong in their imported cars to view the land
which has been fool enough to let them get rich by ruin-
ing it. The motor roads will save them hundreds of
pounds in tyre money, and thereby help to destroy one of
the few industries that are still thriving in England, and
it is also fondly hoped that they will save the whizzers
the £250,000 they paid in fines last year for furious tra-
velling. The railroads, which are still mostly owned by
Englishmen, will be keenly hit.
¥ * * *
It is to be hoped that those responsible for the
proposed memorial to Barney Kieran will apply the boot
vigorously to any suggestion that the name;s of the secre-
tary and treasurer or any other official should be cut on
the tablet.
■* ■** *
Whenever a boxer, suffering from degeneration
of the blood-vessels, comes to a sudden end in the roped
ring there is a howl from “ Pro Bono Publico,” “ Humani-
tarian,” “Paterfamilias,” and other characters with
strange names demanding the suppression of this awful
and brutal sport. The howl is generally backed up by a sub-
leader in some serious-minded paper, and then
fizzles out. But hardly anyone ever howls about
the holocaust of horse-racing, and no fat daily
newspaper ever refuses the advertisements of the
wealthy racing clubs and denounces their sport.
So-presumably if the promoters of boxing matches paid
fa.t fees for large advertisements there would be no howl
about boxing either. Yet consider the butchery during
the Christmas-New Year holidays. Shoalhaven, Orange,
and Albury (N.S.W.), Devonport (Tasmania), and Perth
(Westralia), each had a jockey killed. The Perth jockey
was not’killed outright, but lingered a while in the
hospital. If there were not so many vested interests
behind the sport of kings and spielers it would be
suppressed by Act of Parliament.
The proposal to send Nigel Barker, of Sydney
University, to Athens to represent N.S.W. at the Olympian
games, to be held there at Easter-tide, has struck oppo-
sition in an unexpected quarter ; that is, the Uni. itself.
Nobody wants to*prevent Nigel displaying 1 his legs in the
ancient city, but a number of the students are anxious
that he should go, not as the representative of his State,
but of his University, and they propose that the Uni.
students should put up the-necessary coin. So far, al-
though there has been hardly time for it to do so, the
proposal does not seem to have aroused'any wild enthusi-
asm among students generally, and in all probability, if
Barker goes (and it will be a thousand pities if he doesn’t)
he will be Sent by the Amateur Sports Union.
* * * *
“ Oby ” : All very well for Dr. Camac Wilkin-
son to boom up Nigel Barker as our representative runner.
But what about Nick Willis? Besides, money must be
raised to start Nigel, whereas it takes money to stop
Willis.
* * * *
There iff a pother among the pot hunters from
'the various States over the system of marking at the
Williamstown (Vic.) rifle range. It is based mainly bn
the fact that any outsider can ring up the markers at the
long-distance targets on the telephone, a thing unknown
elsewhere. ' More tlian hints have been thrown ouit that
he who wants top score must square the marker, andlthat
the ’phone is often found handy to let the marker know
where the man who paid for a top score is shooting.
Comment is made on the, fact that in the shooting for
the Governor-General’s cup Westralia beat Victoria by
an unexpected surplus, amid loud cheering from the
other end of the range. It is alleged that the positions
of the Vic. and W.A. teams had been transposed at the
last moment, and of course the inference that is intended
to be drawn is that the marker piled up the Westralran
men’s score under the impression that they were tfie
Victorians, he not having heard of the change. It doesn’t
seem likely that anything can be proved, but that
telephone should be cut off mighty sudden. Rifle-
shooting shouldn’t be even suspected of getting down to
the level of butter-agency.
* * * *
It is to be sincerely hoped that the Australian
Minister for Assault and Battery will emphatically refuse
the request of the Australian rifle associations to grant
sufficient money to send a team to Bisley. Whatever
money can be spared should certainly be devoted to the
fostering of rifle-shooting under Australian conditions,
but the subsidising of pot-hunters will not encourage rifle
shooting among Australians. Better to establish an Aus-
tralian Bisley at which substantial prizes can be shot for
under service conditions, and thereby help to popularise
the use of the arm’ which decides the fate of modern
battles.
* * * *
The desire to streak, through the water just a
second or two faster than anyone else in the world is
strong—very strong indeed —in Sydney ; and on Saturday
quite a number of young men risked tangling up their
inside works in a mad endeavor to accomplish it. No
one succeeded, but down at Manly Cecil Healey managed
to streak over the measured 100yds. in 58sec., which is the
world’s record time, and has been accomplished by the
plunging Cecil several, times, and also by Richmond
Cavill. Out at the Brighton baths, on the other side of
the N.S.W. capital, the 440yds, State championship was at
stake. This was one of the records accomplished
by . the late B. B. Kieran, who did it in smin. 19sec.
at Lavender Bay baths on All Fools’ Day, 1905.
Of the seven who struck the water, C. N. Smith, of
the Enterprise Club, shot to the front, and behind him
came R. Healey, of East Sydney Club, brother to the
redoubtable Cecil of that ilk, and R. Craig, of Balmain.
Craig drew abreast, and passed the leader, and as he
dropped into second place Healey also went by like a
flash, and they finished in that order, Craig’s time being
6min. 12 4-ssee. At the same baths there was a fancy
display of squirting between .sides representing Russia
and Japan. The squirts of Dai Nippon won, and the
swimmers who worked them were awarded a box of
Manchurian cigars. Writer has never smoked Man-
churians, and hereby denounces them as unfit for human
consumption. This denunciation may possibly be with-
drawn if the agent sends-along a sample for judgment.
The appearance of Regan and Russell in the
ring at Sydney Rational Sporting Club last week sug-
gested that Canova’s Boxers in the Palace Garden
had come to life, and were getting back to active busi-
ness. Began especially looked very shapely, and he had
the dour expression of the bruiser on the right hand side
of the path going towards the water. It was an interest-
ing scrap, owing to the fact that it was a trial between
the man who works and fights for a pastime and the pro-
fessional pugilist. Bussell is a blacksmith, who swings
the hammer all day, and trains when he can. Began is a
professional, who lives by fighting. It was unfortunate
thai for the purpose of comparison Bussell seemed fully
a stone or more heavier rhan his opponent, but was not
nearly so “ well ” looking. When they got to work it
soon became apparent that the science—the knowledge
of how to fight, and all the tricks appertaining to the
trade—were on the side of the lighter Began. On the other
hand, no pugilist was ever more in earnest than
Bussell, and his earnestness was backed by a
swinging right that w'ould inconvenience a bullock if it
caught him between the eyes. Began smote the black-
smith on the ribs and clinched. The blacksmith twisted
round and tried to- sledge-hammer him on the jaw in
holds, and uppercut at him as the pro. broke. Both men
were out for the money and didn’t care much what got
smashed getting it. Began drove a straight left
that went clean through what his admirers called “Bus-
sell's guard,” and took liberties with his dial ; but some-
how the blows seemed to lack force, for Bussell shook
his head and went on swinging- terrific round-armers that
just grazed the top of Regan’s closely-cropped light hair.
Anyone of them meant a broken jaw if it landed, and
Began took all sorts of trouble to see that none of them
did. Out - weighted, grievously out - reached, Regan
struggled desperately to get close enough for a knock-
out, and once they crashed into one another,
and Russell’s head cut Regan badly over the eye.
Russell danced round, hurling himself at Regan with a
savage determination to finish him right off, but the pro.
fought a great defence, and managed to weather the gale.
After that, Bussell weakened somewhat, but Began
weakened faster, and the end of every round would find
Russell roughing the smaller man all over the ring. He
seemed to hurl himself in and rain a frenzy of blows with
both hands roun 1 Regan’s head, and sometimes the pro.
was struck by t 1.3 gloves, sometimes the fore-arm, and
sometimes by the elbows, and they all told. In the 16th
round Regan held up his arms in surrender, and then
dropped into his chair. The blacksmith had won.
* * * *
Messrs. Murphy and Casey, both said to be
descendants of ancient Hibernian families, met at Sydney
Gaiety Club on Saturday night. The house was good,
but the weather was languid, and Mr. Murphy seemed
disinclined for hard stoush, and neither of them appeared
to carry a real heavy blow in his kit. There was a great
deal of display, but no solid slogging, and the house
stated what it wanted in plain, firm language. In the
fourth section of the disturbance Murphy spent most of
his time on the floor, and his seconds kindly dropped the
towel of defeat over him while he gazed at the ceiling.
Then the crowd stood up and requested that the referee
should dismember “the rotter” on the spot. The
referee, a good-natured sort of man, apparently shrank
from such an operation, and said he thought Murphy had
been really trying to fight, but, just in case he hadn’t
been, declared all bets off. This was a curiously con-
tradictory action, and implied that the referee had either
allowed his sympathies to cloud his judgment, or that he
had lost his head—as the majority of the gentlemen
present would have expressed it, “ gone off his block.”
* # * ¥
M. B. Curtis, who will be remembered as the
man who brought Dante, the conjuror, and the Afro-
American-coons to Australia, has appeared in a new role,
as an importer of Australian pugs to America. Curtis
was a Jonah of the worst sort to his players, and the fact
that no one in Australia has ever heard of his precious
Australian pug, suggests the idea that the unfortunate
will not make a pile at the game in the land of Uncle
Sam.
* * * *
“ The Moocher ”: Re pigeon-murder. I lived,
years ago, near the slaughter-ground of a well-known
pigeon-lot, and used to see wounded birds fly into the
trees, flop on to the branches, and then fall to the
round—legless birds, others with wings torn, beaks
missing, eyes blown out, etc. And, mind, these were
only what we found in our place—Heaven only knows
how many got away elsewhere in similar plight. I used
to do a lot of wild game shooting, but gave it up as the
result of being under fire once. I was racing dow n to
get the last Mosman boat back to town. Heard
shouting behind me. Took a fresh gulp of atmosphere,
and bolted harder, reckoning it must be a bloodthirsty
push after me. Heard a shot, which added 10yd. a
second to my pace. Another shot, and a big mosquito
buzzed near me. The third shot whistled between my
i legs as I was doing the .last lap. Boat was standing opt
fon her home trip, and t leapt 36ft. 4in. over a thr'ee-focit
bulwark to reach her. My assailant was a trap who had
seen me bolting, and,'thinking I looked no good, had
followed me'up. I saw him w'hen I stuck my head oqt
Of the boiler-room (I got there in mistake for the cabin),
brandishing a Smith-and-Wesson, and calling upon a
hitching-post to stand in the name of the King, or some
such deity:
“Lantana Was present at Victor Daley’s
obsequies, in the capacity of casual observer, when
I was approached by another casual, and interro-
gated thusly: “He was a poet, they say?”
“Yes.” “Have ye read ony o’ his writin’s?”
“Yes.” “Weretheyguid?” “Yes.” “Notasguid
as Rabbie Burns, I’ll warrant me. ~Na, na ! Look
,at the statue they put up i’ the Domain. A gret
day—and the whusky.' ' 'A' gret poet and per-
teklerly gret whusky. And a braw Scotch nicht
and mair whusky,” At this juncture I left. Do
many Scotchmen measure the value of a poet by
the amount of whisky consumed round his statue?


HARVEY & JAMES, 5;.
150 Queer, ) St., Melbourne.
MOTOR BOATS Complete Built to Order.
ENGLISH 12ft. DINGHY, 3 h.p. engine, gunmetal
propeller. Fast. Carry 6 people. £46.
20ft. CARVEL-BUILT PLEASURE LAUNCH, counter
stern, decked fore and aft, cpmbing, 3£ h.p.
Fafnir motor, Gaines reversible propeller,
awnings and all fittings. Price £lOO.
25ft. FAST PLEASURE LAUNCH, similar above, 6£
h.p. twin-cylinder Fafnir engine, Gaines
reversible propeller. Complete, £l5O.
35ft. CRUISING LAUNCH, similar'above, carry 50
people, awnings and all fittings complete, 12 h.p.
four-cylinder Fafnir engine, Gaines reversible
propeller. £250.
All Boats Copper Fastened, and Built Faithfully of
Well-Seasoned and Picked Timber throughout.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed.
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin ; kills nits; heals sores,
By post — Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon. Victoria.
TeryOldVatteA
LiqueurWhisky.
Distilled BcßottledL by )
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
IStmMltmi
“best"
RAZOR GUARD
MEN WHO SHAVE with a “ BEST ” RAZOR GUARD
attached to their own blade experience the
delightful sensation of being quickly, safely and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary razor nd
matter what size or shape. Instantly converts your
blade into a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe
to use under any conditions —travelling on a train, or
even in the dark—without fear of
Makes your razor shave as smooth as velvet - ,, just as
close as desired, in half the time you ordinarily take.
Absolutely prevents scrapes, even to the most
tender skin. Just as useful to the “ good ” shaver as to
the novice. To try it is to appreciate it. Thousands
now in use. Every one sold makes a friend for life.
Send 2/-, Postal Notes or Stamps, and a Guard will
be mailed you to any address in Australasia. Agents
Wanted.
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
opp. G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Beautiful French Postcards
O IMPLY charming:. The very best hand-painted
Bromide Cards imported. Actresses, Studies,
sets of five cards, &c., &c. Order now. You’ll be
delighted with them. Prices : Single Card sd. ; Set
of 5, Is. lOd. ; per doz. 4s. Id ; all Post-Free. A
pack of Trick Playing Cards (price 7d.) given free to
every purchaser of two or more dozen. Magnificent
French Booklets ; a work of Art; life-size photo.-
production on every page; bound with red silk
Ribbon ; Is. 3d. post free. v >
A. J. SMITH & COY.,
6 Moore Street, Sydney.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
rpHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
■*- Spins in iiny position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete .with pedestal, string,
and full directions > only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
The Shine that
Outshines
EVERYTHING else in the
way of shoe-shines is the shine
you get from Hauthaway’S
Crozine
Blacking
which is pleasant and easy to use, and more
than pleasant in the effect it has upon your
boots and shoes There is no uncertainty
about it. While putting the shine on to the
boots it puts softness into the leather, and
and thereby renders them more comfortable
and more durable. The shine that
insures is a shine of deep shimmering
black, as brilliant as jet.
Can be had from all Boot Stores.
Insist upon having llauthaway’s.
It is best get the best.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street, Boston, Mass., IJ.S.A.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. \yjLLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and' EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
OR, THE FAIRY OR THE DIAMOND VALLEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ’ POPULAR PRICES—-3s, 2s and Is.
QR ITER lON THEATR E, SY DN BY.
Direction of EDWIN GEAOH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS oV'CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
PREMIER POPULAR COMBINE in
THE TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.
SATURDAY NIGHT, JAN. 13, ROGUES OF THE TURF.
Prices, Players and Plays Popular.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J, 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson Presents the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in their
Latest Success,
THE GIRL FROM KAY’S.
Box Plan at' Paling’s. C : W PRICES AS USUAL.
| V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Me. Haeey Rick Anns.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
8 ENGLISH PRIMROSES 8' and THE TWO BELLS.
BILL and WHITTAKER. A. G. SPRY.
MR. ALB’ LAWTON, the Popular .Comedian & End Man.
MR. POST MASON, Operatic, Descriptive and
- Character Vocalist. 1
LEEDS and LEMAR, . LIZZIE ; ANDERSON,
CARLETON and SUTTON. HALLINAN and ALDOUS,
MARGARET OGILVIE. Miss CLARA KEATING
Mr. PERCY DENTON, Miss OLIVE LENTON, BABY
WATSON, CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS. ' '
PER A H O U SE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor U Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MANNIKINS.
JACKSON FAMILY, Premier Musical Team.
ARTHUR ALBERT, Actor Vocalist.
SISTERS WARNER, Duettists, Grotesque Dancers.
MAUD FANING, Co in Imptrsonator.
LOTTO, LILO and OTTO, Trick and Comedy Cyciists.
ADA GERITO, Serio Comhpje Character Actress.
Plan at Allan’s. S 3: fRICES—3s, Ss 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THtATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. i. BLAND HOLT.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Christmas and New Year Attraction,
k PATH OF THORNS.
S 3 PRICES AS USUAL. ’ ' ‘Box Plan at Allan’s,
Business Manager, Mr. 0. SIMONSENS.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, |
Lessee and Manager Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY GREET
the Return of Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star,
MISS TITTELL brune
MERELY MARtf ANN.
(For the First Time in Melbourne.)
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THURSDAY, JAN. 11, FRIDAY, JAN. 12,
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY
—in —
PRINCESS IDA.
SATURDAY, JAN. 13, THE SORCERER (3 Nights Onlyj.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 17, THE YEOMAN OF THE GUARD.
An Exceptionally Strong Cast. Additional Attractions.
<<DI<INCES COURT, ’» MELBOURNE.
General' Manager .. A. L. BAIRD.
pjr ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d.
CHUTE ! TOBOGGAN !! HELTER-SKELTER !11
And Kindred Novelties.
NOW ADDED—KATZENJAMMER CASTLE.
(Singularly Sensational Surprises)
And FUN FACTORY (Hilarity Hall).
THE,, TALK OF THE TOWN I
BOSTOCK AND WOMBWELL’S
CIRCUS OF VARIETIES & MENAGERIE,
AT A LOCATION ON ST- HILDA ROAD, OVER
PRINCES BRIDGE; MELBOURNE.
BOSTOCK & WOMBWELL’S MENACE3IE
is Accompanied by a Combination‘o| AH Star .Variety
Artists from all quarters of tpb Glebe, including the
LUKUSHIMA TROUPE OF PLUCKY JAPANESE.
CAPTAIN FRANK TAYLOR and his Athletic Baboons,
PERFORMING LIONS, TIGERS, &C.
YOUNG LION CUBS, Born Sat., .Pec. 30, Now on View.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and ALL
HOLIDAYS. EVENINGS, at 8.
PRICES—3s, 2s and Is. Boxes to Seat Four, 20s.
Sole Proprietor, E. H. Bostock Managing Director,
"Captain Frank Taylor ; Advance Agent, Alec Verne.
m
m
111 II Ml
Mill
OUR
] Hose, Engineering
and Mining Requisites,
Rubber Belting,
Rubber Heels, and
Cycle, Vehicle and
Motor Tyres
are unsurpassed
•for WEAR, QUALITY,
and PRICE.
uill
The. DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
v OF AUSTRALASIA LUL
{Melbourne, Adelaide. BrisbftQCfc
jChristltm'rch. N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
goodl
ARE
GOOD.
At the Paddington (Sydney) police court
recently, Otto Scheel, a German engineer who
had made the mistake of coming to a city where
almost all the machinery is imported, was sent to
gaol for a considerable period because he was out
of work. He couldn’t help beixlg out of work
amid so much importation. Same day, at the
Water Police Court, a plum-Colored Asiatic,
named Joki Dep,r,;was charged with running amok
in Margaret-street, brandishing a knife about the
size of a whale’s tail. The rapidity with which the
crowd presented him with -‘3ooyds. of clear space
saved a lot of unnecessary hearse. When sur-
rounded and arrested .Told was yelling, “Me
knifee Blitish man.” He was fined ss. Next
time the plum-colored tornado runs a,drift with
his meat-axe he will probably calculate that he is
at liberty to swim in British gore for 10s. It is a
more exciting and vastly safer business than look-
ing for a job, especially a white man’s job.
Lord Welby, the President of the Cobden
Club, *‘ recommends a sweeping Freetrade majority
at tha general election, lest a Protectionist agita-
tion should distract the counsels of the nations for
years to come ” (Cable). It is the settled belief of
these Cobden Clubmen that a Protective policy
for Britain would be suicidal, and Lord Welby
reminds one of the historical magistrate who
recommended the all-round adoption of drastic
measures to put down suicide.
Eor downright Socialism it is hard to beat
the Victorian farmer. Certain settlers (extra-
superfine anti-Socialists ; one of them chairmaned
Trashworth’s meetings at last State election) on
the Greenvale Estate are now begging the Govern-
ment to take over their liabilities. They agreed
to pay the private owner too much for the land,
and being unable to meet their payments modestly
request the State to take over the land, bear the
loss, and set the cookies on a good footing again.
Good old Private Enterprise has failed them, so
they run to the State for aid. Bent’s Land Pur-
chase Board has done many queer things in the
way of land buying, but it will surely have suffi-
cient sense not to take on this business. The
proper course is to tell the buyers to ask the
owner of the estate to climb down a bit in his
price.
The Price GQvernment in S.A. has made
an education appointment almost bold enough to
disarm criticism. When Hartley was killed ten
years ago the control of the , Department was,
vested in three men, but that didn’t work. .
Latterly, one of the three has ruled alone, without
satisfactory results. Just before Christmas, Price
offered supreme control to Professor Henderson of
the University, and on his refusal the billet was
given to one Williams, a suburban headmaster,
who has however shown powers of both organisa-
tion and criticism, and whose school for some
years past has won nearly all the State’s competi-
tive scholarships. There is no room for the slightest
suggestion of a “job” about the appointment;
it is simply a vqry daring experiment, which
may quite probably turn out well.
“ Itan ” from Brisbane :
TViere is great effervescence in Bananaland politics since
Hugh Nelson’s death, and many are the possibilities of
the situation. The presidency of the Upper House is
a fine haven of rest. For this reason prophets
are cocksure that Arthur Morgan will take
the chance. What a sacrifice it would be if
he put State before self and resisted ! And he may. But
if he doesn’t, what then ? Two successors to the Pre-
miership are named —Treasurer Kidston and Digby
Denham. In either case, there may be trouble, more so
in regard to the latter suggestion. Kidston has the con-
fidence of the Labor party, 'and may possibly retain the
support of many of the Morggnit.es, and he possesses the
capacity to lead, still carrying- his banner inscribed,
“ Queensland must pay its way.” Denham is not popular
with the Labor men, for not/long since he had much to
gratuitously say about Socialism, which remarks found
great favor with the Opposition. But then there is the
Agent-Generalship to be remembered. It is said that Kid-
ston would like to accept it forhealth reasons, knowing that
Tozer’s time definitely ends at the close of the year.
Should that happen, too, nothing short of a general
election will meet the case. ■ The Government has also a
judgeship to give away, which looks like going to Attorney-
General Blair. If the leading members of the team were
unselfish, Barlow would be given the Council Presidency,
and honorary Minister O’Sullivan the vacant Education
portfolio. This would save Morgan for the Premiership;
and, even if Kidston’s health was considered to ; the
extent of sending him to the Gold Country as General
Agent, chaos might be avoided.
A recent obituary notice :
DUNN.—December 16, 1905, Sarah Eclipse, widow of
Bichard Dunn, and relict of the late Enos Hudson,
born on the cutter Eclipse, on the voyage from
Sydney to Hobart Town, Nov. 19, 1824, eldest
daughter of George Terry Howe, proprietor and
editor of the Tasmanian Gazette and Launceston
Advertiser, granddaughter of George Howe, Esq.,
proprietor and editor of the first N.S.W. Gazette,V,
niece of Bobert Howe, second Government
Printer, N.S.W., cousin of Bobert Charles Howe,
third Government-Printer, N.S.W. Gazette.
Enos Hudson was a butcher in Parramatta-street,
Sydney (now George-street West), 60 years ago.
Sarah Eclipse came of a family that had much
printer’s ink in it.
John Sands’s Sydney, Suburban and Country
Commercial Directory for 1906 is modelled on the'old
arrangement, which has become almost a standard, and
with which everyone is now thoroughly acquainted, in
spite of the elimination of obsolete information, and the
merciless condensation, every year sees the book increase
in size, and the present edition exceeds that of 1905 by
50 pages. A useful addition is an index of the names of
buildings, chambers and terraces, showing their position
in the various roads and streets. In the days of the old
Directory a stranger might know that he had a friend .'
from Whom he could raise the wind in Balaam Chambers,•
but where in the wilderness of stone and brick tp look
for Balaam Chambers he had no idea, and if the obligihg
friend had shifted in since the Directory was compiled,
the only way would be to search every street till he hit
the right one. Now that weary wayfarer can turn
up Balaam Chambers in one act. The alphabetical ar-
rangement is followed right through the book, and
as everything has been, as far as possible indexed, the in-
formation is made as accessible as it can be. The’ list of
“Firms with Fixed Paydays,” having done so muchl in
the past to minimise the use of bad language in offices,
has been retained, and the gay and irresponsible but'’
occasionally useful Justice of the Peace has been indexed,
and occupies no less than 11 pages. The Wharfage and
Tonnage Bates and the Stamp Duties have been rectified
according to the vagaries of the Carruthers crowd in the
State Parliament,’and the Pastoral Section has been
brought right 111/ to date from the latest returns supplied
by the secretaries of the 65 Pastures Protection Boards of
N.S.W. . . The lists are arranged by districts, and give
name of owner, nearest post town, numbers of hoi ses;>
cattle and sheep, and is completed'by an exhaustive index.
of the names of all the stations in N.S.W. Altogether.it 1
seems impossible for any man on the land to dodge: his
creditors, if the debtors have taken the precaution to
procure a copy of the Directory. The Bulletin now rises
to place the 1906 volumes at the top of t;he long, line of
Directories that have made the tangled city of Sydney,
plain since 1860, and votes it the best of the crowd.* j
The importation of opium into the Com-
monwealth is absolutely prohibited from January
1, 1906, but all the drug in bond on that day is to
be allowed to pass into consumption, so as not to
lacerate the feelings of the Chow importer. This .
compromise can only be compared to the proposal
of a defendant who consented to be bound over to
keep the peace provided he was allowed to fire
at the complainant with the charge he already had
in his gun. ...
Donald Manson, who, 30 years ago, had
drapery stores in several inland towns in N.S.
Wales (notably Hill End, Forbes, Parkes, Young,
&c.), and who died recently at Palmerston (M.L.),
aged 77, left a big estate. There are 66 bequests
in the will, £4500 to the Presbyterian Church of
N.S. Wales, some bequests to sects in Vic-
toria and the Salvation Army in Australia, £6700
tp the Presbyterian Church in M.L., and £l5OO to
the United Free Church of Scotland. The will
also provides for 12 scholarships at schools in Scot-
land. Donald, like many other Donalds, had a
firm belief that the only real education tq be had
is supplied in Scotland. ~J
The King has sent out to the G.-G.. a
Table of Precedence, showing how folk should
straggle into the official soup. One joyous cir-
cumstance is that the heads of the churches
altogether neglected, and must, if they go at all,
herd in after “the members of legislative assemblies
and mayors of capital cities,” who seem to.be the
last things in significance that a Table of Prece-
dence can take notice of. The heads of the
churches, followers of the Carpenter of Galilee,
have long made themselves ridiculous in Australia
by carmine rows as to worldly precedence. They
have now their proper reward in no precedence at
all. t
The ship Queen Elizabeth, 1200 tons, with
American oil from New York, lately sailed into
Sydney Harbor and took up its anchorage •jn
Chowder Bay without the assistance of a tug.
This looks a big feat, but Captain Phillip, in 1787,
brought in the first fleet of ten ships in the same
manner, and for more than, half-a-century after
that ships under sail came in' : in the same fashion.
Certainly it is open to risk. In August, 1830, the
Edward Lombe was wrecked on Middle Head,
and 12 persons, including captain, first and second
mates, and surgeon, were lost. In October, 1857,
the Catherine Adamson was wrecked near the
Inner North Head, and 21 lives were lost. < .


A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING MUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 20a.
Other Styles,
13s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearls atad
Rubies or Sapphires, 12s 6d.
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, 25b,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold TUSK BROOCH,
CHAIN and HEART, 15s.
Without Heart and Chain, 10s 6d,
V. SAUNDERS.
Isct. Gold WISHBONE BROOCH,
Pearl or Turquoise, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
OUR HANDSOME
CATALOGUE.
A Post Card will bring
you a Copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Double Crescent BROOCH,
Set Pure White Pearls, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and New Zealand
Greenstone HEART BROOCH,
12s 6d.
SAUNDEES.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
mm
-iiWi'jiiiiiiij
»8
MSI
asi
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile or Seal Leather PURSE
and CARD CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s Cd, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s Od, 10s 6d, 12s 6A.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold DRESS
RING,
Ruby and Pearls,
12s 6d.
New Zealand Greenstone Pearl Set BAB BROOCH,
CHAIN, and BELT, 17a 6d.
OUR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
We sen'] it to any
address Postage Paid
if you ask for it.
Its perusal will help
yon, and give you a
very good idea of the
enormous stock we
carry.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Fancy CURB PADLOCK
Safety Cham attached,
Larger, £2 10s. Smaller
BRACELET,
40s.
355.
OUR MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT.
To Country Customers,
our Up-to-Date Mail
Order system assures
you prompt and
satisfactory service
without leaving your
own home.
A. LAUNDERS.
Act. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, 22s 6d.
Lady's,
LADY’S,
20s.
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurses’ ” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Pine Pure White Pearl*, £2 6s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Turquoise, £2 10s.
Diamonds and Rubie 3 and Sapphires,
£8 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold CLUSTER BROOCH,
Pure Diamonds and Ruby
or Sapphire Centre, £lO.
All Diamonds, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver WE CLIP,
2s 6d, 3s, 6d.
Solid bold, 12s 6d.
Chased, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Amethyst
or Garnet, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
SILVER,
GOLD
£3
30s.
, A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
KEYLESS WATCHES,
255, 305,. £2, £2 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 4s, £4 10s,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond and Rubies
' or Sapphires, £2 10s.
Three Diamonds, £3 10s.
f. .
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond
and Rubies
or Sapphires, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half Hoop RING,
Diamonds . and
Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
m
*
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, Ss 6d.
Silver Filled, os 6d.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal or Turquoise
PADLOCK BRACELET, £3 ss.
15ct. Gold, £5.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart,
Gold Mounted, 8s 6d.
Smaller, 4s (Id, os 6d, 6s Od, 7s 6d.
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Four Heart Opals
and Pearls, 355.
l'Jct, Gold, £2 10s. '
iSct. Gold Half Hoop
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones,
£3 rOs, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDER--
18ct. Gold RING,
Pure Double Out
Diamond ana
Rubies
or Sapphires £7 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Combination SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP HOLDER, 15s 6d
Soap fits in Handle.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold BRACELET, Diamond and
or Sapphire, £4 10s. Three Diamonds,
Rubies,
£5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
Comprising Three Pieces. 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, bOs, bos,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Cold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
A. LINDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN
CHAIN and N.Z.
Greenstone Heart,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH
Best Rubber Lining,
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval LINKS, 25s
15ct. Gold, £2.
Extra Heavy, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cherub Design HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
NICKEL,
15s.
NICKEL,
20s.
& I/
N
A. SAUNDERS,
Gent.’s Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face
Keyless WATCHES, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s.' Our “Unrivalled” 20s London Lever,
255. , All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Crocodile Leather PURSE, Extra Heavy
Solid Silver. Mounts and Locks, 27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s Gd, 15s, 17s, 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Love Bird BROOCH, 12s 6d.
loot. Gold. ?''■
A.
9ct. Gold . Mounted'
Bloodstone •or Sardonvx-
SEAL PENDANT, 17s Od.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR BUTTON BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gdht. S POCKET-BOOK, Qrdcoftili:
Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Locks, 20s
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, : 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 255.
SOLID
SILVER,
GOLD
CASED,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES
£2, £2 10s,. £3, £4, .,£3,, £0.. £7_’
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £4 4s, £5 6s
£6 10s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s’
£10, £12 10s, to £40.
f SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, |
\ SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, }
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
VfaupvCS
‘urojata^s
A'BvjAirea
r- « d O


s§*
J:
w
-or
<r
v
ft*
&ss>
Xv
t mi II) 11 1 mi\ 1 I ii/ifl M 11 1! I
/jiiuiiniiiiiiiNjjniiminiii iiiiiiiii/riiimTran
i'fllHiVu/j/MI
mrnwfmm
Ires;
AUSTRALIANS!
WHY?
ITS
THAT NOTE OF INTERROGATION IS WORRYING YOU.
Because you need a Vacation, and don’t Know
where to spend it.
NEW ZEALAND
YOU’RE LOOKING FOR!
THERE’S NO BETTER. PLACE in which TO MAKE HOLIDAY.
Splendid Climate:
Not Too Hot. Not Too Cold.
JUST RIGHT.
Magnificent Scenery:
Mountains, Laßes,
Waterfalls.
Intensely Interesting Thermal Acftion.
Boiling' Pools, Geysers, Mud Volcanos.
Mineral Water Baths:
Hot Swimming Pools.
Massag'e, Douches.
Maori Life :
HaKa and Poi Dances.
Canoeing'.
Trout Fishing :
©»e BEST IN THE WORLD.
A Land of Plenty:
Fruit, Flowers, Ferns.
Green Forests Everywhere.
Easy Access:
Days by Steamer. Comfortable
Hotels; Low Tariffs; Cheap Travel.
Deer Stalking
EXCELLENT.
Full Information supplied Free;
Drop a Post Card to
T. E. DONNE
Government Department of Tourist and Health Resorts, Wellington, New Zealand.
NEW ZEALAND is the Country you want to think about.
&
Jsii
35®
a?
&
«s.» iS=
■S£S
%-4
S* 1 ?!
mm
;{>»!>>,«


'
m,
7
■ W
:■ • ‘-Vf'V
.y
NT * V-. v ,*. ■
MNtt
■ V' ■ ./•
X - <■ -•
mmmi
t rnt
IN THE HOT SUMMER-TIME * *
WHEN FLIES ARE SWARMING IN THE ROOMS,
INSECTIBANE
should be dusted on the window and
picture frames or diffused in the air, with
CLOSED DOORS, when ••••
No other Insert Powder possesses the qualities which
render so peculiarly efficacious.
EVERY FEY WILL FALL DEAD.
vSold Everywhere.
Proprietors ROCKE. TOMPSITT (Sb CO.
BLOWERS for diffusing the Powder can be
purchased from all Vendors of INSECTIBANE.
Wholesale—ELLlOTT BROS., LTD.


s. ...l.
mm
, S jplsgg * *
mm
■ .,', -> J& jafe Wr. :
■ ■
ss®
mm
' ■ *
r*f 'tySfiffii i? ■ ; fc4fr3r»'** ;< 'V
* : ' •
;' <V> ,i;'%( ", ...
-,y '"- */ ■ y' .-c”'/*. \'V’ 1 ‘' “/•$
i ■
■
»"•■'■ I
■ !
,' v
> V.. *(d
, .•'■•■■. m- ; '
5-;.\ v 'C- ,•.;■« v-:B .:,. v ■ r....
' > : }’ ' ■ • ■>
■ . '• * ■ v <; .i
’ ■ ff>: ' y ■' ’ i - *
' ••••'•: • - •’ -. /'• '• v “* i-
k • • »... v” • v. i .1 vi •; ' ’»
ak
*>
m
rvv.; S'.'.;.-t
/
sw«sasrK«S:-*Ai.j
»
• • '
r\V »- *'■' VV/: :>*»r y-T.«B . •
V . r . :
"3k V • -
A
§8is
H
;
• •
V
t:
m,
«
\
;. f -a'.
■
sr
. ■ > v ;,>•■ ■ ( • • .V
*
r; t>:.-S :.Y, «i y.W
> . •*. ~t yt < ' */<*.. I. »
»* «
- ' . ■ ■ H*
V i»v
•y; ...,
-1 *i
it , , .
r;- -v
■ « ' » ... . . ! -
■ ; ■
' * ‘ ;
l
I
1 t •;
i I;•'.
tiiSjrm j
. * i .'
il
v : • i4 %W'$
:
A '
14*:
'i'4^ 1 *- if-
* Jifi. ;■ '■ tiflisd 'Wmi *mifcx&jr-jSi -» 1
■ ■
.
I® '>!?,<:’ P1
■
>; .y.'.
V ■ ?- ;
. . . ; ;v-yV*.y' ■.:>
•fe:
- . '
1 * '••''* ‘ /'
& 1
il#
r*-', ;. Vi '- ' ">'••■ ;. ; / !
t&mwM
li
' >•«: *. .
*-:
ms
r;Mmm
.
"• «si?Tiv'
, h . 'l'* v y v\g* <
• ■*»#.-. '-.Vi .. i’ii
- ■ : 1
' 'i , . ... L,-&1 ■-■ ’.;■ •' * " v ' -V! • : '
. - ;i
'.4«
x
*
W* . ■ '
SpeaKin’ as man ter man, there’s no better
’Bacca than
“YANKEE DOODLE.”


FEED
Your
Thinker
Bruin (and other nerve matter) wastes
away exactly as other portions of the
human body give out—a little every hour.
Unless this waste is repaired the brain
gets weak and brain-fag and nervous
prostration sets in.
This waste is restored naturally by Al-
bumen and Phosphate of Potash found in
Grape-Nuts
All worn-out, broken-down brains can
surely be rebuilt by the use of GRAPE-
NUTS, the most scientific food in the
world.
If you are a thinker your brain wastes
away in proportion as you use it. It can
be kept KEEN on GRAPE-NUTS.
Look for the little book, “The Road to
Wellville,” in each pkg.
There's a Reason
THE- of
Victor Daley
Australia’s Sweet Singer.
4*
THE BULLETIN has a limited number of copies
of “AT DAWN AND DUSK a collection
of Victor Daley’s most charming work. PRICE—
4s. 6d.; post free, ss.
EARLY APPLICATION NECESSARY.
\tss.
& DIGESTIVE TAft
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH JS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES HOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale Agents—
WEST AUSTRALIA-
WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
VICTORIA
ROBERT NELSON & CO., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALEB-
W. H. ARIELL &, CO., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND-
J. J. VERNEY & Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS & MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—JAMES ROBIN & CO., Adelaide.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Dave H. 8.” : The life of the sewing-machine
canvasser isn’t smooth, but it could be made much
smoother if he would only use a little discretion, and
find out what his case is worth before he begins. One
came to the house next to ours, and tried to sell the lady
amachine. “ Madam, lam a machine agent repre ”
“But, madam, these machines represent the acme of
mechanical ingenuity. They are absolutely the best, a
triumph of the inventor’s genius and the maker’s talent;
a wonder that can scarcely be believed unless seen.”
“It will lock, chain, interchange. It will work with
less oil and labor and more celerity, neatness, and pre-
cision than anything ever yet devised by genius.”
“ i”
“It will lighten your labor, anxiety, and the drain on
your time, and will make your home happy, your hus-
band ”
“I”-
“ It will make your dresses prettier than even that one
is now, and will bring a rose into your cheek surpassing
in beauty even the one which now adorns it. It will keep
you from growing old, and will make your children’s
cloth—er—er—make your—er —hair—er —I mean your
* blouses and .your petti—er—skirts and cuffs even more
perfect than they are now made,” etc., etc., etc., for
about an hour. “And the price of this magnificent
triumph of the age, madam, is only thirteen pounds ten,
delivered at your door.”
“ I have a machine ! ”
Then the agent went away, violently savage, saying that
the lady had no sense, or she’d have told him before.
it # # ♦
“J.F.D.”: Yesterday, possessing 4d. and a
vacuum, I drifted into the Montmorency Tea and Coffee
Booms, and ordered a cup of tea and a scone. The rooms
are run by three anaemic-looking girls, who watch like
coastguards for the unwary customer who steps in to
wreck his digestive plant with the stale pastry. A large
intuition of unpaid bills, rent arrears, &c., struck me
forcibly on entering, and the steam that floated over the
coffee-urn looked like the spirit of despair. Seven
pieces of crockery, a knife, fork, and spoon were
laid before me, and I felt ashamed of my purchase. A
scone was taken out of the window and the remaining
four stacked so as to make passers-by think there
were doiens inside. A woman with a hungry-look-
ing boy attached came in and sat at the next table.
The boy wanted a large meat pie. The youngest
girl looked in the window and shook her head. The
second then came arid scanned the nine buns and
signalled the eldest, who got quite flustered when
informed of the pie scarcity. She hurriedly put on her
hat, and raced up to the big refreshment-room and
smuggled a meat mystery in under her apron. The kid
wanted to know if they were manufacturing it, and the
three blushed violently. I was nearly going to strangle
him, but his mother laughed heartily at his wit. After I
had finished the scone the youngest waitress, who looked
like a wax faced Madonna, asked me if I would have a
little stewed fruit. 1 had to decline ; 1 only had the id.
She sighed, and went back to watch the door. When I
put the four coppers on the counter she handed me the
toothpick box, thanked me three times, and hoped that
I would call again. Outside two silk-petticoated damsels
with much exposed hosiery were giggling at the pitiful
little stock of pastry. The anamiic trio looked at the
petticoats and high heels and sighed deeply. In my
mind I canonized them as three scone fed saints.
“Two Seas”: I bought a bottle of alleged
tomato sauce, the other day, from a firm that prides it-
self upon the fact that it encourages White Australia—so
far as condiments are concerned. I dealt with it solely
on that account. It was a smart-looking bottle, with a
gay label and a handsome capsule, but when I drew the
cork it didn’t require a Sherlock Holmes to see that that
sauce was manufactured by Skinni Dam, of the stork-like
legs. Such a decayed and dissolute-looking cork 1
Floated in and out of the Beautiful Harbor by countless
tides, under wharves where the drowned pups and the
asphyxiated rats swirl around the piles ; stranded in the
dirtv-white spume that fringes the little beaches when
the tide is low, that loathsome, tempest-tossed beer cork
had lurked with the dead fish and the refuse of the ship-
ping. Then Skinni Dam rescued it and covered it with a
gold capsule—as he covers his own head with a gorgeous
turban. Only an Asiatic could be guilty of such a pitiful
economy as that cork.
* * * *
As told by the plumber: “ Things was pretty
good when I Was servin’ me time. The bosses useter pile
up some nice bills. I remember one Saturday, just as we
was about to knock orf, word come from Captain
Smythe-Brown-Jonson’s place in Tewrack to send up arf-
a-dozen men immejiate if not previous. There was
on’y me an’ the boss left, so up we went. I cussed him
for heatin’ me outer me ’arf day, but I knew better’n cuss
out loud. Mrs. Captain met us at the gate in tears. She
took us upstairs into the bathroom an’ explained wif
appropriate blushes that she’d been ’avin’ a bath, an’ ’ad
taken orf two dimond rings, an’ laid ’em on the table
alongside} the bath. An’ they’d disappeared, an’ she
reckoned her little girl ’ad been playin’ wif ’em an’ ’ad
shoved ’em down the waste pipe. It was before the
soorige, an’ all waste water ran out inter the road.
Well, they was very vallyible, an’ she wanted ’em found,
so we sets to work. After she left the bathroom the
boss walks over to the table an’ collars a nice piece uv
scented soap. ‘l’m a connysewer of soap,’he says, an’
grinned at me. Well, we ripped out the bath an’ wrecked
the room thoroughly. Then we goes outside, an’ took
the pipin’ off the walls an’ opened every piece. Then we
got a man in wif a pick an’ shovel, an’ by his help we
completely spoilt about two acres of lawn an’ garden.
We ripped up every inch .of drain between the ’ouse an’
the road. Yer should ’a’ seen the mess we made. Yer
couldn’t ’a’ found a horse and dray in the mullock, let
alone two di’mond rings. When the captain come ’ome
DURING THE FESTIVE SEASON.
GENIAL OLD PARTY: "Don't mind a' squeezin' up, Miss; I’m a married man. I like it."
he took a fit at the gate. When he kum round he arsked
them to tell ’im the worst and he’d try an’ bear it. They
said ‘Plumbers’, an’ he took another fit. Well, now,
where d’yer reckon them two rings wos ? Why, in my
boss’s pocket, stuck on the under-side in the cake uv soap
he picked orf the table. He found the rings in the
very last foot of torn-up drain, an’ of course sent in his
bill for repairs. The repairs took a fortnight, an’ the
captain ’ad to retrench for a year to pay for ’em. But
he wos a smart man wos my old boss.”
“E.P.”: I enjoy the advertisements of the
trade. Business agents mostly divide their space in the
Saturday issues into two. One-half describes the busi-
nesses for sale. A comfortable income of £lO a week or
an assured competency in five years going for £lOO. The
other half angles for businesses to sell. The broker has
waiting in his office a cash buyer named Jorkins (name
given as a convincing proof of good faith), who, with
£4200 to his credit, is burning to start in life as a butcher
or baker. Jorkins is a brave man who, unlike the unnamed
English capitalist with £4,200,000, is not afraid of
Socialistic legislation. Sometimes they over-do it. Saw
just now two adjoining advts. by the one broker. First,
he had for sale an ideal suburban hot saveloy and ice-
cream business. A smart man with, say, £2OO to invest,
had here the chance of a lifetime. The very next advt.
set out the demands of the insatiable Jorkins. He was
pining to start in the hot saveloy and ice-cream line.
Suburbs preferred; cash up to £2OO. An unthinking
person might have supposed that the broker could have
saved his two advts. by introducing Jorkins to the just-
described chance-of-the-century.
• * * *
“Periwinkle”: Always thought the bush-fly
the most persistent critter on earth, but he takes a seat
low down after my experience with an electric girdle
firm. Being of an inquiring mind, I sent for a book
setting forth the merits of electricity as a medium of
raking in the shekels. Woe’s me, since ! Every week for
the last seven months I’ve been bombarded with long
typewritten letters, and circulars galore from this firm,
asking for a diagnosis of my ills, and why I don’t buy one
of their belts, catalogued from £1 to £l5 ? Recently the
lures became more tempting. They would let me have a
£l5 girdle—guaranteed to make a new man of me
in a month —for half price, the rest of their girdles at
a similar reduction down to the £4 ones. Didn’t bite till
after a further series of typewritten documents,
when I was offered a £5 belt for £l. I sent my
pound—and my troubles are thicker than ever.
The firm won’t send me the belt I ordered. Only
a high-grade belt will cure me, and the firm’s reputation
will go bang if I don’t take a £l5 belt. I have been im-
ploring the firm to send me back my pound—but no !
First, I could have the £l5 girdle for £lO ; now it is down
to £2 10s., as a secret special favor. Have demanded back
my pound, as wherever 1 go my sarcastic fellow-citizens
hail me with the query—“ Well, have you got that elec-
tric fakement yet ? ” Now I’m collecting bull-dog ants to
take round to the electric belt office.
• « * *
“Nulla” : Some people have strange ways of
getting level with their enemies. I talked with a “ wile
rabbi ” merchant t’other day. It had been raining
heavily, and as he stood on the back of the tram, the
water dripped steadily on to most of his toes, which burst
from his broken boots. “It’s not ’aid work, else I
wouldn’t be at it,” he remarked, with refreshing candor.
“ I made six bob to-day. I would have sold more, but I
got a few quid at the Alley last night, and only came out
to serve me reg’lar customers. I get Bd. a pound for the
skins. We used to snare lOd. once. Yes, we used to sell
’em to a ’at factory over Surry ’llls, but the bloke wot
passed ’em was a nark—alius maulin’ ’em over and findin’
fault. So a few o’ the mob made it up to give ’im some-
thin’ for himself. We weighs all the skins, and bags ’em
up, and carts ’em over—’bout two cartloads —bosker skins
on top an’ bottom, an’ all sorts—wet dog ’eads, paws an’
all —in the middle. The nark starts sortin’ ’em out on
top, and they was boslter ; then he gets tired, an’ pulls a
few from the bottom, ’n’ they was bosker, too. So he
passes ’em, an’ we gets lOd. all round. We only gets Sd.
now. An’the bloke wot passed them? Well,’ees boss
passed im out.” There’s the plot of a bellowdrama in
this —with Albert Norman selling- the bad rabbit-skins to
Walter Baker, whereby Baker loses his billet and he and
the lovely heroine are brought to great destitution.
* * * *
“Den”: My dog is a cross between an Irish
terrier and some unknown breed. He is a confirmed
burglar, and has been ever since he was a pup. He began
his career of crime by stealing chickens and fetching
them home unharmed. He let them run about the yard,
and took no further interest in them. At first I went to
a great deal of trouble to discover the rightful owners of
the chickens, but after meeting with indifferent success I
got tired of it. By-and-bye my dog lost his taste for
chickens, and started to collect door-mats. I sold 14 to
the “ old-clo’ ” man in one week. Later on he went in
for gathering brooms, scrubbing-brushes, dippers, and
other household utensils ; but after that gave up special-
ising, and just brought home anything he thought might
be useful. Every morning when I open the back door I
find him on the mat wagging his tail joyously and stand-
ing over the swag. After I have taken delivery and given
him a bone he takes no further interest in the booty. He
cracks a crib every night, and never fails to fetch some-
thing home. Lately he has been bringing me the con-
tents of a stable. He has secured a curry-comb, saddle-
cloth, neck-rope, and a pair of spurs. I expect the horse
any morning. That dog has completely demoralised me.
I am a receiver of stolen goods—an unwilling one at first,
but gradually 1 have drifted into crime, and now make a
regular business of it. I hate the sight of a policeman ;
so does my dog. Whenever he sees one he gallops down
the yard and hides behind the dust-bin. This last state-
ment is a lie. All the same I wouldn’t part with that dog
for'£loo. I have given up my billet with the Govern-
ment. I just stay at home and look after my fowls and feed
my dog. Next week lam going to open a general dealer’s
store with the dog as a partner.
“Laura M.”: Dealers are the plague of a
Sydney suburban woman’s life. All day long my in-
dustrial operations are shamefully interrupted by per-
sistent fiends who will never take “ No ! ” for an answer.
This is a sample : Last week a thundering knock sounded
at my front door. Climbed up from the basement and
found an individual with a face like a hidden crime stand-
ing on my newly-whitened steps with his dirty boots.
Adroitly thrusting his hoof in the doorway, he com-
menced : “ I’ve got er load er wood outside’ere, missus,
that I’ll let yer ’ave dirt cheap. It’s worth ten bob er
anyone’s money ; hut yer can ’ave it fer five bob, as me
neddy is knocked up. It’s a chance of er lifetime ! Well,
look ’ere, I’il make yer up a three-and-a-zac bundle fer
two bob, and it ’ll be a real sacrificin’ lot ? . . . Yer know
I uster serve yer about a year ago ” (I never saw his ter-
rible face before), “ and yer was alius satisfied ! . . . Well,
what about a bob’s worth, an’ ” (persuasively) “ I’ll stack it
feryermeself? . . . Blime” (as I workedhisfoot out of the
doorway) ! “ you are hard in the gills ! ” Then he goes out
and leaves the gate open for goats to get in and ravish
the garden, whilst down in the kitchen the scones are
burnt black, the cat has wolfed the fish, and the baby is
suffocating in the coal scuttle.
“Leave it to Private Enterprise,” says the Eat
print, when you urge that the State should take a
hand in providing men who want to go on the
land with land to go on. But the business of the
syndicate that buys land for subdivision isn’t to
settle people on the land—its business is to make
money ; and there are several ways of making
money. One way—not too rare, even' in this
early stage of syndicate-settling—is sworn to by a
correspondent. A few years ago a mostly-southern
syndicate bought a fine Darling Downs property
for subdivision. Terms, 10 per cent, each year for
10 years, and interest on balance owing. Three
selectors recently were unable to pay the instal-
ments of principal due, and were ejected, the
shark syndicate forfeiting their deposits and im-
provements, worth, in the aggregate, some hun-
dreds of pounds. Before that estate’s accounts
are finally closed it seems safe to say that a large
percentage of the farms will be forfeited and
resold two or three times over, as no farmer can
be sure that he will have an income every year,
on account of failure of crops, owing to droughts,
&c. Unfortunately, the farmer, as a rule,
thinks it bad manners to aslc questions or
raise objections when asked to sign a document;
moreover, as a rule he is a sanguine person, and
if he isn’t sanguine for the moment he is carried
off his feet by the blarney of the syndicate’s agent.
Now some people want to know how the thing
would work out supposing a graduated land-tax
forced big landlords into using or selling—wouldn’t
the same thing be liable to happen if they sold,
they ask. No doubt the same thing would be
liable to happen ; only, with a heavy graduated
land-tax at work, the price wouldn’t be so stiff,
and there would n’t therefore be the same chance
of the farmer failing to pay his instalments. And
in the second place, if a State Land Bank with
adequate powers were at work, the farmer would
be able to get a lift through temporary difficulties
that way. Certainly a graduated land-tax won’t
do all the work it should do till it gets a bank of
that sort to help it.
Ten years ago there were 679 freehold estates
of more than 10,000 acies each in N.S. Wales, and
now there are 722. These 722 freeholds contain
47‘48 per cent., or very nearly one-half, of the
whole alienated land in the State. There are no
less than 35,787 farms and other freeholds of from
31 to 400 acres each ; but the whole of these 35,787
farms, if they were lumped together, could be put
on to the other 722 vast freehold estates, and
there would still be room on them for 116,500
farms of the same average size. That’s the extent
of land monopoly in N.S. Wales.
The Gentlewoman.— lt is pretty generally
known that if solid alkaline substances are allowed to
remain in the pores of the skin they will act injuriously ;
and it is for this reason that we should choose evaporating
alkalies for toilet purposes. One that I can confidently
recommend .is Scrubb’s Cloudy Fluid Ammonia, which
serves an infinity of purposes, being a refreshing and
pungent addition to the bath, cool and cleansing as a
wash for the head, and a water softener of great value.
It is one of the cheapest preparations, too, and its uses for
the household in restoring the color of carpets and other
things is invaluable. The ammonia is kept by all first-
class grocers and chemists, from whom can also be
obtained Scrubb’s Antiseptic Skin Soap, a toilet accessory
that needs but to be used to be appreciated.*


" The English nation is the first in the world in matters of personal
oleanliness, and it is, therefore, all the more astonishing that so little
serious attention is paid to the proper oare of the mouth and teeth. The
consequence is—and this is fully provea by statistics that the English
have more defective teeth , and endure more suffering from diseases of
the digestive organs than any other people in the world.”
I
sp
i
I
£'
By fhe authorities
on Modern Science
has been
for Mouth and
ihihH
J|g|||g| « ■’ #
■
■imfp
■■
i v w
||li»|||*
imi i i iiisiii
-
mm—
Price per V 2 boUle Ve
1 » 2/ 6
2s, Southwark Bridge road
Lg>Nfc>.QN-S.fi*’ J
m ~
f«er.
It is to be hoped that,
with the invention of
Odol.the proper care
of the mouth maybe-
come as general as
the universal habit
of washing the face
and hands.
Everyone who daily cleanses the
mouth and teeth with Odol win soon
discover from a general sense of fresh-
ness and stimulated energy how bene-
ficial is the purification of the mouth
Odol
is used
by Dentists
themselves*


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON'& CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street..
Banking.
~ '—Til 10—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mel ua I Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with,
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461 assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriotion as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed
Head Offioe:
#l9 & 421 COI.I.INS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
™ Queensland national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canaria, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
file gankof f|ortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised . .. .. £700,030
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. | 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) / £370,000
THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
B and
AGE INI CY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Mu mis, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Sisk, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. J lessor, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ci.ynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'FarijANK ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. \V.
Farquuar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
—THE— '
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED,
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ... ... .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund .. 1,425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... . . 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... ... .. 5,425,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J ames Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnje, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo'ld.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Eton Vale Estate,
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND.
LAST SUBDIVISION of this fine Estate
now being offered privately at most reason-
able reserves. No liner farming land in all
Australia Close to the large town of Toowoomba,
and right on the railway line. Apply
MANAGER,
Eton Vale Estate Ltd.,
Cambooya, QUEENSLAND,
or, 45 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
Shipping.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly IV3a.il Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons „ .. 20th JANUARY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAB, 3000 tons.. 17th FEBRUARY.
*PRINZ SICISMU-ND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seatroina: Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moutstaehe Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. •
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
&
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from .£ll5.
SALOON Cabins large arid elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tahles, &c., on application.-
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON* via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
19th JANUARY,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
lfaUjety and ('oinjtani/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QC K iV. 3\T X C S.S. Co.- .A.. and A.. LI KT 3ES.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS .VIONDA/, JANUARY 15.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &e.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., ilanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
WL&
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, <stc.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Se eurity. mm -
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
axr-s.^A7.
Iflont de pete fl.>||.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH Si., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FoND(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. 500,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
fetal Capital
.. £1.1)00,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
AQRANGI, Sails January 22.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
February 19, March 19, April 16,
The Magnificent New Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
Promenade Upper & Main Deck Cabins.
Sea and Fresh Water Baths of
Every Description.
The Finest Vessel yet seen on the
Pacific.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL Value.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Slice, of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,C00.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
SUpping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
POUT PIKIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBAN V,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra,
January 12.
Friday,
S.S. Yongala Wednesday,
January 24.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNS \ ILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Yongala, January 17.
S.S. Wollowra, January 20.
Jlest mill ( liKii/iest llonte to (iold/lelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Olfice.
G. S. YUIL.IL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling: at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
P ASSENGEIIS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOAJJD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
rr— 'I'HUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
Steamer
AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
EASTERN
AUSTRALIAN
Tns | Commander.
3000
3000
4500
3600
W. G. McArthur.
P. T. Helms
G H. Powell
W. G. McArthur.
Leave Sydney.
February 7
March 7
April 10
May 9
EVERY OOjS V I'jNl MMJL FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhnndbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now oliers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trains.
f rivate Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged,
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of tiie Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every conitor and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, f to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl'. KILDA.
'FHE Largest and next-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
JfVtrPy.
Wc< ">*r
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Hoarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.


The girl’s progress. At twenty she sighs
to be an actress, at 23 she yearns to be a nurse,
and at 26 she is glad to become a wife.
“ 0.C.C.” from Melbourne :
I am perfectly aware that there are a few still efficient
guns at both the Heads. I can give The Bulletin a fairly
accurate list of them, if necessary in the strictest con-
fidence, as I don’t want to give away “ secrets ” known
only to the military (and all the foreign powers that have
cared to inquire), but 1 don’t think that there is one up-to-
date heavy gun— l mean of over 6in. calibre. Even the
aforesaid efficient guns are very rarely used and then only
by the permanent (or R.A.A.) men as a general rule. But
the 40-year old muzzle-loaders, and the small and (against
big ships) harmless q.f. guns are used every time or
nearly every time. Why ? Not because the officers and men
prefer them—they are a nuisance—but because a special
and obsolete drill (full of windages, vents, wedges and
similar Noahian appliances and phrases) has to be “ stewed
up.” The real compelling reason ofthewholeridiculousana-
chronism is that cursed word economy —false, flagrant
and criminal in this connection. A modern 9’2in. or 12in.
wire-wound gun, which would hit and hurt any ship
afloat at a distance of four or five miles, would cost
thousands of pounds, “ and we can’t afford them,” say
the politicians, overlooking the fact that two 12-in. guns,
each well-placed and reinforced with, say, half-a-dozen
9'2in. guns, would render either Melbourne or Sydney im-
pregnable, and as they would be supplemented by small
quick-firing guns (for torpedoes) and the submarine
mining corps (about the only truly efficient corps in Aus-
tralia), not even a hostile picket-boat could enter un-
challenged and unharmed. To sum up, it will cost us
£300,000 or £400,000 for modern guns to properly defend
all our important cities from sea attack. The amount
spent annually on ammunition should be liberal and war
conditions insisted on —targets four miles away and tra-
velling at from 20 to 25 knots ; almost limitless use of the
pieces with Morris-tube ammunition, so as to get the men
used to the guns ; general use(not confined to the R.A.A.)
by all garrison artillery corps whenever and wherever
possible. Such reforms would enable us to sweep away
to the scrap-heap the tinpot, out-of-date, pea-shooting
cannon which crowd the forts at South and Middle Head
(Sydney), and Queenscliff and Point Lonsdale and Swan
Island (Melbourne), and which eat up a lot of money for
upkeep, ammunition, etc., without being in the least
dangerous to an enemy. And the same (on a smaller
scale) with other ports. Let the Defence Department
paste in its hat this legend : “ A 18-inch gun will hit, and
hurt, anything afloat at any distance a ship can hit
hack ; and one heavy gun properly mounted ashore is
worth, six afloat.” We want a few 12-inch guns, and next
to them 9‘2 inch gains ; and, when we get them, we don’t
want to just keep the rust and flies off them, but to USE
them.
191-5 Queen St., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Make Every Description of
INVALID CHAIRS,
BARBERS’ CHAIRS and
MIRRORS.
BILLIARD DINING
TABLES, ,Bft., £2l.
BILLIARD TABLES, Full Size, £7O Complete.
Furniture of Every Description.
WALLABY CARS, 275 . 6d.
pr ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
Chocolate
SWEETMEAT
AND
A FOOD.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTUfIED
PEOPLE have been and are being
PIID C n by Dr Langston’s perfect
UUI IL.U Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincine Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book,
“Rupture, its history a. cure”
free to all.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
1 2 9 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
WILL ANDRADE « BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Datk, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels. 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, ,'s; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heftameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise:
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to M akk
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &0., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
t\
I
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2— Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels In
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffmans
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Busii-
rangerh, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
The most complete work ever published. 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure'them. Worth JSIO for its information, hut offered for 10/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Dr. RD. WALLACE, Chief Physician.
We have
Cured
Hundreds
of Cases
Like Your
Own.
There is no eco-
nomy in employing
an amateur to do
an expert’s task.
Nine times in ten
failure follows. In
a large percentage
of instances the re-
sult is harm. The
average physician
is an amateur in
the treatment of
men’s diseases.
He doesn’t treat
enough cases to
learn a great deal about them. His time is so fully occupied in
treating a full assortment of human ills that he cannot devote special
study to any particular branch of practice. Most diseases are suffi-
ciently simple as to require no special training other than that
received in the medipal colleges and that afforded by experience in
general practice. The more complex and perplexing ailments the
family practitioner seldom cares to treat. He prefers to be relieved
of tasks beyond his training, though cannot without fear of injuring
a patient’s confidence in his ability, recommend the services of a
specialist instead of his own.
The true specialist is a physician who is absolutely expert in the
treatment of a few diseases. He knows all about the few diseases he
treats, and he treats difficult cases with the same certainty with
which the general practitioner treats the most common ailment. For
sixteen years we have been treating men’s diseases only. We began
our special work after thorough preparation at the best medical
colleges and hospitals of the country, and have cured more men than
any other specialist in this Country, some of whom were themselves
physicians.
If afflicted with any of the ailments constituting our specialty,
seek an Expert’s and not an amateur’s services. You can come to us
knowing that we have treated hundreds of cases exactly like your own,
and thousands of others very similar. You can rest assured, we will
know just what to do, that a complete and permanent cure will follow.
If you are suffering - from any of the following ailments call at our
office or write at once for full information—
“Weakness”
Functional derangements, commonly termed “ weak-
ness,” are a direct result of inflammation, enlargement or
excessive sensitiveness of the prostate gland, brought on
by early dissipation or resulting from some improperly
treated disorder. These conditions cannot possibly be
removed by internal medicines, and any tonic system of
treatment that stimulates activity of the functions can
but result in aggravation of the real ailment. This is a
scientific truth that we have ascertained after careful
study and observation in hundreds of cases, and is a truth
upon which our own original system is based. We employ
neither tonics, stimulants, nor electric belts. We treat
by local methods exclusively, and our success in curing
even those cases that others have failed to temporarily
relieve with their tonics is conclusive evidence that our
method affords the only possible means of a complete and
radical cure. •
Varicocele
Men who have for years been afflicted with varicocele
and who have chosen to suffer the consequences of neglect
rather than submit to the harsh, painful and dangerous
surgical treatment commonly indulged in, can come to us
with complete assurance that we will effect a permanent
cure in one week’s time by a painless and absolutely harm-
less method. Our treatment involves no cutting, and it
is seldom necessary that the patient be detained a single
day from his business. So painless, harmless and
thoroughly successful is our method that we regard each
case that comes to us as an opportunity for demonstrating
the superiority of gentle measures and the folly' of resort-
ing to surgery. Do not submit to cutting, pain, possible
injury' and hospital expense. We will cure you quickly
and thoroughly without pain and without the need of
hospital care.
Pelvic Troubles
We cure these troublesome and positively dangerous
diseases in but half the usual time required, thus fore-
stalling chronic complications. A new and unique system
of treatment that cannot fail to cure both quickly and
thoroughly.
Varicose Veins
In our treatment mild and harmless measures ha,ve
again triumphed over surgery. We cure without pain,
and without cutting, and all the affected membranes are
thoroughly cleansed and restored to a healthy state.
Blood Diseases
We cure these diseases—cure them thoroughly. Every
symptom vanishes for ever, and the patient is relieved of
a mental burden that he has probably borne for years.
Harmless blood-cleansing remedies only are employed.
We are always willing to oblige in every detail
until a cure is effected.
Our office and operating theatre occupy three
floors, fully equipped and so arranged as to afford
all patients the utmost convenience and privacy.
Inability to come to our office for consultation and
treatment need not deprive you of our services. Our
knowledge of men's diseases enables us to treat
successfully at a distance. Write, describing your
symptoms in full, arid we will advise you free of
charge, and will tell you whether we can cure you
without your calling in person.
We have published a 700-page medical work, “ Clini-
cal Experiences,” 31 chapters, 150 medical plates. It
will be found interesting, instructive and helpful by
all men suffering from special ailments. Write for
it. Mailed free, sealed and under plain cover.
GENERAL DEBILITY, LOSS OF MEMORY, BLOOD OR SKIN DISEASES, PHYSICAL DECAY,
SLEEPLESSNESS, DESPONDENCY AND NERVOUS DEGENERATION.
Our Medical Staff comprises FOUR Legally Qualified Medical Men. Dr. Wallace, Chief Physician, is regis-
tered by Australian, English and American Medical Boards. (See Registered Medical Practitioners Lists.)
T r FREEMAN * WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institutes ; Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Chief ;
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
And at MELBOURNE


FACE COVERED
WITH HUMOUR
Scalp One Mass of Sores, Hair and
Eye-Brows Fell Out —Agony for
Eight Long Years —Doctors Were
Unable to Cure Her, :
SPEEDILY CURED
BY CUTICURA
“ I had suffered terrible agony and pain
for eight long years from a terrible ec-
zema on the scalp and face. The best
doctors were unable to help me, and I
had spent a lot of money for many
remedies without receiving any benefit.
My scalp was covered with scabs, my
face was like a piece of raw beef, my
eyebrows and lashes were falling out, and
sometimes I felt as if I was burning up
from the terrible itching and pain. I
then began treating myself at home, and
now my head and face are clear and I am
entirely well. I first bathed my face with
Cuticura Soap, then applied Cuticura
Ointment to the afflicted parts, and took
Cuticura Resolvent for the blood. I was
greatly relieved after the first application,
and continued use of Cuticura soon made
a complete cure.—Miss Mary F. Fay,
Westboro, Mass.”
AGONIZING ECZEMA
And Itching, Burning Eruptions
with Loss of Hair, Cured
by Cuticura.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water
and Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the surface
of crusts and scales, and soften the thick-
ened cuticle ; dry, without hard rubbing,
and apply Cuticura Ointment freely, to
allay itching, irritation, and inflamma-
tion, and soothe and heal; and, lastly,
take Cuticura Resolvent Pills to cool and
cleanse the blood. A single set is often
sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring skin, scalp, and blood humours,
with loss of hair, of infancy or age, when
doctors, medicine, and all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout th A
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Pans, 5 Hue
laPaix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug L
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Proprs.
B®"“>lailed Free, “ All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair.”
GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
So
good
for
woollens.
Fleecy wool-
lens are good.
Good Sunlight
Soap makes
good fleecy
woollens, for
Sunlight Soap
is good saap.
3°4
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand for scouring metal and woodwork
' - W'
LSE
lALiiai
l.:aa
mm
•Jp-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS lor Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Kooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Kooks.
SYSTEMS for Indexing
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM KOli. Eveuyi'iiixg.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRAN 3
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St. , Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
r Of course you have System
irryour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
lias it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
SOI.K AUSTRALIAN AQUNT
The “|4em flajah”Gold flame Brooehes
Gold Cased. Good Pins.
Anyname up to i2Letters to order—Dinna For-
get, Mizpah, Forget-me-not, Regard, BABY,
Darling, Mother, Good Luck, Pet, 1.0. R.,
C.E., 1.0.G.T., etc. Price only i 6 each, or
4 names, 5/-. Post free anvwhere. Send
Postal Note to STAR NOVELTY CO.
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OF
i
H
mi CACILICNT RIMC3V MtStMt
m
B
DCFIT MACMAT imUIN AND COIONItL
32 SNOW HILL LONOON, 2.C.
Price Is. »d
Constipation is only aggravated
by violent purgatives: Nature
simply requires a little gentle
and strengthening assistance.
California
Syrup of Figs
NATURE'S PLEABANT LAXATIVE.
Surpasses all other purifying
medicines, because it is tonic
and strengthening as well as
the most perfect Laxative—
(it is not a purgative).
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
THE-
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties th.it may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30 T day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmofcilc line ; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring-Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touting Car. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS :
SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
* JJX. ?r* )
•J*
m
Si
i•' f fffff\ | fW«vt iJ; i'iV|'<v>.
-•
<a«
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty,
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required ; an entertainer for general
amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU f
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL; cr
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of you
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
a good investment.
TERMS—From £2 2s. upwards.
The Inky Way.
For years a pathetic figure in Sy’dney journalistic
circles was that of Arthur Edward. He was a little
spasmodic man, with closely-cropped gray hair, a gray
moustache, and a tendency to fly off the handle. He
progressed over the face of the planet by means of short,
quick steps that, in the mass, constituted a trot.
Coming to Australia, according to his own story, with
several thousand pounds of inherited capital, he found
that wealth and the wings of the morning were closely
associated. Then he dreamed of doing great things, and
for years his intimates were tormented by the recital of
schemes, always of a journalistic nature, in which the
little man saw visionary millions. After being employed
on a fair proportion of Sydney weeklies he began to make
efforts to start newspapers, and never realising that to
Start a successful newspaper is the life work of any
individual, if ho is fortunate, he started a fresh rag every
two years or so. None of them lived, and from Maoriland
to Broken Hill his dead journalistic infants are buried.
His latest attempt w r as Sydney Punch, which never even
saw the light, and enjoys the rare distinction of being
a newspaper that had its name changed before it Mas
born, and failed to get born after all.
When lawyer Stinson and his Deform League first burst
on the political horizon of Sydney they'found a sympa-
thetic daily press, and imagined for a Meek or two that
they were in Heaven. Then the democratic weeklies fell
on them, and the dailies began to neglect them in their
haste to report the mysterious disappearance and the un-
accountable dead body, and they decided that they must
have an organ of their very own—one that would'wither
their enemies With satire and burn them with caustic wit.
Just here Arthur Edu-ard came along with his proposed
Sydney Punch, and lawyer Stinson drew a cheque for £7O,
and told him to go ahead and start a paper that would
Do Things. Edward went ahead. He turned loose adver-
tisement-canvassers, and, according to his own incoherent
story, all “ the best people ” rushed in to support the new
organ. It was to oppose Industrial Arbitration, ail the
labor legislation of the past few years was to be scorched
out of existence, and over its offices umuld wave the
banner of the Black and Tan Australian party. It was to
be run on strictly English lines. Contributors were en-
gaged, artists arranged for, and, the “ Woman’s Letter”
bestowed on a girl who has a facile pen. Then the
unborn journal had its name changed, and be'-nn -
the Searchlight. The Board of Directors held su..m ; y
meetings, and some of it thought that Arthur
Edu’ard Mas a man lacking in ballast. They con-
sidered his lack of ballast at great length, and in the
end told him that he could not possibly be editor. They
must have someone with more ballast. Edward should
be sub-editor and manager. He said he would think it
over. For several weeks he and various members of the
Board held stormy meetings, and many threats were
made. In the meantime one or two people were drawing
commission and salary, and the Board had not even got
possession of the paper. As the paper wasn’t in existence,
this was natural enough. Edward’s agreement stipulated
that the Board was to find a certain amount of capital in a
specified time, and as that time was overdue, Edward, re-
senting his deposition from the editorial chair which was
not yet purchased, cancelled the M'hole arrangement and
notified the directors that he would find the capital him*
self, and that they had nothing further to do with the
show.
Then poor Edward’s troubles commenced in earnest.
His frock coat, his red-spotted silk vest, his tail hat, and
his fashionably-cut pants with the green stripe in them
disappeared, one by one. Poverty fell on him with a
crash, and the little man who dreamed of changing the
history of Australia, and going back to his old press club
at Portsmouth (Eng.) as the affluent part proprietor of a
great weekly, struck evil days. Still he cursed the
Board collectively and individually, and sat in his little
office writing letters to capitalists, pointing out that
there were millions in his paper scheme, and anyone
who would put up £2OOO would have an assured fortune
in at most two years. He staked his life on this. He
rushed round the city imploring his friends to mort-
gage their properties to raise a few hundreds and
get the paper—his paper—started, and he would repay
them a hundredfold. He had never gone down yet, he
said. He couldn’t touch failure—his paper must boom.
His friends shook their heads and advised him to go
back to Stinson and the Board. They had spent some
money on the idea already, and, rather than lose that, they
would get the thing going somehow, and the great essential
was to start oublication—then all things were possible.
Edward bought a supply of bread and tea, some sugar, and
a few tins of preserved meats, and said he would go back
M'hen that gave out. Out in his little suburban room he
watched his dwindling store, and no capitalist came along.
Two days after the commissariat ran out the hungry
but indomitable little man went back to Stinson, and
was kindly received, and fixed up with a new agreement.
The Board started him to work once more organising the
neu' paper, which was to wreck the Democratic press. But
it was no longer Eduard’s own paper, and his heart was
not in it. He used to give himself up to savage outbursts
of language against the Board and all its relatives, and
say he would make it a success somehou', and get it all
into his own hands some day.
One Sunday, the u'orried little man went down to the
office of his unborn publication, and the first intimation
that anything was wrong was the spectacle of the books
of the new company flying through the uindow into the
street below. Then he gathered together all that was
left of the company’s stationery and set fire to it. When
the astounded caretaker came to suppress the disturb-
ance, he found a man whooping loudly and dancing
around the newly-kindled fire. Seven days afterwards
Arthur Eduard died of brain paralysis. It is now said
that the Searchlight will make a .. n start at getting
floated. Meanwhile, the Board has hunted up the
deceased’s u'idow and extended her a kindly hand.
This writer saw a dummy copy of the Searchlight—
the skeleton of what Mas to be the first number. Its
light didn’t search very much, but perhaps it may develop
into a brighter radiance b.v-and-bye—if it doesn’t go out
as an unpublished light that never really glimmered at all.
* * * *
The Australian Churchman—the paper which is mostly
run by the Rev. Merveilleux Archdall—comes out for
Christmas with an article sub-headed : “ All Scriptural
Preaching is Eschatological.” Great Onions !
* * * *
Fitchett’s New Idea, which clips most of its verse from
American papers, prints as “ anonymous,” in a recent
issue, Brunton Stephens’s “ A Piccaninny,” renamed “To
a Papoose.” The verses have been retouched and spoilt
so as to fit a Red Indian infant, besides being occasionally
bowdlerised for fear of harming the chaste imagination of
the brand of American spinster M’ho insists on ha i 'g
even the legs of a piece of furniture draped. They have
been printed (and reprinted) by ’Frisco Argonaut, v h.ch
does not seem to know of their source.
RHYME AND REALITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
I know the poet very well.
His anguished lines like tears flow on.
Of ladies fair and dark they tell,
Who loved him once, but who have gone.
He’s wept ten thousand words for May,
One lovely’ maid who went away'.
He’s wailed a hundred yards of rhyme
O’er sweet Suzette, a sprightly dear,
Who’s basking in another clime,
The peerless partner of a peer.
With sobs the bard demands to know
How sweet Suzette could serve him so.
For Mary, Kate, and dimpled Jane
He’s shedding tears the whole day' through ;
O’er Muriel and Maud they' rain,
And drip for Patience, Jess, and Loo.
(Had not some of these ladies run,
Whatever would the man have done ?)
That’s poetry. In actual life
He has a lasting cause to grieve :
It is his big, prosaic wife,
The only girl who didn’t leave !
The tears he sheds because she stay'ed
Are very real, I am afraid.
EDYSON.


est
/
L
/
m
y
u
\\
%
t
\
V)
u
1
i
THE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “ it’s an
Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you
never find it mislead you. If you want just such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £7O. We will be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
*
/
/
GEORGE
4/2
SYDNEY
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, J-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
ft
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The balance wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s lveyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
i
"
A Special Dust
Protected' Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, -f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
v MAKERS PRICE'S
u
a
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
ft
An Ideal Lady’s Watch .
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18et. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Gases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balanoe and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
a
14<
10
Get a Gold Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure, buy
it now whc n you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled ( only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-plite Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
©
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS.
COLUMBIA Gold-
Moulded Records
Are BEST for
All Phonographs.
Price 15/- per Dozen
Send for Latest Lists.
COLUMBIA DISC
RECORDS.
7-inch, 10-inch, 12-inch, and 14-
inch sizes. Will fit all Disc
Talking Machines.
LISTS FREE.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH
GO.,
25 Ash Street, Sydney.
C. STR ATM ANN’S *
FINE....
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES .=«
SWEETJTEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List, with 100 Minia-
tures and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
65., P. 0.0. or Stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munioh, Brieffach, Germany.
BOVRIL
is the Co©k 5 s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
MAKES tiie SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
A.**-’
& -
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A, 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Griinwacie & Co., Melbourne.
m
Ws
mmm
(mm*
mm tin
WHOLE,
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL » The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS * The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W. G. KING, AGENT. 316 George St,.
SYDNEY.
PANAMAS
BY POST.
Send for a MURDOCH PANAMA by Post
—if it isn’t all we claim send it back
at our expense, and we’ll REFUND
YOUR MONEY.
safe
THE MURDOCH PANAMAS
stand at the head of the Panama procession
for value.
Nothing in the Panama line can approach
them for quality—style—shape and lowness
of price.
We have just the shape you want.
BEAUTIFULLY FINE PLAIT BRIMS—3 to 4
INCH—POST FREE, 18s. 6d., 215., 255.
OTHERS FROM 10s. 6(1.
MURPOCNS
in Park Street, SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE COOD HATS ARE.”
Men’s Wear Catalogue FREE.


SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
a
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new PJO4 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, 1 s posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good “Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Hofi.sE, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow'E “ Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOME CYCLOPEPIA
BMBRACiNG
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this g-reat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of ■ Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be -fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ||C~ Kstabii.nhed SO I 'ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE ENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Saitho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Hove and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Boor of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest'Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Tokology,' 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free., G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s (id. The Wife’s
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness.and.
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
4
9
9
5
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON,
t Bridge Sts., Sydney
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. G. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
This
Trade
Mark
AERTEX
kPMDON
on
every
Garment
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sold Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM <fe CO .
75 King Street, Sydney.
Himself Cured.
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and
“ Debility by a s,tuple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out qf gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
II ()ME C URE by that justly
celebrated FREMCH HOF-
PITAB PPIYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
Dli. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES .Of ALL NERVOUS 'TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for ail who need it. , Address—
PARISIAN AC£NGY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDUET.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward th 3 same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will a' r mge to forward one of our
latest improved high grade EI.ECTKIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most periect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
' ess, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
ttle will gioe free
to us one copy T our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
de'ay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr r Austin Co. f
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
R
Superior
to
All Others.
J~h e Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
V/je British J/tedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd <he AGED.
Benoer's fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
An opinionative member of the Stipendiary
Magistracy nagged it into the ears of a Sydney
trainful of heat-oppressed tourists, the other day,
that Joe Cook will be next Prime Minister of
Australia. The stipendiary maintained he had
warrant for his suggested outrage in something
“George” said while sucking lollies.
“ Squidge ” states :
Melb. University has for years past been turning- out
doctors who knew less about doctoring than those from
any other* University in the world. Too much time was
devoted to theory and to preparation for examinations.
Result was that men were turned out who knew all about
the insides of frogs and waterlilies j the name of every
hair and scale on the body, the book symptoms of every
disease that afflicts man and beast, and a million other
things that can be learnt by living close to a good library
with a professor and a few demonstrators handy to ex-
plain away difficulties. The trouble was that the man
knew little or nothing of practical medicine, and could
not diagnose a case within a mile of the correct
complaint. Lots of them could not “ take a pulse ”
properly; and, as for setting a broken limb, such
an operation was far beneath their academic emin-
ence. Now an attempt has been made to so alter the
course that a doctor who knows a little of his business
will be turned out from the University. There will be
only three examinations instead of five. The theoretical
part of the course will be crammed into the first two
years, and the remaining three years Will be devoted to
practical work. Men will commence hospital work with
all their theory behind them, and will have to do about
three times as much hospital work as formerly, iioiled
down, the old course taught theoretical and practical
doctoring together and the practical work was never
done, or, if done, not understood. Under the new system
the practical work will be the real work of the course.
“T.D.” : Since I’ve been in London my
name has figured in the list of more or less
eminent Australians published by an Anglo-
Australian weekly. Result is that nearly every
day the postman staggers to the door of my hash-
garage under a load of literature appertaining to
other hash establishments in Fogtown, Timbuc-
too, and other places too numerous to mention.
Likewise I am the recipient of much picturesque
advice on the subject of foreign travel and in-
teresting methods of getting back to Australia
when the money is about run out. Most Aus-
tralians, when they first arrive and receive these
marks of favor, imagine they have been discovered
from afar as their vessel was approaching the
chalky coasts, and specially singled out by reason
of their resplendent importance. Some of them
even rush off to the manager of the Canadian-
Pacific or some other advertising concern, and
assure him that they will be gratified to extend
their patronage if it will help in any way. When
you show them the pile of documents you have
received in six months their mouths fall, and they
look as though they had been defeated at a general
election. I’m keeping my pile of invitations
from six-guineas-a-week hash-houses for the
benefit of my landlady. She charges me about
a sixth of that, but no doubt the literature
impresses her with a sense of my great social
standing and financial stability.
“ Lay Brother ” : Alas ! where is this mad
craze for “ the open air ” to end ? Here an 1 now
it is even as in the time of our lamented Bishop
Latimer, who had to reprove a whole congrega-
tion (from another pulpit) for leaving the church-
door locked when he was due to preach, and
wasting the Sabbath in the woods. (The dear
bishop, you will remember, afterwards died sud-
denlydn the open air, during the reign of one of
our late beloved queens, Blanky Mary.) If only
our aged sister Dewlap held the reins of govern-
ment things would be very different in Australia.
“ Yes,’’ said my aged sister as we were walking
homewards from the sanctuary (she speaks some-
what volubly), “ I’d show ’em. Ferntree Gully,
indeed ! And ’Ealesville ! Nice places to spend
the Sabbath, upon my word ! I've berri’d ten,
and not one of ’em ever dared to think of stayin’
away from service and visitin' them houtlandish
places. I thank ’eaven I was taught at ’Ome to
spend the seventh day in a nice warm pew, and
curtsey to the squire when ’e was drivin’ away
in ’is b’room after service. When they do
git a squire in this country most of ’em
treat ’im just like a hordinary man. And
you know that Mrs. Smith, ’go’s took the
next ’ouse to me ? She said she stayed away on
the very ’ot days because the church got so stuffy.
Sich ’orrible langwidge ! ” continued sister Dewlap,
in her trenchant Saxon English. “And she
ackshilly said she’d rather I didn’t leave tracks
tollin’ about the burnin’ lake on days when there
was a ’ot north wind ! But I’ll convert her yet.
She ’as a ’eathenish ’abit uv takin’ a bath every
day, an’ whenever I ’ear ’er in ’er bathroom I go
into mine (they adjine, ye know), an’ pray fer ’er
so that she can’t ’elp ’earin’. Oh. I’ll save ’er
yet! ”


DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
ROTH WELL’S m
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
The Best Value 8/6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
'-jfsm
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
| Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be iutiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
__ what it will accomplish. Send for.
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other .valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetbim.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof- R. H. BARRADEN, Pitt St., Sydney-
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Btrand, London, and sold at Is. Rd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
BRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists:
S'
r
* r *
'ALUHq
£ vts
tbe Underwriters’ Tire Extinguisher
...COMBINING...
SIMPLICITY, QUICK ACTION, HANDY SIZE.
Highly Concentrated Extinguishing Power.
Long Distance Throw and Certainty of Action.
The most Efficient and Reliable Hand Fire Ex-
tinguisher ever produced.
Single Machine - £3 10s.
Agent—P. A. HOWARD, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Beautiful Home Decorations
L
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"S.APOLIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant., rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“BAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untamisliable silver finish.
In or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). •Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and sat isfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “BArOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
THAT
BHSK
PAIN!
The Place Whcro
Your Trouble
Begins!
MOW many thousands of
* * men and women hare
gone through life miserable
and broken in body and
spirt because they did not
ottend to that first symptom
of impending evil ? . The
nerve centre at the small of
the back becomes weak, the
kidneys become congested,
irritation and pain set in,
and “ Bright’s Disease of
the Kidneys ” is the verdict
at the finish.
Electricity, properly
applied, would have pre-
vented such an untimely
end. It would have infused
new life into the nerve cen-
tre ; it would have broken
up and removed the conges-
tion and cleansed the kid-
neys; it would have stopped
all waste and made a real
healthy and vigorous con-
stitution.
Dr. McLaughlin’s
ELECTRIC BELT
does all this and more. It
gives new life and vitality
to every part of the body.
You know well enough that
other methods have failed
utterly, and the thousands
of cures given and reported uphold all the claims made for our Belt. . . Our Belt is
certain—there is no other genuine Electric Belt. Try it and be co vinced!
MR. A. d. DAVY, CLEM INNES, N.3.W., writes: “Dear Sirs,—l may state that 1
have worn one of your Electric Belts every night for three months, and am pleased
to be able to say that I feel as good as ever I did in my life. Before I got the Belt
1 used to suffer terribly from Backache, but that trouble Is now a thing of the past,
and I am much better In every way. Wishing you every success.’’
1-CL-*
vr/Of‘
V/fa
m
cr
wwinmmiiwtn
wHiiwnrtif
*. /S*
n
»
II in.
NOTICE I
No Man or Woman has made the right step towards regain-
ing their health unless they have reaa our FREE TREATISE on
Electricity. Our Books are beautifully illustrated, and show
practical methods of applying Electricity for all chronic ailments. They are FREI?,
and will be sent Post Paid to any who write. . . CALL, if you can, and have a Free
Examination and Consultation. We will make you a Written Diagnosis by Post,
FREE- Don’t pay anyone for such services. . . Office Hours: 9a.m. to 8.30p.m.
the McLaughlin go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
And at 167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
PROTOBEN
in 5 and lO pound Boxes.
FIGrJs FINEST FRUIT in the WORLD e
A truly delightful Thirst Quencher
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
Insist on the genuine “ Montserrat.”
AVOID CHSAP IMITATIONS. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
©
*
2f
O A>
%
£
*P .*o* .
J?
O
V
«vV
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 68 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
MEDICATOR.
ilfi
HERE’S A NEW HELP
iox the ears*—a greater help than
has been before invented
THE ELECTRICON.
I It does what all other devices have 1
' b?cn trying to do. It does more. It’
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-61 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE ELECTRICON
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once tor my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicceele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON, "i™: 8-
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.


GEORGE ADAMS,-
HOBART, TASMANIA.
Tlie TRUSTEES will carry on the businesses under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WITHOUT ANY INTERMISSION, and under the same
management as during past years.
The Trustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses in
lIOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUST KES in the Estate of
the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any FIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
DRUNKARDS
CUBED SECRETLY.
EUCRASY
uit
aff"
This harmless and
tasteless remedy is
given in Tea, Coffee,
Food, etc., to cure
Drunkards. Any
' wife, sister, daughter,
or mother can cure
her loved one of this
fearful and degrading
habit by this new
simple remedy, as did
Mrs. Scott, who
writes : “Oh ! how
happy I am that my
husband has lost all
hi s appetite for
whisky; he now hates
the sight of it, and
refuses to drink, even
when others offer it
to him. Your remedy
is surely a blessing
for drunkards.”
Mrs. Scott's word pf gratitude is only one of hundreds
in possession of this company. Anyone who will send
their name and address to
THE EUCRASY COMPANY,
62 Hunter-street, Sydney, will receive by mail, sealed, a
free book about this wonderful remedy, and full instruc-
tions how to cure the drink habit.
I*, h.
LlllLUi ILU Uli A n.i min m i 1 imn nn mn 'iim
SCIENTIFIC CUBE
FOR
DEAFNESS.
IN most cases of DEAFNESS the little bones of the
* ear, which transmit the vibrations from the drum
to the nerve, become STIFF in their JOINTS, and
fail to fulfill their function. The disease which
causes this condition may be REMEDIED, but here-
tofore the RESTORING of these little bones to their
normal vigor has BAFFLED HUMAN SKILL. The
MASSAOON ACCOMPLISHES this, and, further-
more, RELIEVES the annoying HEAD NOISES
with which so many deaf people are troubled. The
ACOUSTICON is to the ear what the eye-glass is to
the eye.
WRITE TO-DAY for
Free Booklet A., giving
full particulars of these
instruments.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, Ltd.
Equitable Building',
MELBOURNE.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
XKCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARN E’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling- representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,0» miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states: —“ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Colli'ns-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OP 1 HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy'.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My 7 wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without - wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUR.E—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
b-anoh depot- office; No 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3582.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S.
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair..
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
RHEUMATISM CURED
From Mr Wm Milnes, Pallet-street, New Chum, Bendigo, Victoria.
“AW eieht years ago I was, for a considerable time, a great sufferer from rheumatism. Acting
on the' adviceme 'people, I took Warner's Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that, when
I had taken the contents of two bottles, I was cured.
-w.
£w KcriS “<L°e simiSTto my o jwSSad “decided to try
Xther VVarner’s Safe Cure would also benefit me. I took three bottles of the medicine, and am very
glad tlmTl wasaimpletely cured and could go about my work cheerfully. I have not felt the
slightest symptom of the return of any rheumatic pain since that time.
From lVlr<? Elizabeth Bosher, 77 Henderson-road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
“Previous to leaving England, about 40 years ago, I was a great sufferer from Rheumatism,
,• , , • i , . i] mo for about 24 years after my arrival in Australia. I consulted several
which “ iso tried venous advertised remedies, with the same
SLfacLr??l,“ and otSirS o& getting relief from the pain. At length I tried Warned
a Pure for what’reason I cannot tell you, because I did not expect to get any more benefit from it
than other'medfcines I had taken. I was, however, very pleased to notice a decided
change for the better after a short course of Warner’s Safe Cure. The pains slowly but surely left me,
and at last I became quite free from them. This happened 16 years ago, and I can honestly say that I
liave not suffered in the slightest degree from Rheumatism since that time, so that I have to thank
Warner’s Safe Cure for perfectly and permanently curing me. I may say that my case is very well
known in Alexandria, as I have for 40 years resided within half-a-mile of my present address.
“mt!e^d\ :^”pl'rt P X«t P I ha’vfuken five bottles of Werner's Safe Cote for Rheumatism, and
that the r" SltT.s StSous. The pain has all left me, I have gained a stone m weight, and am now
in good health.”
From Mr William Pollock McAuslan, 10 Russell Place, North Williamstown, Vic.
“ Some ei"ht vears ago I was laid up with a very persistent attack of Rheumatism, and although
Some eight years ago i was ia n nt . *h nr i of four or fi ve months, instead of getting
roTgeHiins'WaVnePs Safe Rheumatic Cure a trial.
From the taking of the first dose I could see hope ahead, and in a very little while all pain had left me,
and I never had the slightest sign of any relapse until my complete recovery some seven weeks later.
The doctor’s words, thanks to Warner’s medicines, have not been verified, as from that day, eight
years ago, to this, I have not had the slightest symptoms of that dreadful complaint.
GOUT CURED .
From Mr R A Thomoson Mining Engineer, 148 Adelaide Terrace, Perth, W.A. t
F w?™ vvritint YOU some time back as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Pills in biliousness I
mentioned being about to try a course of Warner’s Safe Cure for Gout. The result of taking the
medicine was Smply wonderful, as many people in Perth can testify, and I speak gratefully of the
benefit I received. 1 The action of the medicine was this : First, a gradual toning up of the stomach,
then better appetite purer blood-making, and slow (at first) but sure disappearance Gout, The
food taken during was plain but wholesome. lam glad also to tell you ) that many of my
acquaintances have derived great benefit from both the Safe Pills and the Safe Cure.
LUMBAGO CURED.
From Mr F. L. Seager, Waratah-street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W. . .
“ About six year! ago I had an attack of lumbago, so severe that I could not walk for nine weeks.
I tried many medicines, porous plasters, and electric batteries, without material relief. My doctor
could do nothing for me. Hearing so much about Warner s Safe Cure I decided to try it. After
talcing the first bottle I felt greatly relieved, and started to walk again, and after taking eight ho t s
I cured. I have not suffered in a,ny way since, and strongly recommend Warner s
Safe Cure to anyone afflicted with a similar complaint. I consider the medicine invaluable.
SCIATICA CURED .
From Mr James Spencer, 62 Queen Street, Fremantle, W.A. . . . . , ,
“Some years ago I was a fearful sufferer from sciatica. Most excruciating pam seized me, extend-
ing from the hip right down to the ankle. None but those similarly afflicted can imagine the agony I
endured. The pain deprived me of all sleep. I could barely move about. I had medical aid, but it
did not relieve me. My attention was called to Warner’s Safe Cure, and I commenced to take it,
deriving benefit after the first few doses. By the time I had finished four bottles the pain had all
vanished, and I could again get refreshing sleep. I have every reason to believe that Warner s Sale
Cure has eradicated all rheumatic poisons from my system, as I have had no return of the pain since
that time.” *■
THE BEST SOAP roa BABY
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR SOAP.
IT IS DELIGHTFUL IN USE
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION.
The South Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HEARD her sandals in the leaves,
Like wings, fly down the crackling way
That led by circles ’mid the trees
To where the woodland waters lay.
The little mannikins let loose
The teams of panting mice who drew
Their roped-up carts of hazel-nuts
As she came passing gaily through.
The horned Satyr ’mid his wives
Awoke ; and, creeping from his hole,
Called loudly on her name, and ran
To see the path by which she stole.
While up beneath a rain-washed cliff,
His thyrse at rest against a pine,
Blithe Bacchus mocked him wantonly
Across a bowl of seeded wine.
And e’en the elfin Sprite who jigged
A gailliard on his pointed toes
Did cease, and freed the bumble bee
Long pent, his prisoner in a rose.
The crafty Pyxie underground,
At work with lanthorns in the earth,
Threw down his spade and hailed the maid
With gusty hurricanes of mirth.
And in the sky, commanded by
An angel-pilot brave and fair,
A fleet of clouds with flying shrouds
Sailed swiftly thro’ the crystal air.
The gentle fawns, with budding horns,
Leapt madly o’er the tangled brake,
Nor ’gan the huntsman speed his dogs,
Nor from his belt an arrow take.
On ev’ry side, from far and wide,
Both man and beast came to her call;
Save young Narcissus o’er the tide
Of his own beauty magical.
Naught could him stir...the very fir,
Deep-planted in the mountain slope,
Was never stronger held than he
For robbing Echo of her hope.
And still her sandals in the leaves,
Like wings, flew down the crackling way
That led by circles mid the trees
To where the woodland waters lay.
N.S.W.
HUGH M'CRAE.
Along the Castlereagh.
RAMO’S MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNCLE JIM tramped through the
drought-blackened scrub until he reached
the cattle-track leading to Conroy’s Flat.
His face was a study in snarls and red dust.
There were flies on liis back, and brown and blue
flies settled like bits of hot metal around his brow
and mouth.
His eyes kindled suddenly at sight of the Castle-
reagh weltering like a grey mud streak between
the stooping trees. Bands of crows hovered with
loud “ ark ! ark ! ” above the deserted wool-wash.
Crossing the bridge, he came suddenly upon Bill
Primrose standing outside the Swag and Pannikin.
Bill regarded him in dumb surprise, then shook
hands violently as though Uncle Jim had just
returned from a trip round the world.
“Why, Jim, we thought you was dead. Ye
look as if ye’d seen the bright side of a hempty
fryin’ pan.”
“ Don’t want ter hear about bright fryin’ pans,”
snapped Uncle; “or th’ dry side of a publican,
either. Gimme a beer.”
The drink seemed to revive him after his long
tramp. He sat near the door and puffed at a new
corn cob pipe, reflectively.
“ The Hindu hawker fixed ye up, Jim,” laughed
the publican. “What happened to the Great
Buldoo mine?”
Uncle did not answer. He had been absent
from the district for some time. • There was a
look of ferocious unrest in his eyes.
“ What day is it ? ” he asked, sullenly.
“ It’s Monday mornin’, Jim, wiv a hot westerly
blowin’,” answered Bill Primrose. “These hot
westerlies are terrible fings for blowin’ away the
Sunday gold-mines. Was yours a Sunday gold-
mine, Jim, or just a plain tabby?” he asked
earnestly.
“If a man drank a quart of your beer,” said
Uncle sharply, “he’d be ready ter sink a shaft
through a lion’s nest.”
The publican was silent. He regarded Uncle
half sorrowfully. “Tell us about the Great
Buldoo mine, Jim. ’Ave a drink wiv me for old
times’ sake.”
Uncle softened immediately and drained his
glass. “The Hindu had some of us,” he said,
guardedly. “He came inter my paddick one
day, an’ started sellin’ soap an’ scent to the girls.
Soon as he saw me he packs up his bundle an’
starts a friendly yabber.
“ ‘Goot day, Jeem,’ he sez. ‘You work veera
hard. You dig the bletty ground to grow horse
feed en cauliflower.’
“‘Yerput it perlite, Ramo Chickasee,’ I sez.
‘Seems ter me yer’ll have a fair harvest of
bunions by the time ye’ve stopped runnin’ up the
river.’
“‘Ah, Jeem,’ he sez, ‘ you veera great fool to
dig the bletty pumpkins en scarlet horseradish.
Why you not dig the gold ?’ he sez.
“‘I made a start last year, Ramo,’l sez, ‘but
the weight of the nuggets broke the barrer, so I
took to pigs.’
“‘You joke wit me, Jeem,’ he sez, smilin’.
‘The farmin’ is a silly fool game. Look a-here !’
He opened his red nightgown an’ shows me a piece
of quartz that was spotted with gold thick as your
thumb.
“ ‘ What are ye hawkin’ it about the country
for ? ’ I sez.
“ ‘ They no grant mining lease to me,’ he sez.
‘ I show you a mine where millions of gold lie hid.
It ees not a reef, Jeem,’ he sez—‘itees a solid
mountain. Me veera frightened to speak about
it. The white man steal me claim if he get half
the chance. Too much gold there for one poor
Hindu,’ he sez with a long, frightened face.
“‘Don’t let it scare ye, Ramo. Jest tell me
where it is,’ I sez, in a off-hand way.
“‘Ah, Jeem, you worry for the explanation,’
he sez. ‘lt is a long way from here. I came
upon it in the night as I travel through the hills
with my father, Gunga Fez. I spik nothing of
my discovery to him. But when he go asleep I
get up en’ break thees bit of quartz. The hill is
full of gold, Jeem. It is one large mountain
of metal covered with a leetle rock.’
“‘You want me ter take out a license an’go
halves,’ I sez. ‘ That your game ?’
“ ‘The game is that, Jeem,’ he sez. ‘They no
give poor Hindu one dam mining ticket. Now
you shall be my father en’ my mother in the gold
mine. We shall grow rioh togezzer.’
“Well,” continued uncle, excitedly, “ I wasn’t
going ter let the Hindu leave my paddick with
that specimen in his pocket. I gave him a bed
an’a good supper an’ sent him ter roost early.
“Next mornin’, I got a couple o’ pack-horses
an’ some tucker, and we starts fer the Buldoo
Mountain, where th’ gold was lyin’ under the
rock in tons.
“ Hindus are rotten bush men, but this Ramo
knew every spur an’ tree in th’ district. The
country we got into was an eye-opener—sand an’
spinifex an’ long red drifts, an’ the heat d ivin’
in yer face like ashes from a furnace.
“ On the third night, we camped at the foot of
the Buldoo, an’ a lonely Gawd-forsaken place it
was. Not a tree or a blade of grass for miles. He
showed me a small drip in the gully behind the
hill where a few drops of water oozed through a
crack in the rocks.
“ ‘ Where’s the gold, Ramo ? Show me thirty
bob’s worth just ter keep me cool,’ I sez.
“ ‘ Thirty bletty millions I show you presently,
Jeem. The Mount Morgan ees alright, a very
foot mine. This Buldoo Mountain is ryebuelc
lallelujah,’ he sez, wavin’ his hands over me.
‘ The gold is ours.’
“We waited till mornin’. Then he took me up
the hill, an’ the outcrop was a collection of yeller
knobs runnin’ east an’ west. There was no
dollyin’, no dry blowin’, no washin’ an’ messin’
about with water. All yer wanted was a bullock
dray to haul it to the bank. The gold was lumpy
an’ bright as the minted stuff. I broke up a bit)
with my pick an’ bagged about a hundred quid’s
worth.
“The Hindu . . . Gawd’s truth, he wouldn’t
touch it. He sat on the hillside an’ just watched
me fumin’ an’ splodgin’ about with the sweat
runnin’ in me eyes, an’ every now an’ then he
waved his hands.
“‘What for you get excited, Jeem?’ he sez,
laughin’. ‘You rich man, me rich man. You
take out a license. We hire plenty labor.’
“ When I started to fill the tucker bags with
rough gold, he shook his head. ‘No goot carry
the gold, Jeem,’ he sez. ‘Make traveilin’slow.
You stick in pegs en hurry back wit me to take
out license. Savvy, Jeem?’
“ He seemed a bloke you could trust, an’ there
wasn’t much sense in humpin’ rich specimens
about invitin’ the whole country ter jump yer
claim. I planted the broken stuff in the gully,
an’ we got back home as fast as the mokes could
travel.
“After I’d fixed up the mining ticket, Ramo
comes to me like a brother. ‘ Jeembo,’ he sez, ‘ I
no want the Buldoo mine. It no goot to me. I
desire nothin’ but a leedle money to go back to
Calcutta wis me father. The gold only make
trouble in me life. I very frightened that it curse
my life en make my father unhappy.’
“‘Yer want ter sell me your share in the
mine,’ I sez. ‘Well, of all the mad blokes this
side
“ He stopped me quick an’ lively.
“‘Not mad,’ he sez; ‘not greedy. You have
wife en leetle children. You work the mine,
Jeem, en be happy,’ he sez. ‘I no wife, no
children.’
“Then I asked him what he thought was a fair
thing fer his half share.
“ ‘You make it fifty pounds, Jeem,’ he sez,’ ‘ en
I sign the whole bletty mountain to you. You
know the mine to be ryebucken Sirgarnio,’ he sez.
“It looked good enough ter chance, an’ I
straightway fixed up a little mortgage on me land
with Moloney. In the afternoon I handed him
the fifty quid.
“Next day, Moloney, Casey an’ Micko the
Dawg went back with me to the Buldoo Mountain.
We took horses, tools an’ bags enough to carry a
ton of rough gold.
“When we got on the spot, Moloney an’ me
climbed over the ridge where I’d broken up the
jeweller’s quartz.
“ ‘ Here y’are, lads,’ I sez. ‘ Out with the bags.
There’s a fortune for each of ye to-day.’
“‘Yes,’ sez Casey, squintin’ at thereof. ‘lf
yez dug from here to hell.’
“Moloney scratched the hill with a pick an’
washed some dirt in a dish ; then he looked at the
hot sun an’ spat like an’ old cat. ‘The black
curse of Sheela on ye, Jim ! ” he sez.
“It wasn’t safe to start explainin’just then, so
I started ter look sorry an’ pack up the things.
Twenty miles back o’ the ranges we met Ned
Donnelly. He told us he’d passed a couple of
Hindus the night before between Mt. Hopeless
an’ Nyngan. One of em was named Ram
Chickasee.
“We got on their tracks afore sundown. Early
next mornin’ we sees smoke risin’ through the
scrub. Ridin’ close in we spots a couple of
Hindus lyin’ on the ground. One of ’em, an ole
bloke, got up an’ came over to us. ‘ What do you
want ? ’ he sez in a gentle voice.
“ ‘Ramo Chickasee,’ I sez. I could see the
black swine lyin’ with his face covered up ten
yards away. ‘Get up, you swindlin’ jadoo liar ! ’
I hopped over to him swingin’ me stirrup iron.
* Get up, yer conjurin’ varmint! ’
“The old Hindu looked at me with big, sor-
rowful eyes. ‘ Hush, ’he sez ; ‘my son Ramo is
dead. The gods alone could bring him to life.
He died from cholera early this mornin’.’
“ ‘ Dicken ! ’ sez Micko the Dawg.
“ ‘ He’s dead,’ sez the old man, quietly. ‘ Touch
the body an’ see.’
“ I took hold of Ramo’s black hand an’ felt his
heart. He was cold as ice, an’ his eyes was half
opened, starin’ at the sky.
“ ‘ Dead —my son is dead ! ’ cries the old man.
‘Do not go from here, gentlemen, until you wit-
ness the last religious ceremony.’
“ Moloney said we’d better wait. The old man
collected a heap of sticks an’ dry timber, an’ piled
it high as a barn. Then, cryin’ like a woman, he
lifted the body of Ramo an’ placed it on top.
“ Casey an’ Moloney took off their hats an’
offered up a little prayer for the departed dead,
while the old man lit the wood heap with a match.
The wind lifted the flames higher an’ higher, an’
the dry gumwood burned like coal for a couple of
hours.
“ Nothin’ was left. The old man scraped the
ashes together, an’ placed ’em in a jar. We felt a
bit sorry for him. Casey bought a bob’s worth o’
preserved ginger to cheer him up, an’ Moloney
took a couple of cotton shirts an’a necktie. We
shook hands with the old man an’ made for
Nyngan. We got in late that night an’ put up at
the Three Shearers.
“ Next mornin’, at breakfast, in walks the old
Hindu an’ his son Ramo, large as life, an’ before
he spotted us he shouts out his order for ‘ coffee
an’ eggs wishout any bletty bacon.’ He was a
terror to swear.
“We sat back an’ stared at him. Moloney
opened his mouth an’ closed his eyes. Then
Ramo whipped round an’ sighted us.
“ ‘Ah, geentlemen,’ he sez, ‘I hope you enjoyed
me funeral yesterday. Peeraps you would like to
buy a leedle of my Rumbo Dustymoser Fireproof
Paint.’ An’ before we could get to him he side-
flapped through the door.
“ We hunted for him in the scrub ; we dragged
the creek an’ knocked open the empty beer casks,
an’ the smell nearly killed us.
“No Hindu. Casey refused to say anythin’.
Moloney told us ’twas devil-thricks an’ jadoo.
’Twas more thryin’ to the nerves, he sez, than
horrors or dhrink. We turned into bed dog-
weary that night, an’ just before Casey blew out
the candle, Ramo steps into our room an’ sez
he was sorry for givin’ himself a bogus funeral an’
hurtin’ our feelin’s. His past life, he sez, was
a mass of wickedness. He’d robbed an’ ter-
rorised old women, an’ half-poisoned children
with plaster of Paris instead of real peppermints.
Then he broke up an’ wept on the floor. He told
us if we’d collect a pile of wood in the back-yard
we could burn him at once without further
expense.
“ After the pub was closed, we got up quietly
an’ pulled a nice dry heap of firewood together in
the middle of the yard. Then Casey asked Ramo
to take a seat on top. Ramo climbed up, folded
his arms, an’ told us we could have his bundle.
He left all the preserved ginger to Moloney. He
told me that I could have the two dozen penny
trumpets an’ the large box of Epsom salts.
“The four of us surrounded the wood heap,
whips in hand, to prevent any jadoo tricks.
Ramo started the fire himself. It fizzed up like
kerosene. ‘Glory!’ sez Moloney. ‘Burn, ye
divil! ’ shouted Casey.
“It was a small back yard, an’ the fire got a
good hold of the wood an’drove us back a bit.
We could see Ramo standin’ upright in the
middle of a big white flame. He seemed to be
wavin’ his hands to us. An’ just as the black
smoke covered him, Casey noticed that the pub.
was on fire.
“ ‘ Begorra ! ’ sez Moloney. ‘ The women an’
childer ! ’ An’, be cripes, we just saved the family
by the skin of their teeth. Half-an-hour later the
pub. was in ashes.
“We sat with the publican an’ his family, just
to cheer them up a bit. Before mornin’ the police
came down the road, an’ Moloney jumped up like
a man shot. ‘Mother av God, look!’ he screamed.
“Behind the trooper stood Ramo, grinnin’ an’
pointin’ to us.
“ ‘ Peelice offecer,’ he sez. ‘I see those men
set fire to the hotel at midnight.’
“‘Yejugglin’ thief!’ sez Moloney. ‘Ye un-
holy blackguard ! ’
“ But the police took the lot of us to the station.
We told our story, an’ the sergeant smiled.”
Uncle Jim finished his beer hastily and walked
to the door.
“ S’pose I’d better go an’ see the kids an the
old woman. I thought one of ’em might ha’
come to meet me.”
“ Have ye been far? ” asked the publican care-
lessly.
“ Far ! ” snapped uncle. “I’ve just come outer
gaol.”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


i*
;W\WA\
5®
ilt \,
W\\
,|U« i»i til ».\i,iitVii;ii.i,;
tiit
WITH Summer comes that weary, worn-out feeling. Women, more par-
ticularly, are sufferers in this respect, owing partly to their confinement
in the house, and not getting plenty of fresh air, and owing a great deal
to the delicate constitution of the female organs, which give way under the
strain of work and worry. To all women who are feeling
“done up” at this time of the year, a course of Bile
Beans will prove of immense benefit. They brace up
and give tone to the various organs, thus strengthening
the whole system.
As a striking illustration, Mrs. E. J. Ramus, of
1 Arundle-street, Forest Lodge, Sydney, says :—“ Your
Bile Beans have proved a valuable remedy in
my household. lam sometimes troubled with
debility, especially during the hot weather,
and when I feel done up with a tired listless
feeling, I take a Bean or two with beneficial
results. As a gentle purgative they are all
that can be desired and leave no evil after-
effects whatever. My son and daughter also
find Bile Beans beneficial, and, from an all-
round experience, I can safely say that Bile
Beans are unequalled,”
X
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANACMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER
FAG, and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective Bile Flow, Assimi-
lation or Digestion. Obtainable generally at Is. Hd., or 2s. 9d. Large Box (oontah s
three times the Is. size).
A. (St, F.
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Chant Royal of the Great Army
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GRIM-VISAGED men with stress of the
fight foredone,
And women sweet, sore mired with the
toilsome way—
Hopeless, with never a gleam of star or sun—
And tender babes ’neath the chariot-wheels at
play,
The Army tramps, nor goal nor reward in sight,
The vanguard lost ’neath the murk of the shroud-
ing night.
There is no soul secure of its food or fee,
No God made plain to Whom one can bow the
knee ;
No power gives ear to the sufferer’s prayer or
moan.
They stumble on, with no beacon their eyes can
see . . .
A-march in the ranks hard-pressed, and the
road unknown !
Men bleed and die, the desires of their hearts
unwon,
The cold night yields to the glare of the sordid
day;
With the morning’s mists go the dreams that poor
brains have spun,
And the gods make mad poor fools that the gods
will slay.
Cursing they fall in the thick of the hopeless
fight,
God’s sad mad men who madly declare His might!
Some few remain, who fall not nor fear nor flee,
And these die doomed, with the Cross for their
gallows-tree.
Our Jah sleeps still, sound and snug on his ancient
throne,
While the Army tramps sore spent on the bloody
lea . . .
A-march in the ranks hard-pressed, and the road
unknown !
The women fall—frail harlot and cloistered nun,
Fair maid or wife—and the ghouls rend the shrink-
ing prey:
They fall too soon in the pits that they fain would
shun,
And their hopes that bloomed all wither in side
decay :
Sobbing they fall, though the path of their dreams
was bright,
And the lips love-fashioned burn never in full
delight.
They cry for succour, but no one will heed their
plea ;
For joy they plead—and the devils laugh low,
maybe;
To Christ they cry, but Christ from His seat hath
flown; —
The Army tramps a-weary, all hopelessly . . .
A-march in the ranks hard-pressed, and the road
unknown.
The children weep, ere their lives have in truth
begun
(The children’s tears! Oh, God of our nonage,
they
Would melt Thee, if Thou hadst the heart of a
looting Hun !) . . .
The thorns are sharp in the paths where the wee
feet stray,
Sweet eyes are sad that should glow with the
dawning-light,
Dear hands are bruised that should scarce feel the
fairies’ spite,
Fair limbs are fettered that should, as the winds,
be free; —
The children weep who should fill all the earth
with glee!
The Heavens are brass, and their Lord has a heart
of stone . . .
The army tramps (Hell triumphs ; but what cares
He !) . . .
A-march in the ranks hard-pressed, and the road
unknown.
And ever so the days of our strife shall run,
Till life has ceased and earth has got back all clay ;
The shade once golden is desolate all and dun,
The wearied sun seems dim in the face and grey.
The gods men worship are savage and swift to
smite :
Our souls are shattered by stress of the Infinite.
Time was when Paradise lured us to hope . . . Ah
me !
Those gates are shut, and the prelates have lost
the key.
On every side the maimed and the wounded groan.
The Army tramps, long baffled, expectantly . . .
A-march in the ranks hard-pressed, and the road
unknown !
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
On The Nive.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY first job on Nive Junction was
grinding old axes and putting bush
handles in them. They were some the
boss had found. He had an idea of some day
clearing the cypress pine that was choking up
the ruined homestead. It belonged to the bank,
and he was caretaker. He was always looking for
things about the ruins, and everything he picked
up was carefully stowed away in the store. We
nicknamed him Johnny Allsorts. Most squatters
are known by nicknames, referring to some per-
sonal peculiarity. One I worked with was known
as “Mobung”—good old man; a second, whose
mouth was mostly agape, was called “Mooginja”
—flycatcher; and a third, who was bald-headed, was
nicknamed “ Yannaburie ”•—a clay-pan. Another,
who was wont to come upon his men unawares,
was designated “Quebie” —a sneak.
The man-of-all-work on a station is looked upon
ns an inferior person by the musterers, or “horsey
men.” These are of two classes —the steady,
common-sense men and the Flash Jacks, who
delight to show off on every possible occasion.
Years ago, before the days of small paddocks, the
Flash Jack was in evidence on every cattle station,
in white moles, cabbage-tree hat with the string
under his nose, and long spurs. He was always
slouching on the back of a raking brumby. He was
a little god in his way. One of his customs was to
discard the end of every plug of tobacco used.
The man who cut up the last bit was despised.
Some would throw away as much as half a plug.
Many of those poor fools to-day are worn-outs
battling on the roads, and they make for the old huts
where they played euchre years ago, and search
for such quids as were then disdainfully cast on
the floor.
Nive Junction had only a married couple on its
permanent pay sheet. I was a temporary hand,
acting as understudy to the trousered half of the
couple in repairing a flood-wrecked fence. We
rode out every morning, taking our dinner with us,
and rode back in the evening. At this rate we did
from four to five hours fencing per day, which
made the job last a week. It was all but completed
when another flood came along and washed it all
down again. Killed time grinding more rust-eaten
axes, and hacking out more handles, till we
could get on to the line. Then we fenced
with our boots off, and trousers tucked up to our
knees. Where the ground was soft enough, we
sharpened the posts and drove them in, throwing
the chips into the stream. Then we would sit
down for awhile to make up for the time we didn’t
take digging a hole. We were both getting paid
by the week.
Johnny Allsorts was the direct opposite of
Quebie, his neighbor. The latter had four
men erecting a boundary fence. One day they
were playing four-handed euchre in a hollow,
when Quebie stole upon them. One man, who’d
had a run of bad luck, at that moment got an
exceptionally good hand, and cried out, “ I’ll go
alone!” “No, I’m hanged if you will! ” res-
ponded Quebie. “ You’ll all go together ! ”
Another party of men, also fond of cards, was
working for a canny Scot. They always left one
man on watch. One day Mac. sighted him from
a long way off, and, keeping a lug tree between
them, sneaked up and caught them red-handed.
“Ye’reavarra poor loolc-oot, me mon,” he said
to the nonplussed watchman. “Maybe ye can
carry a swag better. Well try ye, onyway.”
Then, to the others, “ Get awa’ th’ noo. Swags
are trumps.”
The day after we had completed our fence a
second time, another flood came down and flat-
tened it out once more. Altogether I put in a
month at that fence. It was the time of that
meteorological disturbance christened “Sigma,”
when disastrous floods swept almost the whole of
Queensland. In the north they came down in a
rolling, roaring wall of water, with a face several
feet deep and miles in length, carrying stock,
buildings and everything before them. Johnny
was one evening bemoaning the dreadful losses.
“ It’s an ill wind that doesn’t blow the froth off
someone’s beer,” I said. He answered, his eyes
on a carcase floating down the river : “ It’s a foul
wind that blows across a dead horse.”
The grass around Nive Junction was breast
high. Then came a plague of caterpillars, black
ones and green ones, little ones and big ones, all
busy, and eating every particle of herbage off at a
face. It was impossible to take a step anywhere
without crushing a score of them ; and if you
stood a minute they crawled up your legs, and
got into your boots and wriggled. They dropped
off the galley roof into my soup ; they rolled into
my flour ; and if I wasn’t watching closely when
kneading, a dozen or so would get in my brownie.
Every morning I had to empty them out of my
boots, shake them off my pants, comb them out of
my hair, and sweep the thick of them out of my
hut. At first I tried jjulverising them with a
roller, but the stench was too self-evident.
The blacks gathered them by the bucketful, and
boiled them, adding water and stirring till it
became a thick, slimy mass, loathsome and dis-
gusting in appearance. Then as many as could
gathered round the bucket, scoffed their fill of the
nauseous green mess with improvised spoons of
curled bark, afterwards passing the bucket to
another waiting cluster. We were camped out
for a couple of nights about this time, looking for
lost sheep, and incidentally hunting wild pigs, and
each night we had to burn a patch of ground to
sleep on, rake off the cremated livestock, and dig
a trench round the clearing. We also kept three
fires going to show them where to fall in.
The creeping things were bound north. They
rolled and wobbled a lot on the hot sand beds, and
moved hurriedly when they were gorged—but that
was from their anxiety to keep up. Their desire
was to avoid grooves; if they tumbled into
one in their gorged state they had hard work
scrambling out again. They didn’t travel much
at night, and not at all on a wet day. They were
black at first, but as they grew up they assumed
a light green color. The black ones were the most
active. Nothing short of a bush fire—or big
feet—could stop their onward march. Have
watched scores of them swim the Nive River.
When they reached old age they gave up travel-
ling and climbed into the bushes, which they
stripped leaf by leaf. When dead, they formed
a right angle, the rear half clinging to a twig and
the other half pointing rigidly skywards. They
slept in this position also.
When all these horrors were over I got an
attack of the “Barcoo,” which is like three sea-
sicknesses in one. It is caused in places by the
odor of gidgee flowers, which also engender an
irritable ailment called gidgee fever. Swallowing
too many flies will also bring it on, though only in
a mild form. The attack lasted three or four
days. At times I would be enjoying a hearty
meal, when all at once a fit of vomiting would
seize me. When that was over I could sit down
and eat another meal. Other times I could not
look at food of any description. Most repugnant
to me was bread containing soda and acid. I also
loathed salt meat. Scones fried in fat are at all
times bad, and are known out back as “ fever-and-
ague tack.”
Sigma ” having by this time quitted operations
on the Nive, I was done out of a good job and had
to quit too. I tried to keep up with the affected
area, but the affected area got away from me. and
I haven’t seen it since.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
*\K
M
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in tbe West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I bad to give up work and
seek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Readipg about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Hindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., LoweU, Mass., U. S. A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10IS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLIi FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Ball
Reasonable
Terras.
oinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
THE DRINK HABIT
CURED.
SCORES of those who were slaves to
Strong Drink, Drugs, and Tobacco, have
been permanently cured by The London
Institute Treatment. It is the only cure that
has stood the test of time. References given
b 7 well-known gentlemen. Write for booklet
giving full information, sent post free.
H. W . BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Masterton,
New Zealand.
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
Dr. Langston's Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holism never fails. A few doses produce
a wonderful change. The craving for all
intoxicants is destroyed, the nerves be-
come steady, the appetite for food return's,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
and Cures are effected Quickly. Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dis-
ease, not a Habit, and can be cured.
MOTHERS,SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release them from bondage whether they will
or not. My Cure takes away all desire for
liquor without the patient’s knowledge.
My Book “Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address all Communications to the
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
R I CORO’S
tSS^ cEo^y.Vf
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
Bt., Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY.FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-dav.
Address: HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodvne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ghlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fro 3, 15.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale," Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Ehzabeth-
street, Sydney.
CEB
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
lfhow|ong standing. Arethesame
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne.
Consider Your Health!
When you consider how much depends upon it, what can be more important
to you than the state of your health ? If you are troubled with bad or
indifferent health your capacities for work or pleasure are affected—even
your life is threatened. • Thousands of people know by old experience that
BEECHAMS
PILLS
are a blessing in the household and in every country of the world. No
other medicine exercises a more marked control over
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Nervous Prostration, Constipation,
and Other Painful Forms of Stomachic Trouble.
BEECH AM’S PILLS are good alike for man, woman and child, if taken
according to directions. They are pre-eminently a family medicine—a
remedy to have by one in readiness for every occasion where need arises.
There is yet another point in this connection that you should mark on the
tablet of your memory. BEECHAM’S PILLS, in addition to their acknow-
ledged value in Kidney, Liver and Stomach disorders, have a specially
beneficial effect in such aliments as are peculiar to women, many of whom
endure endless pain and ill-health through ignorance of this important fact.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price 1/1i (56 Pills) and 2 9 (168 Pills).
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
SECURITY in
Carter's
A
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be sure me, are CARTER'S
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Pott Free.
DR. MARTIN,
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., L.F.P.5.0., &c.
151 Elizabeth St.,
kydney.
The old-established, Reliable Phy-
sician and Surgeon may be consulted on
All Diseases of
Men and Women
FREE.'M
Age and Experience Important —Avoid Unskilful Pretenders —Both Sexes Coi
Confidently—No Experiments. If you are afflicted and Wish to Recover your
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE FOR
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE.”
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo., over 500 Preacriptions, 50 Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate.
The most interesting, up-to-date and reliable medical
work published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free to the public. It
is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity, afflicted with long-standing chronic
nervous, exhausting or painful diseases. No similar booh has ever been published.
FREE
a 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and coloml plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST PHtzt:.
CONSULT THE AUTHOR. All Correspondence Confidential. CONSULT THE AUTHOR.


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
U That is, if it has n’t got one
I already. It ought 1o have
| a Garden Hose if you want
* good crops. You can’t better
Jp the best. You’ll get it at . .
Perdriau Rubber Co.^i
270 George St., Sydney.
" Is superior even to meat and oi
Inestimable value as a food.”
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr# Robert Hutchison says:—
“A diet rich inproteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 3CO
pages ; price, 4s. t>d.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Puriiiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors,
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
K Celebrated
) PLATE and
) CUTLERY
MARK.
<oHr
"O-F
WOT
S ft
At the Showrooms-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Ale* at—
“THEBS block:,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
/
as!
ARTHUR PRYME « CO.,
A ‘F. PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
N.S. W.
THE
‘PLUM’
Q E hkef^bdfVd h n i everrPo i f 1 f^ Pe f!? r^ any 2. tt ? er - Itis specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
ede-e that is reauired to Being- practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR YEARS*! *** *** a nUmber ° f yearB ’. can tesfci^ r to
” RAZOR STROP > specially made for this Razor, 7s 6d.
. , , r A2OLEO ’ LIGHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake,
PR,CE {single Razor’ in ; P * ir ' in beautiful Morbcco Leather Case, 219.
1 ° le ZOr ’ ln Ivori Handle - 15s - J p Mr Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Ant Part of the World.
D*“Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
“There is no
Every Pump Guaranteed
than
99
y/t " - • *
'
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal
pluZaer PumnS Z Pumps ’ Double *°tmg
Vertfnni ’ Z ank or Ught Service Pumps,
Vertieal inking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
NOTICE
JTo sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thm Old Reliable English Remedy,
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
«^f, c P~ ed b y PoiNor»RBTKE & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Koad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman's NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZKS, 9d. & Is. 6d.
upon havi, '£ TRUMAN’S
iaiuun, and no disappointment can occur.
by Poingdicstke & Truman,
71 Old Rent Road, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 G-eor ge Street,
: ;
-
mu
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in K.S. Wales,
South Australia d West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our. agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rund/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
O RE
SINGLETON’S EYE O/NTM ENT
for sore and weak eyes, blight, and
restores eyelashes-
A CERTAIN
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAI L.S.
yOUP Chemist top the Little Book
H°W TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
)
f r M.O. for 5 - we will
addressin Australia one
9ct. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
ANreceipt of P. 0.0.
forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
Name or Three Initials, Hell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch-and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. TwiTted Wire
S/6 ; without-Pendant, . 6/6. . Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS Cold!
Wire King-, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
TEH DAYS' FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without aw stiou
if not perfectly satisfactorv. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years. 6
LATEST f'fc jS fill grn
MODELS 30/ 2£ ml IS to sS o
Eadie or New Departure. Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or tlmcher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Elm
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
acked and Delivered Free
o an 3 port in tlje world. We guarantee safe
200
Second-Hand Cycles
£1 to £2.10
EARN A .cycle
good a ., neWi
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
taking orders from sample
MEAD CYCLE GO. Dept. 1*39
LIYEKPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FEW PEOPLE
know what a wonderfully
simple and efficient pump
the . . .
PULSOMETER
is, if
correctly
designed.
It will pump anything liquid. Can be slung anywhere.
Only a steam pipe required.
THE PULSOM ETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND
CUTHiiDOE, Ltd., Agents,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY ■
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
