

DEWAR’S WHISKY
•jijavmwrij.s
saddens am
"WTttfc
Mining
107 Kent Street, Sydney
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sdfsdsd
3Ea:OJES
—wjs;—■
fjadleg’s Orient jjotel.
flip*
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowid & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
McLaren’s
Compound
TRACTION
GIENT,
DURABLE.
Large Stocks of Engines & Duplicate Parts held in Sydney.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SOLE AGENTS-
Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent St., Sydney
fs
"Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
LOW’S
I s
OYAI -
LAMP.
i
*
m
i' r i
m
mx
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
MON S SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Q/&v aM,
u
H
HAVE
THE
BEST.
-v, u
im.
■
Are Unequalled for MOTOR CAR or CYCLE.
225 Clarence-street, SYDNEY,
AND ALL FIRST-CLASS
DISTRIBUTORS.^^
HAVE NO OTHERS
df
m ' :
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
1
r
IMO
TEA
LBKE
OURS I
Wm
*?
TEA!
FOR
ALE
UURIVALLLED 111 QUALITY
3IIKT BOTTLE.
sd
fsd
Mo Other in
the World .
F.q^AI-6
f
s «r t gating plants supplied
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
mo Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
1. oot!s®h
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
f-.
sd
VERM
SEMOLINA
«‘*j
70
NiP'I 'mtm AbsoSytely the BEST TABLE WATER
The Bulletin
Vo]. 27.— N0. 1366.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, April 19,1906.


MEW Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
Hundel, New Pocket German Dictionary, 3s, post: d.
Holy oak e, Sixty Years of an Agitator’s Life, 3s, post 4d.
Westermarck, Origin and Development of the Moral
Ideas, 2 vols., Volume I just our, 16s, post 9d.
Barry, At the Gates of the East, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Bardswell, Notes from Nature’s Garden, Bs, post 6d.
Burke, J. 8., The Origin of Life, 21s, post Is.
Brooke, Life Superlative, 6s, postage 6d.
Dickson, Duke of Devil May Care, 3s 6d, post 61.
Phillips, Stephen, Nero, 5s 6d, postage 4d
GUe post 8d I)anvinism and the Problem of Life, 15s,
Lorimer, The Author’s Progress, 6s, post 6d.
Hutton, Brief Literacy Criticisms, ss, postage sd.
Young, The Happy Motorist, 4s, postage 4d^
Wagner Towards the Heights, Is 3d, postage 3d.
1 embei ton, Mv Sword for Lafayette cloth 3s 6H an
Pond, The Scientific Anmrican Boy, 9s post 9d ’ P
71 Castlareaan-street, Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London
*Pronounce viorj. Vide poetic license No. b 316,508,
granted to —. Pur tell, Esq., of Melbourne.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great • •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For this Cure of
Bronchitis !
ahd Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
HUDSONS EUMENTHOL JUJUBES-«
(Registered). CONTAIHS NO COOAINE OR OTHER POIBONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins,
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps.
Depot : 5&7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W '
THE RED PAGE.
DIONYSOS
AN occasional correspondent, stimulated
by occasional illus. of admirable young
gods languishing gallantly at luscious
ladies (the ladies also languishing),
has demanded “ what is this here
Dionysos-fakeinenfe ? ” In the XlXth Cen-
tury M. A. Hincks, writing of “ The Dance
in Ancient Greece,” replies eloquently :
The religion of Dionysos was symbolical of
natural phenomena ; it was elemental; it was of
the earth ; it arose from the instinots of primitive
man, and possessed all the coarseness as well as
the splendour of earthly things. Like the vine
whese stout roots lie deeply embedded in the
coarse brown earth, and whose fruits live in the
light of day, and are turned to sweetness by the
action of the sun’s warm rays, so the religion of
Dionysos had its roots deep down in man s bodily
nature, whilst its leaves and fruit lived in the
sunshine, and were turned to the highest uses,
and were wrought into golden song and verse by
the power of the artist.
Dionysos, like Nature hersdlf, was unashamed.
He was the god of people who had not yet learnt
to blush at natural things, all of which to them
were sacred. But those in whom nature speaks
with, but a feeble voice, those in whom centuries
of artificiality have killed all sense of their kin-
ship with our “great mother,” those who have
never felt the link which binds us so closely to all
living creatures —those, I say, will have no sym-
pathy with the religion of Dionysos. One must
have the power to feel one’s “ earthiness” to truly
love and comprehend Dionysos.
But the wine of which Bromios is the god was
a spiritual as well as a real wine. He was the
god of inspiration ; Ire it was who awoke enthu-
siasm in man, who whispered golden words in the
poet’s ear, who sang in the musician’s heart, who
taught the dancer his gestures; he it was who
urged on the hero in battle, the conqueror at the
games; he it was who gave a glow and a warmth
to the intelleotual life through the emotional life;
he the god who blew his “mellow breath”
through all that sweet land of Greece, making it
speak, sing, and act in works of undying love-
liness.
J*
Australia is to the full as lovely a land as
Greece. Why then can we not have a cult
of Dionysos, a religion of Joy, a worship of
Beauty, in Australia. Because—because
If a new St. Paul made another apostolic
tour, and came to this city and stood in the
midst of Observatory Hill, he might or
might not say :
*’ Ye men of Sydney, I perceive that in
many things ye are too super-British. For
because your forefathers lived in a cold
country, and huddled together in closely-
packed houses, set in narrow streets, that
they might have the minimum of snow and
slush to wade through and cleanse away,
therefore do ye likewise instead of adapting
your cities to your climate.
‘ ‘ And because your forefathers dwelt in
small rooms that they might not be frozen,
therefore do ye dwell*in small rooms that ye
may be broiled and roasted, whereas ye
should sleep in the open air for nine months
of the year, breathing deeply and purely,
and making of yourselves lusty and stalwart
citizens.
‘ ‘ And as a murky weather-gauge warned
your forefathers to roof their theatres, so
a climate of beautiful starlit and moonlit
evenings teaches ye to unroof yours, instead
of panting in malodorous and insanitary
buildings for many summer hours when ye
would breathe far more happily outside.
‘ ‘ And because your forefathers found their
inclement seas too cold to bathe in, there-
fore do nine-tenths of your people never
go near the water ; though ye have beautiful
beaches and a temperate ocean, and it would
do many of you all the good in the world to
be dragged out of your miserable suburban
terraces and sent joyously swimming in the
sunshine.
“And because your forefathers clothed
themselves in sombre garments like their
sombre skies, therefore often do ye clothe
yourselves in sombre garments that are ridi-
culous under your sunny skies ; and because
they wore chimneypot hats and tailed coats
therefore do ye; and because they wore
necessary waistcoats do ye encumber your-
selves with unnecessary waistcoats ; and so
on to fatigue and perspiration of the flesh.”
Then, if the apostle paused for breath, the
people would get a chance to go away and
eat fried chops and drink stewed tea, and
order black clothes for Sunday, and lay
out suburban streets one chain wide, and
generally to prove that a stream and a man
cannot rise higher than their sources. Or
if the man rises, it takes time—generations
of time.
Meanwhile, we remain a social organism
unadapted to its environment, too British to
appreciate the beauty of Australia, far too
British for the cult of Dionysos.
«
N. F. Spiel vogel’s A (Ju/nmucker on the Tram/',
here praised as a bright little book of trave;-
uotes, is republished by the George Robertson
Proprietary in a second and enlarged edition (Is.)
—better printed and no less readable.
“ Years hence, perchance, map dawn an age
More fortunate, alas ! than we,
Which without hardness mil be sage,
And gap without frivolity. '
TWO RECENT ROOKS
11$ Poverty and Hereditary Genius (Lond., Fi-
neld ; 2s. net) F. C. Constable offers a criti-
cism of Galton’s theory of genius that will
attract our Socialist friends. The book is
turbid, and should be rewritten. The author has
acumen and ideas, and he displays them so ill that
tie trebles a reader s pains in comprehension. Too
many adjectives, too many polysyllables, too many
dependent phrases and clauses ruin his style.
Criticism should be deep as a river and clear as a
brook.
Gabon’s idea was that ability is inherited.
Hence able families produce able men, and able
men are found m able families. Thus ability,
potential in the rmiiV; is practically segregated in
species—as, for example, muscular tissue has the
power of contraction throughout the animal king-
dom , but, by natural selection, the power of con-
traction has been developed more highly in some
animals than in others. As compared with the
race, therefore, able families, and their flower of
individuals exceptionally able, are set apart by
generations of selection and culture. The eminent
man is born to eminence ; the average man to the
average. It is a doctrine of natural aristocracy.
It is a doctrine which apostles of Socialism
must break down. If the average man is unfitted
to rule, is fit only to be ruled, then a system
which tends to level able families with the un-able
is less likely to produce a society well ruled. If
the able man is “born,” he cannot be “made”
from the mob to fit the Socialist scheme.
So F. C. Constable endeavours to break down
the doctrine. Following Gal ton in detail, he
argues that the average of ability is practically
the same in all families; and that it is environ-
ment, rather than heredity, which breeds eminent
men. His argument is worth following. Galton
suggested thaty “ for the good of the community,”
exceptional ability should be bred deliberately
from exceptionally able stocks. Constable con-
tends that the circumstances which fostered
exceptional ability should be repeated for the
mass. There is no essential conflict. Why should
not equality of opportunity be followed by culture
of talents successful in the equal competition ?
One begins to think J. W. Mackail has achieved
the task of translating Homer that has tempted.so
many minds and perplexed so many more. The
new volume of his Odyssey (Lond., Murray ; ss.
net) continues from the ninth to the sixteenth
book, and admirably. The Omar metre has become
a new measure, flexible as well as strong; and
Mackail gains freedom as he goes. One is told
that it is not Homer line by line, and foot by
foot; but what can be? It is the humanity, the
simplicity, the sincerity of Homer that make his
force ; and these things Mackail has transfused
mto English of a good style, weighty and sonorous.
There is in his version something pristine that
recalls the elder age when men could laugh and
weep : it is the pith of Homer in an English
story. See the subtle-souled Odysseus approach-
ing Nausicaa among her. women :
Dreadful to them the sea-stained man drew nigh :
And up and down they ran dispersedly
Along the jutting beaches : only then
The daughter of Al Hnous did not fly :
Such courage put Athena in her breast!
Unfaltering she stood up and undistres.-ed
And faced him : and Odysseus held debate,
Whether to clasp her knees in prayer were best,
Or where he stood with supplicating speech
From far away her mercy to beseech :
Till thus debating best he thought from far
The lovely maiden with soft, words to reach ;
Lest if her knees he touched, she tvrath fully
Might, turn away, then subtle-soft said he :
“ [ kneel to you, Protectress : God are you
Or mortal i If a God indeed you, be,
“ Of those who in wide heaven abide in bliss
Unto none else than very Artemis,
Daughter of Zeus Most High, I liken one
So tall and fair and beautiful as this ”
And so on, the flatterer. Does it not flow smoothly,
the stanza? as befits a heroic story, with the third
line to break it from monotony. But it is in the
story, not in the stanza, that Mackail’s merit
chiefly appears : gradually he accumulates an im-
pression, an emotion, that as far as one can judge
are very nearly those of his primitive original. It
is nourishment for "noble boys, and one can imagine
such pining for Mackail’s third and concluding
volume, not yet published.
i—- —.
It has been said before; but (as one of the farthest-
reaching observations in the world) it may be said
again : there is a great deal of pleasure to be
derived from little things. To continue the story
quickly, as becomes, on Monday, April 9, 1900 (or
it may have been Tuesday, or 10 : these details are
unimportant) a...a...in point of fact, a person...
might have been observed on a ferry-boat crossing
Sydney harbour. He (it was a he-person) carried
five current magazines. All in observing a rather
tolerable sunset, he lifted one magazine after the
other,, gently, and with a luxurious gesture flut-
tered the leaves over the rail.
From the five magazines perhaps thirty leaf-
let advertisements dropped and fled to marine
oblivion And when you think what care had
been taken of those leaflets in their tender
infancy, what taste or lack of taste had been
exercised in their development, what sums of
money had been given for their insertion in the
magazines, an 4 how suddenly and justly they
vvere murdered in their florid bloom—uncon-
sidered, disappointed, unrevealed, with all their
impertinences 0.-i their heads—you may under-
stand the exquisite satisfaction that the... per-
son... felt in thwarting the deleterious adver-
tiser. And it was so cheap, so easy, it merged so
warmly with the hues of the rather tolerable
sunset.
There remained three or four leaflets which
patient advertisers had glued into the magazines
(at extra rates). The person tore them out
genial y, savouring each ripple of the rips, and
carefully not-reading the advertisements (it is a
point of the game to not-read the advertisements)
I hen the person gazed at his chaste and ex-
purgated magazines and sighed with the unalloyed
content of the moment. The sunset had become
quite to.erable. The world was a good world
after all.
VERSE AND STRESS
OME fine lines by Lydia Schuyler in The
Century vary the monotony of magazine
verse. The subject is the second Napoleon,
the eaglet who never flew.
.. .Poor pinch of royal dust commingled soon
In alien soil with ashes of the things
Outworn thy father toppled doivn and burned,
Vague sterile child of old and new, vague lord
Of naught and noivhere, on a shadowy throne,
Near the huge pedestal the Corsican
Upreared on wrecks and fragments of the seats
Of ancient tyrannies, thy figure sits,
A shape of mist yet lordlier named than kings—
The simulacrum of an emperor
Wrought with thy features and thy father's name ;
The ghost of his desire, and on thy brow
The wraith of his tremendous diadem.
Lines 1,4, 10, 14 are worthy of the great Amer.
p>oet we await. The chief defect of the other
lines is that they are tow smooth, the words too
worn, the sonority too shallow : they want the
flashing epithets that genius invents as if magi-
cally. Alien goes too easily with ashes: soil is
out of place : land would be better, with a heavier
word for ashes: or if soil, then a shorter word for
alien.
In Eng. verse all stresses are nominally the
same stress ; but practically they never are : every
vowel alters them, and many a consonant. A
good unformulated rule in blank verse is to use
heavy stress and light alternately, making many
emphatic exceptions. Suppose that
, In alien land with idols of the kings
made sense : see how much more harmoniously the
line would curve, balanced upon the a of alien
and the iof idols. Try more nonsense-lines :
In alien lands with idols of the main
In alien lands with idols of the Mede
In alien lands with idols of the mire
In alien lands with idols of the mole
In alien lands with idols of the moon.
The first of these, with three heavy stresses, is a
verse of dignity rather than of melody : and note
how the repetition of a demands a line to follow
—for choice, one commencing with a light
stress and a break in cadence :
In alien lands with idols of the main
Intolerable ...
Variants 2 and 3 one would rule out : a , i, e
sounds like choral patchwork ; and idols — mire
approach too nearly. Variant 4 is a splendid
closing line : moo'll rolls away into the infinite.
Even an ungracious pastor can’t resist the temp-
tation :
t
ON TUB BURNING OP 0. DARRBIjIj’S MS. PLAYS IN THE
GREAT FIRE OP SYDNEY, 31ST MARCH, 1906.
Ye daughters of Australia, weep for George
Darrell! and mourn that desolating night
When heavy Austral drama was alight
And sparkling (One Night Only!) like a forge.
Perchance “ The Mystery of the Melbourne Morgue ”*
That awful conflagration solved at sight:
Yea, the devouring element would bite
“ The Ha,unted Hatter of the Gippsland Gorge ! ”
But Genius shall not perish from, the earth !
“ Villains, unhand her! ” See it rise and ride,
One leaf above the pyre ! a phoenix boon,
Bearing to distant shores in billionth birth
The deathless phrase that worship shall divide
In alien lands with idols of the moon,
i
Anyone who would know more about stresses
may purchase R. Bridges’ essay on Milton’s
prosody and W. J. Stone’s on classical metres
(the two in one vol. ; Clarendon Press ; ss. net).
Bridges is a scientific critic; and though it
is true that poetry cannot he made by
rule (alone), it can i>e mended. Genius itself
succeeds by unconscious knowledge of the rules, —
by a science that is instinctive in genius.
“Stress” = roughly the accent, the beat, that
makes a verse rhythmical. Follow some of
Bridges’ conclusions :
The verse cannot make the stress, because it is the
stress that makes the verse. Thus the stress governs the
rhythm.
Stresses must all be true speech-stresses: i.e., the
rhythm -must never rely upon the metrical, form to
supply a stress which is not in the natural speech-
intpnation, but is introduced only by the necessities of
the rhythm,
That is, every word must bear its due
burden of stress, neither less nor more. If
your metre demands a heavy stress, you
must have a heavy word to meet it;
arid conversely. It was because he had no ear for
this rule that Gordon wrote such rattletrap
verse: he seems to take his words by the
head, as he would take a reluctant steeplechaser,
and hurl them clattering at the metrical line.
Arid it was partly because Kendall had an uncon-
scious knowledge of this rule, and disposed words
so as to bring out their fine values, that his verse is
comparatively melodious.
But enough technic.
♦
The Sydney exhibition of the pictures of Miss
Grace Joel —a painter sprung from Maoriland and
trained in Paris —proves her possession of some
artistic faculty and considerable technical skill.
A natural study of a sleeping infant in its mother’s
arms, a faithful study of an old woman-two
Salon pictures—are painted much better than we
are accustomed to see local students paint; but as
artistic wholes lack freshness and that primal
force which would carry them past the category
of gallery conventions. The most individual pic-
ture is an impression of market-day at Etaples,
which exhibits a hurrying scene with piquant
colour. Half Miss Joel’s work is impressionist,
half closely seen and painted : her experience
gives her facility in both styles, and in landscape
as well as figure ; but in following all the ruts she
has not freed herself. In subject and manner she
needs to specialise in order to display her talent
fully.
MEMORANDA
IT was said that only 25,000 people “saw”
Hunt’s picture of The Light of the World on
one Sydney Sunday. But on the following
Sunday 32,000 people “saw” it; and
the total of seers was over 20(1,000. “Seeing
is believing ” —that the picture exists. But if
32,000-odd people “saw” in three hours, as
alleged : that was at the rate of 180 per minute,
or three per second. Just how much artistic in-
spiration and moral aspiration the average
person can absorb in 1,-sec. is a problem;
but if there is an integer in the solution it stands
at the end of a long row of ciphers—probably
32,000 ciphers. Even if 00 people “saw ” gallantly
and together, they must have moved on at the
expiration of one second sharp—and indeed that
seemed quite enough for most of them.
Exhibition under such circumstances turned
Hunt’s melodrama into a farce. But people have
been led to the Art Gallery, people have had a
day’s outing, people have enjoyed the excite-
ment of the crowd—all good things for people
used to stagnant Sundays in stuffy houses. Hunt’s
missionary zeal will do good obliquely, by inad-
vertence —as good is usually done. If the Gallery
trustees knew the meaning of intelligent enter-
prise, they would organise and advertise similar
exhibitions every Sunday, and add Music to the
attraction of Art. The Sun’s day should be a
sunny day. '
One does not often see a drama written round a
modern poet, but Catulle Mend6s, that Paris evergreen,
has attempted the feat for Albert Glatigny—a tender
Bohemian bard of the last generation (he took Saintsbury’s
fancy). When verse was unprofitable Glatigny used to go
acting in the provinces, and Leconte de Lisle said that
“the potatoes didn’t spare him”—potatoes (boiled, for
choice) taking the place of eggs with discontented French
audiences. Eventually Glatigny got married, and on his
wedding-day was found dissolved in tears. “ But why ?”
“It is too much,” said Glatigny. “ I have learned what
it was to be loved and to eat as much as I could on one
and the same day ! ”
The Aim and Method in Natv/re-Study, by 0. R.
Long, is published by Macmillan (Lond. ; Is.). One views
nature-study, as a task for Australian schools, with a
dubious eye. Nature-study, to be profitable, needs
enthusiasm, it needs sympathy; and one fears that as
soon as it becomes part of a syllabus, with lessons and
marks and examinations, all the value will vanish. It is
agreed that the romance of Nature is wonderful and
enthralling, but only if one is born responsive, or if response
is kindled by a contagious fire. Togo out and hunt for the
romance—deliberately to capture an ant : “ O ant! what
can you teach me of the M3 T stery of the Universe??’?”—is
apparently a good way of losing the magic. In'other
words, one thinks that the love of Nature should come
before the study, and that to study in the hope of inspiring
love is for the average Australian teacher and the average
Australian child a hopeless endeavour. If “ beauty talked
about disappears,” it is suggested that the method of
Nature-study must almost inevitably defeat-its aim. Mr.
Long has taken pains with his little book, and has accu-
mulated a fine array of authorities: he understands,
too, the need of guarding against sentimentality.
(Mrs. Leo Potts was an early Nature Student, and
her “Ode to an Expiring Frog” is an example of the
way in which some people are studying Nature to-day.)
A story of painters, from Haynie’s reminis-
cences :
Once a few of Edouard D6taille s friends were invited
by him to a luncheon on the anniversary of his birthday.
There were present Jules Lefebvre, Benjamin Constant,
Chaplin, and Henner ; but there were also more humble
mortals among the guests. Bouguereau was invited, but
he excused himself on the plea of work to do. Breakfast
over and cigars finished, someone proposed a call on the
absent master and friend of all; so into carriages we
clambered ; by and by we entered the studio of the Rue
N6tre Dame des Champs, and there was Bouguereau with
a nude male-model in pose.
When they had told him of the dejeuner, and how they
all regretted his"absenee therefrom, those men of genius
began to tease and plague Bouguereau. “ Pshaw !he
thinks he can paint; poor man!” “Why, he even
imagines he can draw 1 ” “ Look at those canvases—how
amateurish!” GHere, Edouard, show William how to
draw ! ” And so on.
No,w Detaille is also noted for the excellence of his
drawling ; and, entering into the spirit' of the fun, he
stepped up to the easel, gently pushed Bouguereau to
one side, laid on a large clean sheet of white paper, and
with a crayon began. In the centre of the paper he
quickly drew the head of a cavalryman. Next, at one
corner near the bottom of the paper, he drew the hind
hoof of a horse ; then, higher up, but on the left, he drew
a horse’s nose ; and then, in a few minutes, wituout hav-
ing to erase a single strobe, he completed'the man for
whom he already had a head, and showed him seated on
the horse for which he already had a hoof and nose.
Everyone, Bouguereau alone excepted, applauded
D6taitle’s masterful skill, Jbut our host said nothing.
Instead, he made a sign to his model to take a pose. He
laid on a clean sheet of paper, took up a crayon, and
then, Without bnfce taking the jaoint of it from t.he paper,
he traced the outline of the model’s entire body, with his
face in profile. It was perfect drawing ; and when he
laid down the pencil those famous painters all stood up,
bowed to Bouguereau, and exclaimed “ Master ! ”
In the fire that destroyed the premises of
Edwards, Dunlop and Go., Sydney—one of the
two important wholesale book and stationery
firms in this country—several thousands of
Australian books went up. with the smoke
and fluttered to the infinite. Not a few
Bulletin books were among the number; but
enough are left for you-fto buy, and thank you.
“E.D.’s” is familiar in the mouths of “the
trade” as household words: an honourable
and useful firm, they have everyone’s sym-
pathy. The building and stock were fully
insured, but necessarily such a disaster tem-
porarily disarranges business ; though fortunately
the firm has large stocks and other premises te go
on with.
A new novel by Edward Dyson— ln the Roaring
Fifties —is announced in London. The publisher’s
prospectus says “it is a hustling tale of the re-
generation of Jim Done, the pariah of an old-
fashioned English village, whose youthful years
have been darkened by a crime and embittered by
isolation and mistrust, but who finds new heart in
the free, breezy, desperate life of the goldfields in
the early Australian digging days.”
A new volume,of “Steele Rudd” sketches,
Back on Our Selection, is announced for Brisbane
publication shortly. The current issue of Steele
Rudd’s Magazine prints some libels of a
certain ingenuity. F-g., liquor slides down an
aboriginal’s throat “ like a cargo of wet bags fall-
ing into the valley of Jehosaphat.”
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS for Sporting Material.
MICK
SIMMONS
s ■ -
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding looks,left choke, patent m
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2. *rUS
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
m
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—
Inter-State, 5s 2d
extension rib,
-N.S.W., 2s 9d;
35s
L.ESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUIM, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d
45s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S d'b.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
40s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUIV, same as’ above, but with Greener
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
50s
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
ivy. W ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
f v?
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen'f
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
fs
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
Mick Simmons
df
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, I2-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for'
2§in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-Sta ce
£l2 12s
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
sd
"THE MAINE"
P/fte
c Shewing Pifle Apart.
fitted with Sporting' Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
Sgjui
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Bartel, bolt action, weight about 2flb *l9O
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d ■OO UU
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb. -J Oo Olfi
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d.. .. Iwo
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3ilb. Postage— -i Orl
N.S.W., is 6d ; Interstate, 2s Sd .. .. ■OS UU
=g£a
Stevens’
Little
Kra.gr.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag," 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36in
weight about 3Jib. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W.; 2s 8d Inter-State).
21s
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
Folding Orchard Cun,
41 Og.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length overall 38£in,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9N.S.W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
35s
fs
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
df
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
sd
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 26 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight sjlb
£3
1897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight s£lb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d)
£4
CONICAL BALI
fs
®SSK>
dfs
d
A. 3VL 3VLUHTITIO 3XT,
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9<i ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
» 22 Extra Long..
$lOO 1000
Is Od i 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
LAWN TENNIS.
m
mm
bf=t>6>
3/6
ttANbICAb
51-
w
u
STANbARb
7/3
Ascot
2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandovvn .. ... 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
.. 13s 6d
18s
Renshaw ..
Demon
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
s
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set r
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
m
mm
The “ ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
• Complete. . Each.
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, soft tan leather, cover. 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are very light, suitable for fast work 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
“ ARMY,” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s
“ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above 27s 6d, 35s
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use '. ,11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 18s fld, 20s, 25s
“ EXPERT,” Medium Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with fine grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced 8s 6d, 14s, 21s
“EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s 6d, 20s, 21s
THE
ASCOT
Mick Simmons
2*sr
Us
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 5s ; post 9d N.S.W., Is 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, 6 horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S.W., Is 8d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 3, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, 11s ; post Is N.S.W.,'lsBd Inter-State'
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
2s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 5, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined tray, 18s 6d; post Is 9d
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d; post 2s N.S.W.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. p or pjfe Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
<-"*" »'«'* ~,»« s^ 5
®" r '” Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repavin'*
tv „ P A i v? e ? fc - °* fche loan a °y y ear - without notice or7a 2 o any one
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman ■ Senator the Hon t t w.itl. tv * a /. • „ . .
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon R J Blnolc ivr Tp . V a^ er> e ; Benjamin
General Manager and Actuary F um°t = Roll ° A ‘ Ca P e -
HEAP OFFICE, g? PITT STREET, SYDNEY. SMy ,
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO OEFY OOMPETXTIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
*
-1
Sfc,
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue, “a®
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt St., SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
me PLUM,
v Gentlemen,— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of. edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of vears, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
ThO “ Plum ” Razor StrOft, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
“Razolee” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
(Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10'6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/--
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15 '•, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30/-
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op tup. World.
Pleaae add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
vtole agents—CßAlC & AITKEH, 654 CEORCE STREET, SVDIIEV,
fcS
J
MAKES She SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
ie&i
o
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliot* Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENOS
BILIOUSNESS,
ALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsu passed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION .
Prepared only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENGh,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
AND CONSTIPATION.
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,s^iai®
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
VVill Cure the Nerves, Debility, host Power, Restore host
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DespaiF.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
D| nnn PIIRP Dll I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUUU uunu 1~l 1.1.0. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
UU a _h Ufnntnn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
■WcaK VHIJKTI6BI Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. HANS PETeR RASMU#
BSS
Sefcek
from a,
GjRANP
Includi
sfdnor&Mj()l>ANl
FIT
DISC
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
g
The Colonial,
The Reg Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
AGENT,
316 George St,
SYDNEY.
There’s SECURITY in
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Carter's
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH the
Be
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
Another Convincing Proof.
THIS TIME AT MERRYLANDS.
The Case of Mr. H. Almond.
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
Whilst much of the anguish and grief which exist in some families as the result of ill-health is hid
from the gaze of the outside world, and is known only to those who are immediately concerned,
sufficient transpires to excite the sympathy of every genuine philanthropist, and to bring forth
strenuous efforts on behalf of suffering humanity. Here is an instance in which the reader will recog-
nise a desire on the part of Mr. Henry Almond, storekeeper, Park-road, Merrylands, to extend a
helping hand to any who may be afflicted as he was some years back.
“In what way was your health affected ? ” inquired the reporter.
“Well, for two years previous to coming here, and for a good while after starting this business, I
was always mad with neuralgia, and you may guess that having a complaint like that so long must
have had a direful effect upon my system generally. Really, sometimes I was fairly raging owing to
the agony I was in, and many a time wished I was dead and out of the world altogether. Oh !it was
a life of fearful misery, and I pity any poor soul in similar straits. You may rest assured that I
resorted to pretty well every known treatment in the hope of gaining some relief, but success evaded
all my efforts. My gums, jaws and cheek bones were the parts where the torture principally existed;
but, curiously enough, there were days when one side of my face ached till nightfall, and then the
pains shifted over to the other side. And, as for sleep, well, do you think anybody could sleep under
such adverse circumstances? I know I couldn’t; though at long intervals, when Nature could not hold
out any longer, I lapsed into a state of unconsciousness that might be called sleep, and whilst it lasted
I had the worst dreams you could think of.”
“ I don’t suppose you were usually fit to do much work ? ”
“ Indeed, I was not; and I was also so low-spirited that I did not seem to care whether I was
ever able to work again or not. Shortly after the neuralgia attacked me I noticed that my digestion
was getting bad, and so it continued to fail, until eventually my internal organs were so completely
upset that even the lightest of food could not be assimilated. My tongue had a dirty coating, and
the taste in my mouth of a morning was most disagreeable—clearly indicating the bilious state I was
in; and another thing that troubled me was my sight —very poor, indeed, sometimes—while
my eyes felt twice their proper size and as heavy as lead. Between my shoulders I had more
pains to bear, and I ached so much across the loins that it was painful to walk even a short
distance. But you’ve no idea of the fearful state of nervousness I got into —used to give little
jumps and twitches as though I had St. Vitus’ dance sometimes, and the unsettled frame of mind I
was in gave rise to much mental misery also. Simple matters irritated me, and caused undue excite-
ment, and I tell you candidly I couldn’t find a moment’s peace or happiness anyhow.”
“ After so much ineffective treatment how did you manage to get well again ?”
“This way. A new customer came to the shop one day, and seeing how ill I was said, ‘Did you
ever try Clements’ Tonic ? Well, try a bottle, it won’t break you ’; and at last I did, for which I
am devoutly thankful. Oh !it was like something you read about in a novel, the way Clements’
Tonic served me, but it was a joyful reality, nevertheless. To think that I had suffered for years,
and only then had got a remedy to do me good was something to be thankful for, and I was, too.
Why, Clements’ Tonic began to soothe my nerves when I had only taken two or three bottles, and
you couldn’t credit the amount of ease it had given me already. It roused the weakened energies of
my system and stimulated my appetite to such a degree that before long I was eating as well as
ever—when the neuralgia had entirely gone. Of course you can guess how thankful I was. It is
also in regard to indigestion that Clements' Tonic is deserving of recognition at my hands, for that
was, after all, one of the principal things from which I suffered. Yes, my last remedy fairly opened
my eyes as to what medicine really can do when it is of the right kind, for in spite of everything else
failing, Clements’ Tonic set to work and put me right in no time. A few weeks use of it made such
an altered man of me that I had nearly forgotten what it was like to get up feeling half dead with
weariness. My breath was sweet, and I had no unpleasant taste in my mouth of a morning; my eyes
were bright, and the sight good. I slept soundly each night, every pain had gone. So what mom
could any man wish for ? ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ALMOND, of Park-road, Merrylands, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,,
do solemnly declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains, and is a true-
and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to-
publish in any way my statements —which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900. (Sgd.) HENRY ALMOND.
Subscribed and declared at Merrylands, this twenty-third day of September, one thousand nine hundred and*
four, before me, GEORGE J. FINLAYSGN, J.P.


Doctors, lawyers, ministers, bank-
ers, merchants, business men every-
where, all rely upon
Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, whenever
they have a cough
or a cold. They
keep it on hand, at
their home, at their
f>lacg of business.
They carry it with
them when they
fsd
travel. They say there is nothing SO
had for ft cough as Coughing, and
there is nothing so good for ft
Cough as
filler’s
It is the best remedy in the world
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping-
cough, influenza, and all throat and
lung troubles.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
So-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectofal.-
Put up in large' and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lovell, Mass., U. S.A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fs
His Majesty The
King and
Boyal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
" Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
11 Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella
L
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says : “You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.’’
SEE THE L.ABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
CAUTION
-IT IS NECES-
SARY TO
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
—E
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julich’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH’S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
PURVEYOR TO H.M. the KING EDWARD VIL
8®
sfc'
)
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of “ BONNINQ-TON’®
IRISH MOSS." She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is »•
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE BUYS THE SOAP.
LET IT BE
WRIGHT’S COAL TAR SOAP
For it has THREE UNRIVALLED MERITS:
It is delightful in use. It is absolutely pure.
It protects from all infection.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
faESTSHEE®^ wW ®‘
df
ALHANBu toGmm]
sdf
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
FWtp.
hm
IN BLAOK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
s
JUJjOCTTH^T2AgEJMARI^BOTECTIOI^cJrorIBg3j
gnus tAofei ts gBB6EBS
HOHOW-CROUND
mimm
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above*
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England. |
wizmmm
CIGAR SMOKERS! Try
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and Full Strength, 17-6 per box (100); postage
9d. extra. Send for Is, worth as sample—posted free.
Ageirts-CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE ST. r .SVDNEV
1
Beautiful Home Decorations
dfs
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant rich permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and’Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOEIN” ALI JILM M KVAOKL gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarmshable silvei finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOTO PAINT (Ready Mixed). Tin equalled in lustre and
east of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory. ~ . .. ....
For sale by all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR. FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, OSAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
P»*izo MedalSu
d
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention ts also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Birmingham, England.
Works r
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Darkness.
The dusk has stolen in among the trees,
And night sits silent on its ebon throne —
Its high head crowned with stars; no little breeze
Across the dreaming countryside is blown.
If I have read aright, night always holds
A wonderful enchantment for the soul,
Its magic touch unbars a gate, and folds
A curtain back, and shows the world —a whole.
The dark, mysterious, haunted moments teem
With ancient memories—faint, elusive, thin—
Of primal aeons, when the trees that dream
And we that watch them dreaming were akin.
Who is there, halting in a forest way,
Hears running Water singing evermore
Through ferns at night, and does not feel the sway
Of some mysterious charm unknown before ?
And some there are who shut their ears to sound
And muse in silence underneath the stars,
And dream, perchance, of seas that break around
The flaming capes and crimson coast of Mars.
Night bids us drink of peace and banish care,
And night is Tragedy’s appointed time,
When even crimson deeds, like rubies rare
On some rich sable robe, appear sublime.
Dark reigning night ! it has its beauty, too :
Beauty of seas that stretch themselves afar,
Beauty of stars that bend in sacred blue,
Beauty of cloud and mountain top and star ;
Beauty of star and star that fire and pale—
Red flashing or white dreaming spheres of light;
Beauty of meteors’ sudden light, that fail
Ua suddenly, and pass in endless night.
I thank the night for many golden dreams
That amplified the shrunken ken of day—
For lights, suggestions, revelations, gleams,
That made a high road of the narrow way.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Most Important Man.
There died a Most Important Man.
The grass still grew ; the waters ran ;
But all the Press said, with one quill,
No man alive his gap could fill;
Because he was so grandly great.
And bulged so largely in the State.
It added that his death, withal,
Would over nations cast a pall—
A three-ply, three-dye pall of gloom,
When he was carried to the Tomb.
Then, in a long procession grim,
Unto his Tomb they carried him.
It was a Tomb both rich and rare—
Its occupant was in the Chair ;
It seemed, in that Assembly chill
He was the Most Important still.
And many whom he left behind,
Said he a Throne Above would find.
And many more—in fact the most —
Said —“Hell was yawning for his ghost.”
But people mostly say too much
Of bad or good—for life is such.
And anyhow when from the Throne
His ghost came wandering alone
It met a sinful spectre thin
That once wrote for The Bulletin.
“ What luck ? ” this spectre flippantly
Enquired, “ What luck, my Pharisee?
“You were our Most Important Man—
Where’s your celestial caravan ?
“ Did you see God ? ” “I did—God said
He did not know Me—cut me dead.”*
CREEVE ROE.
The Cult of Bones.
Thin, bloodless men in solemn tones
Expand the noble cult of Bones,
And the crude nudity of facts,
Which, with a mantle richly fair,
Artistic nature counteracts,
And off her lovely veil they tear,
To lay the hard foundations bare.
And yet they less well know the truth,
Than eager and spring-hearted youth,
Who, with a laugh of scorn, dismisses
This warning of the skull beneath
The shrine that draws impassioned kisses,
Saying, “My heart loves what it seeth,
I would not kiss the naked teeth.'’
For life is not a mould of clay,
And fashioned just to pass away ;
A length of wood is not a tree;
Earth is no rounded mass of stones ;
Things are more what they seem.to be
Than is allowed in Cults of Bones,
And men are not their skeletons !
The spirit and the truth they miss
In every living thing, I wis,
Who treat this doctrine most absurd.
Things grow around the skeleton,
As meaning hangs around a word—
I have a doctrine of my own :
“ There is poor nourishment in bone.”
Heed not the earthy pessimist,
Who, foolish-wise, will try to twist
The hidden skeleton and frame
Outside the real and living clay ;
The only truth is vital flame!
Kiss the red lips what time you may,
And laugh the Cult of Bones away!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


£lOOO FORJi- £lOOO
A Fortune for 1- a Fortune for //-
£lOOO for Is {
FIRST
Great Prize
{£looo for 1s
Or 12 Months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or eight months for two,
And 129 Other Important prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours Great Jubilee Art Union.
50 YEARS THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR 50 YEARS.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia
Great Art Union, 22 for dBI, 11 for lOs., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing 14th May, 1906.
BE SURE to TRY YOUR LUCK .
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Buildings, 812 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
cnef
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAIM SHOW I LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EIVIPtRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
% Certificate Given With Each Watch.
\& ft9 \V '6B*
o'* 0 °+W<& E VTv° No
»8 5 ' VI 1892 7/ 'Ss^
s
ROTHE® HAMS
LO N [DON
Estab-
-1750.
UfflH
II
DEI
frlKlQ
III: TH:l'ln.i
Bl
idsaai
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartmgnts
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
the ...
Nindooimha
Dairy
Farms
Adjoining
TA BRAG A LB A, Albert River,
Queensland.
Estate
The First Section,
The Kerry Paddocks,
6092 acres
in areas front 718
to 1223 acres.
i.„ o i SitU f 6<J Brisbane, 4 miles from Beaudesert Railway Station by good
KerrvOrPPlr E p infa ?l’ ' vel | distributed. Splendid water from Albert River g and
l k ‘- Co, ? I Slder f d 1 the Drying and Agricultural land in the famous Albert
Distnct, having alluvial lucerne flats nearly a mile wide.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION
At Beaudesert, on MONDAY, 7th MAY, 1906,
' At Three o’clock.
Balance to 20
Magnetic Terms s One-Tenth Cash.
years
At 5 per cent.
Write for
Illustrated Pamphlet to
Isles , Love & Co
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE,
e 9
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
Our...
Famous
BIG BLOCK SUITS
Machine-made to Measure. In Pure Wool Fancy Tweeds and in Fox’s Indigo-Dye
All-Wool Serges. HONESTLY THE BEST VALUE OBTAINABLE.
Price
40/
THE
SUIT*
){Trousers 12/6
THE
PAIR
POST OR CARRIAGE FREE to Any Address within the Commonwealth.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms, which we shall
be pleased to forward POST FREE ON REQUEST.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
are: you
Brainy
Enough ?
If so, stick to the food you are using.
If not, look carefully to the reason.
Brain matter wears away each day.
Signs of nervous prostration show when the food
fails to huild back the daily loss.
Phosphate of Potash (from the field grains, not
the drug shop), with Albumen and water, makes the
soft grey filling of the brain.
The first two are found in
Grape - Nuts,
the food, predigested in cooking at the pure food
factories and ready for instant service with cream.
This food does rebuild the brain.
TRIAL PROVES.
Read the little book, “The Road to Wellville,’’ found in each pkg.
[2
,
m
Public Apology.
March lst this P ortrait appeared in The Bulletin, together with a portion of the
contents of a letter from a man the other side of Mooroobooloo, who wrote as follows ■
“ There wasn’t any RUBEROID ROOFING advertisement in The Bulletin last week.” He
writes again, and states that the letter was not for publication. That portrait is nothing like
him. It is the “dead ring” (whatever that means) of the biggest “ cattle duffer ” (another
poser) either side of the Barcoo. He goes on to say that the walls of his house are insulated
with GIANT PAPER, the floor covered with RIJBEROID FLOORCLOTH, and the
house and woolshed roofed with RUBEROID ROOFING. His letter winds up
thus : “ Good and all as RUBEROID is, I won’t use another yard of it if you
don’t apologise.” The artist was instructed to draw a man with a strong,
intelligent head, broad forehead, honest blue eyes, firm mouth, and deter-
mined chin. He did his best, but failed. We apologise, and trust that our
correspondent will now save his house and woolshed from the ravages of
white ants by using AYENARIUS, the best of all wood-preserving oils.
E. RICH & COLtd., Sydney & Brisbane.
Wholesale Agents for RUBEROID.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1366.
THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1906.
Prick (sn.
IT COMETH UP OUT OF THE SEA.
Labor: “We sunk It goodness knows how often, and there It is again."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not, be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing, with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these condit ions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in, ItlacJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies o/Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. — The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 88 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kono.— Brewer and Co., 88 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
A gents 9 Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlffin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ffuT^BzilleZzoi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1906.
WANTED, A RAILWAY COMMISSIONER
FOR N. S. W.
After all the troubles and bickerings among the
three N.S. W. Railway Commissioners, it seems to
be generally accepted that a radical change is
necessary. And every daily paper in Sydney,
likewise all the stodgy old persons who write to
the papers—“ Pro Bono Publico,” “Constant
Reader,” “Father of 39| Children,” “Fiat
Justitia,” and the rest—assume that the thing to
be done at this crisis is to import “ a really up-to-
date man” from Great Britain or Canada. A
pathetic yearning to import somebody, and a
pathetic faith in any kind of imported person as
the remedy for all evils, is characteristic of New
South Wales, and the decision that somebody
must be imported seems, outside The Bul-
letin office, to be just about unanimous.
At all events, this paper hasn’t heard
a dissentient voice, so far, save its own.
In this matter the State has precedent to
go upon, though it is no very consoling precedent.
The two snarling, quarrelsome junior Commis-
sioners, Fehon and Ejrkcaldie, were both im-
ported, and the State seems to have just decided
that they are both somewhat of a failure. The
old heavy man of the pair came from England,
and is a railway genius with English and Canadian
experience. The sour angular man of the pair is
a Scotch railway genius with much Scotch railway
experience. Then if the people of N.S.W. look
across the Murray they will see the Victorian
railways in charge of a^specially-imported Canadian
genius, under whose control the system •seems to
have dropped into a state of cheap decay which
makes it a jest and a bye-word. The perpetual
habit which TAlt’s trains have acquired of running
off the lines and wandering into adjacent pad-
docks has become a subject for mirth. The other
day the Port Fairy train drifted off the line
twice in one journey, and the event hardly
created a ripple on the surface of events, and the
Gembrook accident, and the Bairnsdale train that
is said to be regularly 1| or two hours late, and
things like that, are taken rather philosophically
now, as events that might be expected. Before
the time of the imported Canadian genius Tait,
Victoria had the imported Scotch genius Mathie-
bon, who was better than the average, but still
nothing extraordinary ; Mathieson was also, for a
time, Queensland’s imported genius. Further back
in Victorian history was the dreadful imported
English genius Speight, whose wild extravagance
and lordly incompetence make the State shudder
to this day when it remembers him. South Aus-
tralia, by way of another example, has its railways
under the sole control of the imported railway
expert Pendleton, from Ireland, a man with large
English and Indian experience, and though the
S.A. railways are dragging along well enough in
a dingy, moderate sort of way, there is nothing
about them which specially suggests the touch
of a master hand. Commissioner William
James George (from England) is run-
ning the unkempt Westralian system. J. F.
Thallon, from Scotland, a man of large
British experience, manages the Queensland
lines, which bump just as much as if they were
managed by a local citizen. The Tasmanian lines
get along very moderately under the charge of a
Scotchman. In fact, it seemsthat the imported rail-
way genius is everywhere, and, considering what a
wonderful man he is assumed to be, the results are
not very amazing.
* * * »
In N.S.W. the case of the late imported Com-
missioner Eddy is always quoted as proving that
there is profit, salvation and healing balm in the
imported expert—this despite the Fehon and
Kirkcaldie experience. But even Eddy is, to
some extent, a joss whose worship is not wholly
justified. He was certainly a strong man and a
successful one, but he had unusual chances. His
predecessor, Goodchap, was only a nominal
railway boss under political control; if lie
had been freed from political control as
Eddy was he might have done as well as
Eddy. The new imported Commissioner was
allowed to reorganise and repair the railways with
loan money—an immense amount of loan money—
and he got them into fine order with loan money.
His predecessors in the management, and also his
successor (the plain Australian Oliver) had to
repair and maintain the railways mostly out of
revenue, and Chief Commissioner Oliver had also
to pay off by annual instalments the Eddy repair
and reorganisation loan. Further it must be
remembered, despite the halo that hangs around
the name of Eddy, that he never made the rail-
ways pay as his predecessor did in the early ’Bo’s
or as Chief Commissioner Oliver did in 1899 and
1901. Yet Eddy’s predecessor, who sometimes
made the N.S.W. railways yield over 5 per cent, on
their cost, got little less than one-third of Eddy’s
salary; and when Eddy passed out the salary
was promptly and enthusiastically cut down again
because a mere Australian was to succeed. And
until the awful drought struck Chief Commissioner
Oliver, and till the awful Owe’Sullivan began
to load him with unprofitable lines in a way that
no one loaded his predecessor, the Australian
manager, on a reduced salary, was, as already
mentioned, digging better dividends out of the
N.S.W. railways than the most-advertised im-
ported expert (the most-advertised one bar
Speight) that this continent ever possessed.
* * * *
The plea that is steadily advanced in this
matter by the importing papers is that there are
great advantages in getting “an up-to-date man
with British or Canadian experience ”; and if
Canadian, or Greek, or Hebrew, or Timbuctoo
experience is necessarily better than Australian
experience, there is something in the theory.
But why it should be better this paper doesn’t
know, and when it looks round on the
imported experience which controls railway
affairs in Victoria, Queensland, S.A. and West-
ralia, it still doesn’t.know—at least, not with any
certainty. As to English experience, the know-
ledge gained in a well-watered, densely-peopled
land is often the very worst thing possible for a
man who comes out here to battle with
droughts and the great emptinesses. The im-
Eor ted man’s up-to date foreign experience may
e more than counterbalanced by his lack of up-
to-date Australian experience, which is quite as
valuable an article, in its way, as any otlw kind
of experience.
* * * »
New South Wales, to put the matter shortly,
requires one sole Commissioner—not a nominal
chief, who is hampered by having his command
divided with two jealous and cantankerous equals,
or alleged equals. The Bulletin hereby nomi-
nates Chief Commissioner Oliver, on his past
record, for the billet. When Goodchap, in years
far back, couldn’t get on while blocked by all
manner of political interference, he was sacked,
and Eddy was appointed under a special Act
which freed him from political interference.
Because Oliver can’t make things go smoothly
with two men to divide his authority it is pro-
posed that he should be sacked, and his position
given to some outsider who won’t have two men
to divide his authority. Possibly Goodchap
would have done as well as Eddy with Eddy’s
chances; probably Oliver would do a great deal
better than an imported successor with the chance
(i.e., the undivided authority and the freedom
from the interference of jealous colleagues) that it
is proposed the imported successor should have.
The only reason on which it is proposed
that Chief Commissioner Oliver should be
ruled out is that he has failed to agree with
his colleagues—or they have failed to agree
with him. This is as absurd as it would
be to sack an otherwise successful general
because he and the two other generals who held
equal authority with him didn’t keep step, and it
is a great deai more absurd than it would be to
expect Joey Carruthers to run N.S.W. amicably
as one of three Premiers, the other two being
James McGowen and John Haynes. Of course,
it may be said that the position of a three-headed
control isn’t so difficult as it looks, because Eddy
ran things under that system with some success.
And it must be admitted that Eddy either
managed to live under the system, or else the
system killed him. But he hadn’t Kirkcaldie
for a colleague, which possibly made a difference;
and Fehon had had only nine years in which to
become disagreeable and unmanageable when
Eddy dropped out of the trouble ; he has now had
eighteen years in which to achieve those ends, and
that possibly makes another difference. More-
over, it was Eddy’s luck that no culminating
scandal like the Lithgow coal contract dragged
the disagreements to light in his time. If Oliver
had been willing to let that most objectionable
transaction pass unnoticed,.,-lie might also have
held office till lie died.
* *
What New South Wales knows for certain about
Chief Commissioner Oliver is that he and his
colleagues disagreed, and that in the two really
serious matters which came to light—the Lithgow
coal contract and the matter of the manufacture of
locomotives—the disagreement arose through
Oliver’s resolute desire to make a good bargain
for the State, and the apparently just as resolute
desire of his two colleagues to over-rule him, or to
go behind his back, and make a very bad one.
Disagreement under such conditions was
a virtue on the Chief Commissioner’s part, and
should lead to promotion and increase of salary.
The rest of the squabbles seem to have
arisen chiefly out of tne tendency of the two
imported men to be against the Australian ; their
consistent desire, as men who had been originally
trained in railway work, to show their contempt
for the man who had only commenced to learn the
science in his middle age, no matter how success-
fully he had learned it; and their jealousy of his
title of “Chief” Commissioner, accompanied by
a constant tendency to show him, by voting him
down, that he wasn’t Chief. As to the decision
of the Commission of Inquiry it was reduced to a
farce by the glaring bias—however unconscious
that bias might be—of Judge Rogers (he of
the luckless and muddled Friedman case),
who got into a condition of mind in which
he could hardly allude with civility to Oliver’s
witnesses. But, as already mentioned, even
if the responsibility for the general dis-
agreements lay to some extent at Oliver’s
door, the fact that he disagreed over the amazing
Lithgow coal contract, and over the proposal to
give the building of locomotives to a private firm
at a higher price than the work could be done for
at the State workshops, covers a multitude of
other squabbles. A man who disagrees like that
shouldn’t be lightly parted with. And as regards
the other differences, unless Joey Carruthers
is sure he could get on quite well as one of three
simultaneous Premiers of New South Wales, the
other two being James M‘Go wen and John
Haynes, and unless the editors of the papers that
condemn Oliver are certain they could get on
with two other men editing simultaneously, these
people have no reason to criticise. New
South Wales has every cause to believe
that it has a good and useful Chief Com-
missioner ; after hearing about the coal contract
and the proposed locomotive contract it has still
more reason to believe that than it had before.
To get rid of him in order to make way for some
unknown outsider, who, if put in Oliver’s impos-
sible position, would probably find it just as
impossible—an outsider who knows nothing of
Australian conditions and affairs —is a thing that
even the wildest craze for imports and for giving
all good Australian billets to foreigners can
hardly justify.
AN IMPORTER’S PLAIN, UNVARNISHED
TALE.
This is the story (condensed) told to the Tariff
Commission by Simon Hill, of Hill, Dickenson
and Magill, hardware merchants, Sydney :
The Acme Manufacturing Company was started after
the imposition of the present Commonwealth tariff by
Mr. Price, our “works” manager, and others. The
pioneers of the industry were brought to a standstill
through lack of capital and the extensive import of nails
from Germany and the United States of America. Mr.
Price, the inventor of the nail-making machines we are
using, waited on me, as a wholesale distributor of nails,
re the matter of handling their products. Being a member
of an importing and wholesale distributing firm, he found
it fairly difficult to get my ear or arouse my interest, as
the class to which I belong generally view with grave
apprehension, and consider as a menace to our calling as
importers, all Australian manufactures. I am speaking
in this way with authority, for 99 per cent, of my inte-
rests in this country are in imports and the wholesale
distributing of imports. As Mr. Price unfolded the posi-
tion, interest in him and his enterprise was aroused, and
I was successful in forming a syndicate with capital, and
took the proposition up.
The machines we are using were invented by Mr. Price.
They are made in this city by a firm of Australian engi-
neers, and are, I believe, the best machines in the world,
reflecting credit on the inventor and makers. They are
simple in construction, are produced cheaper than any
other machine, and manufacture nails equal to any im-
ported. Besides wire nails, we produce clout tacks, boot
rivets and fencing staples. We have not paid a dividend,
and I cannot see any prospect of .our doing so while the
present tariff obtains.
* * * *
Our cost for casing, cartooning, and labelling equals
28s. 4d. per ton. To this add the cost of manufacture,
which equals 00s. per ton. Nail-makmg under the present
tariff cannot pay or prosper ; the capital invested must
be lost or withdrawn, the inventive genius of Mr. Price
lost to the country, and the employees turned adrift,
while the wages now paid in the industry in Sydney wjll
go to German and American workers, leaving our own
workers to starve and our capital remain idle. I consider
a duty of £5 per ton should be imposed on wire nails,
wire clouts, staples, and boot rivets.
With this duty I am confident there would not be an
increase in the present price of nails, but it would give
local manufacturers the privilege of supplying the local
market, and the increased output would cheapen the cost
of production.
The quantity of nails imported into New South Wales
is about 8000 tons per annum. Our present capacity is
equal to about 1000 tons when the machines are fully
employed. With a tariff of £5 per ton we would at once
put up the necessary plant and engage the requisite
labor to meet the demand consequent upon the stoppage
of imports. The imports in nails on 6th April from
United States of America were 810 cases.
The establishment of the industry locally would mean
the employment of engineers to make machines, employ-
ment to case makers, cartoon makers, and printers, and
would increase the number of employees in our factory
four-fold, while a proportionate increase of employment
would be given to carriers and others handling the manu-
factured article. All these advantages would be obtained
without increasing the price to the user.
* * * *
I am fully convinced that if Australia is to become a
prosperous and progressive country it must adopt a
scientific, practical, protective tariff, full of the aims and
aspirations of the M'Kinley tariff of America, which in
less than 20 years has made the United States the leading
manufacturing country in the world. The guiding prin-
ciple of M'Kinley was, “ Our home market for our own
people ; worn and wages for our own workers, and em-
ployment for our own capital and inventive genius.”
Twenty years ago America imported her cartridges, gun-
wads, caps, and firearms ; to-day she supplies 80,000,000
of her own people with all these goods, and exports to
Australia and other countries almost all their require-
ments in these particular lines.
To-day the American glories in his factories and in the
superiority of his products. To-day the Australian
glories in leviathan warehouses packed from ceiling to
basement with £40,000,000 worth per annum of foreign
goods made by foreigners, most of which we should aim
at making ourselves by every device at our dis-
posal, thereby increasing the prosperity of our own
kith and kin and the value of our raw material, and
wiping out the reproach of being “ hewers of wood and
drawers of water ” for the wiser and more civilised peoples
of the earth.
• * * *
One of the strongest reasons for a high tariff is to be
found in the antipathy of the class to which I belong—
the importers. They have a feeling, when a new line
of Australian goods is offered to them, that their craft is
in danger. They think they hear the death rattle in the
throat of their calling, and all their bristles of detesta-
tion are out at once. To offer goods Australian-made at
the same price, and even of greater merit than what they
are importing,, .meets with a venomous refusal to touch ;
the goods must he absolutely better and cheaper before the
glamor of the foreign line can be removed.
About six months ago I wrote a letter to the Hardware
Importers’ Association of Sydney—of which 1 am a
member—offering them the sole sale of the output of our
nail factory, giving them a price which was exactly the
same as the landed cost of imported nails. This offer
was rejected with scorn—one member stating that it was
against their interests to encourage the manufacture of
nails in Sydney, and suggesting that they should fight and
wipe out this “ baby industry.” But better counsels
prevailed, when he was informed that in fighting the
Acme Manufacturing Company he would not be fighting
a shadow.
As a soothing balm for us it was carried that the
Importers’ Association would agree to quote our nails if
we would sell to them a single case as required at 5 per
cent, below the cost of the imported nails. We declined
the offer.
By this it will be seen that we are cut off from the
large and effective sources of distribution, and are put
to the expense of beating our own drum while the
importers hug to their bosom the alien and his products.
As an importer, I am satisfied this is an asinine position
for the importer, who is also a distributor, to take up.
I hold that I am as wisely and profitably employed in
distributing Australian-made goods as in distributing
goods made in foreign countries, inasmuch as the capital
invested is less, being, as I am, in close touch with the
source of supply. Besides, in giving my fellow-citizens
work and wages I am creating customers for goods
which I must import for years yet.
* * * *
There is another fallacy which, as an importer and dis-
tributor, I am in a position to contradict, namely, that if
you put on a protective duty the Australian manufacturer
will raise the price of the article protected by an equal
amount. My experience is the very antithesis of that. I
remember the Government of the late Premier Bibbs
increasing the duty on jam from Id. to 2d. per lb., and
this is how it worked: Morton’s English jam was sold
wholesale at 6s. 4id. per doz. under the Freetrade policy,
' and no decent jam was made in N.S. Wales at that time.
Within three months of the imposition of this duty two
factories started in Sydney, and produced for ss. per doz.
a better article than that imported at 6s. 4jd. per doz.
To-day this high grade product is, I believe, sold at 3s.
4£d. per doz. The duty created the enterprise to pro-
duce a good article, and internal competition guarded
the consumer. Under Freetrade he paid 6Jd. ;as the
result of a duty lie pays to-day 3|d.
* • * *
Eight years ago we had Freetrade in axle grease, and
an American brand held the market. At that time a
manufacturer started in Sydney, and produced as good
an article, at fid. per dozen less than the imported stuff ;
but it did not sell. The Commonwealth tariff imposed a
duty equal to 9d. per doz. on axle grease, and as a result
up went the price of the American line. The consumer
then felt inclined to give the Australian article a trial,
and found it all that could be desired. Did the Australian
article advance 9d. per doz. to benefit by the duty of this
amount? Emphatically, No. The maker reduced it 3d.
per doz. in consequence of an increased output. He has
now a good share of the trade, and the consumer benefits.
I will quote another line of goods—viz., cooking stoves,
the manufacture of which, under the present tariff, has
been started and is in a measure successful. But if the
duty were increased to 30 per cent. I feel certain the
cooking stoves of the Commonwealth would all be made
within the Commonwealth to the benefit of the manu-
facturers and operatives, and without loss to the users.
The history of this line of goods has opened my eyes to
the difficulties of infant industries, and the seriousness
of the battles they have to fight in competing with the
established giants of other countries, whose equipment is
perfect.
Sheltered behind the wall of their well-known brands,
which is in itself Protection to their goods—as the public
are to a powerful extent wedded to brands —they strip to
the waist to fight, and strike below the belt the infant
industries of Australia, and they boldly tell you the
object they have in view—viz., their destruction.
* * * •
The importing firm, of which I am a member, were
until recently importers of Scotch-made stoves. During
April, 1901, we placed an order for stoves with our usual
makers in Scotland. At this time stoves were free of
duty. The Federal tariff came into operation during
October, 1901, and these makers saw that their position
was likely to be assailed. In December, 1901, they re-
duced their prices to us about 17£ per cent, to meet the
tariff. This reduction and the strong position of their brand
had wiped out the tariff, and we placed a large order with
them. There was no change in price of the raw material
to justify this cut. Still the tariff stimulated the enter-
prise of local men, and to-day we are handling the pro-
ducts of Australian makers, and as shown by the whole-
sale quotation issued to our customers on March 20th,
prices are strikingly in favor of the poor consumer, being
much lower than those ruling when we were dependent
on the foreigner for these goods.
Instead of prices advancing 20 per cent., the amount
of the duty, the prices are lower to the consumer by fully
25 per cent. I say, increase the duty to 30 per cent., and
the output of the Australian factories will be increased,
the operatives more expert, and lower prices could be
looked for. I may mention that the Australian product
is equal to the imported.
Another fallacy obtains in many circles, namely, that
Australian manufacturers are a crowd of happy sharks,
waiting for an opportunity to devour the people, and
that foreign manufacturers are beneficent philanthropists,
with their hearts bleeding with sympathy for the Aus-
tralian consumers, and that to raise the price of their
goods gives them intense pain, and that when they do so
they apologise with tears.
As an importer I know they do no such thing. I have
never been consulted by even one of the hundreds of
foreign manufacturers I do business with ; I have simply
got a cold-blooded circular notifying the advance and
never a word of sympathy or apology.
And let me say they never get a word of abuse from the
metropolitan press of New South Wales for advancing
their prices. How different the treatment meted out to
the Australian boot manufacturers, when, through an
advance in raw materials, they were compelled to raise
prices 12J per cent.,to save themselves from ruin. They
were almost branded as highway robbers, as bushrangers
bailing up the people; but then they were Australian,
and as such were fit targets.for the contumely of Foreign-
trade papers existing ip Australia, and living on a long-
suffering Australian people.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Power of Direct Taxation.
The Bulletin is profoundly tired of hearing that
there was among the makers of the Federal Con-
stitution a “ tacit understanding” that the Com-
monwealth should not impose direct taxation.
If there were such a “tacit understanding” it
would matter nothing at all so far as the working
of the Constitution goes, for Parliament can take
no notice of such private agreements. There may
have been, and probably was, a “ tacit understand-
ing ” among the makers of the Constitution that
whisky was a good drink, especially with cold
soda. They didn’t put a clause in the Constitu-
tion to that effect, so the “ tacit understanding”
can have no effect if ever the abolition of whisky
came, to be a Federal question. Only what is
clearly set out in black and white in “ The Com-
monwealth of Australia Constitution Act ” matters
when a question arises as to the powers of the
Federation. Yet poor grandmother Argus, in
great trouble over the proposed Federal gradu-
ated land-tax, wails (27/3/’O6): —
To impose such, a tax would be a breach of the under-
standing- constantly formulated by the leaders of the
Convention that direct taxation . . .was to be left to the
States.... It would utterly destroy the independence of
the States, for with customs taxation and land taxation
gone, what would be left them but a miserable depen-
dence on the Commonwealth for existence? So the
solemn Federal bond would be shattered, and a unifica-
tion forced where only a federation -was agreed to.
And this wail is, constantly being raised in one or
other of the anti-Federal papers. If it were a fact
that “there was an understanding constantly
formulated” by the leaders of. the Convention
that the Commonwealth should not impose direct
taxation, that circumstance would have nothing
to do with the case. The leaders didn’t formulate
their idea into a clause, get . the consent of the
Convention to it and submit it to the people ; and
only in that way could they have made it valid.
But it is as far from being a fact as the
Petriana myth or the Six Hatters lie, or any
other of the fabrications which form the
stock-in-trade of anti-Federal journalism. The
1891 Federal Convention, in its Draft Bill, after
mature consideration, gave the Federal Parlia-
ment full power of raising money by all. means of
taxation. At the 1897 Convention (which framed
the Constitution under which we now live) this
principle was affirmed at the Adelaide sitting. It
was subsequently re-aflirmed at the Sydney sit-
ting, when the Convention rejected a definite pro-
posal made by the N.S.W. Legislative Council to
omit the taxing powers of the Federation, except


as regards Customs and Excise. And the right of
the Commonwealth to employ all forms of taxa-
tion, direct and indirect, was once again con-
firmed at the Melbourne session. Ihus on four
occasions during the negotiations which preceded
Federation, the question of this power of direct
taxation was specifically raised, _ and on every
occasion the delegates voted to give the Fed era-
tion that power, 'it is impossible to believe, in
the face of that evidence, that there was any
* ‘ tacit understanding ” that the Federation should
not impose direct taxes. If any further corrobo-
ration of the case against the Argus statement
were needed it will be found in the implications
of the Constitution. If Mackie, employed by
Hocken, restaurant-keeper, is given general
power to eat what meals he wants there, except
that he must not eat steak and chicken, clearly he
has the right to eat chops and sausages. Now
the Australian Constitution, after giving the
Commonwealth general powers of taxation,
makes certain limitations. All taxation must
be uniform. The Commonwealth is not allowed
to tax N.S.W. and Victoria at different rates.
And State property must not be taxed. Ex-
cept for those specific limitations, the power of
the Federation to tax is not fettered, and the logi-
cal implication is that there were no other limita-
tions intended or they would have been stated.
As against the Argus argument, therefore, stand
these facts: —
(1) That the 1891 Federal Convention gave full power
of direct taxation to the then proposed Commonwealth.
(2) That the 1897 Convention at all its sessions delibe-
rately affirmed the power of the Federation to impose
direct taxes.
(3) That what limitations were intended to be put on
Commonwealth taxation were clearly set forth in the
Constitution ; and the inference therefore is that no other
limitations were intended.
(4) That, anyway, the Argus “understanding.” if it
existed (and it could only exist by imagining an appalling
amount of Yes-No dishonesty in the various Federal Con-
ventions), has no more to do with the Australian people
than the private views of the Convention leaders on the
subject of bell-toppers. We are governed by what was
submitted to us and voted on by us, not by the secret
thoughts or plots of legislators.
There is, of course, no hope of the un-Australian
press ceasing its lie on this point. It’s a useful
lie and may help to stave off progress a little
while. But The Bulletin hopes that Australian
citizens will make a special point of keeping the
truth on this matter before the public. The facts
are easily available. They are to be found in the
Commonwealth Constitution Act and the reports
of the 1897 Convention Debates, or, in a more
handy form, in Quick and Garran’s “Common-
wealth Constitution.”
The State Premiers Demand a Sinking Fund.
There is something wonderful about the speed
and the Roman fortitude with which the State
Premiers decided, in their recent conference, that
good, strong, resolute things should be done, as
compared with the way they leave things undone,
or half-done, when they are at home. Take this
resolution for example:—
SINKING FUND.
Upon all loans raised or renewed there shall be provided
a sinking fund of k per cent. Provided, that where a
sinking fund already exists in a State, the total, whether
arising therefrom or in respect of loans or renewals, shall
not be required to exceed i per cent, per annum.
All sinking funds shall be vested in trustees, and appli-
cable only for the redemption of loans. The money to be
vested in State or Commonwealth stock. The interest in,
respect of such stock shall form part of the sinking fund.
That is not a very large resolution, but it is noble
in its way. Now, compare it (even on the humble
10s. per cent, basis) with the sordid reality of
things up to date as shown by the latest figures of
N.S.W. Statistician Hall(30/6/’05) :
Annual Contribution Total
to Sinking Fund Existing
at 10s. per £lOO Sinking
of Debt. Fund.
Queensland.. .. £208,930 Nil
S. Australia .. .. 145,496 £133,149
New South Wales .. 418,314 439,034
Victoria .. .. 269,952 279,861 .
Tasmania .. .. 47,622 214,171
Westralia .. .. 83,446 1,073,844
£1,173,760 £2,140,059
Queensland occupies the worst position and Wes-
tralia the best, but among them all the States
haven’t two years’ sinking fund accumulated.
Yet they have been borrowing for 50 or 00 years,
and some of the States have professed to have had
sinking funds for very many years. But even
this table doesn’t express a tenth part of
the badness of the situation. Take N.S.W.
as an example. Its sinking fund is, in
the main, a lie, and utterly non-existent.
The essence of a sinking fund is that a certain sum
shall be put aside annually (at 10s. per cent. N.S.
Wales should put aside over £418,000, whereas it
only puts aside £350,000), and this money should
be invested in the purchase of the State’s securities.
These securities should be kept alive, and the
people should go on paying interest on them. The
interest and the annual contribution of £418,000
odd should be constantly devoted to the purchase
of more securities, and the people should go on pay-
ing interest on them. With a payment from
revenue of £400,000 a year, the sinking fund, if
invested in securities yielding an average 3| per
cent, per annum, should amount at the end of 50
years to £52,399,000. That is to say, in the 51st year,
N.S.W. would pay into the fund just about
£2,233,972, being the fixed contribution of £400,000
out of revenue and £1,833,972 interest at 3J
per cent, on the State securities, which
had been bought up and were held by the
sinking fund trustees. The amount looks large,
but it costs no more to pay interest on our
public debt to our own sinking fund trustees than
to an outside Cohen. That is how a real sinking
fund works, and even though the annual payment
into it out of revenue is only 10s. for every £lOO
of debt it will overtake almost any debt in time,
even if the State keeps on borrowing considerably.
But the N.S.W. sinking fund is something quite
different, and to call it a sinking fund is little else
than a deception practised on the public creditor.
Every year £350,000 is put into the fund; with the
possible exception of some small amounts which
form real sinking funds it is spent on the purchase
of stock; the stock is cancelled and the people
cease to pay interest on it; therefore at the
end of 50 years the amount paid off will be
about £17,500,000 instead of over £52,000,000,
and the 51st year’s contribution to the fund will
be just the same old £350,000 instead of about
£2,334,000. The kind of sinking fund N.S.W.
has is never likely to overtake any debt, or even to
reduce the debt, so long as the State continues
borrowing even in a small way. And yet N.S.W.
is no worse, in this respect, than some of its
neighbors. The Bulletin begs to move that
these State Premiers, having made such a good
and unanimous resolution about starting genuine,
honest sinking funds, should show their sincerity
by establishing these funds at once. But perhaps
they only meant that when the debts are taken
over by the Australian Government it should
start the honest sinking funds, while the State
Governments stand by and remark that the levy-
ing of sorne half-million or so of extra taxation to
make up the amount required is a horrible
example of “ Federal extravagance.”
*
The Eastern Extension Cable Co.
Sydney Telegraph, last week, made an impudent
attempt to raise hostility to the Australian Govern-
ment on the question of the rival Australian
cables, but its scream fell flat. The effort to show
that the Government was a tyrant and an oppressor
of the Eastern Extension Cable Co. was a little
too ridiculous even for the N.S.W. State Frights
folk. As a matter of fact, the decision of
the Australian Government to cut off
the special privileges of the Eastern Exten-
sion Co. is a long-delayed step towards
bringing to some reasonable conclusion a muddle
which is older than the Federation. The Eastern
Extension Cable Co. is a branch of the great
Cable Trust which controls so much of the world’s
sub-marine cable system. • Its treatment of Aus-
tralia, whilst it had a monopoly of the service be-
tween this continent and the outside world, was
so bad that, before Federation, the States of N.S.
Wales, Victoria and Queensland joined with
Maoriland, Canada and Great Britain to construct
“the Pacific cable” —which connects Australia
with Europe via America. As soon as the
Pacific cable approached completion, but not
before, the Eastern Extension Co. prepared to
meet opposition. It offered to largely reduce its
rates and to lay another cable to Australia via
Africa if it were allowed privileges which, in its
opinion, would enable it to beat the Pacific oppo-
sition. The States of Westralia (which would be
advantaged by the new line), South Australia
(which had identical interests with the E.E. Co.,
as the E.E. messages came over the S.A. lines
from Port Darwin to Adelaide), and Tasmania
(which was at the mercy of the E.E. Co. through
that Co.’s ownership of the line connecting Laun-
ceston with Melbourne) fell in with the E. E. Co.’s
ideas, and made an agreement with it in per-
petuity on the terms it asked. Then the E. E.
Co. approached Victoria and N.S. Wales (though
they were partners in the Pacific cable enter-
prise), and was able to bamboozle the Postmasters-
General —Mr. Gurr in Victoria, Mr. Crick in
N.S.W. —into falling in with the same agreement.
The Victorian Government, under Premier
Turner, wisely and enthusiastically repu-
diated Mr. Guru’s action, and that part
of the agreement didn’t come off, but W. P.
Crick was able to have his own way, and,
though his State was one of the chief proprietors
of the Pacific cable, he completed an agreement
by which the E.E. Co. hoped to be able to meet
and defeat the Pacifio opposition. Later on the
Federation, taking over the posts and telegraphs,
had to take over these agreements, which had a
perpetual currency. The E.E. Co. offered to
waive the State agreement if the Commonwealth
would give it the right for 12 years to open offices
' for the direct receipt of business in the various
capitals, the use of a special laud line between
, Melbourne and Adelaide, and other privileges,
which would assist it to crush the Pacific cable,
of which the Commonwealth owned one-third.
The (then) Barton Government agreed to these
terms, unwisely in The Bulletin’s opinion, for
with its monopoly of the land lines it had the
E.E. Co. practically at its mercy. The House of
- Reps, ratified the agreement. The Senate refused
to do so, and suggested modifications to which
the E.E. Co. would not agree. Meanwhile the
E.E. Co. was granted all the privileges under the
proposed new agreement without making any of
the promised surrenders or the old agreements in
return. It continued to play this heads-I-win-
• tails-you-lose game until the Australian Govern-
ment got weary and cut off its privileges. The dis-
cussion on the agreement was started in 1903-
three years ago—and now in 1906, when an over-
patient Government at last tires of shilly-shallying
and abolishes the privileges which the E.E. Co. has
enjoyed without any shadow of law and without
paying the price agreed upon, the Sydney Tele-
graph impudently asserts
It is a long time since any Government action has
aroused such a genuine and unanimous outburst among
the mercantile community. On all sides, the Acting-
Fostmaster-General and Postal Bureau officials are blamed
for the lack of consideration shown to business men.
But that sort of Petriananias won’t work. The
Australian Government is the chief owner of the
Pacific cable, which was built because the extor-
tionate Eastern Extension monopoly compelled
competition. Whatever loss is incurred in the
working of the Pacific cable, the Australian tax-
payer has, chiefly to pay. It is in the power of
the Australian Government, by using its mono-
poly over the land lines, to force business into the
hands of the cable it owns ; and, under all the
circumstances, it is fully entitled to do so. Cer-
tainly it is not called upon to endure for a longer
period than three years the evasions by which the
E.E. Co. endeavored to continue a state of affairs
which it reckons to be deadly to the interests of
the State-owned Pacific cable.
»
The Astounding Cheek of Carruthers.
Joseph Carruthers, State Premier of N.S.W.,
doesn’t exactly inspire hatred (he is too sketchy
and indefinite for that), but at inspiring contempt
he has hardly an equal. His utter lack of a capa-
city for political fair-dealing, his petty slanders
and petty meannesses in political matters, and his
apparent inability tt> go straight even under great
provocation, have brought him down to a humble
place among the Public Insects of the day. The
latest notable commentary by Carruthers on
Carruthers was Joseph’s attitude on the Brad-
don clause of the Australian Constitution at the
recent Premiers’ Conference. This clause pro-
vides that, for ten years certain, the State Govern-
ments shall receive three-fourths of the Customs
and excise revenue, or that the three-fourths shall
be set aside as a provision against the State
debts. In the original Constitution the Braddon
clause was a permanent one, and N.S.W. accepted
that original Constitution, but its State Parliament
by a disgraceful breach of faith, cancelled the ac-
ceptance. Then George Reid, head of the Go-
vernment of which Carruthers was a member,
got certain notable alterations made in the Con-
stitution ; one was that the Braddon clause should
be fixed for only ten years, and another that the
Australian capital should be in N.S.W. Now
Carruthers demands that the Braddon clause
shall again be made permanent, and this is (ver-
batim) his astoundingly impudent motion and
argument:—
Mr. J. H. Carruthers moved, and it was resolved :
We are of opinion that the most satisfactory solution of
the question is to be found in the adoption of the original
clause in the Draft Constitution Bill as it finally was
adopted by the elected Convention of the States, in 1897,
viz. :
Of the net revenue of the Commonwealth from duties
of Customs and of Excise, not more than one-fourth
shall be applied annually by the Commonwealth
towards its expenditure. The balance shall, in ac-
cordance with this Constitution, be paid to the
several States, or applied towards the payment of
interest on debts of the several States taken over
by the Commonwealth.
And in support of that we desire to point out that the
Draft Bill containing that clause was submitted to the
electors of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia
and Tasmania, and approved of by a majority in each
State, the total vote being 219,712 for the Bill, and 108,3 t 3
against.
Just consider this attitude alongside the same
man’s attitude on the Federal capital question,
and the enormous impertinence of it all becomes
manifest:—
(1) The original agreement with the other States, to
which the Reid-Carruthers Government pledged its
miserable “honor” and its alleged soul, was that the
Federal Constitution would be regarded as accepted in
N.S.W. if it received a majority of votes, and that
majority consisted of at least 50,000 votes.
(2) The original Constitution, which made the Braddon
clause permanent, and which left the site of the Federal
capital an absolutely open question, was carried in N.S.W.
by a majority of 5458, and the majority consisted of
71,412 votes. The majority would have included many
more votes but for the fact that Carruthers’ chief,
George Reid, stumped the country furiously, denouncing
the Constitution, chiefly on account of the Braddon
clause —and Carruthers didn’t leave the Reid Ministry
over the matter.
(3) The acceptance of the Constitution by the people of '
N.S.W. was, however, annulled by a shameful breach cf
faith on the part of a Parliament of liars and pledge-
breakers —a Parliament led by the Rkid-Carrutueks
Ministry—which raised the minimum vote required to
ensure acceptance to 80,000. The Reid-Carrutiiers
Government didn’t whip up its majority to oppose this
shameful act which made N.S.W. stand out as the one
State whose Parliament had neither faith, honor, nor
political decency. In fact, Reid gave a vote for the lie
and fraud and breach of faith, and Carruthers still held
office with Reid. Yet the Constitution would almost
certainly have been accepted by over 80,000 votes but
for the way Reid stirred up the people against it, mainly
on account of the Braddon clause.
(4) Having got the old Bill disqualified in N.S.W.,
partly by a Parliamentary breach cf faith and partly by
the agitation raised by Reid against the Braddon clause,
Reid got two principal alterations made in the measure :
(a) the Braddon clause was fixed for ten years instead of
permanently; (b) the capital was fixed in N.S.W., 100
miles or any greater distance from Sydney, and on a
Federal territory of 100 square miles or any larger area.
The new Bill was accepted in N.S.W. by over 24,000
majority.
(5) Ever since then Carruthers has talked of , the old
Bill (the one which fixed the Braddon clause permanently,
and left the capital site open), as a measure that was con-
temptuously rejected by the people of N.S.W. lie has
always declared that the Constitution wouldn’t have been
accepted without the alterations which fixed the capital
in N.S.W. (and limited the Braddon clause), and he has
always declared that these changes (especially the
fixing of the capital in N.S.W.) were tire price of N.S.W.’s
acceptance.
(6) And now Joseph Carruthers has suddenly dis-
covered, when it suits his purpose, that all the theory.
on which his attitude about the Australian capital
was based has been a lie, and that the original
Constitution—the one which made the Braddon
clause permanent and left the capital to be fixed in any
part of the Commonwealth—was accepted by the people
of N.S.W. after all. And Joseph doesn’t seem in the
least degree ashamed of himself.
So Joseph wants to go back to the original Bill so
far as the Braddon olause is concerned, but not to
go back to it so far as leaving the Federal
capital site an open question is concerned. The
first Bill failed to get the 80,000 votes which
would have carried it,* mainly because Reid
raged up and down the country declaring the
Braddon clause infamous and ruinous, ;Ind that
failure gave him the chance to get the Bill altered,
the alterations including the fixing of the capital
in N.S. W. Oarruthers now says that the story
about the Braddon clause being ruinous was a lie
from beginning to end, and therefore the chance
to get the capital fixed in N.S. W. was secured by
a lie. So he wants to undo the lie, where it
suits his purpose, by going back to the original
Bill so far as the permanency of the Braddon
clause is concerned, and yet to retain the profits
of the lie so far as fixing the capital in N.S.W. is
concerned. Joseph says that he believes the
majority of the electors are still in favor of the
original Bill (so far as the Braddon clause is con-
cerned) and asks for a referendum to give them a
chance of saying so, but he says nothing about the
possibility of their being in favor of the original
Bill so far as the Federal capital is concerned, nor
about any referendum on that matter. It requires
a multitude of cheek and a shoreless sea of gall to
maintain such an attitude. Yet Joseph seems to
maintain it without any difficulty. If he ever had
any capacity for shame in public matters he
appears to have had marvellous success in getting
rid of it.
A University Jubilee.
“ Vica ” jubilate's :
Melbourne University is about to have a jubilee. Why
the fact that anything has existed for 50 years should
he the occasion for making speeches, and eating
dinners, and indulging in dull conversaziones is a
mystery of the human mind. But it happens. As a
matter of fact, the Melbourne University nearly escaped
thS customary jubilee. Three years ago it was a very
weary old University, and almost looked like closing up.
Its annual subsidy had been cut down £6OOO below
what it was accustomed to, and it hadn’t recovered
from the fact that an officer to whom it gave the un-
checked handling of over £lOO,OOO worth of securities and
a large income had helped himself to over £20,000 of its
funds. It was a time of gloom and discouragement.
Then Premier Bent and the Victorian public awoke to the
fact that they had a weeping, way-worn, stony-broke old
University holding out its hat on the doorstep, and they
poured something over £30,000 into the battered hat.
The weary University brightened up. It bought itself a
new hat, and new professors, and new laboratories, and
set out to have a jubilee to show off its new clothes. In
the effort, of course, it is spending some of its money.
The Melbourne University is a more or less useful insti-
tution. It is yielding a good deal to the pressure which
demands that it shall be made more useful. Of late years
its teaching has become more practical. In medical
science it has done nearly all that can be expected of it.
It has just set out to establish a course of agriculture,
and when that course is better endowed it should prove
valuable. But though it has been pottering along as an
engineering* and mining school for 50 years, it is little
further ahead than it was when it started. It has only
one professor of engineering, though it has four professor-
ships in literature and philosophy, and five in natural
science (biology, botany, chemistry, geology and physics),
and three in medicine and surgery. How much in touch
with Australia is the University that has no professor of
mining or metallurgy ? And how far behind is the Uni-
versity that has practically no instruction in modern
electrical appliances ?
The Melbourne University has been over-imitative. It
has developed itself on English lines instead of aiming at '
the special needs of Australia. It begins to supply these
Australian needs late and scantily. Still, it has begun,
and the jubilee (except for the foolish conversaziones)
may be largely pardoned. The University leans heavily
on English customs. The jubilee custom, of course, is
Hebrew, but in these days that is almost the same as
English.
To Tempt Them North.
Premier Kidston, of Queensland* interviewed in
Sydney, fired a shot for white canetields. He
had been soothing the Tory papers with remarks
that must have been grateful to their souls, so
they were encouraged to ask “ Can white men
really do the work ?” Then Kidston “soothed”
them with this :
It is amusing to hear people say that they cannot—it is
merely a question of wages. The white men will do it if
the wages are good enough, and if one is to judge by the
splendid stamp of men employed on the coastal strip of
sugar country, they can' do it to their own advantage.
The North Queenslander who tells you that a
white man can’t work up there is generally about
6ft. 2in. long, 2ft. llin. broad, hard arid ruddy-
brown, and capable of eating most of a city im-
porter’s clerk at a meal. But he doesn’t go up
to North Queensland and live there for nothing;
he is there after money, and you believe him when
he tells you that there are disadvantages which it
takes good money to wipe out. Yet, when it, comes
to hiring white labor, what sort of money.do they
offer? The planters of Bundaberg held a meeting
the other day to fix a standard wage for field
workers. Under the mis-called Bonus Bill the
Minister must be satisfied that the farmers pay a
fair wage ;• and they wanted to decide what a “ fair
wage ” was. In fact, for a start they needed to be"
more than just; they needed to be even generous.
As Angus Gibson, M.L.C., who was in the chair,
said, “they wanted to fix a rate which would
tempt men to take up work in the canetields.
Thereupon, having made up their minds that it
was necessary to throw out something extra-
special in the way of bait; these growers settled
on from 18s. to 255. per week, with the right to
take older men at lCs. per week! Eighteen
shillings a week (and keep, of course) not for
a job of picnicking, but to work under con-
ditions which these men have been de-
claring are so bad that whites can’t bear
up under them. The “black” growers have,
protested that they can’t possibly get good, re-
putable white laborers to do the work. When you
get at the back of these black growers’ minds, and
see what they propose to pay “good, reputable
white laborers,” you can only conclude that, after
all, they are quite right—they can’t hope to get'
that sort of man. For the matter of that, Queens-
land couldn’t hope to get a good Chief Justice for
£46165. a year and tucker. But that doesn’t neces-
sarily mean that Queensland can’t get a good
reputable white lawyer to sit on the bench. As
Kidston says, it is all a matter of pay.
♦ *
The decision given by a Court of Marine Inquiry
in the case against the sis. British Monarch settles
a question which is a very live one in maritime
circles, viz., does the responsibility of the master
end when he hands his vessel over to the local
pilot ? The British Monarch, on a fine night, ran
into the best-known danger on the Queensland
coast. So well-known is this reef that the authori-
ties have erected two lighthouses to warn mariners
of the danger. The directions are simple: “Grassy”
Point* (white) keep Point Archer (green) in sight.
This precaution the Torres Strait pilot apparently
neglected, and the master, who was on the bridge
with him, omitted to draw his attention to the
fact that the green light had not been picked up.
It is an erroneous idea that ship captains, once the
pilot is on board, are relieved of all responsibility
and can let the local genius knock a lump off Aus-
tralia without caring a hang. But the trouble is
that even now there is no clear definition as to
exactly how much responsibility remains on the
master's hands. Fortunately the British Monarch
was not lost, otherwise the case was the Australia
over again.
The Kingdom of Sheep.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In all N. S. Wales (area, 198,848,000 acres ; population,
1,490,000) there isn’t available one single block of public
land large enough to settle 20 families— Lands Minister
Ashton.
How much better is man than a sheep.— Scripture.
Lo ! there once was a Kingdom of Man, but it
rushed down a precipice steep ;
He’s a cypher to-day in the plan of the limitless
Kingdom of Sheep!
The grass-land spread wide and far, but humanity
hungers outside,
For the acres eternally are to them and their
children denied !
Yea, behold the omnipotent Sheep, consider his
Majesty now ;
And thy feet off the rich verdure keep; disturb
not the thoughts of the Cow,
And do not the Calf discommode ; tread light lest
ye waken the Pig.
The gohanna may claim an abode, and the wom-
bat hath somewhere to dig !
Yea, the ant may proceed where it wills, and the
gopher goes cheerfully hence ;
Only Man may not camp on the hills—he is
barred by a plausible fence !
So an outcast he shivers, and groans, for he
longeth to sow and to reap ;
And he piles his protesting bones all round the
broad Kingdom of Sheep.
Incessant I labor to find why the Sheep and the
Cow are supreme ;
Are we idiot loons ? Are we blind ? Do we drift in
a shoreless dream ?
Is humanity totally mad? Do we live in a kingdom
of fools,
That there’s never a home to be had, while the
Sheep our wide provinces rules 1'
Tell me why we stupidly stand—why we strike
not one resolute blow ;
We are calling aloud for land—the land is there
and the hoe.
There are millions of acres here—yea, as far as
the eye may scan
Lies the soil that we hold so dear, and the acres
were made for Man.
They may prate of a sacred right, but our right is
more sacred still;
And Man is a being of might; he may gain it all
if he will.
Were we born to grovel and crawl—to ask permis-
sion to creep ?
Must we always shiver and sprawl in rev’rence,
before the Sheep ?
Lo ! a Prophet long out of date said that Mutton
was less than Man ;
But it seems that cynical Fate works now on a
different plan;
While humanity swarms in the towns the Sheep
wanders far and free
On the hills and the rolling downs where the
homes of our sons should be;
And the Kingdom of Mutton expands, growing
wider each passiqg day,
For it reaches with greedy bands for the acres
across the way !
It spreads as the locusts spread ; it becometh a
woolly curse
While man hides diminished liis head and waits
for the creak of the hearse !
And it seems there may come a day when a
Jumbuck Dynasty
Holds full and absolute sway, and we’re all as
dead as can be !
So let us wither and pass—interment is always
cheap—
And our bones will make green fresh grass to
fatten our lord the Sheep.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


2%
i*
ni
ftrasr:
TO
Mix'
aV$ a fiur\r\y
,am£ for a ear
x Kim dan/ -
,ee he. is a
JURE of
FIT
3=>
R.K
sides it- is my
OBACCO”
Aa/»> 08. trs
BELFAST
Sold
'*'l-1 O'V E.R. TH fc
WORI^X>
AS*
€
h
T*AD^
kMARK
US AND
new confection.
THf WHA»P«M.^,
Labor’s Folly.
Last Saturday morning the Political Labor
Council of Victoria, sitting to consider the plat-
form and programme for the next elections,
passed two momentous resolutions, viz.—(1) to
contest all elections where there is a possibility of
success; (2) to reject the overtures of the Chamber
of Manufactures for combined electioneering and
propaganda work. That is to say, Labor decides
to ignore or, if feasible, to fight advanced Liberal-
ism—to plav a lone hand and let Toryism
get a show by the division of its enemies, and
thus, probably, to cut the throat of Progress. The
first resolution is aimed directly at two or
three advanced Democrats and Protectionists,
who, though they have never opposed Labor
in the House, have refused to sign the
platform. With these men standing, as they
will, Labor has no earthly hope of gaining
their seats; the only probability about the case is
that its proceedings will hand over the seats to re-
actionaries, probably Foreign-traders, as was the
case at last election with M’s.P. Gibb and Grat-
tan Wilson. As for the second resolution, to
play a lone hand instead of taking the Chamber
of Manufactures into temporary partnership,
this is more than an error ; it is a _ species
of madness. For the first time in its his-
tory, owing to the action of that strenu-
ous Protectionist and genuine Australian,
Chas. Atkins, the Chamber went to the
Laborites, and offered to fight hand-in-hand
against the foreigner, the Foreign-trader, the
anti-Socialist and the anti-Australian. Here
Labor had all to gain and nothing to lose. The
chance has been missed —the chance of, at
least temporarily, combining to collar the
whole of Australia’s manufacturing industry for
Australian employers and workers, and to oust
the Foreign-trader; and it may not come again
for a decade. Meanwhile, if, in its blind selfish-
ness, the Political Labor Council proceeds to fight
such men as Isaacs, Mauger, Higgins, and Hume
Cook, it will not only run its head against a wall,
but it may very possibly bring the wall down on
top of itself. That would not be a regrettable
circumstance as far as concerns the grasping seat-
hunters who passed the resolution, but it would
be a disastrous thing for the great Democratic
party.
«
* ‘ S.” : The Australian Labor party, it appears, is
going to spare nobody at next election, and is
going to fight for the seats of even the most
advanced Democrats, if they are not Labor men.
Its object, of course, is to get a majority of its
own, and run the country by itself. Well,
supposing it succeeds, what kind of a tariff is it
going to supply ? It is no answer to say that the
party has sunk the fiscal issue; when it, gets into
power it can’t sink the fiscal issue. It may say it
has no fiscal belief, but, if it gets into power, it
must practise some fiscal belief—and which one is
it to be? There is no satisfaction in the
weary old gag that fiscal issues are of no import-
ance. Even if that be so—is the party, when
it gets into power, going to supply Australia
with a Freetrade policy of no importance,
or a Protectionist tariff that doesn’t matter in the
least, or a hybrid tariff that really doesn’t signify ?
And if the party proposes to submit the tariff
question to a referendum, does it propose to ask
the people to choose between genuine Freetrade
and high Protection, or will it ask them to vote
for or against the present mongrel tariff, or how
will it put the matter ? I want to know. A great
many people want to know.
♦
Queensland has just discovered one of the
capitalists who were going to invest £125,732 in
Australia, only something happened—the some-
thing being always understood to be the Labor
party. As a matter of fact, in this case it was the
Labor party, or some of it. The particular
capitalist was mentioned by a Westralian M.L. A.
(Wilson), who “ knew a gentleman who was pre-
pared to put £lOO,OOO into the soft-wood timber
business in Queensland,” but wouldn’t— See. The
gentleman with the alleged £lOO,OOO, it turns out,
went to the Queensland Lands/ Department
some months ago, and asked for a reduction
of the timber royalty by half, for big con-
cessions in freights, and that the Govern-
ment should deliver railway sleepers at a
nominal price. In return for all this, he under-
took to hawk the concession around, and try to
form a £lOO,OOO co. to buy it. All of which shows
what a mistake it is to get down to details. If
Wilson, M.L.A., hadn’t mentioned Queensland
and the soft-woods and the £lOO,OOO, the good old
lie would still have been as serviceable as ever.
•
Recent Brussels telegram :
Fears of a European war are causing the Belgian
Government to prepare to defend the country’s neu-
trality. Cockerill’s works at Seraing are working night
and day on the making of guns.
Belgium is a small spot on the map of Europe,
covering 11,373 miles ; you could drop 27 Belgiums
into N.S. Wales alone, and have room to
spare. It is a poor country; yet, though its coal
is not of the best, and actually costs more than
Newcastle coal, it has by high Protection built up
a magnificent iron and steel industry, and it does
a vast amount of zinc smelting —Australia is
beginning to send large quantities of its dirt
to Belgium to be turned into metal worth
£26 per ton. This scrap of a country
(with the help of Australia and other fool-coun-
tries) supports over 6,000,000 people, which is
nevertheless a mere handful compared with what
its neighbors have ; yet, when trouble threatens, it
hasn’t the meanness to crawl into a shell and say
there isn’t any use doing anything; on the con-
trary, it starts up its iron furnaces, and a country
that has iron furnaces can always argue. Aus-
tralia has close up to Belgium’s population ; and
it is vastly richer. But the mean part of Aus-
tralia says it can’t do anything. How many Aus-
tralians do these people think are equal to one
Belgian ?
A comic opera railway yarn :
Certain railway men over in Westralia are bringing the
service into serious disrepute. Not long since, quite an
important railway man was run in charged with a series
of peculations, and although he pleaded guilty he was
allowed to go scot free, the department, for some
mysterious reason, begging him off. He admitted having
had a lot of furniture, such as tables, bookcases, &c.,
made at the workshops, ostensibly for country stations
but really for his own house, and it was understood that
the practice was pretty general. Another trouble
concerns apples and fowls. In fruit-growing and poultry-
raising districts that are intersected by railways, settlers
have for a long time been puzzled at the disappearance of
large quantities of produce. It was suddenly discovered
that the drivers and guards of goods trains were often the
culprits. They would pull up in a cutting, leave the train
to take care of itself, and scoot across country to
the nearest orchard or poultry run and grab anything
they could lay their hands on. In one instance the train
was left standing for three-quarters of an hour, and
when the indignant owner caught the men in
the fowl-prigging act he was heartily cursed, and
told that he would be “laid out” if he dared
to accuse them of stealing. The story, as told by
the owner of the orchard in a formal report to
the department, and corroborated by others, is another
proof of the rottenness of the management. The
present Commissioner was running a small foundry in
Perth previous to his appointment, and had no former
experience in railway work. He was, however, a noisy
member of Parliament, and bitterly opposed to the
Government, and to keep him quiet he was appointed
boss of the Westralian fowl-stealing railways at £l5OO
a year. Another year has yet to run before his time is
up, and unless the Rason Ministry bucks up at once he
can claim a further term of office.
♦
The Tory press is making desperate efforts to
capture the farmer’s vote in the coming Federal
elections. No slander of the Labor party is too
small to be neglected ; no opportunity of slipping
in that suggestio falsi, which is more than a lie, is
missed. The Argus continues to insist that the
Australian Labor party coined the old American
term “ hayseed,” and applied it to the farmer as a
term of contempt; and, on this account, the same
paper implores the agriculturist to believe that it
and the Tory party and George Reid are his
triend ; and that, if they could see Watson with
his boots off, it would be found that he has hoofs
instead of feet. One of the chief tools of the Tory
crowd is G. F. Douglas, who is described as lec-
turer for the Farmers’ League. Speaking at
Koroit (Vic.), the other evening, Mr. Douglas
made the following statement, or the Argus said
he did :
The Labor party did not want td> tax the land for the
benefit of the pioneers of the State, but to wring the land
from the farmers, and he pointed out to farmers the
danger of the land-tax.
As, during the earlier part of his address, Douglas
had alluded to Watson’s speech at Launceston,
he cannot plead ignorance in this matter. There-
fore, the statement italicised is, in plain English,
a lie. In the speech alluded to, Watson speci-
fically said that there would be an exemption
of at least £5OOO, which, of course, would in-
clude the vast bulk of farmers. Any farmer
whom it wouldn’t include is in grave danger of
being a landlord and a collector of rents, instead
of a mere private agriculturist. Watson also
said that the main object of his tax was to break
up the big estates, and provide land for the
farmers. He puts this all in the plainest of
English, and the assertion that it is proposed by
the "Labor party to take land from the farmers,
instead of supplying it to them, is flat Ananias.
By the way, what does the silly Douglas think
the Labor party is going to do with the land when
it has “wrung it from the farmers?” Does he
think it will eat the land ?
A revolting crime was that for which
Samuel Robert Harris has been sentenced to
death at Dubbo (N.S.W.). His wife (under an
assumed name) engaged a little girl of 12 as a
nurse-girl, on Feb. 10. That night, Harris, his
wife being present and holding a light, attacked
the girl and —threatening to shoot her if she
resisted —outraged her. According to the S.M.
Herald report :
The prisoner in the box admitted he had three other
little girls in his employ, the cross-examination tending
to show they were engaged by the wife of the prisoner for
vile purposes. The wife admitted engaging girls as
nurses under different names.
The man, as stated, was found guilty and sen-
tenced to death. No mention is made in the press
of a prosecution of his female accomplice.
Sydney’s highly disrespected police force
made another exhibition of itself on Saturday
night. The town was full of visitors, and the
time was propitious for the sand-bagger and the
pickpocket—and a huge force of police was con-
centrated in Engine-street to raid a fairly well-
known two-up school. Wild excitement was
worked up; thousands of people watched the fun,
revolver shots were fired, and a great fuss made.
Meanwhile, not very far away, some thug took
advantage of the absence of the police to quietly
batter the face of an inoffensive pedestrian. Still
the majesty of the law must be vindicated, and
this gambling evil must be suppressed. Appa-
rently, the gentleman who rules the police force
is a badly-informed mortal. In that two-up
school, in all probability, not more than a paltry
hundred pounds was being gambled for. Had
the police raided sundry gambling dens, known
as sporting clubs, in Pitt and Castlereagh streets,
they would have found a lot of paunchy gentlemen
gambling for thousands. But there’s one law for
the poor gambler in N.S.W. and none at all for
the rich ditto.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Besieged in Port Arthur.”
Criterion “A Fatal Wedding.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Cingalee.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirth’s Circus.
Palace Theatre West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Tambour Major.”
Her Majesty’s “Dorothy Vernon, of Haddon
Hall.”
Theatre Royal “The Midnight Mail.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenasum Hall Madam Titus-Leslie Harris En-
tertainment.
* ; —-
Bland Holt is back at Sydney Royal, and
this time he brings an amazing succession of pic-
tures, living and otherwise, which he calls “Be-
sieged in Port Arthur.” There are certain
characters running through the pictures, and the
remarks that they make to one another give a
sort of semblance to a play, but in reality it is a
panorama. The plot is simplicity itself. Dr.
Baker Fortester, an English Army surgeon,
plays cards with Albert Norman Ivan Mar-
ski, a handsome, wealthy Russian swindler,
and loses £lOOO, which he cannot pay. Miss Saydee
Orama Ross makes her wealthy old Jap. father
give her the money with which to pay the debt,
but Baker Forrester refuses to take it, affirming
that he has not yet sunk so low. So Bland Ray,
the Australian war artist, borrows the money
from the old Jap. on the security of a picture
which he will paint after the war, and pays the
debt. Albert Norman Marski intrigues to have
Saydee Ross and Baker Forrester detained in
Port Arthur after the unpleasantness starts, but
after many narrow escapes Baker gets out of the
fortress, and breaks all rules of honorable warfare
by fighting against the Russians, though he is a
non-combatant under the Red Cross. Inside the
fortress Norman Marski, failing to win Frances
Orama Ross, secures her conviction for a murder,
which, needless to say, she never committed. But
just as she is to be shot the Jap army bursts
through the floor, and its artillery comes down the
chimney, and a battle takes place in a sheet of red
flame, which results in the surrender of the
Russians and the triumph of Jap virtue.
BETWEEN DRINKS.
“ Itsh won'erful wot a lot of pubs there are (hie)
conshiderin' there's such a few!-isn’t it?”
The time is coming when Bland Holt will
be called upon to answer a very serious charge.
He is doing a lot to arouse public sympathy with
the beaten villain, and to inculcate an idea that
the ultimate triumph of virtue is a cruel thing.
Dr. Walter Baker Forrester, the ’ero, is an objec-
tionable person. He whines horribly; whether
he is refusing £lOOO from Saydee Orama, or
talking to our Jap allies, or demanding food
for the starving Russian multitude, the whine is
there all the time, and this writer is going to
take a brick with him to the next performance, and
see if he can’t obliterate it. Between him and the
handsome Russian scoundrel, who is, after all,
almighty fond of the pretty Jap girl, there is no
choice. Bad as Albert Marski Norman is, he is a
more pleasing animal, and, above all, he doesn’t
whine ; and how a sensible girl like Miss Frances
Orama Saydee Ross can prefer the other
man is inexplicable, and calculated to bring
virtue into contempt. Some at least of the audi-
ence regarded Saydee as a very foolish young
lady. Marski, anyhow, had the loot, and,
judging by the way he splashed the liquor
and good things among his friends, the girl
who married him would have had a fine time.
This writer is disappointed with “The Siege,”
and demands that Bland change the ending,
making Saydee Orama consent to marry Ivan
Norman Marski at the last minute. He also asks
that the Jap army bursting through the floor be
wiped out, and Baker Forrester be caught by
Albert Norman and hung by the neck till he is
dead, just outside the windows where Marski
and Saydee spend their honeymoon. Frances
Ross as"a Jappy maiden is pretty enough to justify
any atrocity.
*# * *
J. C. Williamson probably overhauled his
books and let previous takings decide what should
be resurrected at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) for
Easter; and on that appeal to the ticket office
“The Cingalee” won. It isn’t in the same
class as “ Veronique ”; but it is more
hilarious, and the city man who has been
to the Show, and spent an awful day ex-
plaining to his wife the points in a Holstein cow,
and hoping to Heaven that he hasn’t made a
mistake, and that the thing he is talking
about isn’t a Berkshire sow or a Langshan rooster
—well, that sort of man, after that sort of day,
needs some hilarity. And, though of course she’s
far too sensible a woman to say so, perhaps his
wife needs some too. “The Cingalee” Supplies
all the virtues of “ Florodora” musical comedy in
the strictly orthodox way, and, moreover, throws
in Chambuddy Ram, who is a baboo bar-man in
search of a birthmark, and isn’t orthodox. Lauri
was very happy in the part when he first played
it in Sydney; and since then he has added
to it many frills, which make it a still
more enjoyable streak of frivolity. The
only notable change in the cast is the
substitution of Florence Young for the departed
Miss Bassian ; and, weighing the two, one enjoys
as much as anything Miss Young’s fine, clear
enunciation—a gift left to us from the days when
Gilbert was writing things that were worth saying
distinctly, and Miss Young was helping to say
and to sing them. Miss Margaret Thomas is in
the cast; and Miss Rose Musgrove still dolly wogs,
as she did to the audience’s great delight in former
days.
** * *
The Brough-Flemming Co. comes to the
end of its season at Sydney on Friday. It will be
deeply regretted by all people of dramatic taste,
and the pity of it is that dramatic taste isn’t more
frequently mobilised into cash. “A Village
Priest” and “ Quality-street ” were advertised for
the closing nights. They are both pieces of
a very high class, and when they are
played as only a Brough company can
play them, they are an intellectual treat, yet
it wasn’t worth while to keep them on for more
than two or three nights. On Saturday the
Meynell and Gunn Co. opens at the Cri. with that
unreasoning and complicated horror “The Fatal
Wedding.” The Bulletin’s Melbourne repre-
sentative has already had the pleasure of
speaking with great disrespect of this product
of a tottering imagination, and its Sydney
representative hopes to be round on Saturday
with a shovelful of loose adjectives in his hand
and a burning curse in his tail pocket. Anyone
who notices a mild-looking gentleman with his
coat-tail on fire at the Cri. on Saturday night will
therefore be able to size up the situation.
#* # *
Mr. Edwin Geach wishes these days that
he could, like the bird of the Irish joke, be in
two places at once. Since Friday the Brescians
and West’s pictures have been running
at Sydney Palace and the Town Hall. Two
sets of pictures make possible the dual show ; and
when the flicker is at the Palace the Brescians are
performing at the Town Hall, and while the flicker
flicks at the Town Hall the Brescians are
at the Palace. Among the new pictures added
to the flicker department are a set showing Miss
Annette Kellerman playing ducks and drakes and
fishes with the eternal sea, and Vesuvius continues
to emit fire and rain hot ashes. The two-house pro-
gramme tempered by matinees will endure for to-
night, then the Palace will absorb the other.
** * *
Herr Franz Degen, of the Brussels Con-
servatoire, will give two recitals at the Cen-
tenary Hall, on the 26th and 28th, under the
management of Mr. Southwell. A few local
people who have heard the Herr play in
private promise the public that it will listen to a
E layer of originality and genius. He has to aid
im a striking personality and an “ old master ”
violin.
** * *
Manager Rickards has done himself proud
over his Easter bill for Sydney Tivoli.' Without
holding anything specially amazing in the way of
a star, the programme is nevertheless one of the
best, because it is from good to pretty good all
through. Just to see whether the Great Natural
Resources down for the Show would blush any
more furiously than the city did at eight little
Primroses waving their stockinged stalks in the
air, that much-debated turn was recalled from the
city where Henry Varley saw it —on a hoarding,
of course, which is a most unsatisfactory way of
seeing sixteen Primrose stalks waving in their
stockings. As far as this paper could dis-
tinguish, the Great Natural Resources didn’t blush
worth mentioning. Probably they forgot the first
time, which was why they have been calling with
much enthusiasm to have the show over
again, so that they might remember to blush the
second time. Fanny Powers has some new
characters —among them Miss Whitaker, the diffi-
cult lady who asks the congregation to stand up
and sing,Hallelujah. In the way of imitations this
is among her best. Slade Murray is back after
10 years; since he was here last he has had his
songs, put away where they have kept warm. But
the descriptive vocalist at his best is a weariness
of the flesh.
** * #
If it hadn’t been that a young lion over-
looked the traffic regulations, and refused to move •
on out of the doorway of the cage, with the result
that Captain Burrows, the animal trainer, had,
to make a way with a bullet, the Wirthi
Brothers would reckon that Sydney had treated,
them very well this Easter-time. As it
is, £l5O worth of lion went at one flash'
of the revolver; and that bites a hole in the'
profits. Still, in the circus business you soon be-
come a philosopher and see that a live trainer is'
better than a dead lion. Inside the ring, Cormack,.
the high diver, provides the turn with the biggest
thrill in it; while for those that are not looking;
for thrills, there is nothing finer than Phil Wirth’s
teams of horses—including the very fine lot of
Maorilanders which have been added since the
brothers last waved their banner hereabouts.
** * #
A lot of casual shows broke out in Sydney
during the holiday season, but some of them were
very small, and some were very casual, and a
lot of the shows that broke out will have
broken in again before this issue is pub-
lished, or if they haven’t broken in they may
have broken up or broken down; and in any
case The Bulletin is only a weekly publi-
cation and can’t keep pace with one-night or
half-night shows, and the weather is rather
hot, and the staff is tired, and it backed the
wrong horse. Mr. Owe’Sullivan’s “ Coo-ee,”
which is running at the Haymarket Hippodrome,
will be noticed next week (D. V.). The Hill-Brady
company at the Queen’s Hall may be noticed next
week (weather permitting). It is just faintly
possible that something may be said next week
about the J. W. Winton company at the Cen-
tenary Hall (all being well). Sundry other shows
won’t be noticed next week or any other week,
whether all is well or not.
** * *
In “Dorothy Vernon,” staged at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) last Saturday, the William-
sonian firm has found a play calculated to hit the


Gets There Quickest
Vd
$s
WmmM
CURES IHDIGESTIOH)
HEADACHE & NEURALGIA
L FISHERS
PHOSPHERInt
&
&
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/0.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares
on oath the following-I suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue
got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most, of the members know of
my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth,
and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone
know of my case.”
.Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney
SPEEDIEST CURE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNESS.
public all round. It is romantic melodrama, pic-
turesquely dressed, full of incident from the
middle of the Ist act to the end of the story, and
enveloped in an ajmosphere of historical truth.
The roaring days of Queen Elizabeth have an old-
established claim upon the interest of theatre-
goers, and the royal spinster with the uncomfort-
able ruff round her neck is a valuable character
for a secondary part in a new girl’s love-story.
Whereas the unknown Queen of Naples is
worth nothing to “La Tosca,” a red-headed
Queen Bess is worth a lot to “ Dorothy Vernon.”
She amounts to a seeming guarantee of genuine-
ness. A figure of Mary Stuart in the background
strengthens the picture for business purposes.
The two Queens serve as familiar facts corrobo-
rating the story of the play to the satisfaction of
the multitude. Also there is a solemn literary
interest attaching to the name of Sir John Man-
ners, the heroine’s gallant young man. Being a
son of the Earl of Rutland, he is possibly an
ancestor of the egregious Lord Manners who
wrote :
Let arts and commerce, laws and learning die,
But leave us still our old nobili-ty.
In Elizabeth’s time it was a rather new nobility,
and the general effect of it was decorative.
* * * *
Sir John Manners in the play comes along
under an assumed name and secures the affections
of Sir George Vernon’s daughter. After which
her cousin, the real owner of the assumed name,
also arrives upon the scene with a view to marry-
ing the girl. Subsequent troubles might just as
well have happened without appearing to have
originated in dear John’s brief assumption of his
rival’s identity, but in that case the first act
would have lacked its present spirit of humor-
ous tragedy, which is the prevailing spirit
of the acts that follow. Old man Vernon becomes
a terrible autocrat when roused, and Dorothy, a
creature of moods and tempests, has to fight hard
on behalf of John. Her father, her aunt, and the
other young man are leagued together for the
destruction of John, and charges of misconduct,
both immoral and disloyal, are laid against him.
Disloyalty spelt sudden death where Good Queen
Bess was concerned ; therefore Dorothy has to be
real smart—in a Yankee way of speaking—to save
the situation. Sometimes she changes clothes
with somebody else, and at all times she scores
heavily at her adversaries’ expense. Even Sweet
Nell of Old Drury was not a more consistently
heroineic heroine than Dorothy Vernon of Had-
don Hall.
• * * *
In a part which offers so many opportuni-
ties to a cute, vigorous young actress, the popular
success of Miss Tittell Brune is a matter of course.
Critically considered, her performance is not at
all realistic. She doesn’t seem a possible English
wench of the alleged period. Kingston, as John
Manners, suggests the manners of ages ago, whilst
his Dorothy is more or less up to present
date. But Miss Brune takes the character to
herself, and plays it with ready theatrical art
and confidence, carrying the audience’s sympathies
with her. Kingston, fairly convincing in speech
and deportment, is wanting in bye-play. Miss
Vaughan figures impressively as Queen Eliza-
beth ; the angry father, impersonated by Athol-
wood, has the groggy, muffled voice of his broad
comedy old men ; Maurice Dudley is a strikingly
melodramatic jester who doesn’t seem capable of
jesting; Mervale is as decent and dignified a
villain as circumstances will permit; and the less
important people, likewise their garments and the
scenery and the altogether, are deserving of a vote
of thanks.
m* # *
“ Tambour Major,” revived at Melbourne
Princess’s, goes a long way towards accounting
for its recent boom in Sydney-. Musically and
otherwise, the Offenbach opera gets better treat-
ment in several respects from the Anderson co.
than it suffered at the hands of. other people in
the Royal a year ago. All the same, “Tambour
Major” is,opera bouffe, and the quality of the
bouffe is not beyond reproach. The conduct of
Marquis Bambini cuts one to the quick, and
produces sighs of regret at those moments
when the shriek of hilarity is intended to
come in. Another conspicuous failure is the
dull, Germanised, womanly performance of
Hali Cohen, as a dashing French capitaine.
Cohen, large and soft, sounds as though his voice
were swathed in flannel, and he wears the despair-
ing expression of the proverbial duck that died of
a thunderstorm 1 ; But enough of these sad
memories. Miss Addie Campbell, from Bendigo,
is a winsome, melodious Stella, pleasing in every-
thing save a slight tendency to “cheek” rather
than chic. Miss Birch makes a dainty Claudine,
and Edwin Lester, Farley, Miss Thornton, and
some others who have their names on the pro-
gramme are almost as satisfactory as the new
chorus and fixings, the chorus being brighter than
the orchestra.
** * *
The followers of yellowdrama fought for
standing space at Melbourne Royal on Saturday,
when “ The Midnight Mail” brought Anderson’s
company back to its old haunt. A' temperance
lesson of a sort is conveyed by “ The Mail,”
seeing that the hero, an engine r driver, earns
the respect of his fellowman by turning his
heart from Beer in time to save the train.
Bert Bailey, as an amusingly evil stoker,
conspires with a Terrible Turk to achieve
a shocking railway accident, but the sobered young
man defeats their purpose, and matters are hap-
pily terminated when the padishah commits sui-
cide in the Criminal Court. Beer, blood, and
other dramatic incidents are mingled rather skil-
fully in the narrative. The acting takes turns of
reasonableness, apart from the popular rioting of
Bert Bailey. George Cross makes a good impres-
sion as the converted engine-driver, likewise Miss
Duggan as the wife who suffers for his thirst, and
the co. has a valuable addition in Miss Mabel
Lane.
** * X
The Athenseum Hall (Melbourne) had a
large and somewhat Toorakian attendance for the
Easter opening of the Madame Titus and Leslie
Harris venture. The male entertainer, a society
monologuist in the style of Mel. B. Spurr, is
about as effective as his lamented foregoer. Like
Spurr, Harris is a fellow of infinite grimace, with
a dainty musical knack, both for composition and
execution, a tuneful voice, the gift of mimicry,
and sufficient literary skill to write original
sketches for his own use, which sketches are set
to taking, appropriate music. Perhaps Spurr
was rather more effective in pathetic
items than present performer, who is plump
and cherubic of aspect. Under the rouge and funny
stage-faces of the man of yore, one sometimes sur-
prised a look of haggard exhaustion which rubbed
in the point of a line like this (from the “Game
of Life, ” which Spurr used to recite with zither
accompaniment) :
When spades are played—ah, well-a-day,
Then grim Death takes a hand.
Nevertheless Harris, to do him justice, is remark-
ably convincing in his pensive “Soliloquy of an
A THING OF BEAUTY.
“Ah, Bill, if we on'y’ad 'arf ’is good looks wot
’avoc we’d play wiv th’ wimmin!”
Old Piano,” wherein he muses aloud in the worn-
out but still rich tones of the ancient box
of melody. Harris was particularly success-
ful with- Saturday’s audience, more so than
his colleague, Madame Yeamans-Titus. This
was partly due, no doubt, to the fact that
Harris is quite new to Melbourne, but the compo-'
sition of the audience also had a say in the
matter. Entertainments at the Athenseum, clos-
ing earlier than the theatres, always draw largely
on remoter suburbs, and Suburbia finds the dress,
deportment and facial make-up of the Yeamans-
Titus pretty startling, when seen near at hand, as
they are in the Hall. The talented little lady
gets her best results from her baby-imitations with
their true-to-life yawns and sneezes, sudden
smiles and pretty, piping, little voice. Mr. Titus,
at the piano, adds as heretofore a dash of decor-
ative male attraction to his wife’s performance.
The only other member of the co. is Miss Bessie
Beattie, a pianiste, handicapped by the dearth of
expression in her work. Otherwise, she is a slim,
graceful young thing, her white draperies and
girlishly looped hair providing a foil for the Yea-
mans-Titus bediamonded decolletage of point-
lace over pink, and curly top-thatch of brightest
yellow.
** * *
Items of the kind that appeal mainly to
men —and inferior men at that —are being dropped
from the Pickards bill in favor of “ turns” which
would win awards of merit from a jury of sternest
matrons. Martinetti and Orossi, who got a great
matinee reception at Melbourne Opera House last
Saturday, are a novel pair of musical tricksters.
Their rapid entertainment contains not too much
music, with a wide assortment of ingenious
mechanical jokes, and none of the jokes are over-
worked. The other new arrival is a lady—Nada
Moret —who talks and sings a little, in three
different costumes, and wastes no time in doing
it. For the rest of the bill there are the
knee-breeched artists with four surging banjos and
a harp, still raising a suspicion as to where some
of their music is made ; also, the Meisters meister
as before, the trim-built Mdlle. walks the wire,
and the clever Carmos are quite eclipsing a super-
fluous troupe of white Algerian jugglers. And
there is Tom Dawson. For some inscrutable
reason Thomas, after singing one humorous song,
makes two more appearances, and repeats himself
with variations. *
#* * *
Adelaide Royal, which has been laughing
consumedly over “There and Back ” during Lent,
dismissed Dallas and Florence Lloyd at Easter,
and went into mourning with “ The Darling of
the Gods,” which is a depressing thing to offer to
a joyous Easter Monday crowd just back from the
Oakbank Steeplechase. This Japanese “La
Tosca ” has never reached Adelaide before, except
for the Apotheosis, which was last year humor-
ously tacked on to “The Sign of the Cross” so
that Marcus and Mercia—after dying together—
were ‘ ‘ re-united ”in a Jap heaven ! Matinee audi-
ences are much pained, this time, at finding that
it is not Julius Knight who gets to Paradise.
The Tivoli runs “bargain matinees,” American
style, “All parts, one shilling.” It has been
giving a thrilling drama about New York, which
it makes out as rather worse than Stead thought
Chicago to be ; and it has now introduced “The
Pace that Kills,” out of compliment to the races.
The Town Hall biograph had, for Good Friday,
the amazing good fortune to light on a photo-
grapher who was present when Moses was found
in the bulrushes ! The truthful camera also chased
the patriarch through the Red Sea, and discreetly
waylaid him on the lower slopes of Mount Sinai.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Veteran George Ireland’s benefit re-appearance in Mel-
bourne showed him older in the face, but otherwise un-
altered from the lean, stiff actor of years ago. Ireland
was always more of the unassuming intelligent amateur
than the seasoned self-confident pro., as regards his
methods. His only mannerism was in seeming to avoid
a mannered style. He did the right things in a non-
striking way. He had what one might call a natural
disinclination to orthodfex theatrical effect, and this was
very pleasantly in evidence when he spoke a few words
of thanks to the audience the other night. His little
speech was the unstudied utterance of an honest gentle-
man. Ireland’s daughters, by the way, take after Dad a
good deal. Miss Harrie is at her best as an artist in the
least melodramatic scenes of melodrama ; and slim sister
Daisie, who made a graceful first appearance at her
father’s ben., promises to be a refreshingly unaffected
actress when she gets going.
The Taits, in Melbourne, received a cable last week
from a Tait in London (Tait-a-Tait) announcing that
Clara Butt had been booked for an Australian tour.
Clara’s husband, Kennerley Rumford, will be somewhat
of a co-attraction with the mighty-voiced contralto.
“ H.L.” : At “ Camille ” last night I heard one woman
inform another that Miss Brune had gone to a consump-
tive home to learn the cough that is such a large feature
of the play. For my part I would sooner take the chance
of not coughing realistically than learn to cough that
way.
“Moonstone”: In last Bulletin “Stargazer” stated
that Jimmy Atholwood is still being referred to as “a
useful and promising young Australian actor,” notwith-
standing that “ Stargazer” remembers him as a member
of George Miln’s co. at Melbourne Opera House “ about
20 years ago.” The statement is possibly true, although
“Stargazer” gives no chapter or verse for his alleged
quotation. After reading it, I referred to a Melbourne
Age notice of two days earlier, aud found that the actor
in question was described as “ the popular veteran.”
Taking those conflicting descriptions in the ordinary
theatrical acceptation of the terms, I would say that
“veteran” is more inaccurate than “young” when
applied to Jimmy Atholwood. My recollection of him is
rather older than “Stargazer’s”; I remember Atholwood
playing very small parts with the Essie Jenyns
co. in 1888. He first appeared with Miln in April,
’B9, exactly 17 years ago, and at that time he didn’t look
more than a youngster of 22 or 23 off the stage. Say
that he was then 25, Atholwood is now a man of 42, fully
10 years younger, I guess, than Thomas Kingston, who is
now being advertised «,s “ the young English actor,” and
the same age as Greenaway, one of his (Atholwood’s)
former colleagues in Miln’s Co. Greenaway was King-
ston’s predecessor as Romeo w'ibh Miss Brune, w 7 hich
reminds me that one rarely meets a Romeo younger than
the Atholwood of to-day. Kyrle Bellew was older when
he played the love-sick boy in Australia, and—lapsing
into comic opera recollections—the beauteous Charley
Ryley was older when he had all the girls competing for
his youthful smile. In opposition to “ Stargazer,” I rise
to protest against the injustice of classing Jimmy Athol-
wood among the “veterans,” in a theatrical way of
speaking. For many years he has played old men, but
he is still on the up-grade, and has not yet reached the
limit of his capacity for being convincing in young
characters.
An interesting item in the George Ireland benefit show
at Melbourne Princess’s last week w j as the performance of
“ My Little Girl,” by some young pupils of Miss Josephine
Samuell—interesting because the playlet, adapted from
Besant and Rice’s novel, was a first effort in that way by
our old friend Dion Boucicauit, the subsequent partner of
Brough. Boucicauit was hardly out of his teens when he
dramatised “My Little Girl,” with perhaps a little,
assistance from his father, the original Dion. The trifle
was successfully staged by his brother-in-law John Clay-
ton at the Court Theatre, London, and it ran for some
months as a curtain-raiser. Being only a little thing,
neatly constructed on orthodox stage lines, it is suitable
for amateurs, but the commonplace dialogue has
a stilted effect when spoken in strict accordance
with the rules of A.N.A. competition. A formal method
of talking is essential to the capture of “elocution”
prizes in these A.N.A. struggles. Every blessed conson-
ant and vowel must be distinctly sounded, or the compe-
titor is counted out, so that when a teacher puts a com-
pany of pupils before the ordinary unsympathetic public
in a theatre, his (or her) first care is to beg them to try
and loosen their tongues, and talk less un-nat-u-ral-ly
than when they are on the plat-form.
“ Namoi ”: In West’s representation of the “ Village
Blacksmith,” at Sydney Palace, it would be much better
if the gent with the muscles like iron bands would take a
little longer to remove the boots off the old grey mare.
No blacksmith can perform the operation in the 111th
part of a second. Also, it would appear far more realistic
if the party behind the scenes banged the frying-pan
every time the picture-hammer fell, and not sometimes
when it was falling and sometimes long afterwards.
Little details like these count with an audience. I recol-
lect a person telling me about his being thoroughly dis-
gusted at a representation of “Robbery Under Arms”
because, in one scene, a brand new axe, with the blade
carefully wrapped in paper bearing, in large letters, th«
inscription, “ Collins' axes are the best,” was seen resting
against the woodheap.
“0.K.”: It is said of Gertrude Alger, the Victorian
violiniste off to Europe for “ musical atmosphere,” that
she has brilliant powers of execution, but lacks tempera-
ment, or something. “Temperament” means senti-
mentality, perhaps. The same fault is commonly found
with Melba’s singing, nevertheless Melba touches the
highest points of musical effect in the pieces that suit her
best. Miss Alger seems capable of becoming a Melba
among violinistes. In any form of musical performance,
much more than in drawing and painting, a superlatively
clever mechanic is a great artist. The composer supplies
“temperament” enough to an artist who executes the
work with wonderful skill and purity of tone. There are
cases in which a great command of technique amounts to
a full expression of feeling—the other fellow’s feeling—
and Gertrude Alger has something of genius for technique.
AN ODIOUS COMPARISON.
SCHOOLMASTER: “ You should not take your boy
from school so young, Mrs. Smith. I didn’t
leave school until I was twenty-one.”
MRS. SMITH: “Oh, maybe; but my boy’s real
clever.”
Edwin Geach writes: —“Re par. (12/4/’O6) in which I
am accused of lack of originality in copying the adver-
tisements of the Taits, somebody has certainly got hold
of The Bulletin’s limb. You state, or rather infer, that
the ‘ Living London ’ matter is the outcome of the
brains of the Yarra managers. As a matter of fact (and
I am sure the Taits will not deny it), the ‘Living
London ’ synopsis—which 1 certainly copied from the
Yarra press—is the stock matter that every purchaser of
the film from the Charles Urban company is entitled to.
True, Taits started ‘Living London’ as far back as last
January. My management has been producing same all
over Englapd many months previous to that date, and
also again in Seddonland last year.” And Mr. Geach, by
way of a tu quoque, enchases newspaper clips to show
that the Tait Bros, copied a good deal cf their advt. froip
the Spencer Co. advts., published three months before.
“ Edyson ” : Saw 7 G. E. Ireland’s benefit pbrformance of
“ The Hunchbank sub-edited—the other night in Mel-
Miss Ellen Terry had a theatrical jubilee on April 28.
She appeared at the Princess’s under Charles Kean’s
management when just eight years old, the play being
“ A Winter’s Tale.”
bourne, and it was my first experience of Sheridan
Knowles’ “great play,” although “ Virginius ” had made
me sad on sundry occasions. “The Hunchback” gives
me a larger disrespect for the tastes of my fathers. I have
been told of the “ deep human interest” underlying the
dramatic matter of Mr. Knowles, but that is what strikes
me as missing, its place being filled with a quaint, stilted
artificiality. Did ever living, breathing human beings
behave towards each other after the manner of the serious
people of Knowles, or are the latter behaving after the
manner of any people who ever lived ? Our fathers who
are still on earth bemoan the passing of the “ great plays”
of Jimmy Sheridan Knowles, and others of the same class.
I bemoan the badness of the popular plays of our time,
but these pottering, bombastic, great plays are as trying
in their way as “ The Awfullest Female on Earth ” and
“ The Earl in the Horrors.” James Sheridan Knowles
forsook the stage for the pulpit, and became a Baptist
pounder of the Book. It seems a fitting end.
The Argus (which ought to know better) said that
George Coppin’s last appearance was made in 1882. But
it wasn’t. George’s final appearance on any stage was
made in Melbourne on sth September, 1901, when he
appeared for a benefit as Mould, in H. J. Byron’s “Not
Such a Fool as he Looks.” The Argus’ biography of the
old actor was inadequate. It never mentioned his having
been, for years, member for East Melbourne in the
Assembly, and having beaten the old paper’s own leader-
writer, Professor W. E- Hearn. Nothing was said of his
objection to lawyers. Whenever George went into court
he conducted his own case. The writer has seen him at
work. It was curious to hear him examine himself : “My
name is George Ooppin ; I am a comedian ; I remember
the 16th of last month,” and so on. Furthermore, no
allusion was made by the Argus to “ Our Lodgings,” built
by George and his friends, in Little Bourke-street, oppo-
site the Princess Theatre. It was they who got the Cor-
poration to call that end of the street “ Gordon Place.”
Had James Smith been still in the Argus office, or Dr.
Neild not been laid up, Coppin would have had a worthy
record in the Tory paper.
Ada Reeve has just had to defend a curious action.
She had agreed to take her musical comedy co. to a Lan-
cashire town for two weeks at Christmas, but suddenly
accepted an engagement as “principal boy” at Birming-
ham, and left the other people in the lurch. She had no
real defence to their hreach-of-contract action ; it was
simply a question of what they had lost. So Ada’s
counsel was reduced to arguing that she isn’t really so
much of an attraction after all, and that the elections
would very likely have made her Lancashire season a
failure; and the jury allowed £75 damages, instead of
£475 claimed.
Every Saturday night two South Melbourne opposition
furniture warehousemen have gramophones playing from
their windows. What with Melba on one side, Irving Sayles
on the other, the bells of the trams, and the rattle of the
traffic, the general effect is of a Chinese opera.
Not generally known that George Rignold once played
Romeo for a charitable purpose, in London, to five diffe-
rent Juliets, one for each act.
Old George Coppin was one of the first cash patrons of
the Melbourne University. From 1857 to 1860 he gave
annually a £lO prize for the best recitation from Shak-
speare. Then he withdrew his prize without warning.
Probably he had heard one of the prizemen recite.
A new use has been found for the stage and the
mummer. Collins, the Glasgow publishers, who are sending
out a new cheap edition of English classics, are illustrating
them as far as possible with photographs. Thus Beer-
bohm-Tree’s Co. lately produced “ Oliver Twist ” ; and the
20 or so illustrations in Collins’ edition are all photos, of
the posings of Tree and Co.
“ Melb.” : Husky Kingston and husky Redgrave at Her
Majesty’s. They would give a thousand apiece (if they
had it) for such a voice as Walter Baker’s.
Miss Charlotte Flemming, the smart Melbourne elocu-
tionist, appeared as Julia in “The Hunchback” at G. R.
Ireland’s benefit, and gave some proof that she would be
better employed interpreting character than speaking
pieces. It is not easy to get the breath of life and real
emotion into the Knowles heroine, but now and again
Julia was a reality, and her sorrows became genuinely
affecting. This is not faint praise ; there are few
harder tasks for an actress than to make Julia a living
woman, whose worries come home to her, although
expressed in rounded sentences of great length and
wandering cadences.
Even t!ie faithful remnant of the Fisks carry round a
bundle of films these times, and roll out highly moral
pictures what time the audience is waiting for tuneful
remarks regarding Brother Michael and the rolling of the
Jordan. The Fisks are now making a very successful
oountry tour.
“ Hiphen ” : What constitutes melodrama, anyhow ?
In “ La Tosca ” Sardou hands out four violent and untidy
deaths—one murder, one suicide, two shooting cases.
Also one torture scene with slow music, groans and lime-
light effects in the good, old-fashioned way. Yet they
say “La Tosca” is not melodramatic. Now, compare it,
detail for detail, with Blandolt’s “ Blood on the Door-
Mat.” This play yields only three sudden deaths, one
balloon fatality, one motor smash and one murder ; but
the famous hot-pie cart explosion in the last act brings
the two plays about level for thrillfulness. Yet one is
pure drama (imported), while the other is melo-ditto,
pure and simple (home-grown). Now, wherein lies the
difference? Some friends of mine, who have pondered
this problem with me, think that the lack of comic
relief in “La Tosca” elevates it. That, of course, is
ridiculous. I think Gerrard’s legs the funniest thing I’ve
heard for quite a while. Of course, where La Tosca puts
the candles and crucifix at the bead of the man she
has cold-meated with a carving-knife is fine. You can
hear the blood drip. But I didn’t cry so much then as I
did when, in “ The Blood on the Door Mat,” Little Lil,
the hot-pieman’s daughter, bursts through the crowd to
where her prostrate parent is lying after the explosion
(caused by the villain substituting a stick of dynamite
for a sausage) and staunches his wounds with a saveloy,
and vows co track the. villain to his death with a pie,
Therefore, I admit I can’t see why one incurs the “melo”
and not t’other. Can it be that one ends happily and
t’other doesn’t? I don’t know the answer. You can search
me.
“J.S.”: Is there no escape from being Gorsaved at
every turn ? Every band that plays in the park inflicts it
on the audience. Theatre managements and concert pro-
moters make me Gorsavage every time I wait for the last
number. Lodge socials, smoke concerts, presentations,
one and all, finish up by strumming and bawling out
“GorSave.” About the only entertainments in Sydney
that don’t. “ Gor Save” are the “ two-up” schools/ Pos-
sibly that accounts for their popularity.
♦
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach bowels and kindeys
in good order. And it does the business.*


n
bUNTRY or Ql>
Good City Posts await
Our Postal Students.
“Home Study” Post Free.--
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore St., Sydney. [3.
3
Amateur Photographers
You will not go wrong with
your Holiday Negatives if
you make your Prints on
The Easisst, Quickest, Cheapest, and Best Printing Paper.
Prints made in a few seconds by Gas or Lamplight in the evening.
Sold in Packets. All Regular
Sizes at Popular Prices.
Instructions in every Packet.
Principal Distributors—
HARRINGTON
CO
LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
3SS GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE,
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
When, acting under a power-of-attorney
which was invalid, the representatives of Sydney
solicitor John M’Laughlin sold shares in the
Daily Telegraph Go. held by him, they con-
ferred a great boon on the legal profession. Since
then M‘Laughlin has sued the D.T. Co. to return
the shares to him, and succeeded after three trials,
the High Court deciding in his favor. Now the
D.T. Co. sues M’Laughlin for return of the money
they paid to his supposed representative on
account of the shares. Case undecided. The D.T.
Co. has sued one of the transferees of some of the
M‘Laughlin shares for their return. One of the
transferees is suing M’Laughlin for the return of
the money paid to his supposed representative on
account of the shares, that transferree having
yielded them up again on demand of the D.T.
Co. ; and the end of this welter of litigation is not
yet. By the time it is all over Costs will have
probably climbed up to £20,000 or so.
NERVING HIMSELF UP.
SHE: “ Aren’t you ashamed of yourself , George,
being in this condition? ”
HE: “ Thash all right, m'dear. I proraished. my
wife I would give the cook notish (hie)
to-night .”
“ F.” : Apropos that barber incident
(quoted in B. 8/3/|O6). Some years ago there
stood a large hair-shifting shop where the Impe-
rial Arcade now is in Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
One busy morning a man who was waiting his
turn asked the assistant if he might shave him-
self, as he was in a hurrv. Permission and a
razor being given, he: carefully lathered himself
and then cut his. throat over the shampoo basin.
The operation almost amounted, to successful
amputation of the head, and he died ritrht there.
At Melbourne City Court, last week, a
case of insulting language presented some lovely
features, in addition to a dignified bearing on the
Noble Art. Maud Lord, a highly apparelled
barmaid, came to complain that a young man had
made improper comments whilst she was con-
versing in the street with Savral, the black
pugilist. It is ever in the witness-box that a bar-
maid assumes her finest air of hauteur. Behind
the counter she can be disdainful, and
eminently stand-offish, but as a witness before the
Bench she shines brightest. And when a colored
puncher takes part in the performance the general
effect is brilliant. The following quotations from
the Melbourne Herald report of the case give a
faint idea of the picture in court from the time
when defendant’s counsel started to cross-examine
Miss Maud Lord :
Dr. Jones : You were speaking to Teddy Savral.
Witness : To Edward Savral, a colored man.
Is it possible you made a mistake ?—Pardon, I never
make mistakes—(laughter)—in reference to this kind of
thing ?
Were you having a row with Savral? —No. I was
speaking to him on business.
Were you angry with him?—No.
When at the police station did you tell the constable
that nobody heard the language?—l said that the man
was standing amongst a flock. It is very manifest that
none of them heard it except Savral, which he was stand-
ing by, which he heard it, and which he told me last
night, which he did. (Laughter.)
The defendant says that you said you were sorry ?—-
Pardon. (Laughter.) I was very angry at what he said,
and I was sorry to have to come to court.
Were you angry with Savral ?—Savral is a nonentity. I
don’t want to have anything to say in reference to that
man.
Was he not keeping you for a long time?—That is not
to say that he keeps me now.
Constable Grimley said that the woman gave defendant
in charge. The defendant deuied that he had used any
offensive or insulting words to her.
The defendant, who stated that he was a commission
agent, stated that he was speaking to a friend when the
prosecutrix came past. She looked him up and down.
He told her to go away, and that he did not wish to
speak to her. She immediately went over to the con-
stable. Witness did not use any bad language to her.
Assuming that the evidence of the haughty com-
plainant was conclusive, it is still evident that the
majority of the Bench did well in dismissing the
case. Defendant was sufficiently punished when
the lady looked him up and down. Barmaids do
these things with such withering effect that the
victim never quite recovers.
* * *
Labor celebrates the Jubilee of the Eight
Hours movement with the forthcoming gathering
(April 21st)at Melbourne Exhibition Building, and
the occasion seemingly is to be marked by some
thing of a “ banquet ” rather than a simple repast
as in other years. The card of invite issued by the
Anniversary Committee is an unpretentious, but
not inartistic souvenir. At the top on either side
are pictures of the old Melbourne Trades Hall of
1856, and the hall of nowadays, and between them
a representation of the Eight Hours Monument.
The monument is a preposterously ugly thing, but
it stands for a Great Fact, and it was bound to
figure on that card.
k * * *
Suburban Melbourne is being vigorously
built on by the modern architect of the cheap and
glaring variety. Consequence is that the old
single fronts,
or double
fronts with
bay window,
which were
substantial and
durable even
if they were
inartistic, are
never on the
plans now. In
their place is
the affa i r
whichis Queen
Anne in front
and Sarah
Jane at the
back —a slim,
young thing
with a great
heap and glare
and shriek and
dead weight of
red-tiled roof
on top—a mark
of scorn and
derision to the
experienced
carpenter who
is galloping it
up. In these
modern crea-
tions, built at
a canter, the
utility of the
structure as a
family resi-
dence for the
years that the
locust has yet
to eat is sacri-
ficed to the
cheap display
of the Queen
Anne exterior,
in some in-
stances modi-
fied, or rather
vulgarised, by
a painful imi-
tation of the
Italian stucco
style. The red-
tiled roof be-
comes heavy with
the continuous ab-
sorption of moisture and the aggregation of the
day’s dust and grime. The work of Jeremiah the
builder underneath is not constructed to stand the
extra strain, and Queen Anne begins to sag and
bulge and groan. An old “chips” working on
one of these places said to the writer, the other
day, “If you have any nippers, put’em at the
buildin’ trade. Take my davy, this is goin’ to be
a great town for house repairs in about fifteen
years time.”
* * • *
Even the tripe about which the Cockney
coster impersonator sometimes sings passionate
ballads is now imported into the Cold Country
from America. A London tripe-dresser, who was
recently sued for maintenance, testified that he
would like to marry the girl, but trade was too
slack, as nearly all the tripe consumed in Britain
nowadays is “ Yankee stuff.” The worst of it is
that the poor old Ma Land has a tripey collection
of politicians, who seem to be quite incapable of
coping with this unfair invasion of innards.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord North cote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
RESTITUTION.
MRS. FINN: “ Look a-
here! Yet dirthy mon-
key have stole me hoy's
lollie. He have it in
his mouth now."
THE DAGO: “ That-a all
ride. You no make-a
the noise. I get it hack pretty quick."
At the welcome to Adelaide’s new Anglican
bishop Thomas, several of the S. Australian top-
notchers looked as though they knew they de-
served what they were getting. Thomas is an
apparently earnest young man with far less ex-
■ ~,, „„ h ,™ , lcMQf n
penence in far smaller centies than at least
dozen local men, and apparently ot no better
scholarship ; he isn’t a proved administrator, as a
speaker is below the average, and was pretty
clearly troubled trying to tell how he got there,
And the amazing part of it is that it is their own
J q Almro oouk
doings, lhese S. Australian Christians o ee
other so much that, rather than advance one ot
their own number, they would put up with any
kind of an indifferent outsider.
* * * *
That arithmetical mystery called ‘ ‘ ringing
, i ■»
the changes turned up recently m bydney, when,
according to an evening paper report, the change-
ringer was convicted of unlawfully procuring
9s. 9d, Apparently the drink was 3d. He gave
the barman a half-sovereign, and then snatched it
Kaci- Mvimr Via V»aliavao! La bad a silver coin
back saying lie believed be bad a silver corn
about him. Finding he had no silver com, he put
what was supposed to be the halt-sov. back into
the barman’s hand, and the drink : seller, who
thought he had had the coin in sight all the time,
gave 9s. 9d. change. It was only after the cus-
tVmAr h«d AaH tha t Va found thp half-sovereieri
tome l had fled that he tound the halt-sovereign
had mysteriously changed into sixpence. There-
fore the barman was ‘out 9s. od. i.e. % he
had given 9s. 9d. change instead of 3d. In
other words, he had given away 9s. 9d. in coin
and 3d. in beer, total 10s. and he had gained 6d.,
whipV omin mal-ps Hip loss 9s fid fin if the
which again makes the loss US. txt. »o ll tae
newspaper report was correct, and the conviction
was for stealing 9s. 9d. ail appeal should hold good,
The law generally' seems to lose its arithmetical
head in these cases, and when the lower court gets
the figures correctly it sometimes happens—at
least it once happened in Victoria that the
superior court gets dazed on appeal, and thinks
the lower court when it wasn’t.
. , , * , .. , ~ ,
Brisbane doesn t know quite what to do
with Holman Hunt’s “Light of the World”
when that garish decoration arrives there. Ihe
local Art Gallery is a room in the new Executive
Buildings, and won t accommodate more than 300
people ; and as all Brisbane and its girl says it is
going to see the “Light,” the gallery is declared
to be out of it, though even 300 people can’t really
see a picture at one time, no matter what the size
of the room it is in. r lhe papers are suggesting
that the Government should allow the use of the
recently-purchased Presbyterian Church, above
the Central Railway Station, mainly because it is
“a most suitable building for the purpose,” and
expressions like “an odor of sanctity ” and “a
sacred picture in a sacred place” are running
through the papers. As a side issue, somebody
might settle when a church ceases to be a “sacred
building.” The one in this case is an empty barn
which the Government is going to pull down to
make way for a railway station. The State has
bought it—odor, sanctity, and all.
The Bulletin’s morbid correspondent
sends this from Melbourne :
Melbourne had an epidemic of revolver suicides a
couple of weeks ago. First a miner walked up a lane off
Bourke-street, and just as the Post-Office clock boomed
out midnight melodramatically blew his brains out. He
left a letter explaining that he had a stomach complaint
ba £ rendered being alive superfluous. Next day a well-
known squatter staying at a hotel in Swanston-street
wrote a couple of letters, saying farewell to his
wife and friends, and then fired a bullet into his
brain- The cause in his ease was lack of money and
the tired feeling. The following day a groom shot himself
in an out-house at the back ot his fiancee’s home at Kew.
He had posed as a man of huge wealth, and had frequently
shown to the girl and her parents rolls of paper, which he
said were bank-notes. The farce was about played out,
though. He leased the house in which the girl and her
family lived, and the landlord was going to eject him as
the rent was overdue. At the same time the girl wanted
money, which he hadn’t got, to bu} r furniture, as they
were to be married at the end of the week. So the groom
bought a Webley and scratched for all engagements. On
the fourth day the son of a Oollins-street business man
went out into the bush at Sandringham and shot himself
ln the mouth ; his body was found next day. No one
elge ghoj . himself that day> but fche day after a postman,
w^ose m j ric i had become unhinged, wandered along the
bank of the mournful Yarra, climbed a tree that leaned
out over the stream, and shot'himself in the temple. He
had apparently intended his body to fall into the water,
where it might have been discovered a few days later to
provide a mysterious murder for the heroes bf ti e detec-
£ve offloe- But a f orked branch intervened, and hung
b ; m up by the neck so effectively that Coroner Candler
could not decide whether he had died from shooting or
hanging. This seemed to show that the most determined
shooticide might be disappointed, abd next day’s suicide
avoided all risks by hanging himself with a rope to the
bannister of his staircase. He was 74 years of age and no
Qne at the inquest oould provide any sort of reason
j or b j g ack Every one of the shooticides except the
postman used a Webley revolver. The postman used a
Colt.
* * * *
Vesuvius is seemingly the one volcano in
£ d e world that cannot work its own cure. The
present volcano, whichwastheoffspringofapre-
historic disturbance, has been belching its sul-
phurous breath, or vomiting violently, for about
q<)00 years. Its stomach complaint is chronic,
The late John Wesley—a dear, good man who
invented the Nonconformist Conscience—gave his
followers to understand that God had set up
Vesuvius as a warning to the local Roman
Catholics, and each fresh eruption was an expres-
sjon 0 f Divine wrath against the Pope. But
inasmuch as the evidences of eruptions by the
first volcano are thousands of years older than
Christianity, the Wesleyan doctrine must be
respectfully declined. For which matter the
early Popes were of opinion that the present
Vesuvius was heartily sick of Paganism when it
destroyed Pompeii,
* * * *
,
“L. Bedkober, 2/6 is the only item ql
interest that The Bulletin has been able to dig
out of a 36-page report just to hand from Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Who on earth is Lemuel Bedkober,
and is he any relation to a man named Coverlid
that we used to know ?
COAXING THE CUSTOMERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Thursday Afternoon. —Fifty of the highest
German nobles, 200 professors, 50 presidents of Chambers
of Commerce, and 30 Mayors of biff cities iiave joined a
friendship committee, the object of which is to promote
amity with England,
Gott erhalte unzern Kaiser ! Unzern guten Kaiser Bill !
Here’s another move to fool us, which it very likely will 1
Great idea is this friendship ; let’s be friends, or let us
try !
(“Kindly walk into my parlor !” said the spider to the
fly!)
Let us all be friends together and accept the offer made.
These unfortunate contentions are so very bad for trade !
Nations should be always friendly, and, like little birds
agree,
For it helps the manufactures which are “Made in Ger-
many 1 ”
Friendly ? Why, of course we’re friendly ! We’ve been
friendly all along!
If they boycott outside products, can we fairly say they’re
wrong ?
'Tis a move of great astuteness, is this latest move, but
still—
Gott erhalte unzern Kaiser ! Unzern guten Kaiser Bill!
N.S.W.
W. T. GGODGE.


sdf
The Home of the Overcoat
Some of the most distinguished OVERCOATS to be
met with this season have been specially designed by
R. C. HAGON. They can be had in either of the
following styles
“ RAGLAN,” “ PADDOCK,”
** CORNWALL,” ** CHESTERFIELD,”:
“ DERBY.”
Built to Order
(Not Reads' Made).
£3 3s.
R. C. NAGON,
Merchant Tailor,
129 King St*, Sydney; >
_ Colonel Hoad, lecturing in Brisbane on
•tne glorious Japs :
the birthdays of the children one of the prin-
J?\? e ? < >™ tlons use d was a fish. It represented a
Chat always swam against the stream. Thus the
taught that in life they were to remember
i to fight and never;give ay, whatever was the
j By SO doing only could they succeed in life,
(Appla" tfl ) e ® ee °* that teaching- throughout the
Very beautiful; of Course, including the applause.
A i Y , ,f wa y s s wi m uiing against the stream, every
snot that species must end by getting stranded
a tne top of .the river, and the whole tribe would
consequently become extinct. (Applause.) The
gushing Hoad had better do a think just here.
Home more Toad—that is Hoad
r ’ cnns °f praise of the Japanese military
imir?;t l n, a,l -i remar ' *'* ie P eo P' e said—they did not
ig 6 hoast—that they would make it possible for
oo®£ o °££ sfc b °y in their land, if he had the ability, to be-
S ?} the , r *i he f leading Admiral of their Navy, or the
Held Marshal of their Army. (Applause.)
Touching, no doubt—very touching. But even
f!J cll P of ’ r mean countries as France, Switzerland,
, ie Uf u ted States, and Mexico have done more
than, that without rousing, apparently, a penn’orth
of admiration m. Toad. They have made it pos-
sibie for thu poorest boy to become head of the
u m Lincoln, the rail-splitter; Gar-
eia, the farm boy (cheers); Benito Juarez, the
peasants son-(applause); and Felix Faure, the
cumer s apprentice, might be quoted in evidence
yust here. (Prolonged applause.)
■** . *
‘ an Remo, ” from Brisbane :
.Colonel Hoad lectured in the Exhibition Hall to 3000
P a k ou k the late Russo-Jap War. It was a free show,
which accounted, probably for the crowd. Anyhow', it
accounted fpr me. I wouldn’t pay 3|d. to hear four of
Hoad s lectures.
I want to know if our Defence authorities can’t find
something more for Hoad to do, than' gad about the
countiy lauding- the Monkey man and 1 gloating over the
(hsooiniiture. of the white race! Hoad seems to have quite
a sickly regard for the yellow man. And many of his
statements are in direct opposition to the opinions ex-
pressed by some of the best war correspondents of the
campaign. According to Hoad, the Japs were superior
to the Russians in everything. He showed a
Russian shell case ’ (shrapnel) and a Japanese shell
ot- halt its size, and stated that the Jap shell
v T a ? j n V? lo t Powerful than the Russian. He also
stated that the Russian artillery was poor. Now, the
American and several of the British correspondents
agreed that the Russian artillery r work out-classed that
or the Jap’s. In skitlng about the Japs’artillery, Hoad
stated they burst shrapnel at 5000yds. Hoad, as a mili-
tary expert, doesn’t know too much. The Krupp guns
used by the Russians burst shrapnel at 8000yds. (New
York Herald). Hoad admitted that the Japanese
cavalry-work was poor. He should have said simply awful,
DUt, instead, he excused and glossed things over. And
the Jap s boot-wear and clothing were bad, likewise their
transport. .Simply fearful,” the war correspondents
stated these to be. But Hoad is full of apologies for his
htwe brown chum, and skips unpleasant details like
lightning He referred to the quiet enthusiasm of the
Jap people in; dispatching the troops, and tried hard to
work up a cheer by recalling the send-off which Australia
ii!® -Mrican contingents. lam pleased to say
that this fell very flat, though the hall was packed with
swashbucklers. No one likes to be reminded of that
Chow war.
Quite a titter ran through the hall when Hoad stated
ne would not deal with Japanese social life. "
One statement of his was interesting*. In Japan a fund
exists (he alleged) from which i successful students mav
receive certain sums to start them in their business
careers. The recipient gives his word of honor to repay
that sum as soon as possible out of his earnings. Hoad
says very few default. This may be so. The Jap may be
honorable, in his dealings with his countrymen, but he is
a d d rogue in dealing with all others. Ask merchants
and commercial men who have done business in Japan.
They say the Jap is absolutely devoid of-commercial
morality. Hoad must have a kin let about him somewhere
that makes him love the Jap so much.
ON THE LINKS.
CADDY : “ Yans, though I only met you this morning, I seem to have known you all my life.”
GOLFER: “ Yes, really, you know, it does seem, to have been a long day.”
Murphy, the amazing Kilmore (Vic.)
magistrate who lately had three young men
stripped and flogged in the court, and then fined
them ss. each and sent them to gaol, has burst
forth again. It was a battery case. Harvey
accused Burgess (aged 18) and Durkin (aged 15) of
brutally assaulting him, but he had no one'to sup-
port his statement save himself, and apparently
he showed no sign of injury. The two accused
said that it was ; Harvey who had assaulted them,
and Burgess showed a badly-bitten hand as evi-
dence..:, Four people who were present (including a
newspaper reporter) all swore that Burgess and
Durkin did not assault Harvey, but were attacked
by him, so there were six swears to one. And
the incredible Murphy decided that the un-
corroborated statement of Harvey was reli-
able,. apaparently -for no reason except that
he had heard it first, and that Burgess, Durkin and
their four, witnesses" (Including the reporter) were'
committing, perj.ury." So he fined the man with
the bitten hand £lO, or three months and
the. other.£s or six weeks, and rushed them into
gaol- right there ; likewise he gave one of their
witnesses 24 hours for “prevarication.” It
wasn't tbe reporter Who got' the 24 hours, how-
ever ;if he had,the Archimedean lever might have
got square with Murphy. . The Bulletin reckons
it.will spend its next holidays at Kilmore for -the
sake; of having a look-at Murphy. He should be a
specimen worth inspecting.
The braw youth who enlists in the Scottish
Rifles has a grievance against the N.S. W. military
authorities. He went into camp at Easter, and
he lias two hats. One is useless, being a little
wee bit cap perched on the hair of one side of his
head. His other bonnet is a white helmet with a
gorgeous painted plume at the side, and he has
to wear the wee bit cap because the military
leaders say that the invisible enemy (who is not
there) would spot his brilliant headgear too easily
in the sham fights. So the Scottish Rifles are
liable to sunstroke. The simple expedient of
issuing a regimental order that the white helmets
are to be regarded as invisible, and that the absent
enemy is to please consider that the hats are 1
black, or absent, or that the Scottish Rifles don’t.
exist, hasn’t struck anybody.
. A curious coincidence attaches to the recent
death of a young man employed on Merino Downs
station (Vic.). He set out from the hotel at
Tahara for Merino on his bicycle on Sunday even-
ing, and was picked up dead two miles from the
township. Six months back another young man
left Tahara on a Sunday evening, biking. He was
picked up dead outside the township. And it was
the same bike, the second corpse having bought it
at the sale of the first corpse’s effects. Apparently
there is a curse on the bike; and the curse only
works just outside Tahara township.
* * * *
A new departure in Langwarrin (Vie.)
camp arrangements this Easter was the pitching
of a small camp for the pressmen, where they could
“ write up their reports undisturbed,” without
causing inconvenience to “commanding officahs,”
donch'erknow. Each pressman was required to
bring his own bedding, towels, soap, &c., and the
caterer’s charge for a press-mass was 10s. Gd. a head
per. day. Considering that newspaper notices
are the breath of life to the boss performers
in a military show, they ought to “shout”
board and lodging for the reporters. In fact,
every pressman should have a majah told off to
bring him his shaving water. Militarism exists
by the grace of journalism, and the pen is mightier
than the sword, but the relative positions of these
two Commonwealth forces are not properly defined
at an encampment. Now, a united press would
insist on having its representatives' received by- an
obsequious Cbmtnander-in-Chief and a brass band.
Poultry-farming has been declared a
noxious trade under N.S.W. Noxious Trades Act,
and it was done not a day too soon. As rat-
breeders few businesses excel poultry-keeping.
Meat is thrown to fowls in excess of needs, and
the balance becomes a general nuisance. Most
poultry-farmers are lazy; waiting for a hen to lay
would make any man so. Consequently they aie
objectionable in crowded neighborhoods, for they
don’t clean up and disinfect with the energy
required. The only time they get a brisk go on
them is when they enter some newspaper’s hen- .
laying competition, and then three-fourths of the
energy is expended writing to the papers to say
what their particular hens are going to do. When
the henologist and eggist is shifted from thickly-
peopled districts, branded as a noxious trade, and
subjected—self and hens—to periodical inspec-
tion, it will do him a heap of good.
At the TOWNHALL
( Tofctae Rsvluetin)
""fniS be A I>r€sj RcKe.a\'j*l of
A«AVer\ N
This Swtr\ of ibejocj of life And *
-Light And Hujic '
Or itself.
thoje floating clou dj of Purifij^
WhtleriesJ - Angels A
Qnd Ifiojc. others? - can be
Ordinary men \
the Gody
in ore grace .
than these V
/ /,
W f „ ,
Momgi go/ors W Ever!
'Svjcelf Tamor Am* of ‘RKyfkmtcaf
Elysium
Viere for rrtt, wiH\
mcj eije Glued fe tkis Hole,
Andlhe Ic M Wind blowing
acros) mt| Toor B*ck.
Hfte MangWg must W&il -1 Molker.
G BRON.
THE WOMEN’S VOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
To my happy home there reaches the voice of one who
preaches
Of the universal brotherhood of White and Black and
; Brown,
And upon my ear is falling- with monotony the bawling
Of a fellow who is crying “ Stinking Fish ” around the
town.
There are pleasant zephyrs blowing from where scented
gums are growing,
And the sun is glorifying fleecy cloudlets in the West.
I’d just like to lie a-dreaming of the prospect that n
gleaming
In the future —if those nuisances would only take a rest.
Maybe that my taste is rotten. I’ve a stately' white wife
gotten,
And there’s not a tint or feature in her that I’d wish
recalled ;
We have children, too, just like us, and it’s strange, but it
don’t strike us
That we’d feel more satisfaction if those kiddies were
piebald.
Will the gentleman who suffers here amongst us silly
duffers
Kindly take himself away to where the people are so wise •
And the man who loves girl yellow go to them and let a
fellow
Listen for the kookaburra’s laughing chorus to arise ?
Now I want to do some thinking as I’m lying here a-
blinking,
For the children fast are growing and they soon will want
some room,
So I’ve got to plan some buildings with their cornices and
gildings,
And I can’t be plagued with insects, and—the missis has
a broom.
VIC.
JEACH.
DEADLY HEART PAINS.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Foryears I had a dread of droning dead
with Heart Disease,” said Mrs. Mary Gunn, 16
Busby Parade, Waverley, Sydney, f* The best
doctors in the city could do nothing for mo—but
Ur. Williams’ Pink Pills saved my life. For a
long time my blood kept getting weaker and more
watery. Big black rings came under hay eyes,
and my face had a sickly washed-out look. My
nerves were so bad that seven nights would go by,
and I wouldn’t get a wink of sleep. Not two
minutes could I keep my mind on anything. I
was so short-tempered that I was ready to quarrel
with anyone and everyone. If I tried to do a
little housework, I would have to lie down for
hours afterwards. Some days I couldn’t get rid
of the dull boring pains in my temples. My
stomach was so upset that I could not look at
food. Every minute I felt as if I would vomit.
My head spun round and round, and I turned
cold and clammy all over. All the poWer went
out of my body, and I used to go off in a half
faint. Whenever I got up with one of my racking
headaches I knew there was a bad day in store for
me. Each day left me shaky, and as down-hearted
as I could be. After every faint, I felt the next
bad turn would be my death. My last doctor
treated me for months —but his medicine did rue
no good. Then my old chemist told me to try
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People—and I
did. I took eight boxes of them, and here I am
to-day the very picture of health. For the' past
three years my heart has been sound and strong.
It never gives me a moment’s anxiety now. f
owe my life to Dr. Williams’ Pink, Pills for Pale
People.
“It was about my heart that I had worried
most, but my whole health had been wretched for
a long time,” said Mrs.Gunn. “At times my legs
were so weak that I could hardly walk. I hadn’t
the strength of a baby. If I climbed a few steps
I gasped for breath. Often my back ached till I
couldn’t stand. Try as I would, I could never
shake off the all-gone feeling that came over mci
I would have given worlds to be strong—but the
worst of it was I had no appetite. Half a glass of
milk made me sick. Whenever I did force thyself
to eat even a soda biscuit, it gave me a, dreadful
pain on the chest. Something seemed to be
wound round my body and crushing the life out
of me. Every little while hot sour water came up
my throat. There was always a white coating on
my tongue, and a taste in my mouth like brass. For
half-an-hour or more, I used to belch wind, and
then I started to retch. Every day I grew weaker
and thinner, till at last I weighed only 7st.
“ From one week’s end to another, I was always
ailing,” added Mrs. Gunri. “At last I didn’t
seem to have one sound nerve left in my body.
I was completly done-up for want'of sleep. All
night long, I tossed and turned in my bed, and
got up in the morning utterly worn-out. For
days I had a feeling as if something dreadful was
going to happen. I often had the trembles so bad,;
that I could hardly lift a tea cup without letting,
it fall. Sometimes my left arm went numb, and
it was as much as I could do to move my fingers.
Cold sweats used to break out on me—then I would
shiver all over, and turn hot again. For no cause
at all, the blood rushed to my head, and turned
me dizzy. Singing noises came in my ears, and a,
sickly faint feeling left me powerless. Again and
again, the doctors warned me to take things quietly,,
and never' do anything to eXcite my heart. I
never knew the day when I might drop dead; I
“ The doctors did their best for the, but still I
dragged about more dead than alive,” Mrs. Gunn
went on. “Then one day, when I went to get
another lot of medicine made up, my old chemist-
said to me, ‘ You don’t seem to make much head-
way with this medicine, Mrs. Gunn. I believe
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are more likely to'
do you good than anything else.’ After the first
two boxes, I hardly knew myself. The appetite I
had was simply tremendous. From that on, I
gained every day. In a few weeks, I was able to -
fly round the house, and never thought of taking
my time going upstairs. At night, I was no sooner ’
in bed than I was fast asleep. In the morning I
got up brimful of energy. There were no more
bilious headaches, and I could be on my feet from
morning till night and never get a backache.
Before three months were out, Dr. Williams’ Pink *
Pills left me with not a sign of a weak heart. Now ‘
I weigh over lOst. As long as ever I live I will
never believe in doctors. If I were ill to-morrow,
I would take no other medicine but Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. ”
Now Dr. Williams’ Pink'Pills build up the strength in
just one way—they actually make new blood. That is.ill
they do, but they do it well. They don’t act on the ’
bowels. They don’t bother with mere symptoms. They ,
won’t cure any disease that isn’t caused by bad blood.
But, then, nearly all common diseases spring from that •
one cause—anaemia, indigestion, biliousness, headaches,-
sideaches, backaches, kidney trouble, lumbago, rheu-
matism, sciatica, neuralgia, nervousness, general weak-
ness and the special secret ailments that growing girls
and women do not like to talk about even to their doctors.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, by striking straight at the came,
cure all these ailments just as readily as they cured Mrs.
Gunn, But you must insist on getting the genuine Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills—always in boxes, never in bottles. ■
If your local retailer cannot give you exactly what you
ask for, order them by mail from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
post free. If you are in any doubt about your illness,
write to the same address for free medical advice.*
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are very
good to Gr. H. Reid, K.C., in the matter of fees.
His income from that source alcne is estimated at
over £lOOO a year.


YOUR ENGAGEMENT RING.— We are from
London to supply you. That will explain why we can
interest and offer you more than most. We iead with
these unique gifts, and, moreover, facilitate your means
of immediate purchase if necessary by our novel and easy
plan of Monthly Deferred Payments. _ Our Jewellery is of
modern, high-class and newest design. English Hall-
marked 18ct. rich-carved half-hoop setting, purest gems
from 40s. to £6O. Deposit and terms are easy, and can be
privately arranged. Write or call for our illustrated cata-
logue of jewellery and plate, free. It will
it now. The British Imperial Goldsmiths,
corner of Bridge-street, Sydney.
pay you to do
65 Pitt-street,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Every time Australia hears of a State Govern-
ment having a surplus, it looks as though it ought to
start to sniff suspiciously. Seddon, of Maoriland, proved
the political virtues of a surplus, or an alleged surplus-
tor practical purposes one appears to be about as good
as the other. In the face of appalling borrowing which,
in spite of everything, will yet come very near dropping
Maoriland into the mud, Seddon has been able to keep a
remarkable grip upon the country largely because,
year after year, he was able to announce a surplus.
Now, J. Carruthers is making himself solid in the same
tricky fashion ; and the public will have to look close or
it won’t know how it fell in, and probably won’t believe
that it has fallen in, until afterwards. A report just made
to the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board by its
secretary should, however, give the public a hint. Mar-
vellous as it may seem, this Board decided a while back
that, as sewer pipes and engines and things wear out—
and wear out very fast—the honest thing was to provide
a sinking or renewal fund. As a matter of fact, it ought
to have both a sinking and a renewal fund : the latter to
buy new things with when the old ones wear out; the
former to gradually pay off Cohen, so that the city may
really own the works. It took a long while, however, for
the Board to be virtuous enough to have even a respect-
able renewal fund ; between 1888 and 1904 it accumulated
only £55,962 in excess of interest. Apparently it didn’t
trouble much about what became of the money ; anyhow,
it paid the surplus over to the Treasury, and it didn’t ask
the Treasury what it did with the coin. In 1904-5 it
managed to get a so-called surplus of £54,178 ; and that
was so sizeable a sum that it began to ask questions,
and to presume that the Treasury was ear-marking it for
renewals. The Board knew that sooner or later it would
have to make renewals; and it seems to have
dawned upon the Board that if it borrowed
to make these renewals, its interest bill would
go on piling up indefinitely, and the rates would
have to go on increasing indefinitely. The Board then
found out that the money wasn’t being used as a sinking
fund; instead, Treasurer Carruthers -had collared last
.year’s “surplus” to help manufacture his own alleged
surplus, and proposed to go on doing so for the future.
In the words of the report, “ the Government intended to
omit all reference to a sinking or renewal fund in the pro-
posed Water and Sewerage Amending Bill.”
If this correctly states the situation, it amounts
to plain, unvarnished financial swindle. Even if N.S.W.
has not enough grit and common sense to establish a sink-
ing fund, in order to gradually get itself out of pawn, it
ought at least to have enough honesty not to use as
revenue what is clearly required to provide for deprecia-
tion and wear and tear. If the use of plant and works
for a year takes £25,000 off their value, it is as dishonest
to fail to show that £26,000 as an outgoing, to neglect to
charge it against revenue, as it would be to fail to disclose
the amount spent on wages, or to borrow £25,000 and
not mention it in the balance-sheet. And when it is loan
money that is being worn out the failure is more dis-
honest than usual. Generally speaking, the trouble has
been that not enough has been charged for services to
allow of anythingbeingput aside to provide for renewals ;
but here is a case in which one body makes the necessary
charge, and provides the necessary fund, and then a
Government —a Financial Reform Government of all sorts
of Government in the world ! —appropriates it, partly
builds a surplus with it, and then throws out its chest to
get the people’s applause. And the people give it.
There was an election at Queanbeyan last week, and the
Reform candidate won. For a start he might say what
he thinks of the robbery of renewal funds in order to
provide Reform surpluses.
* # * *
There was no receiver put in in Germany when
some of the American life offices talked about withdraw-
ing from the country, it is now alleged. Possibly, for the
very good reason that the offices decided not to go. And,
anyhow, the German law offers a pretty large protection
to the policy-holder even without a receiver. It requires
the offices to hold in the country, in approv ed securities,
the reserve or present value of all policies issued in Ger-
many. That means practically that the whole of the
money collected in Germany must remain in Ger-
many". More than that, under the German law,
the by-laws must be approved before any insur-
ance office begins business, and while it continues
to do business those by-laws may not be altered
without the sanction of the German Government, which,
further, reserves to itself the right to examine the affairs
of the co. or society, not merely in Germany 7, but at the
head or any other office, at any time ; and that right has
been exercised, Even then there was certainly talk of
appointing a receiver (and the Government has full power
to do it), to make sure that the law with regard to main-
taining reserves in the country was not broken. The
German Government knows very well that it is one thing
to argue with a life assurance office which is still asking
for new business, and reckons that it will pay it to behave
itself, and quite another thing to argue with an office
which has left off seeking business and doesn’t care what
anybody thinks of it.
When Australia gets to work on an insurance
law it will have to consider whether, when an office
decides not to take more new business, it shouldn’t put
in a receiver as a matter of course. The Equitable pro-
bably doesn’t care two straws now what anybody in Aus-
tralia thinks about it ; and the distressed widow who
runs against that sort of society is liable to get very
different treatment from what she gets from an office
whoke business will be improved by treating distressed
widows kindly. In fact, the Equitable’s business just
now is to give extra-good results in countries where it is
seeking new business ; and one way by which it can show
extra-good results there is by giving the meanest possible
results here. When an insurance office throws up the
sponge in any country there is therefore a great deal to
be said in favor of, say, the Public Trustee stepping in at
once and taking possession. But as a preliminary to
that, the full reserve value of the policies must be main-
tained in the country ; in other words, the present value
of assets and liabilities must balance when the Official
Receiver steps in. The winding-up expense rate ought to
be considerably lower than the loading provided for ex-
penses in the premiums ; and that would provide a very
decent fund for bonuses and contingencies.
* * » *
When a man who has something on fixed de-
posit in the average Sydney bank turns up to renew, he
will for the future be pointed to a notice which say r s that
the two-year rate has been cut down from 3£ to" 3 per
cent.; and as only last year he ran against a similar
notice intimating that the rate had been reduced from
4 to 3| per cent., he will probably remark that the thing
is getting monotonous. In some banks he will be told
that even a 12 months deposit at anything over 2J per
cent, is unwelcome, and that if they must take six
months money at all, it can only be at lj per cent. The
man with the"nest-egg, seeking probably the safest of all
investments outside Government stocks, should, however,
be comforted by the fact that the Sy 7 dney Telegraph
cordially approves of the change. “The present step,”
it says, “ is the right one under the circumstances. . . .
Increasing the stock of idle money is altogether unprofit-
able, and to ship more millions to London than they have
already done is an alternative they would rather not re-
sort to.” Butwhynot? Under Freetrade or a mongrel tariff
it is the only sensible thing to do. If Australia maintains
factories, industries, &c., in foreign countries, obviously
the only place for the investment of the bulk of its money
is in the same foreign countries. It is absurd to keep the
money in Australia, when the means of employing
the money are at the other end of the earth. It
is no use the Australian bank being squeamish about
the matter. It must send t’’e money where the securities
are. If it doesn’t—if it keeps the money here—then
fictitious securities will be created. Men will pay absurd
prices foi* investment stocks, lands, buildings, farms, &c.
In other words, it will simply encourage a boom. And
to encourage a boom is to encourage a burst. That
under a Freetrade or a mongrel tariff is the only rational
alternative—Send the money away for investment, or
keep it at home and have a boom-drunk on it.
Of course if the banks send the money to foreign
parts, they will get probably a whole 1J or 2 per cent, for
it. Recently in London they have got as much as 2£ per
cent., but such a return as that is very rare.
The immediate cause of the fall in the Sydney deposit
rate is the easing of the London money market; the banks
already can’t get more than 1J per cent, in some cases for
short-notice money. The Freetrader who goes into a
Sydney bank to renew a deposit, and is told that the rate
has been lowered, should, nevertheless, rejoice and be
glad ; for it means cheap money for the manufacturer
and the merchant of London, Brummagem, France,
Germany ; and that possibly means just a shade cheaper
goods for Australia. Even then, if he gets only 1£ or
2 per cent., the Australian depositor is better off than
the Australian workman. The latter can’t send his labor
to the foreign factory on any terms; the depositor can
send his money.
Australia imports about £40,000,000 worth of
foreign goods every year ; and if the capital necessary to
produce and handle those goods were called for in Aus-
tralia, the Australian bank wouldn’t have to export
money to markets where it has to compete with the
millions of the Rothschilds and the Cohens; and when
the rate fell in London, the man with a nest-egg in an
Australian bank wouldn’t be hit w 7 ith a notice that there
had been another fall in Australian deposit rates. So
long, however, as Australia tries to do without high Pro-
tection, so long will the proper place for the investment
of its surplus money be in the foreign countries w 7 here its
factories, &c., are ; and, in that case, so long will the
Australian depositor have to compete with the cheap
money of Europe. High Protection isn’t a matter for
the Australian workman only ; with absolute truth the
notice now posted in Australian banks could read this
way
“ Notice.
“ On and after April 11, because of the absence of High
Protection and the consequent dearth of industries in
Australia to absorb their money, depositors are informed
that (the rate in foreign countries, which make our
goods, having fallen) deposits will only be accepted as
follows: —6 months, p.c. ; 12 months, 2J or 3 p.c. ; two
years or more, 3 p.c.”
* * » *
Of all Australian life offices, the Citizens has
now the largest proportion of its funds put safely into
public securities—securities, that is, which are backed by
the whole of the fixed assets and the credit of the
country. Seddon, on behalf of Maoriland, has just bor-
rowed £250,000 from the co., presumably at 3£ per cent.
It is good business for the insurance co., but mighty,
bad business for Maoriland. Almost simultaneously
Seddon , announces a surplus of £775,000. About
£500,000 belongs to this year; the rest is brought
forward. The amount of Seddon’s borrowings during the
year is not, however, mentioned at the same time ; but it
was probably well over £1,500,000. And the surplus of a
country which borrows three times as much as the alleged
surplus amounts to is open to suspicion. Somehow it
is at Easter that we always seem to hear most about
the young man with the uncle in Fiji who flashes a big
bundle of faked notes in order to get possession of some
notes that are not faked. Mr. Seddon has often been
urged to move the end of his financial year from March to
June. But perhaps he sees the fitness of things in an-
nouncing his surplus at Easter time. It is his uncle in
Fiji.
• * * *
No other variety of so-called investment stock
in Australia is liable' to bite quite so hard as Breweries.
The public has, or had, an exalted idea of brewery profits
—partly derived from teetotal enthusiasts who mostly
never saw a brewery balance-sheet in their lives ; partly
from the magnificence of the brewery-traveller’s hat and
the size of his cigar. The public knew, too, that the
Tooths and the Tooheys and the Fitzgeralds and the
E. T. Smiths made a pot of money out of beer; and it
sailed in to do the same thing. Mostly it paid a huge
sum for goodwill, which was the first handicap ;
then, feeling that, the men who made the busi-
ness being gone, it was more at the mercy of the
employees, it encouraged the brewery traveller to be
more magnificent than ever. Presently, in a lordly fashion
it remarked—“ Hogsheads getting the trade, are they—
we’ll soon stop that. Go out and buy ten hotels ! ” And
that business was done on the magnificent scale, too —as
the shareholders have a habit of finding out later on
when it becomes necessary to write off half the capital
as lost. The trade is, for the greater part, carried
on under unhealthy, unnatural conditions. The
traveller is expected to take out half-a-sovereign and
“ smash it ” when he looks in for an order ; if the grocery
traveller was expected to “ shout ” 31b. of currants and a
packet of self-raising flour to every assistant and strag-
gler every time he looked in at the grocery, the grocery
warehouse would be in a pretty bad way too. And if the
whole business were conducted on the same lines, nothing
could prevent a smash. It is simply because there is
very big profit in beer, when it is handled in an ordinary
business-like way, that the private brewer who keeps his
head makes a fortune, but the average brewery co. is
half the time in the soup.
It is impossible to show much of tho real
position of Australian breweries in a table ; but, as far as
the records go, here are the main figures of the principal
co.’s for their last twelve months (goodwill is not reckoned
an asset in those cases where it can be detected and
cast out)
Net
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
S. Australian .. ..£15,250 5 p.c. =£12,500 £37,591
Perkins (Brisbane) .. 25,697 40 ~ ~ 24,500 118,360
Shamrock (Melb.) .. 4,628 8 ~ ~ 3,612 21,376
Melb. 00-operative .. 23,679 78 „ ~ 10,180 11,947
Swan (Perth) .. .. 43,864 28 ~ ~ 28,406 157,747
Tooth’s (Sydney) .. 84,358 8 „ ~ 72,000 169,870
C’maine and Wood
(Newcastle).. .. 10,000 4 ~ „ 10,000 42,270
C’maine, Quinlan, Gray
and Co. (Brisbane) 3,983 5 ~ ~ 3,855 14,714
Castlemaine (Vie.) .. 4,763 4 ~ ~ 5,000 5’314
Fitzgerald’s (Vic.) .. 6,423 10 ~ ~ 5,000 13,054
Cascade (Hobart) .. 8,078 6 ~ ~ 6,804 7,097
Deficit.
Carlton (Melb.) .. 4,911 3 ~ ~ 1,182 296,145
Toohey’s (Sydney) .. 21,772 4 „ ~ 22,000 60,731
Loss.
M‘Cracken’s(Melb.).. 8,095 21,057
But figures as to reserves and deficits are not always to
be taken literally. For instance, M’Cracken’s, of Mel-
bourne; though £425,226 has been written off, the
capital is still supposed to be £287,820. But so far from
only £21,057 of this having been lost, the fact is that for
five years past the profits have only been enough to pay
£3 7s. per cent, on the debentures (£500,000). In other
words, if the whole share capital were wiped out, the de-
benture holders would average a return of less than 34
per cent. If an adequate amount were written off for
depreciation, they would probably not average 3 per
cent. These £lOO debentures are quoted at only £4B.
Apart from the sensational start of the Mel-
bourne Co.-operative (which only shows what profits
there are in the business when it is not outrageously
over-loaded with capital charges, and when some°of the
absurdly extravagant methods of getting business
can be abolished), about the most striking thing
in the past 10 years’ brewery finance “history
is the way Perkins’ (Brisbane) has jumped into
big profits. In 1596 it was making a profit of £11,784,
and paid 10 per cent. ; in the past year it made a profit of
£25,697 and paid 40 per cent, on actually paid capital
(£58,333). There are only two co.’s in the list which
during the past 10 years have capitalised profits—Perkins’
is one; Fitzgerald’s (Melb.) the other. Perkins’, how-
ever, is a new co. formed out of the ruins of the old in
which process about one-third of the old co.’s capital
disappeared. Fitzgerald’s capitalised £lO,OOO in 1901.
But with regard to Perkins’, note this : though the divs.
have been increasing all the time, the profits haven’t. In
1901-2 they were £28,496 ; in 1905-6, they were down to
£25,697. The present div. absorbs practically all the
profits, and it is doubtful whether the amount written off
is sufficient. The only other co. with a recent record
anything like this is the Swan (Perth), whose divs. have
moved about between 16 and 32 per cent, for the past
seven years. In 6} years it has added also £106,263 to its
reserves, though about £22,000 of this is share premiums
It has £153,099 sunk in hotels, nearly all bought during
the past seven years, and so far from having a fund put
safely away where property-slumps can’t hurt it, it has
actually an overdraft of about £lB,OOO.
Tooth’s figures are the envy and the despair of
most brewery co.’s. The latter furtively confess that
they don’t know how the thing is done. In the past
10 years the disclosed profits have varied hardly at all,
and the dividend has been a steady 7 or 8 per cent. No
more than 8 per cent, was paid in the boom years; if
there was anything over—and there must often have
been something |considerable over—it was med to write
down assets, and so establish a secret reserve fund and
that is the biggest part of Tooth’s secret. At the end of
the co.’s first half-year (1888), freeholds, plant, etc., were
in the balance sheet at £576,132 ; by 1895 they had only
got up to £619,106 ; by 1905 to £643,221. In 1900 they
stood at £671,662, so that in the past five years these
assets have been actually written down £28,441, in addi-
tion to the value of anything new added to this group of
assets. No doubt this means that for practical purposes
no single balance-sheet of Tooth’s is worth much the
position, so far as that particular term is concerned, may
be actually better or worse than disclosed. But, limiting
the dividend as they always have done, they have been able
to show remarkably fine results over a long spell of years.
The single feature that suggests that even Tooth’s may
be suffering, like practically every other brewery co. in
Australia, is the item “Sundry debtors.” In 1900 this
stood at £210,037 ; in 1905 it was up to £252,931. This
may be all perfectly good money ; but the increase may
mean that the co.’s real profits are not now sufficient to
permit of the former severe writing down.
Castlemaine and Wood (Newcastle) is another
brewery concern whose balance-sheet doesn’t bring things
to the surface. Last year it professed to make net just
the £lO,OOO necessary to pay the 4 p.c. dividend ; and that
is the sort of coincidence that you don’t swallow more
than once. The fact is that this co. had a big hole to fill
up, and has been filling it, and hasn’t finished yet. Sundry
debtors in 1901 stood for £77,348 ; in 1905 for £55,929.
Meantime properties, plant, &c., have gone from £257,770
to £282,978. That £25,000 may have been money got in ;
it may, on the other hand, be bad debts written off
out of profit—which would make the balance-sheet out
to be a good deal better than it looks. Another
Castlemaine (Castlemaine, Quinlan, Gray, and Co., of
Brisbane) wrote off about £90,000 in 1901, and still didn’t
get out of trouble. Its declared profits have been : —1902,
£9026 ; 1903, £7499 ; 1904, £4311 ; 1905, £3983. But this
sad fall might be due to increasingly heavy writings-off
of old bad debts. Yet, as against that cheerful supposi-
tion, note the movement of revenue—l9o3, £30,096; 1904,
£25,208 ; 1905, £22,755. Down to 1903 the co. had not
paid a dividend for years. Since then it has paid 6 per
cent. ; and there is many a 5 per cent. that, stands more
firmly on its feet. The Victorian Castlemaine got some
of the way down the same rocky street. In ’97, ’9B, and
’99 it paid nothing, and nothing again in ’O3 and ’O4 ; but
it has £lOO,OOO of debentures, and they call in for their 5
per cent, regularly. What an erratic business it is, when
you haven’t got an internal reserve to make things look
steady, can be sized up from these figures : —ln 1894 the
profits were £18,647, in 1897 £3776, and in 1901 £11,963.
Toohey’s disappointed shareholders may get a
dry crumb of consolation out of the fact that, when
Tooth’s was formed, it sprang off with a 10 per cent, divi-
dend, and promptly had to drop it to 7 ; and the drop
certainly didn’t mean in that case that the bottom Was
out of the business. In 1901-2 brewery profits were just
about at the height of their recovery after the bursting of
the boom. Figures for Perkins, Castlemaine of Brisbane,
Castlemaine of Victoria, and some others, have been
quoted already. The Carlton (Melb.), which last year
made only £4911, in 1901 made £26,712, and in 1902
£21,443. This was the time when Toohey’s, Ltd., came
on the scene and one wouldn’t expect a seller to come out
at any other time ; further, he has inside knowledge and
experience, to judge which is the top, that the
public hasn’t. The practical question now is whether the
bottom of brewery profits has been reached. All that can
be said about that is that in ’96-7-8 and thereabouts
brewery profits were, on the whole, much lower than
they are now.
What the market thinks of the principal
brewery shares may be seen from this :
Paid per Latest Divi- Return
Share. Price. dend. p.c.
Tooth’s .. ..£1 0 0 £1 9 3 8 p.c. £5 9 4
Toohey’s.. ..1 0 0 12 0 4 ~ 6 13 4
Castlemaine
and Wood ..100 10 9 4 „ 759
Fitzgerald’s ..1 0 0 1 13 0 10 „ 613
Carlton .. .. 20 12 3 „ 530
Shamrock .. 11 6 7 0 8 ~ 14 0 0
« a,,/2 0 0 19 9 5 „ 10 2 6
S. Australian --| lOO 8 9 5„ 11 86
Swan .. ..1 5 0 3 15 0 24 „ 800
Perkins’ .. .. 15 0 1 14 6 23£ „ 10 6 8
The return required is high enough to suggest that
breweries haven’t bitten investors in the past without
leaving a mark. But Heaven only knows how the market
can reconcile some of the figures to the facts.
With a view to improving the brewery situation
in Melbourne, a combine, taking in the Carlton,
McCracken’s, Castlemaine, and Shamrock, and two pro-
prietary beer-factories, Foster’s and the Victoria, is prac-
tically arranged ; only minor details remain to be settled.
The combine will take over the business, but not the
liabilities of the six concerns, and, with a view to cutting
down expenses, will probably shut up McCracken’s and the
Castlemaine and Shamrock breweries. The most delicate
part of the negotiations has been in connection with the
interests of the debenture holders. Carlton, whose share
capital is now only £40,287, has debentures and mort-
gages of £729,783 ; M‘Cracken’s has £500,000 of deben-
tures ; and the Castlemaine has £lOO,OOO. Most of the
debentures are held in London, where the necessary
negotiations have been carried through by Edward Fan-
ning, of the Castlemaine Co. The combine will probably
cut off a large slice of the expenses ; unfortunately it
comes too late to do very much for the shareholders,
because by far the greater part of their interest had long
ago to be sacrificed in order to keep things going for the
debenture-holder and the mortgagee. Those patient
gentlemen don’t get anything glittering in the way of
interest; but they stay to the finish. Mostly they get
the beer ; the brewery shareholders’ portion has been the
froth.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Sept., 1899 ..£4,624 3 p.c. =£2250 £2374 £10,415
Mar., 1900 .. 5,843 4 „ „ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept., 1900 .. 5,863 4 „ „ 3000 2863 16,121
Mar., 1901 .. 6,488 5 „ „ 3750 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901 .. 6,700 5 „ „ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902 .. 7,061 5 „ „ 3750 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902 .. 7,095 5 „ „ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903 .. 7,380 5 „ „ 3750 3630 32,095
Sept., 1903 .. 6,819 6 ~ „ 4500 2319 34,414
Mar., 1904 .. 7,556 6 „ „ 4500 3056 37,470
Sept., 1904 .. 7,333 6 „ „ 4500 2833 40,303
Mar., 1905 .. 8,335 6 „ „ 4500 3835 44,138
Sept., 1905 .. 8,238 6 „ „ 4500 3738 47,876
Mar., 1906 ..10,072 7 „ „ 5250 4822 52,698
That table looks amazingly well. It looks so well indeed
that one is bound to ask whether the thing is genuine,
and one wants to know how it is done. Go back, then, to
the first period covered by the foregoing figures. At
Sept., 1899, the total deposits were £368,217, of which
only £245,616 was at interest. Now, the smaller the bank,
other things being equal, the smaller is the proportion of
current account deposits that can be safely lent out. The
present total of deposits is £1,052,505, of which £797,089
is carrying interest, or more than three times the amount
held in 1899 ; and, in addition to this increase of interest-
bearing deposits, a larger proportion of the free deposits
(£255,416) can now be more or less safely made use of. These
figures mark an extremely rapid development of business.
Yet the position seems considerably sounder than it was
in 1899. At September 30 in that year the liquid assets
represented only 27 p.c. of the liabilities to the public ;
they now represent 55 p.c. The proportion has been
almost exactly doubled in 6£ years. That is to say, though
it would be safe for the bank to lend out a larger propor-
tion of call money now than it would have been 6£ years
ago, as a matter of fact twice as large a proportion of
deposits of both sorts is now 7 being kept in coin, or in
liquid securities which are not liable as a rule to severe
slumping.
The recent big jump in the profits is not, how-
ever, wholly explained by the figures. Still they account
for some of it
Mar., ’O5. Mar., ’O6.
Notes in circulation .. £8,161 £11,419 Inc. £3,258
Bills in circulation, &c. 37,338 37,085 Dec. 253
Deposits at interest .. 671,355 797,089 Inc. 125,734
Free deposits .. .. 218,334 255,416 Inc. 37,082
Liquid assets .. .. 502,373 607,647 Inc. 105,274
Advances .. .. .. 554,855 624,024 Inc. 69,169
Premises, &c 76,598 77,286 Inc. 688
The reduction of interest on deposits has no doubt also
helped. And though deposits have increased more than
twice as fast as advances, the surplus money has not
been allowed to lie idle but has been put into
public securities; 12 months ago the latter amounted
to £89,900: they are now £171,800. It is not stated at
what value these securities are included ; but if they are
at market price, then the rise which most of them have
had during the past six or nine months might
account for some of the surprising jump in
the profits. If that has been done, then the profits
shown for the half-year cannot be regarded as normal.
On the basis of shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves),
the profit shows up as follows :
Sept., 1901 ..£7 18 9 p.C. Mar., 1904 ..£8 3 11 p.c-
Mar., 1902 .. 8 4 6 „ Sept., 1904 .. 716 6 „
Sept., 1902 .. 8 2 1 „ Mar., 1905 ... 815 2 „
Mar., 1903 .. 8 5 5 „ Sept., 1905 .. 8 9 9 „
Sept., 1903 .. 7 9 9 „ Mar., 1906 .. 10 3 7 „
It is a very good rate, anyhow ; and the whole progress
is highly creditable to the management.
» • * •
The West Australian Co-operative Society,
Ltd., issues its first balance-sheet, with accounts appa-
rently for four months to January 31st. The new-comer
jSeems to be an amalgamation of two or three smaller
concerns; and it is itself no size yet to speak of.. Its
paid capital is £Bl7. The profit on the half-year was £l5,
more than half of which was bad debts recovered. And
yet, with this paltry profit earned in that way, and with
£207 preliminary expenses showing in the balance-sheet
as an asset, a div. of 5 per cent, and a bonus of 4d. (pre-
sumably on purchases) are recommended. If the W.A.
Co-operative Society, Ltd., can stand up against that
sort of thing, it says great things for the co-operative
principle.
* * * #
Mines Minister M'Leod (Vic.) has come down
thud on the crowd that would gobble up big areas of
ground at Bendigo ; and he has the sympathy of everyone
who wants to keep up the reputation of the field. Fifty
years’ work at Bendigo has shown that large-area claims
are not necessary to give divs. Big co.’s, promoted
abroad, over and over again have given the field a trial;
and their record is one of universal failure. Big hearts,
cheap mining, and a knowledge of the conditions of the
field have made Bendigo what it is quite as much as the
call-paying elements. And those things have somehow
never been associated with the outside enterprise that
has tackled mining there. Two things have to be con-
sidered in connection with this matter. Although there
are three main lines of reef at Bendigo, there are
some 10 others—known as side lines—awaiting de-
velopment. Every one of these has been proved
to be auriferous, and the scientific expectation is that at
a lower horizon than that at which they have yet been
opened up, these formations will show up as good gold
producers. Theh also there is the depth at which gold
has been got oh the maih lines Of formation. Therefore,
taking the possibilities of the field at depth, ahd the pro-
bable inclhsioh of Side lines, it will be Seen that a lease
of 500yds. in length gives plenty of scope for many years’
continuous enterprise, the Worker wants the country
opened Up; and he is more likely to get that done with a
continuance Of the existing methods of the field than by
having great areas locked Up by one or two cods. If big
leases are to be granted, it should be on the One under-
standing that the leaseholder puts up adequate working
capital, and shepherding should entail sharp forfeiture.
* "'* * *
There were angry people about when Long
Tunnel (Vic.) declared a shilling div. instead of the
expected 2s. or half-crown. “ After seven years wait—a
miserable shilling ! ” Walhalla almost screeched. “ The
highest yield for the past 20 years—the lowest dividend
ever paid,” another put it. Walhalla, which is enormously
proud of its mine, looked upon it as a deadly
insult to couple the name of Long Tunnel with
anything so mean as a “bob,” and it wondered
how William Pearson was feeling in his grave.
There was plenty of money in hand for more ; after pay-
ing off the £1024 owing for the electric plant, and putting
£l2OO aside for the div., they started a reserve fund with
£7OOO, and still had over £2OOO to credit of working
account. The £7OOO to reserve fund was the appropria-
tion that hurt —some shareholders growled as though they
had been robbed of the money in daylight.
• • * •
Alluvial mining in Victoria is just now in a
humpty-dumpty condition, and it will take all the king’s
horses and all the queen’s men to set it up again. Turn
to the three great fields—Creswick, Rutherglen and Mary-
borough. The poppet heads are a monument to dis-
appointed hopes, as well as a testimony to lavish
expenditure. Capitalist and worker alike are suffering.
The first can shut up his pocket and say, “ That’s
over —I have cut the loss.” But the worker, as opera-
tions are restricted, has little if anything left in his purse,
because he never had the chance to get a bit ahead Of his
mere living wage, Duke United, at Maryborough, cannot
pick up the gold ; hence there is the devil to pay with the
Bull-owning crowd. Prentice ahd Southern, Ruther-
glen, are beaten by water and poor wash, and no one
seems . very anxious about helping them on. Great
Northern Extended Consols, next door, is between a shake
and a shiver, in dread that the water may gain on it through
the Prentice stopping ; and the Gt. Southern exes, seem
sure to increase for the same reason. Among Creswick
mines, Madame Berry West pays a sixpenny div. regu-
larly, but still the market does not “cotton” to West
Berry Consols. Berry Extended has lots of dead work
ahead, and Spring Hill Leads is continuing the same
old battle for existence. At Ararat the hope
that the Cathcart Proprietary would open up a
new field has been nipped in the bud through
thft deadly muddle into which its affairs have
drifted. Perhaps the Bewick-Moreing crowd which
has stepped in may straighten thihgs out a bit and give
veteran Bradshaw 7 the luck which his loyalty to the field
deserves. At the best, though, there is little that is
pleasant in the outlook for deep-lead mining anywhere in
Victoria to-day. The public won’t speculate, for it has
been bitten too cruelly, and when it comes to hard
mining, with only possible divs. to look to, Stock Ex-
change boosters are not the people to carry the baby, let
alone feed it with calls.
# * * *
North Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), is to be wound
up. This was a fioat that was promoted to pick up the
Jubilee lode when it made north, as it was surmised it
would, after it left an east-and-west course in the Jubilee
mine. All the country in the district is so faulted that
anything is possible, and some stone actually was hit
upon. But the shoot of gold in any case pitches out of
the Jubilee, and into the leases which Harvey Patterson
holds to the east of that mine ; so that from start to finish
there was a good deal of doubt whether the North Jubilee
would ever hit anything worth having. It only had an
off-chance, and that off-chance didn’t come off ; so peace
to the ashes of what w 7 as a really deserving effort.
* * * *
The half-yearly meeting of Golden Pole, Davy-
hurst (W.A.), was very tame, although a large number of
shareholders were present. The chairman made a speech
and heaped the blame on to former mismanagement.
Hopes were then expressed that sufficient cash reserves
will have accumulated by end of May to enable fpgular
quarterly divs. to be paid thereafter. But in that the
J . present directors are merely deceiving themselves, just
as former directors did. An extraction of 925. a ton is
predicted in future, against 665. 3d. for January and 695.
for February. But even with this increase, profit will
only be 30s. a ton, or say £2OOO a month, unless the full
20-head mill is run, and ore reserves do not warrant that.
During the past three half-years the tonnage of reserves
has steadily decreased, yet the monthly development
exes, have steadily increased from £377 in Jan., 1905, to
£844 in Jan., 1906; and the average of the past two
months is £1478. Moreover, the plant is admittedly in a
deplorable state, yet it is now valued at £16,582, as
against £14,435 six months ago, and £11,014 a year ago.
During this period 30 per cent, has been written off for
depreciation ; but renewals, additions and alterations
have cost so much, that the plant stands 60 per cent,
higher in the books than when first erected. The control
of this concern has been deplorable, and is not likely now
to be what it should be, judging by the Board’s optimism.
Before it talks of divs., the co.’s plant should be re-valued,
and drastically written down. The amount standing at
credit of development should be written_£own from 13s.
per ton of reserves to about 4s. 6d., and that means
writing off £4OOO, and at least £6OOO should be written off
plant. To place the co. on a financially sound basis no
div. should be declared this year ; if divs. are paid, co.
must almost inevitably get into difficulties, as concerns
do which pay divs. out of capital.


Three Friends
h
The Best
Tobacco
on
Earth.
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St, Sydney
A. A. MARKS, So’e Agent.
TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
■' rt 'As supplied in the Tin ■ Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The touting for Catherine Reef, Bendigo, shares
in Melbourne is followed by vindication of the present
prices of Williams’ United and Ellenborough. Nothing
very tangible, however, is put forward. Williams United
'is south of Catherine Reef, and the co. is going down
200 ft. from 1865 ft. to see if it can’t get the run of gold
south. Tha« is just the point on which the gambling
centres in Bendigo, the “birds” outside believing that
gold is tailing off in that quarter. It will be seen,
therefore, that the market is pretty well a hazard.
The junction of the slide and the lava may
bring in stone, and the quartz may carry gold. But
in Bendigo, it often happens that when gold is got on a
fault it does not live far away. Ellenborough, farther
south, is an even bigger gamble. It has got a lot of stone
and no gold at ISOOft. ; consequently, the market awaits
the result of the crosscut 100 ft. deeper. As at the Wil-
liams’ United, gold may be got. If not, stand from
under.
* * * *
Ivanlioe, Kalgoorlie, in spite of now treating
16,000 to 17,000 tons of ore monthly, is steadily increasing
its reserves. On December 31st ore in sight totted up
769,000 tons against 695,000 tons on June 30th, and
715,000 tons on December 31, ’O4. During the half-year
the co. treated 100,000 tons, and spent £lB,OOO on develop-
ment, or (say) 3s. 7d. per ton treated, which appears in
the monthly statement of costs. Co. really, however,
opened up i 70,000 tons during the period, so the actual
cost of development was only 2s. per ton. Compare this
with the Golden Pole’s expenditure of £l5OO monthly, or
half the Ivanhoe expenditure, in order to keep up an out-
put of 1300 tons a month. The Ivanhoe is now' opening
up No. 13 level at a depth of 1523 ft. Since the discovery
of pay ore in Great Boulder’s north block, the Ivanhoe
drives are being continued northward through an inter-
vening barren zone, which was supposed to have entirely
cut off values.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.), after a long course of
fruitless exploitation at 1000 ft., has suspended operations
as hopeless, owing to the disturbed nature of the country.
Manager Nutman has suggested carrying the shaft down
to 1500 ft. in one lift, or else the abandonment of the
enterprise. The present hauling plant is more than suf-
ficient for the work, and the winding engine on the Brook-
man’s Boulder section is good for a 2000 ft. lift. Bore holes
have tested the ground for about 300 ft. below the 1000 ft.
level without proving anything of value. Nutman has
run the mine very economically and carefully, hut he
can’t find gold where there is none. The extra sinking
suggested could be completed in six months, but, of
course, it would take much longer to test the ground.
Co. has funds enough to meet the expense.
* * * *
Hannan’s Reward, Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie,
has doubled its mill, and now has 20 head at work. It is
expected that in future 1300 tons will be treated monthly,
of which at least, 1000 tons will be 4dwt. ore from the big
open-cut. The rest of the output will be provided by
tributors, who are working small, rich leaders at the
different levels. These tributors pay the co. about £2OO
a month in royalties ; yet very few of them earn full
wages. Still, they accept the situation and take the
chances rather than join the unemployed.
» * * •*
Union, Jack, Tuckanarra (W.A.), has just
treated 102 tons for 882 oz. This is one of those small
show’s which bring joy to the hearts of the holders, but
do not materially affect the gold yields, as the returns are
few and far between.
* * * *
In N.S.W., in the various classes of mining,
the value of the production per person employed is as
follows, according to latest official reckoning:—Silver-
lead, £345 per year; copper, £236; coal, £143 ; gold,
£113; tin, £6O. But the extent and value of the
machinery employed accounts for much of the difference.
Also engaged in tin and gold mining are large numbers
of old fossickers who make a mere pittance and pull down
the averages, while in silver-lead and copper mining, only
the able-bodied wages man gets a chance to be included
in the tally.
* * * *
To understand why they must flood the Broken
Hill'Junction, in order to put out the fire which has now
been burning more than two months, one has to know
the history of the mine. Originally it w'as held by a
plunging crowd. Hebbard, now of, the Sulphide Corpora-
tion, managed it in those days, and because of the richness
of the ore-pipes it ranked about third among B.H. mines.
After Hebbard resigned the concern fell into the hands
of sharks who were responsible for'the worst scandal
Barrier mining has known. At one stage in the proceedings
there were practically two sets of workings ; they belted
away at one lot when they wanted to boom shares, and
at the other lot when they wanted to knock the market
out. Naturally, the mine-plans of those days w’ere not
preserved. This was the start of the rabbit-warren into
which the mine was turned. Years afterwards, when the
control had passed to Adelaide, the co. got into a fine
make of high-grade sulphides. The stuff was rushed out
so wildly that they couldn’t spare the time to send down
any filling; and the expected happened—there was an
awful smash, which strained the mine every way. They
hardly knew where they were in the mine before that,
and afterwards they knew less ; and when Moulden, who
had been T. J. Greenway’s understudy, struggled with
the show, he had to give up in despair. Obviously, in a
mine of that sort, fire-fighting is appallingly difficult.
Beaumont, the manager, recognised this very
early in the proceedings, and said that the
only way was to flood the mine, which meant
flooding also the Junction North and the North ; but
managers who didn’t know how like a rabbit-warren the
Junction is, and how full it is of splintered timbers,
decided to try something less heroic for a start. For two
months very little has been done at the three mines—in
the Junction because of the fire, arid in the North and
the Junction North because of fumes—and the desperate
remedy has to be applied after all. This, at the best, will
mean shutting down the main workings of the three
mines for at least three months more. The Junction
North and the North will be able to do practically
nothing.
About 10,000,000 gallons of water have already
been put into the mines, and another 25,000,000 gallons
will be called for ; this will bring the water-level up to
about 400 ft. in the Junction. Fortunately, Broken Hill
is tolerably well off for water at present. The co.’s also
won’t have to take all of it from the Water Supply Co.,
whose minimum charge for mine purposes is 2s. 6d. per
1000 gallons; the Broken Hill Prop, has a fine sheet of
water handy to these northern mines; and will allow it to
be drawn upon. It is understood the Junction Co. (which
hks just had to make a sixpenny call) will pay 75 per cent,
of- the cost of getting in the water, but that the three
will use all their own appliances simultaneously to get it
out. But it won’t be either the cost, or the missing of
the high metal market for three or four months, that will
make holders nervous till the water is out. , It will be the
danger of the mines caving in. When the ore is beaten
out of a Broken Hill mine it is replaced by rock and earth
broken at the surface arid sent down through mullock
passes. Under water, this mullock will settle down, and,
even if it settles only 6in., the roof of each stope will be
left without support. The North is in least danger , the
filling there has been done pretty thoroughly.
* * * *
Now that they are working almost wholly in
the sulphides, there is very little lead-poisoning m the
Broken Hill mines. At one time, when the furnaces were
in blast, there must have been 400 cases a year ; every
fifth man, at least, was poisoned during the period 1388-
1893. After that the numbers dropped fast, The Beau
Poisoning Act was passed just too late ; yet in the nrst
year for which returns were made (1895) there were 83
fresh cases. In 1905 there were only 11.
* * * •
Further particulars are out concerning the
Central Zinc Co., the subsidiary concern promoted by
the Sulphide Corporation. Capital £150,000, in 100,000
shares, ss. payable before allotment, one share available
for every seven held in the Sulphide Corporation.
Antony Gibbs and Co. underwrite the new co., and get in
return an extension of their contract as the Sulphide
Corporation’s general agents. Directors are Kintore, Cox,
and Keating, who are directors of the Corporation, and W.
Beardmore and Wallington (“ Better not ”). The Sulphide
Corporation guarantees 5 per cent, per annum for 10
years, and takes half profits beyond the 5 per cent,
(but the Zinc Co. may end this agreement on
six months’ notice), and the Sulphide Corporation under-
takes “ to furnish all the zinc blende required to keep the
works fully supplied. The co. will purchase these zinc
concentrates upon terms now ruling for the sale of similar
material to Continental buyers.” The works, it is under-
stood, will be at or near Swansea, and Emil Herter, a
Silesian metallurgist, will design and manage them. They
should be up in 12 months ; meantime, partly for expen-
.mental purposes, small works have been leased in the
same neighborhood. The prospectus mentions that “Mr.
H. M. Ridge, who has reported on the scheme to the Sul-
phide Corporation, considers that profits will be realised
substantially in excess of the guaranteed minimum of 5
p.c.” Ridge’s report is not, however, issued with the
prospectus. And in any case his experience hasn’t been in
distilling zinc ; it has been in producing zinc concentrates
by a magnetic process—he was for many years engineer
for the Australian (German) Metal Co., running the mag-
netic separation works at Broken Hill.
The new Central Zinc Co. is evidently going to
be run in the same extravagant way as its parent, the
Sulphide Corporation, from which holders of ordinary
shares can’t get a dividend, even with metal markets at
their top. For instance: “ Each director, other than the
chairman, shall be entitled to receive by way of
remuneration £l5O, and the chairman £2OO in each
year, and in addition the board shall be entitled to re-
ceive 5 p.c. of the balance of the net profits after
payment of a 5 p.c. dividend,” and for special services
special remuneration may be granted. The only solid
reason for forming this co. is that the parent co. has made
such heavy calls on its shareholders, and is so thoroughly
tied up and over-capitalised, that some new scheme Iqid
to be devised for raising the wind. The new co; is to do
work which it was contemplated all along that the parent
co. should do—which, ih fact, it set out to do ; yet now
the directors grab at further big emoluments for doing
work which they are already paid for doing. And Aus-
tralian shareholders, whose holding is nearly all in
ordinary shares, have Buckley’s chance of getting a
reduction of the fees paid by the parent co. In spite of
the excellence of the Central mine, which the corpora-
tion owns, so many people peck at the profits before the
ordinary shareholders’turn comes that their position is
almost hopeless. And, anyhow, the control is in the
hands of people whose interest lies with the preference
shareholders. Among the three Sulphide directors who
join the Zinc Co.’s board there are 3400 ordinary shares ;
but of the 10 per cent. pref. shares they hold 18,653. The
ordinary shares are held in Australia, and are practically
unrepresented in the management.
So much has been said about the possibility of
extracting vast quantities of sulphuric acid (required in
zinc concentration) from Broken Hill sulphides at an
almost nominal cost, that it comes as a surprise to learn
that the B.H. Prop, is actually importing sulphur and
burning- it in order to produce acid. If this is the
cheapest way of getting acid, then some of the calcula-
tions regarding the profits from zinc treatment will be
wide of the' mark. The Carroichael-Bradford process is
certainly supposed to be able to make acid for 30s. or
thereabouts a ton (that, anyhow, has been claimed for it) ;
but somehow the B.H. Prop, doesn’t seem to be too
anxious to show that the Carmichael process is what it
is claimed to' be. The Zinc Corporation has, however, the
right to use the process ; so if it is agood thing, one co.’s
alleged prejudice won’t stand in the way.
Golden Fleece now ranks as the next claim in
importance to the True Blue, the recognised bonanza of
Wyalong (N.S. W.). During the past month two dividends
of 6d. (there are 24,000 shares) have been declared. The
last bulk crushing averaged Boz. This was taken from two
reefs at 500 ft., I2in. wide in places. The property is
under offer to a Sydney syndicate for £24,000.
* * * *
A Wyalong property that shows signs of re-
asserting itself as an ore-producer is the Welcome
Stranger, where the party has come upon a nice shoot of
stone at a depth of 225 ft. This property, in the field’s
first three years; turned out several crushings, yielding
altogether some £19,000, but the reef cut out at 180 ft.
The Stranger has the record of turning out the field’s
biggest cake of gold, viz., 1300 oz. Old hands can almost
feel the next day’s headache stlil.
* * * *
London Times, having made enquiries as to
where all the extra copper went last year, found that China
took no less than 60,000 tons in connection with its new
coinage scheme. The increased world’s supply was about
75,000 tons; so this Asiatic customer absorbed four-
fifths of it. This (if the Times figures are right)
disposes of the comfortable belief that the extra demand
was due to electrical requirements and industrial activity.
That sort of demand would be likely to be fairly persist-
ent ; whereas China, having got in its new coinage, will
not need to go on buying. From this the only conclusion
that seems possible is that the copper market has sprung
forward on a demand of the most transitory character ;
and that doesn’t say much for the probable continuance
of present prices. # * *
Charters Towers (Q.) mines during March
treated 18,226 tons for 11,7100 z., worth £39,575. • Cyanide
dealt with 10,985 tons of residues.for 48230 z. bullion, worth '
£9390. Add to this smelters’ gold £19,506, silver £790,,
lead £553, tin £5OO, and the total is £70,314. February’s
total was £60,597. For the first three months of this'
year the field earned £189,506, against £217,760 for the
first quarter of last year. Calls by 19 co.’s for March ran :
to £15,666, while dividends from three. mines totalled
£31,i00. Divs. and calls for the month look well, thanks j
to Mills’ United and Brilliant Extended ; but for the
quarter calls' totalled £40,852, while divs. were-only
£42,283. During the same period last year divs. exceeded 1
calls by £31,754 instead of by £1431.
* * * ' •
Principal March crushings and returns from '
Charters Towers mines: Brilliant Extended, 3134 tons
for £9357 ; Mills’, 2851 tons, £9116; Brilliant Central,
2010 tons, £4974 ; Kelly’s Block, 1077 tons, £lO,lBB ; New
Queen, 698 tons, £1736 ; Queen Central, 683 tons, £2171;
Victory, 485 tons, £l3lB ; Day Dawn P.C., 110 tons,; £986 ;
Phoebe, 319 tons, £1330; Queen Deep, 134 tons, £2BB ;
Carrington F.C., 510 tons,-£lBBO.
* * * *
There have been some powerful slumps in the
Charters Towers dividend list for the first quarter of this
year compared with the same part of last year—Brilliant
Central -fell- from £7500 to £5000; Brilliant St. George
from £14,400 to £3600, Queen Cross from £27,500 to nil,
Ruby from £l2so’to nil, Queen Central £2500 to nil.
On the other hand, Mills’ United has came along to fill
the breach with £15,000, Brilliant Extended with £12,600,;
Kellv’s Block £3600, and Golden Alexandra £2500.
J * * - * *
Carrington’s Lion P.C., Charters Towers, is up
against the treatment problem sooner than it expected.
Development in the deep ground has i ceased, as the
property!, is: fast changing into a copper show; and the
co. has not sufficient capital to remodel its treatment
plant, Moreover, it isn’t quite sure how the plant
ought to be remodelled. Two parcels are therefor
sent to Europe for treatment, one of 20 tons ofyeHow
sulphide ore that the main shaft followed for 83ft. and
another from No. 2 west stopes. On the returns from
these parcels future treatment mainly depends, ine
main shaft is down 276 ft., and the formation at the
bottom assays 3 dwt. gold, with six to 14 P e *" *
copper. No payable gold has been found at depth ,
otherwise the directors would certainly have trumpeted
the glad tidings. Crushing was hampered for about three
months of the half-year owing to scarcity of water.
Returns were £5379 from 1508 tons of stone, equal to
£3 11s. per ton. This, together with £672 18s. 4d.
received from calls, has been swallowed in expenditure
on machinery, and another £lO9 is required before the co.
is out of debt. Operations are now confined to beating'out
stone between No. ’s 1 and 2 levels, that being t he patch that
is amenable to the co.’s concentrating process. The Ji.xcess
and No. 2 West are both on low-grade gold-hearing stone
that should pass into the P.C. ground ; a crosscut is to be
started from the shaft to find out. Under present con-
ditions, the mines are living from hand to mouth. Were
they to amalgamate and do systematic prospecting,
instead of throwing dirt out of burrows 100 ft. apart,
there would he a chance of raising capital to buy a
respectable treatment plant, and then the locality might
be heard from.
» * * *
Reconstruction is the fly in the soup of the Day
Dawn P.C. at Charters Towers. Last month the co. had
a crushing that returned £9 a ton from the New Dawn
reef; and, on the strength of the improved prospects,
the directors will push through a reconstruction that was
about hopeless, otherwise. A new CO; is to be formed,
capital £125,000 in 500,000 shares at 55., issued as paid up
to 4s. Application money is 3d. ; the other 9d. is to he
called in three calls, and 10,000 shares are to be held in
reserve.
* • • •
The Queensland Government will probably be
the first in Australia to work a coal-mine in conjunction
with the railways. Lands Minister Bell, when in Maon-
land, discussed this matter with Premier Seddon, who
told him that the M.L. railways were now getting their
coal 2s. per ton cheaper than they could get it for before
the State collieries were opened. The unworked Dawson
coal-measures, in the Central division (Q.), stand as good
a chance as any of being the first ones tapped.
* * * *
“S.R.”: Apropos Dan O’Connor’s yarn to the
Americans that Australia is backward in scientific
mining and metallurgy (B. 29/4/’of>). About 12 months
ago Mt. Morgan (Q.) Manager Richards returned from a
trip round the globe. He had been sent by his co. upon
a year’s tour to learn what other mines were
doing, and to pick up points. Upon his return he told
the first meeting of directors that he came back almost
empty-handed ; he had learnt chiefly that no mine in the
world was Mt. Morgan’s superior in the matter of
methods ; and no mine he had visited w'as more up-to-
date and better equipped. And that is all the better to
know' because practically all the machinery and plant at
Mt. Morgan is Australian made. That is one good thing
about Mt. Morgan management —whenever a thing can
be made in Australia, Australia gets the job.
• * * *
The German agents are offering better prices
ao-ain for w'olfram —about £75 in NbKfh Queensland.
° * * * *
Latest resurrection among old S. Australian
copper-mines is the Sliding Rock, in the Far North. The
Tasmanian Co., which has put up smelters at Blinman, is
buying the ore. But freight is deadly ; the only way of
getting between mine and smelter is by donkey-team ;
and then Blinman itself is 360 miles from Adelaide. But
while these far-distant mines, which, after all, were only
third-raters, are getting to work (it’s a pretty hopeless
copper mine that, won’t pay with copper at £B5), the
greatest mine of them ali, the Burra, is still idle, though
it is right alongside the railway and only 100 miles from
Adelaide. The w'hole trouble at the Burra is that it is
freehold land ; there are no labor covenants to keep, and
the ground isn’t liable to forfeiture even if it is never
worked anv more. The mine yielded £4,749,224 worth
of copper, and, though expenses were shockingly high,
over £BOO,OOO was paid in divs. On every £5 share £315
was paid. Then, when the enormous surface deposit was
worked out, or thereabouts, copper happened to be low
in price ; and in some mysterious way, though there were
leaders showing in the bottom, the whole business was
abandoned without one single call being made to give the
old mine a chance. These bloated freeholders—the
“ Snobs ” of a few years before, to distinguish them from
the “ Nobs,” who held the practically worthless Princess
Royal, next door—sucked £315 per share out of the mine
and wouldn’t even put up ss. a-piece to buy the old lady
physic the first, time she looked sick. So much for the
yarn that labor covenants are not necessary—that you
can always depend upon private property-owners making
the best use of what they own.
• # * *
Mentioned a while back that in due time Frank
George, of the South Australian Survey office, would step
into the office of State Inspector of Mines. But he won’t;
chosen to lead a Government mineral exploring party
into the interior, George, a fine enthusiast and a rare
bushman, darted back to Alice Springs, bringing with
him two members of the expedition who had been badly
mauled by blacks. He nursed them through the journey ;
then suddenly collapsed from dysentery and died within
48 hours, leaving the great object of his life unfulfilled—
the discovery of a payable mineral field in the heart of
Australia. H. Y. L. Brown, the Government Geologist,
will grieve for the death.(at 33) of the man whom he had
come to regard as his own natural successor.
* • » *
“T. R.S. C. ”: Re Fountain-Head (N.T.) dredging
float (8., 12/4/’O6). Did the reporting “ expert ” really see
the gold, or, did he take somebody’s word for it ? Not for
the £3,700,000 the ground contains would I doubt the ex-
pert gentleman’s statement ; but still I will swear that
two years ago the three Chows working there were
starved out. My partner and I also prospected the flat
from one end to the other, and cajiie to the. conclusion
that our appetites were too robust. I would like to ask
the man who guarantees the genuineness of the fortune
that is offered (1) Has he ever tried a prospect from any
part of the field ? (2) Has he ever seen any of the ground
tried in any way ? (3) Would he know a prospect if he
•aw one ?
• * » *
The secret is out at last. There is a bunch of
120,000 tons of orb in the Lyell Comstock mine (Tas.), and
two mining engineers, Messrs. Alexander Hill and Stewart,
are credited with having given advice about its future
treatment. There is, however, nothing to show who
Messrs. Alexander HilLand Stewart may be. Still, Tom
Luxtop was credited with nibbling in shares locally, but
on whose account was not disclosed. ' LUxton’scartridges
generally are smokeless, though pretty deadly ; but it
will need cordite and ballastite' arid dynamite to move
the market . favorably for Lyell 1 Comstock shares.
To start with, was' not the claim sampled by
Batchelor, ,of the • Mt. Lyell? If so, no one
should dream of touching scrip until he finds out just
what that careful person had to say about the property.
The directors are credited with' writing that the ore bodies
in the mine can now be treated by “ up : to-date copper
concentration and'smelting.” Such a remark can be
given the most cordial, endorsement. But at, what cost,
and with what recovery ? If the Crown Lyell, next to the
North Lyell,' hangs fire on ore carrying about 6 per cent,
copper in the way.it does, there isn’t much chance of a
blaze ! over the Lyell - Comstock anywhere outside of
London, and then it will only be a flicker and a heap of
ashes.
••• * . !
Friday, 13th April,-was the 70th anniversary of
the establishment of the Australian Gaslight Company,
Sydney. 1 The company was a very modest affair in its
beginnings; the difficulty at the start lay in Obtaining
the sanction of the Governor to the erection of the gas-
ometer, his Ex. being nervous and afraid of being blown
up, and quite unable to realise how little loss he would
be if he blew up. In the end his Excellency’s nervousness
was overcome and a site was secured on Darling Harbor.
Sydney was first lighted with gas May 24, 1841, the
illumination being free of charge on the first night. It
has never been free of charge since.
Maryborough (Q.) municipal council has been
chewing over a quaint proposal. It has been offered
£lO,OOO by an ancient ratepayer, G. H. White, to buiia
T«vvn Hall on condition that it pays h , ln ' f® 0 ® I
during his life-time. It would cost about £3700 to> buy a
£5OO annuity for a reasonably healthy old *
70 ; and the question seems to be mainly whether M y
borough needs a new Town Hall that would cosfc *. 3 ,U“;
As to the law of the matter, the council is consulting
the Attorney-General.
* * * *
Thus C. A. Moreing (Bewick, Moremg, and
Co.), now in Australia : “ I have heard there are rumors
that my firm aims at reducing-wages. Nothing is more
untrue. We hope to reduce costs by improved meth,
coupled with larger recoveries— certainly not by reauc g
wages. In Westralia we pay the highest wages jn the
world, and vet we are able to show ton for ton lo wercosts
than others can accomplish with Chinese labor
S'Africa.” _
* * ■* *
Minos: Statements too vague; that sort of
thing should be backed by details. Evidence available
shows that the co. is decreasing, not increasing, its hold-
ings of pubs.
* < » *
The pumping difficulties which many mines
have to contend with sometimes develop into a scare which
tends to knock shares out of the market, the A. s.
Cameron Steam or Air Pumps, have < saved many
precarious situations by tlieir ability to handle water,
even gritty or aciduous without fear of the pumps getting
out of order. Broken Hill Mines, the Mt. Lyell, and other
leading coys, have recognised the great value of Cameron
pumps in their simplicity, strength and durability under
all conditions, whether driven by compressed air or
steam. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne—the bole
Agents—are continually supplying Boilerfeeding, Piston,
Horizontal, and Vertical Plunger Pumps from their
stocks. Mining requisites are specially catered for.
Although the Wilfley Coy. failed in their
attempt to get an injunction against the Card Con-
centrator, they succeeded by threats in frightening a
£Ood many people, but they did not go beyond threats
because they knew they could never get an injunction
against the Card. Now that the High Court has unani-
mously, and in a very strongly expressed judgment
declared that the Wilfley invention was public property
when the patent was taken out and the patent therefore
invalid, they are no longer able to make idle threats in
the endeavor to block the use of a Concentrator, which,
in the opinion of experts, combines very important im-
provements in the Concentrating art. N. Guthndge, Ltd.
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby”
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd!, Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining- and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of I elton, wim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application. *
The British Australasian (London) July 14,
1904 writes with reference to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limitedlt can boast of having
paid to its policyholders during the 32 years of its
existence no less a sum than. £3,267,019, while the total
new business since the commencement of the society
exceeds 28 millions sterling.”* #
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining l properties under working option of purchase for
cash. = Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * *
Important Notice to Mine Managers and Users
of Concentrators, Wilfley Concentrate Tables. —The V li-
ft ey patent has not been revoked ; the patent remains in
full force and effect. Judgment was given against the
Wilfley Syndicate by the High Court, on the ground that
the invention had been anticipated in Victoria by a pub l-
cation circulating in the State of Victoria;, but they upheld
the decision of the Supreme Court that the Card Table
was an infringement; the Wilfley patents in other Aus-
trail an .States are not affected in any degree whatever.
The' Wilfley Syndicate is appealing to the Privy Council to
have the decision of the High Court upset, and lead-
in®-patent counsel have already been engaged to argue
the' case in England. Mine Managers and others are
warned that actions will be taken against all infringers
of the Wilfley patents, whether they be users or manu-
facturers.—The Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd.
\** * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents every where. . #
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at Haymarket,
Sydney.* , , ,
If you wish to have tbe most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all,
description. H. B. Silbhrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* . ,
If you* want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereaffh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long* again. Spnal
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, holts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
K * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* ■* * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Cobab. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar. s
Est., 1894.
4 * *
The balance of Machinery and Plant at Block
14, Co. Works, Port Adelaide, is for Sale by Tender,
returnable 24th April, 1906. Lists on application to
Butterworth, Hancock & Co., Port Adelaide.*
. * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


Hotel
A ustfrnlin -
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Largest, Coolest, and
Best Appointed Summer
Hotel in Australasia.
SPACIOUS, COOL
DUSTING HALL
LOUNGE BAR.
I
7;,r
During Summer
Months the Winter
Garden is the Coolest
Place in Sydney for
Afternoon Tea, &c.
A Balcony Dining- Room has been
added to main Dining Hall.
Guest Night Evert Thursday.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 & 411 George St.
SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
ResclTs Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
IN THE bowels of the earth.
BILL (anxiously) : “ Wot’s the row, Dan I Have
ye struck something below there?”
DAN: “I have. The scrouger from the next
claim has drove into us, and I’m striking
him for all I’m worth.”
“Dave H. R. : ” “8.G.” (8., 12/4/’O6)
expresses dubiety about my assertion that insane
blacks are treated with indulgence and reverence
by the other members of their tribe or camp. He
asserts that his experience shows that as soon as
a demented aboriginal obtrudes his eboniety within
the optical range of his brethren he is assailed
with articles that point the way to heaven or is
shoved into outer loneliness and scrub with much
gesticulation and boomerang, and with a fervency
that would suggest the ’Erald and the Foreign-
graph assailing the Labor party with documents
recovered from the waste-paper basket of Ptolemy
of ii«g3 7 pt. X can, at least, testify to the genuine-
ness of the instance I quoted, arid, so far as hear-
say (but pretty reliable hearsay) is concerned I
could quote many more. The blacks feel the same
sort of reverence for lunacy that many people do for
“ The Light of the World.” It is something they
cannot understand, and, with uneducated intel-
lects, mystery is always productive of reverence.
“ Mger's ” par
(B. 8/3/06) about the Jap and his detestation of
T° r n a „ C , how > tin I came to where
he “fLT fl • J( , )hn by a ra,lwa y porter, and
he took a flying leap on to the porter’s neck, and
caf’ >ed Th^ b T t ’i a ff C l| SCrat ? h T a nd , WOrse than a ti^er-
cat. Then I laffed, and I laffed, and I laffed
because it was reminiscent. I remember a very
insolent Monkey disputing with a small porter
f boat s ?p,' e lG &pg e one day at a country plat-
Jl rter Wa ? and his name
began with Mac, and he kept quite cool, and
didn t seem to think about the “stirring memories
of a thousand years,” or “How in the tmm ef
till thp h T P,b T h tll ?’ ]1 ls,” or anything like that,
ni l iS - ap, i! vb l om V? n the heat of argument, the
Caledonian had addressed as “vou,” said “My
name is Mr to you, railway fellah ! ” Then he
seemed to think about Bannockburn, and before
you could remark “Fork,” or “Augustus Choi
mondeley,” the Monkey person wts&oS ht
back on the gravel two feet below, with a battered
P I^ tl !’ °J“. h ’ s chest, and making gestures at
the sky with his legs. There was a very large
policeman close by, but he was engaged to the
porter s sister, so he suddenly rushed away and
helped another porter, who was pushing a trolly
lth ‘he whole weight of two small handbags on
it. When the Jap complained to him afterwards
anymore b ° nt come here drunk and fall about
* ‘ Myponga ”: Regarding paragraphs which
have appeared in The Bulletin as to the difficulty
kilW +IF gc ! ats - •* do , not know much about
k riling them by violence, but I believe that, given
a lair chance they would be veritable Methuselahs.
I arrived in Bourke in 1888, when one of its usual
droughts was m good going order, and noticed
H e b 9 ardl ng-house possessed two goats to provide
the milk supply There was nothing for them to
eat except the labels off jam tins, etc., yet they
kept m full milk, and for months retained their
condition. Had they not got rid of their surplus
nergy by frisking round the house every morning
a -m°, Ck ’ climbng ”P everything which it was
possible for a goat to find a footing on, they would
probably have become too fat and useless. When
the rain came and grass grew they became listless
and weary, and did not brighten up till, in the
ordinary course of drought cycles, their label diet
nad been restored.
C.W : The wily rabbit has brought
some good m its destructive course, for it W
helped to tram the great bulk of the people in
the far inlands to be splendid marksmen.
.Nearly every schoolboy has now his own
pea-rifle, and he pots bunny whenever
he has a chance. I have seen lads of
ten or twelve bringing down a
rabbit, or a hawk on the wing
at 50 or 60yds., every shot with
a single bullet, a feat that
probably cannot be equalled
by the crack shots of any
army on earth. It is ex-
tremely difficult to hit a
small object, especially
when on the move, with a
bullet. T remember during
the last Maori war a com-
pany of forest rangers,
including myself, were
returning from an expe-
dition, when we spotted a
pigeon on the dead limb
of a tree some 150ft. away.
The temptation was too
great, and we all blazed
away; but the bird never
was hit, and we left him sit-
ing1 on his dry limb, where he
still may be, as far as I know.
Certainly we were badly armed
mostly with the old Enfield rifle
atld , breach-loading carbine,
discarded by the British. The barrels
m some cases were actually bent with a view
to shooting round corners, but some were
straight enough though the sights were doubtful,
mat little pakeha army managed to uphold its
end against the Maori warriors quite as well as
the regular British troops, but I have held its
shooting capacity m utter derision ever since that
little incident, especially when compared to the
marksmanship of the lanky natives of the Austr-
ian interior. a
* * « *
Talk about luck ! One poor beggar who
had been struggling against drought in North
Queensland for years, had correctly sized up the
tin market, and had stacked up at Fossilbrook
the scrapings of two and a half years, intending
i? fir a ir V ls soon as the wet season was over
But the flood was a record in that creek, and the
whole two and a half years work went.
* * *
Frank Lawrence went out to hang himself
at Rutherglen (Yic.), the other day. He was found
dead, with the rope about his neck, but the rope
thffLiftv.’ the medical examination revealed
the fact that Frank, had died of heart failure
Writer does not know why, but this case reminds
o f!Aßallarat !A Ballarat mi ner who attempted
Sa h t nf % bea ? l^ nder tbe sluicing
plat of the old Hand and Band mine His
weight served to displace the beam, and it fell on
ammm°t Ul nf b - e . sulclde > doin S him a considerable
amount of injury. He went into hospital for
three months, and when he came out he started an
damagesThe the C ° mpany to . recover £2OO
tCt fhA company assuming, probably,
f wh ? . wa nted to kill limself was
justified in complaining if through its negli-
gence he only succeeded in hurting himself tfL
him three months wages to square the deal.’ g
* * *
‘‘Boozer ” : In the overpubbed-town com-
tion 1 * 98ft 1 Cl i te Mt ' IV f agnet (Westralia). Popula-
tion, 286 souls; number of pubs, six: and until
last month, it ran in _ addition a wine-and-beer
saloon. Within a radius of six miles there is an
additional population of 300, with five extra pubs
to S P p P ut CmVlngS - Tota1 ’ about 5 86 people
* • * *
20/3/’on U ?) te f S< fru ” the statement (B.
29/3/ 06) that the rifleman is exDertpd f n Lt
things a mile off.” The real trouble islh at out
men, as you say, are too little exercised at un-
known ranges, and at snap-shooting (rapid “loos-
mg-off at moving objects). Also, the constant
use of the regulation “ prone ” position is ruinous
to a mans shooting from any other. Then as
regards what you truly say about the targets •’ all
good game-nfle-shots are agreed that thf target
should have no bull’s-eye-black or otherwise & A
man should accustom himself to find the centre on
-So“white rg »; f w!,ioh sbould * “ilium gte?
foTh"? f ! “ b * d Vl>”»nd“°pprf iffourwSs 1 ’
the plthTKsL'h
TOUCHING REMINISCENCES.
WILLIAM HARRIS (to lady who has returned to
the dear old spot after many years): “And
so you re little Edie. Be cripes, yer've groin’d
a fine heifer. Don’t yer remember Bill' Arris ?
Why, me and me old woman weaned yer! ”
“ Walrick ” : A queer application was
made at the last sitting of the Moree (N.S.W.)
Land Board. A delinquent had been hauled up
before the earthy tribunal for neglecting to destroy
prickly pear on his scrub lease, and he suggested
that he might be permitted to enclose the noxious
weed with rabbit-proof netting, and then throw
rabbits into it. He averred that, there being no
possibility of anything but prickly pear in the
enclosed areas, bunny would be compelled to eat
pear, and so eradicate it. And even if bunny failed
it would only mean that the pear would eradicate
bunny—something would have to go.
* * * 41
“Dargo” (from Congo Free State) on
maligned Australia :
A yarn spouted by men who ought to know—Baldwin
lowest type r of StanCe ~ iS t,sat Australian black is the
man. If this
be so, he is at
least more in-
telligent,
pluckier, and
as well devel-
oped as most
tropical Afri-
can I’ve come
across here.
These living
where game is
plentiful,
where tons of
seemingly ed-
ible indigenous
fruits and vege-
tables are pro-
curable, are
content to live
on maize,
sweet potatoes
and a chance
neighbor or
two. Cannibal-
ism was ram-
pant a year or
two ago and is
practised now
when the
chance ob-
trudes itself
assertively.
The puny,
cowardly, and
stupid nigger
would perish
or recede before the Australian black, were the latter
dumped here. In bush lore, hunting and general
“•savvy” the Australian could wipe the floor with
the African, who is wonderfully ignorant of what his
forests contain—this through fear of the pigmy, whose
principal repast is roast nigger. True the African can
build a weather-proof hut. When for five months of the
year it rains every day with great fervor, that is to be
expected. In Otmtral Australia the black gets about one
shower in nine months and is incessantly “on the wal-
laby,” so as to procure food. Caves are frequent enough
so a humpy is quite needless. In many of these caves can
be seen paintings quite up to those of the “old masters ”
in grotesqueness.
“Bluebush,”
from the inside of
Westralia: Harris,
the ‘‘aborigine”
who has been
shaking them up
in Perth with re-
ports as to the
scoffing of half-
caste infants in
these northern
parts, is an intelli-
gent half-caste, dis-
coverer of the Har-
riston mine at Pig
Well. His yarn
is that the nigs
round Leonora,
Lawlers, &c., are
in a chronic state
of semi-starvation,
and that—well, the
half-caste picanin-
nies go to help
things along. Not-
withstanding in-
credulous scoffs,
Harris sticks to his
tale. The grue-
some theory may
explain the cause
of the diminishing
number of half-
caste kids as one
travels north.
About ten years
ago I came across
one fine - looking
half-caste youth in
the neighborhood
of Lake Carey,
who had somehow
escaped the sacri-
ficial altar. lasked
the gin “What,
name that one
picaninny father ?”
Jerking her thumb
in the direction of
her son and heir,
she answered, with
something that I
am sure was a
glow of maternal pride, “Oh, that pfella
picaninny belonga ” No, I won’t break the
lady’s confidence. But he was a good-sized man
then, was that alleged father, and he has grown to
be a very big man since. Of course I have always
looked on the statement as an aboriginality right
from head-quarters. But she was a proud lubra
for all that.
* * * *
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : “ Drifter ” writes about
people not starting work before the last stroke of
the bell (B. 22/3/’O6). Also, there are people who
will not pay for any work done before the first
stroke of the bell. Was working on a farm when
I was a boy. One morning, about 4 o’clock, the
house caught fire. We toiled hard carrying water
from the dam, and got the fire out, even after it
had reached the roof and all seemed hopeless.
But the excitement upset the ordinary routine of
the farm (it was ploughing time), and no regular
work was done that day. When settling-up time
came I was paid a day short by Mrs. Farm (she
was the boss; Mr. Farm was nobody). “For
there was no work done on May 9, the day the
house caught fire,” she explained.
IN TOPHET. —THE BIRDS TAKE A HAND.
“ Uckle ” : Re “ Flabby Paul ” (B.
22/3/’O6) on the subject of smells. He’ll back a
dead carpet-snake. Dead carpet-snake is just
pure eau-de-cologne beside the smell of the
ordinary glossy black beetle (Stinkorus Likcllum).
Ihis little brute is all right if left alone ; handle
him and he 11 clear the room quicker than a wasp
with the D.T.’s. I once got hunted out of Sunday
school when a lad, for liberating a match-box full
of the cusses there. The other people left imme-
diately after me. The superintendent tried to
push the beetles out, and the insects did the rest.
BILL DAWSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Dawson, in his Sunday raiment dressed,
Sat where the vines hung round his cottage door.
And while tlmsun went dimly down the west,
His mind surveyed the task that lay before.’
“ MoTaggart is agin* me, well I know ;
An e looks better when we're side by side J
An’ girls, they say, by faces sometimes go,
As may be told by many a heart-sore bride.
“ But if I find MoTaggart in her head,
I’ll set these facts agin’ ’is ’andsome face—
That I’ve three thousan’ sheep, prime, thoroughbred,
An’ wool is risin’ at a rousin’ pace.
That will, or ought to, cook MeTaggart’s goose.
I almost ’ear ’er sayin’, * Beauty’s cheap ;
At best o’ times it’s precious little use,
But never yet was worth three thousan’ sheep.’
“ An’ Neil M‘Gowen thinks she is ’is own—
A boy of twenty on a weekly wage ;
An’ girls, they say, are naturally prone
To yield their love to those o’ their own age.
“ But Neil, I think, I see in my mind’s eye,
The dingey of yer ’ope wrecked on the shore,
For I will show ’er ’ow, in wet an’ dry,
My sheep keep growin’ always more an’ more.
“ Instead o’ slavin’ as a poor man’s wife,
She’ll sit ’er sofy wi’ ’er ’ands in one,
An’ flounce in silks an’ satins all ’er life
Stan’ down, M‘Gowen, ye’re not in the fun !
“An’ that there Simpson puts an oar in too ;
’E trusts to learnin’ an’ a tongue o’ oil ;
’E teaches in the school, an’ all the screw
’E makes won’t ever get ’im over toil.
“ H ’e comes near when I am at ’er ear,
An’ starts ’is learn6d gabble, an’ all that,
I’ll say, ‘ Be’old, wi’ reverence an’ fear,
The owner o’ three thousan’ purebreds !—Scat! ”
And so Bill Dawson in his Sunday clothes,
With scorn and laug'h, and scornful word and frown,
Disposed of one by one his many foes
In happy forecasts while the sun went down.
N.S.W.
OBY.


By Royal
Warrant to
H.M.
King Edward VII.
All must eat salt
■BOBBHBSHBHHB
Then why not choose the
only one—
By Royal
Appointment to
H.R-H. The
Prince of Wales>
Cerebos
SALT,
which both seasons and strengthens the F6od.
Wholesale Agents :-H«rrlson & Attwood, Sydney
THE LATEST
J€W€LL€RY
is shown in our cases a month after its adoption
by Society in London.
Our London Buyer is shown each novelty as it
appears.
We extend an invitation to visitors to wander
through our Showrooms.
No one is ever solicited to buy.
The newest goods are shown.
The Lowest Prices marked—ALL IN PLAIN
FIGURES.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Gold & Turquoise,
12/6
Plain Gold, 6/-,
7/6 to 10/-
Various Designs.
15ct. Gold and Whole Pearls, In
full size, 46/-
“Irony”: In the loud smell competition
“Flabby Paul” says dead snake; “S.R. backs
dead whale. Were they ever present at the
burning of dog-wood ? Deadliest thing of all.
Its perfume seems to be a solid thing that you can
bump against; and when you flee from it you can
hear it chasing you. “ Stink-wood ” is, compared
with dog-wood, a mere beginner.
, * * *
“ J.N.” re smells (B. 22/3/’O6) :
“ Flabby P.” is right—a dead snake, carpet or other,
easily wins thejchampionship. Lately, one of two wire-
inspectors,” camped at an out-station in C.Q., killed, and
brought home to show his mate, a beautifully-marked
whip-snake, about 18in. long. After inspection, the tiny
snake was placed in a tobacco-tin, left in a corner of the
hut under a spare bunk, and —forgotten. In a day or two
the hut spoke rather loudly, and the men had a look round
for causes, without discovering the tin of dead snake.
There were sundry tins there, but the seekers didn’t open
them. They were after something as big as a ’possum.
In another day the hut began to shout a lot, a.nd the
mates, reckoning they had no further use for it, decided
to shift camp when the day’s work was done. By the
evening, the surrounding atmosphere was affected, and
the saddle horses couldn’t be persuaded within 50yds. of
the camp. The hut was now screaming at the top of it*
voice.
! Getting the blankets and othergear out was a contract,
and was accomplished with numerous spells on the out-
side edge of the stench. The trips between the new
and the old camps were done in standard time.
In the middle of the night, when the yells of the
deserted hut could still be heard in the distance, the tin
of dead snake was suddenly thought of. One made up
the camp-fire, the other brought the “offence” out, at
the far end of a long-handled shovel, for cremation.
After a week’s steady fumigation, the worst of the trouble
was over, but the hut still makes remarks in the night,
and the tenants spend a good deal of their evenings
outside.
* * * *
“ Janor ” : My bit goes on the dead ’gator
as the champion air-spoiler. When on the Bur-
dekin (Q.) a settler bagged a mud ornament 18ft.
long, and when the news reached Clare, some 10
days later, four of us rode out to see the giant,
and procure some teeth for the making of match-
boxes. We asked the telegraph line repairer to
show us the road, and he put us on a track with
the assurance that we couldn’t miss it. He was
right. We followed the whiff, which was faint at
first, but increased with every mile. After five
miles we began to breathe through our handker-
chiefs, and rode through a sward of dead blow-
flies. (It takes a fair smell to kill a blow-fly.)
Further on huge eaglehawks were gorging them-
selves on lumps of the atmosphere, mistaking it
for the saurian. Then the horses fainted, and
we fled towards the whisky per boot. We learned
afterwards that we had only just got within a
mile of the airquake. Carpet snake is odorous,
but I give him third place. I won’t mention
what comes second.
UNCALLED FOR.
DONOVAN (to the braceman who has missed his
footing): “Hello, Sam! Where’s yer thund-
erin’ hurry?"
“Jim Pan”: The spread of Reynard in
the Yass (N.S.W.) country is remarkable. During
a recent Sunday afternoon out from Galong I saw
eleven foxes and perforated two of them. You
can have the brushes if you like. The hoak, the
hash, the helm, and the ’awthorne, plus plenty of
foxes, will quite complete the Hinglish haspect of
this charming setting for the Federal capital. By
the way, wasn’t Parkes the father of (I mean hof)
Federation —Parkes who said, “Hi do not desire
hoffis”?
SCRAPIN’ GUM.
[For Tiie Bulletin.]
The restless shadows by me flit,
An’ day will soon be o’er,
As in the dyin’ light I sit
Outside me whari: door—
Away across the Bast I see
The black swans homeward come
Through sunset skies that gleam on me—
A digger scrapin’ gum.
’Mid rugged hills of grey an’ brown,
I live here in the scrub,
Full fifteen miles from any town,
An’ ten from any pub,
Thro’ winter’s rain an’ summer’s drought
(This life, mebbe, suits some),
I grind a scanty livin’ out
Diggin’ an’ scrapin’ gum.
An’ if yer wants the ways ye’ve gone
Hid from the friends ye’ve lost,
Es slow the years er life steal on,
An’ turn the hair ter frost,
See yon ! the grey scrub on all sides,
A loyal friend, though dumb,
Will hide yer as the evening hides
An’ ole man scrapin’ gum.
m.l. Te Aroha.
# * * *
Central Sugar Mill Manager Cran, of
Gin Gin (Queensland), with very wide experience
of conditions in North Queensland, told the Labor
Commission that, although all the labor used to
be black at Mulgrave, an experimental gang of
whites cleared 10s. per day for a season, and con-
tinued the good work the two following seasons.
The climate is healthy, and the work of cane-
cutting is no more arduous than tank-sinking.
* * • »
“ Mallarapoonie ” : We had a cove from
Sydney on the roads with us once, travelling in
with 1200 bullocks from Diamantina. He had a
way of pulling the accumulated legs of us
western cattle-men, for we were ignorant of city
ways. One evening round the camp fire the
conversation drifted to cheap feeds, and the
argument waxed hard and lurid. He advocated
Sydney as a place of cheap feeds. He stated he
knew a house in Sydney where they supplied a
three-course meal for 3d.—-penny per course.
Soup, flesh and pudding were the fare—a penny
a go—and the soup was worth the whole thrum.
The service (he said) was rough, but clean, and if
a man didn’t get a fair feed it was because his
stomach was too sensitive (he said), or he wasn’t
quick enough at planking down. They didn’t
pander to epicures in that eating-house. Coal-
lumpers and stevedores mostly fed there. Cargo
lumpers were boshters
to feed (his words).
They asked for quan-
tity and cheapness,
and got both. The
spoons, forks, etc.,
were shackled to a
chain about 2ft. long,
which in turn was
stapled to the table.
The chain (he stated)
was the same kind of
cable that they an-
chored cockatoos to
perches with. They
didn’t use plates.
Instead of plates, shal-
low, circular recep-
tacles were gouged (he
said) at intervals along
the whole length of a
12 x 3in. hardwood
plank, three widths of
which formed the
table. Each diner sat
down before a “rock-
hole,” and the blanky
waiter waited on all
hands impartially.
When all hands were
seated the blank came
round to each one in
turn, starting from the
kitchen end of the
table, and dealt him
his whack of soup.
The soup was loaded
into a stout rubber bag
(he alleged) of 3gal.
capacity, with a trunk
to it (he maintained)
some 3ft. long. This
the waiter carried
under his arm, after
the fashion of large
bagpipes, and, coming
up behind, delivered
the trunk (he asserted)
over the diner’s shoul-
der, and placed the
trunk’s nozzle (he
made affidavit) in his
“ rock - hole.” T h e
waiter would then
gently squeeze the
rubber soup-bag under bis arm (he asserted)
and eject the required quantity—a pen’orth
—of soup into the platter. The trunk wasn’t
withdrawn right away. The waiter kept the
nozzle in the soup (he swore) till you planked your
copper. He gave you exactly five seconds to
plank your boodle, and if the brown wasn’t forth-
coming and placed on the board inside of that
time, he just released the pressure of his arm on
the rubber bag (he took oath), which immediately
regained its original shape, and sucked the soup
back up the trunk, and the waiter passed on to
serve the next cargo-j ostler, leaving you staring
at the grease stains in the bottom of your “ rock-
hole” (he declared). Is there any truth in this
chap’s assertions, anyway ?
THE RETORT OBVIOUS.
BARNSTORM : “ Congratulate me, deah bog I I had my portrait in the illustrated papers
this week.”
HAMFAT : “ Yes I Whose patent medicine have you been taking? ”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Longouste: “Harmony” is clever in a sort of
way that would appeal to only a very few T.D. :
“ Sealed Orders ” didn’t amount to much when unsealed.
E.R.A. : “ Getting Spliced” well-written, but hardly
worth recording. There are a score of such marriages
every day Nilgo: “Grief-Fighters” wild, reckless,
hazy, and incomprehensible....Grasstree: The absence
of a name and address is a drawback Lulu : Very well-
written indeed, but the plot lacks freshness. The lovers’
reconciliation has been done so often, in so many ways,
by so very many writers... .AHneas: One is all right.
The other—well, we’re not absolutely hunting for death-
poetry, though sometimes we fall into it....Jeaeh:
“ Critic in the Pit ” just a fraction under the mark....
A Mummer : “Ballad of Regrets” is a subject that has
been better treated of late by other bards. “ Epitaph ”
under consideration Scotchman: Pretty good re-
garded as a breeze-and-blossom poem, but there are
too many breeze-and-blossom poems. Would prefer
something light and pleasant about a quicksand....
Paul Cupid : Just call in and see the stock on hand.....
W.B. : “ Foot of the Hills” an ordinary topic, treated in
a very ordinary way The Bud : “Love and Summer”
conveys no new facts on the old topic of sky and flowers
and breezes and grass Michal: “Calf Love” is a
20,000-times told tale. Same may be said of “ Dorothea.”
Both well-written, but not enough in them R.N.C. :
“Dawn” and “Moon” both rather mild little scenery
poems, with violets in them.. ..G.B. : “Wants of the
Commonwealth ” is good sense, but some of the lines are
impossible Bagman: “Reid” isn’t verse; only a
wooden statement of facts, sawn into short lengths....
Lewin Crade : It very nearly arrived. Yet it didn’t arrive.
Appin: “Camping” held for further consideration.
The others declined more or less respectfully, ac-
cording to their demerits Lillipilli: Feeble re-
cital of social woes in small, small verse......
J.W.8.: It only amounts, after all, to a versified assertion
that the Australian climate is preferable to the British—
“ which nobody can deny !”... .Supere Aude: Nothing
in either of them. Your syntax is shaky and your style
lacks force and freedom Joseph M. : Very wooden and
wanting in interest T.D.8.: Too trifling for print
A.Q.McD. : Prosy verse on a well-worn theme Newry :
Might have been worse lI.G. : Well, the third time
hasn’t brought you the proverbial luck A.0.C.: You
pick your syntactical steps too carefully. Try to get
some swing into your stuff... .Petrel: Cheap sentiment
and tawdry style XCX : For 1906 the Roman notation
isMCMVI.'; the CM standing for 1000 less 100=900
Greysteel: It appeared in 8., 5/4/’O6 W.C.T.:
Hopelessly incorrect and awkward Ulula: Your
statement (in verse) that Princess Ena, by changing
her religion, has “set all hell rejoicing,” is duly noted.
But possibly hell was otherwise engaged. Anyhow, it’s
very ordinary verse....J. W. Stephan (Barfold, Kyne-
ton, Vic.): Another batch received, with deficient
postage and the usual fine to pay. Batch destroyed.
....Alex: Duck narrative spoiled in the telling J.D.
(Brisbane) : The first Anthony was the father, and the
second, who died in ISS6, the elder brother of the present
Samuel—at least, so says “Johns’ Notable Austra-
lians.” James H. : Send your sweet little rhymelets
straight to the girl; so many chaps want to make love to
the lady through our columns.... G. Warner: A small
witticism over-elaborated Harry J. : Not plump
enough- ... Dick: Don’t agree that “Land Resumption
should precede Protection.” What’s the matter with
hunting* events at the Show are not higrh-jumping* con-
tests O.W.M. : (1) Verse about suitable for a musip-
hall song ; (2) ideas suitable for illustration are paid for
on acceptance.. J. W. Stephan (Barfold): Received still
another batch of your stuff with 2d. to pay for deficient
postage.. Never received anything yet from you that
hadn’t deficient postage. What’s the use of three penny
stamps? It’s either 2d. or 4d. if it isn’t more....
H.S.R. : Ingersoll is a poor authority on matters of fact.
He took so much trouble trying to be eloquent that he
had little time to look after his facts. Read up the Bible,
and you’ll see your mistake Milk: Not only has the
socialisation of the milk business been mooted, but has
been actually put into practice in some municipalities.
The Bulletin looks forward to a day when the distribu-
tion (and preparation) of bread, milk, and meat will be
controlled by municipality or State Maorilander : Puns
we abhor. They’re the stock-in-trade of Punch....
Mac.: Don’t like it, either ; but, as far as things have
gone, judge it better to keep the policy alive. Ask again
inl2months Zephyr: No; don’t touch it V.G.O. :
Don’t know. The Victorian railways found, some years
ago, that they had completely lost a number of loco-
motives and-a heap of rolling stock. The loss of a farmer s
wool clip in Maoriland is a mere trifle by comparison....
Albatross: “ Cattle Shifting ” is good, vivid stuff, but
verse is far too halting. Cattle shifted to that metre
would all tumble down on the road. Wonga: Yarn
doesn’t look real. The city man pays £lO an acre for
swamp land, on which he is going to fatten “stores, :
stocks it heavily, and doesn’t return until the cattle are
dead of starvation True Democrat: Your proposal;
that Australia, instead of getting ready to defend itself
to the best of its ability, should trust to the Hague Peace
Convention, is interesting. Suppose the European Powers
represented at the Convention guaranteed us against
Asiatic invasion ! Denmark was “ guaranteed ” possession
of the duchies; the Turkish empire was guaranteed by
various Powers, including Britain, which afterwards took
Egypt and Cyprus from it and let Russia, Austria, Servia
and Greece plunder it. Even Poland was guaranteed.
Belgium is guaranteed by four Great Powers, and
it has so little opinion of the guarantee (it has
seen it at close quarters) that it is ready _ with
143,000 men to back up the document. The Hague
Peace Convention doesn’t command a man or a
ship of its own, and is mostly well-meaning flam. As
for your argument that we shouldn’t train our own men
to defend their own country because those cohentin-
genters who went to burn someone else’s country became
demoralised, it isn’t worth answering Constant
Reader: Now, what particular axe are you grinding, and
who pays you for the axe ?
to ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Pat: The jest is deficient, and two men of that shape
never lived within historical times E.D. : None of the
six good enough, and the jokes are a frayed collection....
N e ii a : Declined (firmly). Perspective quite hopeless.
g.L.C. : Very amateurish and rather dull J.P.: Gone
to their long home—6ft. x 2ft Unsuitable : G.W.R.,
Olive A., Howlett, Doods, Paddymelon.
mi • Tln f> l inor LofTor fnr Billina all
lnere IS nothing Better tor Killing ail
infectious disease germs than Little s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
verm i n can live wlaere it is used ; has 100 different
orocer for a bottle *
uses. A.SK youi grocer ioi a Dome.


ALWAYS AFFABLE.
Alfred the Amiable: “Would you kindly ask Mr. Reid if he’d mind moving his waggon? I’d be so much obliged, if it isn’t too much trouble, thank you.”
Australia: "Turn on the steam.”


-rtgfeT
Q°n|e^v/ce/
€ n)lf} -f&Kes "Wr/
: I Suppose 70M ware ajl y oix h/ioVTcJvfcV cold
' if you your in ,11**?"
' Ih tljc of |>*s+omJ work in
yesterday I AWI
ol?se»Ved Ilje 'traffic 'tfe *Tot«l ”
t|fev.fey't« |
in lc+ter +o PV'fy ft*j>«|J | 1
S!'
X "fell S*^^,
\t *je ill to <>ee -iije
mortal s’m yonder ir'hj
Know tfot not $ —li-.
—■sfiv'er of il\. /
for 'ttje L°rci » '
* Vi
"M r .lr*ii!* Cirjeys \
■Hje j’res'figt of * '
J CV cer
in
i v very
WorK
Wk^
in
AP £ t°^
|)MnaJ ©t lye
f*S .
( j> oor
[P<r s »wfl fro.*
CJev • tyoUse vi^itei
Ho S far 'letftYd&'f .
✓*\h<4
Jus Co**>z. ba^K
fr~a *V>
IW *r?orgu&
see<vi +* be
only lolfae
leJ'T -+o vi^i'f
|4*s jo*
oj- S+V*
rjeW J
/ nf
fvT- *
> <==Es]<^*iey
80^!—" Come tioscK| I ca k
'A%r~ Jottr'e. Sb^ixj^J.
1 "to KeU/ Owk
of sfVe Intercuts! ” *
lh " FU>WJ % \i-e We luvc leffW
Ks it" girly!
THE PREMIERS’ CONFERENCE AND OTHER POLITICS.


■1
J ¥ „ .-/V \
i m
m-
*s f
m
L
I ■
.
I
m
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6)
Of All Chemists,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
De Rougemont, who was lately alleged to
have suicided up in the Far North of S. Australia,
didn’t. He is still in London, inventing diving
machines and other yarns.
Frank Bullen, due now in Australia on a
lecturing tour, first arrived here as a stow-away.
He was afterwards in the service of the old
A.U.N. Co. on the Australian coast.
Dead in Adelaide, aged 62, Robert Mills,
a well-known squatting identity. Deceased, who
was a silent, kindly bushman, is said to have been
a direct descendant of Thomas Hood, the poet
who wrote “The Song of the Shirt,” that melody
whjch made all England weep, though it didn’t
raise the pay of the seamstress one cent. In fact,
she gets less now than in the “ Shirt ” days, but
no new singer has arisen to tell the world so.
One member of the Carruthers Cabinet,
who takes his official business very seriously, is
said to have dumped down the big volumes of evi-
dence in the N.S. W, railway wrangleon hissitting-
room table. Then he invited his family to join in
prayer with him that he might “ righteously
adjudge the guilt in this momentous matter.”
Another God-fearing Ministry.
Rodney Cockburn, of Adelaide Register,
and Chamberlain, of the Advertiser, now on tour
together, write to their papers that they have
dined with sundry Cardinals in the Vatican, and
been specially blessed by the Pope, who, told that
they were journalists, thoughtfully added the
clause—“ May you always write well.” If the
Pope ever saw the Register, the natural infer-
ence is that he is a sarcastic old dignitary.
Adye Douglas, the “old man” of Tas-
mania, ended his 91 years of life last week. He
was born in Norwich in the year of Waterloo,
and came to Van Diemen’s Land in 1838. At his
death he was the oldest member of the legal fra-
ternity in Australasia. He had been through
many phases of municipal and political life, and
professed to be satisfied with everything but
knighthood, which, he said, was thrust upon him.
The other grand old man of Tasmania, Arch-
bishop Murphy, also born in Waterloo year,
attended the funeral.
THE LATE ADYE DOUGLAS, OF
TASMANIA.
Photo by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
The London correspondent of Melbourne
Argus thus discloses a remarkable instance of a
ladj s successful obliteration of her identity:
G !T Vn A a r rec £ ive , d a windfall of £51,000 through
the death of Mrs. Taylor, widow of the late manager
in London of the Bank of Victoria. This ladv
who was Mr. Taylor’s second wife, died intestate in 1904,’
° f , her husband. Her estate was £90,000,
but £40,000 was only a life interest. The curious feature
of this case is that the trustees have not succeeded in
discovering any relatives of the deceased lady, or who she
was before she became Mrs. Taylor. It had been under-
stood that she was the daughter of a medical man, and the
.widow of a colonel in the Black Watch. All search
by the trustees failed to discover that these per-
sons ever existed. The trustees were equally unsuccess-
ful m finding any record of the lady’s first marriage in
the registers of the church where the ceremony was said
to have been celebrated. Nor did they obtain any assist-
ance from a printed notice, apparently a newspaper cut-
ting, of her 'presentation at Court as the colonel’s wife.
The cutting proved to have been specially printed, as
there was only type on one side of the paper. Whoever
the lady was, she completely succeeded in burvino- her
past, and as a result the Chancellor of the Excheauer
gets her estate of £50,000. 1 r
The bogus or faked newspaper cutting generally
splits on thattsame rock. The bogus news on the
front of the cutting is all right, but either the pill
advt. is forgotten on the back or else the pill advt
is printed and spelled and blotted anyhow, and
this carelessness gives the show away.
“Ejayjem”: The
only time Alfred Deakin
appeared to be a man
of capacity was when he
was a lieutenant of
Duncan Gillies, in the
earlier days of the Coali-
tion. On his own, he
has never proved him-
self the possessor of
constructive and organ-
ising ability. He is
not, and never will be,
a general. He doesn’t
know how to take the
initiative in propound-
ing and following a
vigorous policy. There
isn’t a man in Australia
who was launched under
more favorable auspices
than Alfred. There
never was a man who
had better opportunities
of distinguishing him-
self. When Victoria
was so hopelessly on its
uppers that it could
allow a Jimmy Munro
to assume the Pre-
miership, Deakin just stood round losing* oppor-
turn ties. Yet, with it all, the countenance of the
‘ silver-tongued orator ” denotes that there is an
inner oratorical Alfred who constantly assures the
outward and visible Alfred that Deakin is all
right. And it also denotes that the outward and
visible Alfred is only half-convinced by the
assurances of the inward Deakin.
The late Adye Douglas would have made
Ins home in Sydney had he not been over-per-
suaded by Lady Franklin, whose husband John
afterwards lost in the Arctic wastes, was Governor
of Van Diemen’s Land from 1837 to 1843. She
met Douglas in 38, when he was in doubt where
to pitch his camp, and carried him off to Apple
Land. Adye had studied medicine for a time,
and it was a toss up whether medicine or law
would be his field, but the six-and-eightpenny
profession won. The blood of sea captains coursed
through his veins, however, and' he was never
quite at home with conventions. He always looked
a shade too big for Tassy.
From A. H. Sargood, Melbourne :
Since the death of my father, the late Frederick Sar-
good, the family have been much pained and annoyed by
the circulation of baseless rumors reflecting upon his pri-
vate life. They were said to be due to an article appearing-
some time ago in a weekly newspaper. To show that even
this poor excuse is not justified, I enclose a paragraph in
which that paper disclaims any knowledge of anything
reflecting upon my father’s private life and history.' There
never was any truth or justification for those cruel state-
ments.
The Bulletin, whilst having some doubt as to the
wisdom of giving a wide denial to a narrow rumor
prints this with the addition that it never helped
the circulation of the yarns mentioned.
Another time when human tonnage has
meant death. Farquhar, one of two men suffo-
cated in the Broken Hill Proprietary mine the
other day, might easily have been saved but for
his 18st. or thereabouts. As it was, the others,
themselves partially overcome, couldn’t shift him’
Farquhar, though so vast, was limber, and a well-
known performer at Highland sports —on the
dance stand especially.
Passed out last week, William M'Lellan,
. P ove of Ararat,” aged 75, ancient Victorian
politician. He was born at Crieff (Scotland) and
arrived at Port Phillip in June, 1850. When gold
was discovered in N.S.W. lie mined with some
success at the Turon. He returned to Victoria in
July 1851, and was amongst the first to work on
Bendigo, surfacing. He also dug up much good
gold at Golden Gully, Forest Creek, Ballarat,
T ryer s Creek and elsewhere, and he was at Mur-
dermg Flat among other places. In 1859 he was
elected for Ararat and represented it until 1877
when he was beaten by David Gaunson by five
votes. Up to that date he had been three times a
Minister. He remained out of Parliament until
1833, when he was re-elected for Ararat. At the
general election of 1897 he was beaten by R. F.
loutclier, and did not offer himself again.
recently, at Hamilton
(Vic.,., Emma Shipham, aged 15, after putting up
the fearful record of six years at the local State
school, with never a day or a half-day missed. I
was m that district a few years ago, and remember
how a whole family (there seemed to be about a
dozen of them) toiled after the regular attendance
certificate granted by a wooden Education Depart-
ment. They never even took ill, except during
the holidays. They hadn’t time. I suppose lam
a rebellious and ill-regulated woman, but I would
almost like sometimes to give a prize for the most
irregular infant, just to break the monotony.
A Kalgoorlie draper started in life as an
insurrectionist. He carried a gun in a South
American revolution • now he carries a yard wand
and still can endure life.
n Henry. Tennant Donaldson, a clerk in the
*K -0 'b S T dne^V wh ? feUdown the lift, and died
at the Sydney Hospital on Saturday, had a name
that was often in print at one time. The son of a
London solicitor, on arrival in Sydney he got
temporary employment as a teacher at Fort-street,
but was not amenable to discipline and left. Next
he was a travelling insurance agent, and had with
him an eccentric medico, son of Sir John Gray, of
the Ift ee man’s Journal, Dublin. Gray soon
afterwards joined the Permanent Artillery, and
died a full private. Donaldson tried at Yass
for a seat in Parliament as a freetrader,
and Henry Parkes went up to barrack
ror him. Later on he changed his views,
.- was , JJ; SSoC ;iated with the Protectionist
w P i ;' l . t!ona ' l Club, which was financed by the late
William Macleav. When the club burst with a
loud bang Donaldson became private secretary to
Vr. K. Dibbs; and when the Dibbs Government
passed out, its chief went down to the Post Office
and got his protege a £2OO billet. Donaldson’s last
pubbe appearance was in the Bankruptcy Court,
where he cut a rather sorry figure over some pro-
perty near Bathurst.
URGENT LETTERS.
THE ACTOR MAN (modestly): “As a matter of
fast, I could show you letters from, eh, ladies
in, eh, almost every place in which I hare
appeared.”
THE SPORT (with conviction): “I know—land-
ladies!”
Adelaide police-court is a troubled place
these times. The P.M., James Gordon, was
formerly a junior member of the great Gordon
and hiesbit firm, which broke up finally
when John Gordon was made a Judge, its re-
maining partners, Bright (John Gordon’s brother-
in-law) and Anderson (John’s son-in-law), having
parted company. In a series of prosecutions
lately before the court, one side engaged Ander-
son and the other Bright, and the two have
snarled at each other like a legion of dogs.
Finally, the former side retained Paris Nesbit,
K.C., to assist—and he has in the past been more
or less a partner to all of them. James Gordon has
the reputation of being a strong magistrate, but it
has been beyond him to keep his three old partners
in order, and they have got into the papers, and
finally into the pantomime as a topical gag. It
remains to be seen how Judge John will deal with
them if Magistrate James sends them on to the
Supreme Court.
The head of one of the big (say N.S.W.)
departments recently had a holiday, and, in his
absence, the next in command was placed in his
chair. This one had his head-quarters in a coun-
try centre (as it was not Junee that name will
do). Some three months after his temporary
elevation, the department got into hot water
over some omission, and the error was
traced to Junee, where the papers had
lain for a twelvemonth. Bristling with
importance, the acting departmental head
sent for the chief clerk. “Here,” he said,
“send these people a stiff censure.” So
the chief clerk produced a beautiful rebuke.
It positively blazed with opprobrium, and
the head was about to sign it with that
sense of conscious rectitude with which one
deals it out to a fellow being who has
strayed from the right path. Suddenly his
hand faltered. “Mr. Simkins,” he said,
“this—er—is quite right, of course, and—er
—er—very well put, and—er—that sort of
thing, but—er—damn it all, I was in charge at
Junee in August! ”
The world hasn’t treated “ Smiler ” Hales
badly; but he is not grateful. He lets loose his
son, itoy Hales, aged 14, for a journalistic tour
round the world. The brat, it is announced, is to
write .and talk wherever he gets a show, and when
he is m a hole is to remark that he is Smiler Hales’
son, and then the red carpet will be put down.
On Thurday last, Mr. Watkin Wynne, ac-
companied by his wife and two sons, left for
England by the Suffolk. The manager of the
Daily Telegraph is, when away from his office,
a mighty bowler and all-round charming fellow,
and his friends rose en masse and presented him
with a whole series of farewell banquets and com-
plimentary sends-off. The usual speeches were
made, and hearty good wishes showered on him
in cart-loads, and he needs all the good fortune
that sympathy can direct his way, for his trip to
England is a forlorn effort to conserve the failing
sight of his two younger sons. The best skin
obtainable in the Commonwealth has been em-
ployed without effect, and Mr. Wynne has left
his office to take care of itself for six months while
he tries what European practitioners can do with
his boys’ sight. The Bulletin wishes him luck.
“ O’F.” ; Re early navigators of the
Murray (B. 29/3/’OG). Bendigo Art Gallery con-
tains a painting by Police Magistrate Panton,
now of Melbourne, of “ Captain CadelPs steamer,
the Lady Augusta, passing Piangle Bend, on the
Lower Murray, below Swan Hill.” Cadell
camped with his friend Panton on Bendigo in
1852, when on his way to explore the Murray in a
canvas punt. Panton is quoted in the gallery
catalogue to this effect: —
The picture was painted as one record of Cadell’s
services to his country, and I only hope that it may
remind the public that this man opened up our inland
rivers to navigation, and that no monument has yet been
erected to his memory in recognition of those services...
At that period (1852) gold was being gathered by the
pound weight per day by the diggers, but the noble
Cadell went forth into the wilds and completed his
grand work without reward and without subsidy.
Yet it is on record “that Cadell was awarded a
Government bonus of £4OOO for opening up the
Murray, besides being made the object of several
valuable presentations.”
“ Grip ” : Mr. Bent’s flesh-sunken eyes
darted here and there. Mr. Bent’s burly voice
heavily addressed us. Mr. Bent’s short, little
hands held himself together. Solemnly Mr. Bent
assured us there were a lot of fine women—fresh
women—present. Mr. Bent sniffed appreciatively.
Drily Mr. Bent told us he hadn’t a railway in his
pocket. Mr. Bent waited for the humorless
gallery to laugh. Gruntingly Mr. Bent spoke of
the dreadful coach journey on the morrow, and
slowly Mr. Bent’s hands moved from front to
back. Believedly Mr. Bent declared our Show
open, and satisfiedly Mr. Bent ambled off on his
lonesome for sixpenn’orth of lion in the circus
tent. Alas !my shattered expectations.
There was a prominent Daniel Cooper in
Sydney before the Dan’l whose widow has just
died. That prominent Daniel and his brother
Thomas arrived in Sydney from England as
penniless youths, and, sticking together, they
squeezed money out of apparently unpromis-
ing sources, till they were able to lend
out cash on mortgage. Dan’l died without an
heir, but to establish the Cooper family on a rock
he bequeathed almost all his wealth to brother
Thomas’s son, Dan’l. That Dan’l became a poli-
tician and baronet. Had the first Dan’l owned a
son, the Cooper world would have revolved
differently.
Something like a criminal turned up at a
Sydney police court lately. Matthew Jones, alias
Connolly, Sweeny, Martin, Fitzgerald, Molyneux,
and lhompson, was up for a coat which cost him
three months. His record was an extraordinary
one. Four years at Hull, Yorkshire, in 1854. At
Manchester in 18G0, one month as a reputed thief.
At Liverpool, August, 1860, robbery with violence,
20 years hard labor. Westralia, June, ’OB, un-
lawful communication with convicts, one month.
August, ’6B, absconding from road party, 12
months’ irons. August, 1871, illegallv at large in
1 remantle, three months. February,’’74, assault,
two months. February, ’75, stealing, 12 months’
hard. -Fourteen sentences, varying in severity,
were subsequently passed upon him in Westralia,’
the last on November 29, ’95. The longest were
three years for stealing, seven years for larceny,
and two years for housebreaking. There were
also 45 convictions for assaults on police and
warders, and riotous behaviour, &c. In May, ’9B,
Jones, alias Connolly, Sweeny, Martin, Fitz-
gerald, Molyneux, and Thompson, was up at
Sydney Central Police Court for stealing, two
months. Eighteen other sentences followed for
various offences (the last being for six months
October 30, 1905). Practically this man has spent
his whole life in goal, and if all his sentences had
been served in full he would have spent three life
times there.
“ W.” : It is a singular thing that Univer-
sity men never seem to get to the front in S.A.
None of them has ever been Premier, while few
have even got into Parliament. None of the
judges and no King’s Counsel in the State has a
degree. Only archdeacon out of four is a
University graduate, and none
of the Cathedral canons.
Finally, the head of the Edu-
cation Department has had no
University training.
MIX Eh COMPANY.
PIOTURE VENDOR: “We can do you a fine art
enlargement of your husband, mum, same as
this for one guinea, with a copy of 'The
Light of the World thrown in, which makes
a fine pair, muni, when ung."
Colonel Norton, of whom the worst that
can be said is that he once went farm-burning' in
o Africa, and came back with a better name than
most, has been chosen by the S. Aus. Government
to go to London next October to find a market for
the products of his State. Meanwhile he is to
gam experience as head of the Port Adelaide
Government Export Depot.
The Bulletin has received that useful
PnrS ICa rl°- n ’ the “Year Book of Australia” for
IJUb. It is a valuable work, but valuable as it is
there are some irritating omissions. For instance,
though particulars are given of elections to the
Ilouse of Peps., there are no particulars of Senate
elections. I 1 he banking section of the book lias
never yet heard of the Ballarat Banking Co.,
though that institution has been in existence for
41 years. And the fire insurance section isn’t yet
aware of the existence of the Farmers’ Co-opera-
tive Fire and Marine Co. of Maoriland, estab-
lished 15 years ago and going strong; nor of the
Commonwealth Insurance Co. (Victoria). There
may be other omissions, but these were so glaring
that they struck this writer in the eye at the first
cursory inspection.
THE VOID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The great gap left in Federal politics by the absence
of Malcolm M'Bacharn.”—Mr; Lis. Argus.
Labor threw
Awful bomb;
Malcolm flew
Country from.
No champagne
Now on tap ;
Stomachs wane—
Great Gap !
L.


A FEAST OF LINEN AND LACE.
g4b .#: ■ .:- *y*iv* • ■'
msm.. mm;:* \
limit' tir&m Sw# . vf . d
>•
S?£
n*
te«l
r' ; -
gflft "S
til
yn:
"K? 'V»;? ' >
if*
?4s&
A
s»*
V,
✓ /7
7H
Sf-par
v;< 1
(farbifrirSm
lr'*
&
srs'
SPWSB
;JLv - A
iUSSK? i'>m£SA
* V :
«£-
sss
Vf/pNI
s£Ki
r*
ax
m
PlattiM
mmMwffiM
!V>
* -v.T»-/ $
3 ■#”
S*~ «
3$
« i
asrsrc
lle^
fe.% A
r V/v>
#>Wm?
aNB
>???>.
(«•
l .
W
(•••.
'-HI
SU-i«
*«
■«.' i'yiufV >/%
"WLm® m>
.H K&
SII
s->.
So?)
o^.,vv-« 4
r* >
!
§gsS| ! ' r fff&
3?* sl
zm.
■**
sa*
23
*yfZ
se«i»
1
rare.
■
1
s
"3
w/i
0 p
era? _*
.• - a
¥
GfS
m
5-^
H
<*
iiSS-s
tSt
lr:
•3"~
'
o?
i 13
wife
if;*
cav:^*
vO
fIWWfiV
VK&
w;
<. .'’ jr .
iff
iip
( i! 3
»iS«K
I %VJl;r ? i
***
4-
:c 11 >
i .
•l W /al
ill
?v. • Mm
';-j\ — mm
s/Mlfc
/❖>
iMi.
htmMfM
f»\
ir*ri%
fm
Wj:
vtii
*m
> V
sss#
: ■:
ggaa
Beautiful Table Linen at Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices. X® £lO,OOO Worth to ohooso from
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. Sons
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS & J&
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
200 DOZEN of the Best Aerated Waters can be made in One Day
at a GUARANTEED COST OF LESS THAN £3 with . . .
ILcßersley’s “Improved” Austral
Water Machine.-^
sssss
From £l5 to £l7 Saved
on every 200 Dozen of
Waters used, according
to the price you now
pay, viz., Is. 6d. to 2s.
per dozen.
Hundreds of our Machines are now-
in use throughout Australasia
and India.
*
NO SKILLED LABOR Required
to Work Machine.
I
mm
a
•■
THE GLACIER
SODA FOUNTAIN
For Chemists (Si Restaurateurs.
.
Intending Purchasers of Machines are at liberty to refer to a few of our esteemed Clients whose addresses are given below
QUEENSLAND
WEST AUSTRALIA ...
Mrs. E. J. Shakespeare, Barcaldine.
D. Cavanagh, Ellangowan Hotel, Angathella.
J. N. Martin, White Hart Hotel, Beverley.
G. T. Strickland, Windsor Hotel, South Perth.
Connor, Doherty & DOrack, Wyndhana.
T. C. Evans, Castle Hotel, York.
E. C. Monger, Pingelly, G.S.R.
VICTORIA Curtain’s City Club Hotel, Bendigo.
Griffin’s Goldsmith’s Hotel, Castlemaine.
Drummond’s Victoria Hotel, Hamilton.
Rowan’s Commercial Hotel, Leongatha.
TASMANIA KillaleA’s Central Hotel, Launceston.
NORTH QUEENSLAND AGENTS—BURNS, PHILP & CO.
Proprietors
er&r&r
EcKersley <§L vScms,
214 Queen 5t.,
MELBOURNE.
NOTE-.—We supply a small Machine for Domestic Use


NGNE
IS
S'
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
#
UC *■ i» Pt-WSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
iVJIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON* z
high-class comforts.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
Ally Grainger, ex-Agent-General of S.
Aus., now more or less in the gramophone in-
that State, did some digging while he
had the chance in England, and brought out from
under the dust and cobwebs a mass of little-
known facts about the early days of the “pro-
vmce (S. Aus., technically, was never a “colony”
until it became a State it was a province). One
result is a bundle of illustrated lectures, with
which the gramophone industry is now incor-
porated. Allerdale himself is a nephew or some-
thing of J ohn Grainger, who did some exploring
and nanied Port Augusta after Lieutenant Gov!
x oung s wife—still living, by the wav, though it
was over 55 years ago that the “ honor ” was done
Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distiessing- affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. 'After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
ah else had failed. This treatment does not burn
oft it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark,
bend Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment
Remedy,, posted Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, 5s.‘
Tome, Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
tor 3s. Jd. or 13s., according to size required
Arnold s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.
fs
Dress Fabr\q§
Are Stocked by the
4 4 Leading Drapers.
mWTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 17, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
. Most obvious fact about the Agricultural Show
is the smell. Iruly, the Show smells to heaven.
Petrol, paint, kerosene, varnish, and horse is the
odor-blend. In his opening speechette, Governor-
general Northcote reminded his listeners that
this was the third time he had declared these
smelly shows open for the Ag. Society. A horse-
and-maclnnery exhibition doesn’t lend itself to a
poetical opening. Madden, C.J., was the only
Opener I ve heard who could officially open wind-
mills, harrows, vegetables, and the Durham ox
with a verse of poetry. His Ex.’s consort was at
-Bowral with Miss Rawson, so she was out
ef 'flying flag and whirling wheel picture.
.Lady Fawkes and her side-whiskered admiral, a
couple of aides, and a strange man with beautiful
red the same shade as the wheels of some of
the smart dog-carts—were attractive joints of the
vice-regal tail.
A monologue entertainer on the grand stand
—one of those women who talk in public so
that half a hundred persons must hear them
out the vials of her knowledge for
the benefit of the whole Grazier family down from
behind the rim of the horizon. As each well-
known person came under her showman’s eye she
interpreted, so to speak : “ There’s Lady Matthew
Harris that s her in the black brocade. Isn’t
she wonderful ? Such a young face, and she’s had
eighteen children.” (Sensation on the stand.)
Yes, it s a fact, and twelve of them living. That’s
her daughter, Mrs. Carty Salmon, with her, in
mauve, she looks inches taller since she’s filled
out. Look at that Mrs. Farrell—she’s in the very
top knot of all the women’s movements here,
using her pen or her tongue, or rushing round
with empire flags and immigration leagues, yet
no one ever saw her dowdy. Hasn’t she fixed
that green veil smartly over her up-ended toque !
it takes three yards to do it that way. My eldest
daughter says to me that to be always dressed
smartly you must have nearly nothing else to do
but I tell her it’s all flick. That’s what it is—flick
—and flick’s got to be born with you.”
. She leant forward and poked a girl, two seats
in front, with her umbrella, saying, “Look
Mune, look, there’s the man that wrote ‘Coo-ee ’
that play we’re going to on Saturday; that’s Mr.
O Sullivan. Mune put on a pair of cracked
specs, but before she could investigate the play-
wright the monologue entertainer had prodded
her again. Look, Murie, there’s the two men
that was nearly having a fight about Miss Eadith
Walkers cow that took first prize, and Mark
fi oy s cow that took second, and there’s the man
that spent the whole morning fanning his doe- in
the dog-section. ” She sank back against her seat
but her eyes “popped’’afresh at sight of a new
comer: ‘ Well 1 never ! There’s , she writes
for the papers Did you ever see such a
get-up! She looks like something blown up
all the way here out of Vesuvius. That’s a
ham-frill on her hat. Women who tell other
women what to wear and how to wear
it mostly don’t know any more than a ham what
they re writing about.” She was silent for 10
seconds, viewing the parade ground, where horses
in and out of vehicles were trotting, galloping
parang. “It s like something out of the Bible-
all chariots and horsemen—a very great company
But, for a woman, taking an agricultural show all
round, from the smallest male canary to the
highest windmill, it’s all duller than a five-year-old
black bonnet renovated with cold tea.”
“Lost children may be recovered at the Secre-
tary s office was the notice raised up hi'di at the
Agricultural Show. The trouble sort
of thing as regards the secretary is that he may
have an unclaimed balance of kids at the end of
t.ie day, owing to the parents also getting lost.
Some of these bush inhabitants can’t even find
then; hotel again unless they have taken the pre
caution to ringbark-the hostelry as a landmark
before leaving it in the morning.
. On Saturday Sydney washed the ashes out of
l th , e remnant of the Bun into
the fowls tub, then (some of it) put on its new
corselet skirt and went to the races at Band wick
Ihe weather was atmospheric pea-soup, but hotter
soup than the restaurants served during Lent
That s why all of it didn’t put on “the epitome of
elegance m chiffon velvet.” Eighty-seven in the
shade and velvet chiffon or otherwise, don’t want
to be next-of-km (or next the skin). Hence a lot
of dresses that were dear old friends from last
big Spring races appeared again ; also a job lot of
muslins and crepes worn during the days when
summer wrapt the land in a fiery embrace, as the
conflagration reporter puts it. At Easter Mon-
day s meeting—the most important event of the
horsey week-a much-traveHed foreigner looked
over the assemblage, and said it was like the
throng at a cattle show in Europe. U
Amongst the Melbourne visitors is Miss Linda
Moore, a daughter of the only Byron Moore
S**™*. with Mrs. Burdiin!
Commercial Editor of the Age, and father of that
mining magnate, Lionel Robinson, is here with a
daughter-in-law and is stopping at Mr Owen
Cox_s place. The artful Owen himself slipped off
to M.L. and spent the holy season of Lent in
bringing about an interruption of diplomatic
relations (as the great Powers say to each
others ambassadors when they declare
Ween the Federal line of 3
the N.Z. Shipping Co., and Shaw-Savill line
Premier Bent, , with very dead violets in his
buttonhole (their utter deadness was a contrast
to his extreme aliveness), and Immigration and
Wation Swinburne (he wears grey the verv
shade that H.M.S. Powerful has been lately
als ° railway boss Tait and his wife and
m! dc l A ave r °°!) ed over our fence, so to speak
Ihe latter family are en route for Canada. P The
Collins street Merrills—Mrs. wearing some beauti-
ful corals—came along, and so did Mrs. Bayles
Tr °, Wn folk ' the retllrned natives, Mrs.
r lar ,?’tl! n IV °, ry dra P ln £ s and ostrich
plumage round the neck, and Miss Irene Marks,
wearing something variously* called, as to color
plum deep mauve, and a shade of purple
S2® ey ?’ A , nd , there was a Sood deal of eve ;
experts reckoned there were 32,000 pairs watch-
ing the racing (and dressing). Three Paris gowns
were those worn by Mrs. 8 Lachlan Beaton, her
sister (Madame Degen), and Miss Ruby Adams.
/iS was an exquisite color-scheme in pale
rose chiffon velvet and soft blue cloth the texture
a \ Second, a grey cloth coat and
skirt wth acanthus leaves embroidered in thick
hydrangea silk ; and Miss Adams’ an embroidered
Hrn^J dk mudln - Long, curling black plumes
pped from her hat against her snowy, collar-
less neck, like willows by a river’s brim.
All the rubbernecks were on the look-out for
that noted dresser, Mrs. Willie Mitchell Godwyn.
bhe is recovering her looks, the gone-offness being
due to her having had malarial fever on the
v °y a oe out. But as her colonel husband lies dan-
gerously ill of typhoid and pneumonia at a
private hospital, she wasn’t in the picture.
Mrs. Redleaf Lassetter, in all grey (her
hor r^ rott T ed ln a ffood first at the Bathurst Show,
ana Mr. John Dailey, riding his own big raw-
boned animal, came third), was one of the not-
yery-numerous women of distinctive presence at
Mondays meet. Mrs. “Johnny” Sandes defied
the weather m a chiffon-velvet corselet robe, and
the Rosa lndish Mrs. (Dr.) Weston, and her sister,
Mrs. Jack loohey, proved (1) the possibilities of a
white cloth gown gerrymandered (that’s a
word) with blue and a white orchid
of a hat with blue wings, and (2) an all-guipure
lace dress with sapphire-blue. Mrs. T. H. Kelly
left her new baby at home so she could wear its
bonnet, which was trimmed with lilies of the
valley. A freak lady present had slung to her
waist an able-bodied bugle. Whether she used it
to blow a blast when her horse won, or to summon
her friends when bushed in the 32,000, no one
knoweth. Mrs. Irving Keys had two nieces
(daughters of R. D. Keys), who will debut at the
Union Club ball, with her. All debutantes, like
brides, are attractive.
Her Excellency Northcote, who is looking fresh
as a nower (I am afraid Melbourne suits her better
than Sydney), took the box at Monday’s racing in
a gown that in some lights was lapis lazuli , and in
thers opal, and in extras coral pink.
Mr. Harry Rickards’ collar was one of the
minor joys of sightseeing on Monday. It was of
Gladstone fashion, white, and patterned with pink
checker boards.
•L’ e A.J.C. has splashed out much more than
usual this season in the entertainment line.
i se htled down hard to entertain, and
worked on a time-table—horse-breeders, Satur-
day 5 Governors and Premiers and their wives,
Monday; prominent racing men on the third
day ; a,nd somebody else, probably the stablemen
or the horses, on the fourth day.
Prank Bullen, the writer, will be about putting
bootmarks on this continent by the end of the
week. He is said to be “ religious,” but his creed
is surely of the kind that keeps the corners of its
mouth curled upwards. The very movable Smythe
will run his lecture tour, and a good section of
long-haired Sydney is “dying” to meet the lec-
turer. ,A walking-stick made of a piece of the
old Chance, celebrated in “ The Cruise of the
Cachelot,” is owned by a Maorilander, and he now
takes care the other fellows don’t borrow it to
throw at organ-grinders or cats. Old brig Chance
was broken up at Bluff Harbor (M.L.) only a year
ago.
Mr. Watkin Wynne, general manager of the
D. 1., was showered with chairamenities previous
to his departure for foreign parts. He strings his
reminiscences and stories with such sleight of
tongue on such a shining thread that they make
quite a mentally prismatic string of jewels. Mr.
Wynne was in the composing room of the Ballarat
Post when the late David Blair was its editor.
Madame Degen (the late W. B. Dailey’s
youngest daughter) was the first buver at Miss
Grace Joel’s exhibition of paintings. “ Marketing
at Etaples, ’’ a rather small water-color study,
struck the buyer (who has herself worked in a
French school of painting) as charmingly remark-
able and remarkably charming, so the picture and
ten guineas changed owners. Lady Northcote
has inspected the exhibition, and talked with and
questioned the artist about the pictures’ localities
with all that air of absorbed interest that vice-
regal people put on as easily as they do their hats.
Madame has got a set of ’possum furs made up
for her, and is sure that her friends in Paris will
start on the same hairies when she gets
back. The set consists of a long grey stole, big
muff, and the jauntiest little toque with blue
rosette and plume—like the cap Rubens painted
so often on the heads of his second wife. (N.B.—
Ihe lady wasn’t liydra-headed, you know, but I’m
just in an awful hurry.) If ’possums grew only in
a remote Russian place their fur would fetch much
the sa,me price as Russian sables. The W. P.
Manning lady has also ordered a ’possum set to
send abroad as a wedding gift.
Another of the Smithereens is announced from
Afar as due for padlocking. Rev. Hubert
Saumarez, only son of Archbishop Smith, is the
bridegroom elect, and the lady is a Miss Hanbury,
of Hertfordshire. Her front names are Muriel
Leslie. Rev. Hubert is a good-natured, rather
pawky young man, who looked as if he had no
more possibilities for flirtation than a squid. A
Sydney woman who has met the bride-elect says
she’s like one of Annie Swan’s heroines—the one
who says, “with the wistfulness of a child, ‘Not
yet, if you please.’ ” to the “polished gentleman”
to whom she has just become engaged. Her wist-
ful negative was in reply to his request to be
allowed to kiss her !
A sort of family marriage was celebrated
recently, when E. C. Norton, son of Edward
Norton, of Tiara, Walcha, wedded Mrs Elsie
Norton, widow of A. J. Norton, solicitor, of
Childers, Queensland, and son of Albert Norton
M.L.C. (Queensland). The advent of the Nortons
to New South Wales dates from the teens of last
century. The first of the name, great-grandfather
of the cousins who have just married, settled at
Kammbla Valley, and his son, James Norton
was One of the first admitted solicitors in' New
South Wales. James Norton of the third genera-
tion is now the oldest practising solicitor in
Sydney.
„ Sydney Telegraph one day last week mentioned
a very interesting wedding at the West End
Synagogue (London), when Florence, eldest
MISS NORA LONG , a brilliant songstrces from
Maoriland, now appearing in London.
Photo, by Lena Connelly London.
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. Isaacs, well-known
Australians, was united to Mr. Rex D. Cohen, son
ot Mr. Lewis S. Cohen, of St. Michael’s Hamlet.”
JLbe Isaacs certainly are about as well-known in
Australia as the Smiths. Note, by the way, how
the swell West End Hebrews discard the names
ot Rebecca and Rachel, Solomon and Levi. It is
I lorence and Rex now.
“ Your Ladyship, a young man of the name of
Guppy. Didn t that name delight us in our
Dickens-reading days? You remember Guppy
and his friend Mr. Weevle, and their joint
amuamtance, Mr. Smallweed, in “Bleak House” ’
And didn t everyone think Dickens had invented
these names? There’s a naturalist, Dr. H B
Guppy, making a name for himself in his line by
writing on the history of the Pacific Islands. He
ought to be encouraged (to the extent of buying
his books) for his courage in owning up to the
delightful low-comedy name of Guppy. But I
can t trace the Weevle or Smallweed families.
Eidest daughter (adopted) of the late Mr. Jack
Want has recently become engaged to Mr. Pel-
ham-Kent, of the man-o’-war Powerful. Bride-
groom elect is a first cousin of the Earl of Yar-
borough, and the marriage will occur towards the
end of the year.
Reports of engagements, are apt to be a snare
and a delusion, under the most favorable circum-
stances, but when they arrive in the shape of un-
signed letters they are about as dangerous as a
Belgian pin-fire revolver. The correspondent who
wrote on scented blue paper from Perth will please
accept this (the only) intimation.
In a Darling Point house, in the place of honor
over the mantel is displayed a dance programme
on somewhat faded paper. The sheet records that
the hostess had as partner in a waltz nearly forty
Edmbmgh the S ° me time ag ° deceased Duke of
Miss Frances Ross, looking nineteen and a
TRi° nt ? n- 8 i? nce more in Sydney, so probably the
Bland Holts are again at their place, Sevenoaks
in that funny little Darlmghurst lane. If Frances
didn t confess to being the mother of a daughter
who has reached the age when we all come into
our property or our liabilities-she might
claim to be the younger sister of her own offspring
and no magistrate, looking at her face, would dare
to commit her for perjury. Why won't these
women who keep on looking nineteen, year after
nell kow they do it and become millionaires?
Which reminds me that I borrowed a book of
scraps, called ‘lsn’t It So?” from Tvrrel’s
Library, and one of the scraps is this: “A ’Woman
never gets so old that she ceases to worry about
her complexion or to speculate upon the age of
the woman next door.” 8
Most Sydney-siders with musicianly leanings
contrive to get Miss Clara Butt’s autograph fSr
,^ bums ; All those who go abroad get it.
Like the contralto herself, it is immense. Takes
up a page of the book lengthwise. Most of her
attributes are on the gigantic side. She is over
six feet, her bow to her audience is a mighty
swoop suggestive pf an albatross rushing down on
something edible, her voice is the biggest of com
traltos, and her smile is pretty extensive. Her
concert tour through this hemisphere begins on a
large scale early next year.
ir 6rman ’ the S - Australian violinist
WrW Germany a year ago, has been made
leader of the Oonservatorium Orchestra at Stutt-
gart, an honor very rarely conferred upon such a
newcomer. He has many engagements and
sometimes plays at eight “At Homls“in a week
the majority of his patrons being counts and
duchesses and things. He’s a clever youth
utterly conscientious, and can do things that it
would turn most geniuses grey to think of. His
Adelaide chums declare Eugene could trim a hat
or cook a dinner with any girl.
Mrs. Bland Holt in “ Besieged in Port Arthur ”
pays the newspaper girl a compliment. But who
ever saw a pen-worn an (in evening dress too) with
a dainty little red notebook dangling from her
chatelaine. _ This type of writer exists on the
and in novelettes. The real woman writer
is usually found in the back row, sitting circum-
spectly under a nondescript bat. Now and then
one sees an alleged she-scribe with a Dorothy bag
full of notes, and an immense notebook and pencil,
perched in some prominent place, but even blood-
hounds could not trace the journal which pub-
lishes her brain product. Still, on the stage, the
press-woman and her dainty red notebook run the
whole show.
Miss Rose Musgrove's new mole grey frock in
the revival of “The Cingalee” is a desirable
thing, with a bell-shaped skirt and long narrow
pleats. Since her illness Rose has developed, and
now displays natural resources that a tight-fitting
frock exploits in huggable curves.
Like Chambuddy Ram, in “The Cingalee,” the
Uni. undergraduate is “a devil of a fellow.” If
there was only one of him, he would be remanded
for medical inspection to the reception-house at
Darlinghurst. As it is, there is safety for him in
numbers—when he puts on a red tinfoil nose and
obstructs the traffic (horse, foot, and tram) of the
city. Concerning the conferring of degrees, the
biggest volume of applause was given to the blind
student, Mr. McWilliam—he who was so heroic
that loss of sight in early childhood could not out-
general him.
I recently met with this advt. in the S. M.
Herald, and it set me thinking:—
VOUNGf Professional Gentleman, refined, intelligent
appearance, very ambitious, both a pianist and
composer, also accomplished vocalist, would like to
meet Lady (age immaterial) with means, view to
matrimony and furthering the ends of aforesaid am-
bition.
What I thought about was the power of elo-
quence, the ad vantages of putting a thing nicely,
and the way language was given us to conceal our
thoughts. That advt. will probably draw answers.
If the advertiser had said “ Any old Harridan will
do so long as she has Got Money, ” it would be
the same thing, but there would have been no
answers.
What a conversazione may be held on board the
Maheno this trip ! It left yesterday for Van-
couver with densely-peopled decks; everybody
rushed it because the vessel was turbine (what-
ever that may mean). The Normand MacLaurins,
hitherto fixed stars at the University, went off for
a constitutional round of the world; so
did Mr. and Mrs. James Mills, formerly
of M.L. He goes to order the making
of more turbined craft for the Union S.S.
Co. His wife is a picturesque dazzler of the
Rosalind build. A couple of Russell Frenches
(both masculine) also went. Name reminds me
that Miss Russell French is captain, vice Mrs.
Taylor Young, resigned, of the feminine side of
the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
Mr. James Meagher, of Bathurst, writing from
Colombo to the Catholic Press :
We are a floating monastery. There are several Masses
celebrated every morning, and nine on Sundays.
Janies chaperoned a lot of nice girls hence. What
a giddy time they are having !
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
Bishop Thomas has arrived, and Adelaide, which for
many months has been a wicked, giddy, bishopless place,
is once more a holy city, and full of country clerics and
things, come down to see if they approve of the new
arrival. Said arrival is a tall “My Lord ” with a youthful
eye, winch latter is not surprising since he was a curate
as lately as 1901. His rise has been too sudden for words.
He certainly looks an energetic person and his athletic
stride is less mirth-provoking than the perambulatory
methods of his predecessor. Little fat Bishop Harmer’s
movements when he dodged and ambled about his wife’s
drawing-room on her at-home days were of a most
unclerical character and suggested something between a
two-step and a waltz.
A bushie from the Murrumbidgee, visiting
Sydney in Show week, raised a scene in a crowded
part of Ring-street by demanding that a constable
should arrest a man who, he insisted, had stolen
his horse two years ago outback. The person
indicated was a mild-mannered Judge of the
Supreme Oourt, but even that intelligence, given
in an awed whisper, didn’t shake bushie’s faith.
Open his mouth,” he cried, “an’ ye’ll see two
broken teeth in his left jaw ; he broke them in a
game we had biting knives in the pub the night
before he bolted with my cob. Open his mouth.”
The police flatly refused to open a Supreme Court
J udge s mouth in Ring-street.
Yours Affectionately,
A KENEHI.


56
POST
FREE
SAUTYI
; SARAMA
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon & Niciiolls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
l, D
- " 'LT
/>, -7 S
mi
H
w
>ll
iMi
lr%! .v-VIC/i • (
■Ltor,: a*,,.
y ■ y
• ■ _
v■ ■ O
o
gfrICVRE
AWell Dreyed L&dy Mvjt
H&Ve &Good Figure. •,• * ** i
JEixjurelhij by\\£?&riiv§ i
Only h
m
D
■aa
yn>
m
o
i^ASK^
f FOR THEM’
A AND A
•see •
THAT YOU
GET
THEM.
We Recommend . . .
FEATHERWEIGHT
or GEM
For your Ball Dress.
AMBASSADOR
For Outdoor Costumes.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 17, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The only corroboree breaking up the spidered
quietude of Stonington these days is a spree of the
tea-and-muffin order given by Dame Talbot to a
staff of Nightingales. After visiting a hospital
and seeing the pillow-patters hard at work, a
great wave of pity washes over the lengthy Ex.,
and she immediately despatches an invite to the
lot to come and bask in the sun of the Malvern
mansion. An elderly flight of Nightingales to
btonington is the result—all the younger taking
wing in another direction. The stately company
of nearly two yards of grey Aristocracy is not the
sort of dissipation the young are looking for.
They want a more interesting “ case.”
There’s another youngster for the vice-regal
staff in the Sainted City. His name is Hamilton,
fronted by a string of martial labels. His age is
given as 26. Why this little matter gets printed
is not apparent. Probably it’s a preliminary sort
of appeal to the mercy of the S. Australian on the
ground of the stranger being as yet unkissed.
Death has its comic victories and ironic
revenges. The other day, the familiar Scythe
cut a life off the grassy portion of the planet just
as a domestic tragedy was coming to a climax.
The alleged sinner was a Grace of wondrous
charm. The avenger was the husband. A host
of alleged lie-philanderers had been selected for
punishment by law or violence. Then a sudden
illness occurred, and the beautiful defendant
passed to a place where there is no more giddiness
that we know of.
The Gillotts took train for the Rand wick carni-
val on Wednesday—at least they left home to
take it, but in the melee at the station anything
may have happened. The only person that hun-
dreds of dazzled hanky-wavers can swear to
having seen actually set off was the protdge of a
generous sport. She was tailored with amazing
splendor, and from her champagne-felt toque on
her champagne-colored head a bird of Paradise
tail curled to a height only accessible to birds and
acrobats. As the train steamed out this bibulous
head-piece towered from the window above the
pertest face any Easter express has borne away.
Mr. Willie Manifold made all kinds of efforts
to get together three crack polo players besides
himself for an English trip. He could only get
one, and a pair of players does not constitute a
correct team, so he went away in a despondent
mood. _ The Manifolds reckon that a well-chosen
Victorian quartet would prevail against any the
Cold Country could put in the field. It’s a new
laurel to clutch at, and the poloists are keen for it.
The Andrew Chirnsides have had to postpone
their gad to Europe in consequence of the serious
illness of Mrs. Sumner. This is the second time
it has been deferred.
Miss Irene Marks, looking more than ever like
a delightfully turned-out lemon blanc mange, has
been around the shows with Miss Lesly Madden
—the latter having been dug out of herFrankston
snuggery for the purpose. At the Flemington
meeting. Miss Marks wore a magpie muslin, with
an effective top-piece in oak-leaf tones. The
jaunt to the coral-stranded Empire has not
resulted in any great metamorphosis. The slow,
sleepy air still marks the rambling Sydneyite, and
her plumpness is undiminished.
Mrs. George Chirnside has resigned, without
provocation, the role of unrivalled frocker here-
abouts. For several seasons she held the record
without a break. Then a lengthy sojourn abroad,
followed by the tired feeling, led to a long course
of the simple life. On reappearing at the Polo
Tournament, the creamy dame looked the best of
the push, but the push was so shoddy that the
distinction counted as nil. One is always curious
to know why a queen-frocker on her own account
passes out of the hustle. It is either a matter of
health or heart. In the above case it must be the
health ; the dame does not trifle any.
Dr. Barton, the surgeon superior to the Homoeo-
pathic Hospital, suddenly grew conscious of his
long stretch of service the other day, and resolved
upon escape. He was due for a rest after 21 years
of hospitalling in the same spot.
It is set forth in a local weekly that Miss
Madeline Hay and Mr. Jack Sloan are to con-
summate a life-long friendship and next-station
neighborship next month in matrimony. The
next of kin invited to the feast number 300, and—
the item goes on with naive significance— “ Mr.
Sloan has built a homestead of 15 rooms for his
bride.” A harvest in Hay !
Miss Leila Armytage—the most frocky member
of the Como clan—has just returned with a
Himalaya of curios from India. With her hies
Miss Violet Brodribb, who braved the cold, hard,
giddy world without chaperonage. The local girl
has encouragement to do this sort of thing now,
since Miss Robertson and Miss Byron Moore
pervaded the globe on their own responsibility,
and came back unscathed.
The progressive Victorienne is determined to
coax, cajole, or tyrannize her plain face into a
semblance of beauty. If she can’t locally turn a
long inquisitive beak into a Grecian nose, or a
three-inch mouth into a rose-like petal, she can at
least radiate health and a glorious bloom. And
she’s on the track. On Collins-street, Mdlle.
Rubenstein, of Valaze fame, has a superfine
Massage Institute where the bloom of a Venus is
to be appropriated. Into the fetching little
boudoir Plain Looks makes her entrance, to be
released later from the Viennese masseuse as
Young Loveliness. If the result is not achieved
the first time it is arrived at after a certain number
of luxurious treatments. Valaze has a big say in
the matter, but the art of tranformation is a
Viennese and Parisian affair only to be understood
after a trial sitting.
A relative of mine went to a large and reputable
jewellery store in Melbourne the other day to pur-
chase a wedding ring, and after making his choice
the obliging and saponaceous counter hand said in
a guarded aside: “We have a fine lot of most
charming wedding presents for hire, sir.” Wed-
ding presents for sale or to let! Is this how the
bride’s parents succeed in making so excellent a
Show of spontaneous offerings at many marryings?
The auctioneer tells a weary tale just now. So
many houses and such a Kosciusko’of luggage are
mounting on his hands that he looks in despair for
an equal pressure of bidders. But bidders are
scarce, and the dealers have their own overflowing
stock. I looked in at the sale of some noble
household effects the other morning. The rooms
were three-quarters empty. A few hard-faced
boardinghouse-keepers looked on querulously, but
they did no business. A few brides-elect, with
expert householders for support, made bids, but
in a small way. One by one the little gathering
filed out, and a dispirited auctioneer descended
from his roost after a shockingly bad morning.
Miss Leila Doubleday is to have a benefit con-
cert in the Melbourne Town Hall on Wednesday,
May 16, and an executive committee of great
tonnage is engaged in the task of making the
affair a success.
Judges’ daughters are creeping stealthily from
their traditional shells. The Bananaland Bench
has been linked to the Australian stage by Miss
Dina Cooperand Miss Vivienne Noel, and in this
Bent capital a daughter of Justice Hood courts
publicity with her fiddle and her bow. The
girleen went to Europe for advanced tuition, and
has come back an artist. At the orchestral con-
cert matinee, the other Saturday, Miss Hood took
instant grip of a large, pretentious Marshall-Hall
audience with her Tschaikowsky’s Concerto —a
mighty fine number for a platform novice.
She concertoed charmingly—in a cold style—and
was the sensation of the matinee. Herr Schrader
takes the credit of the fiddler’s beginnings. Mas-
ters abroad with names like violent sneezes put
the polished edges on her work.
As if the A.N.A. battlers had not enough
trumpeting, the local Worship feted the prize-
snatchers at the Town Hall. The Worship gave
the hall and the festive opportunity, and the elo-
cutionary and other champions responded with a
display of their accomplishments. The biggest
cheer of the evening fell to the be-robed Weedon
when he crowed to the effect that he was an Aus-
tralian production himself. The thought of a
native Lord Mayor appeared to fill the audience
with pride.
There’s a Violet Clarke at large in this State.
The name on a concert programme gave Toorak a
shock at first. But later it transpired that this
was not the ex-Governor’s daughter suddenly
returned, but a young Violet of the soil who
blooms in the A.N.A. competitions. She imper-
sonates Lady Macbeth with shuddersome steps
and slow, giving to her gory words the fury of
impassioned gesture. Physical culture is at the
root of this impersonation. A muscular right
arm raised in invocation or threat is so much more
effective to a murderous mummer than a pale,
weak, scraggy limb.
Miss Allie Robson, who figured as one of the
principals in “ The Wilderness” charity show, the
other week, has captured the eye of a theatrical
magnate. Her cheery deportment and far-reach-
ing enunciation are far above amateur status. The
drama with the bleak name gave her a fair chance,
and an invitation to stay in the grease line has
followed. Miss Robson is the daughter of a
draper in a leading local firm. If she consents to
tread the planks under the limelight it will be for
love of it, not for lucre.
Edward Marsden, a son of the State Govern-
ment Architect, has passed from amateurism into
the ranks of professional grease. He is a youth
of great stature, like Goliath, with looks that
would be handsome but for a ponderously deep
chin —the sort of monumental face-base that looks
lonely without some sort of inscription or relief-
work. The selected amateur struts it in “La
Eille ”at the Princess. Crowds of other amateurs
went a-knocking and a-knocking at Manager
Anderson’s door, but they passed hence again—
rejected. Amateur theatricals are like green
wine—they go to a young thing’s head, and reason
wobbles for a while.
There is nothing left of the Stirling tornado of
gush. The artiste of the name moves round
quietly these days, an entirely different person
from the magmticently-chiffoned and boomed
songster of the year end. I saw the platform
Juno entering a cafe the other day with a few
quiet she-souls. At my table the uplifted eye-
brows queried the identity of the large dame.
Miss Maggie Stirling, out of her star rdle, wasn’t
recognised. No one remembered her existence.
Such is boom !
Very little real interest is taken in flower-shows
hereabouts. A rose or a dahlia show is billed
and a few dozen suburbanites turn up to it.
Perhaps half-a-dozen Toorak inarms bear along
with gold pencils and memo-tablets to note the
blooms most becoming to their shade of face-tan.
Now and then a connoisseur loaded with botanic
lore does a tour of inspection, casting round for dry
data. The other day I looked in at a dahlia
show and found the Toorak marm pencilling down
the suitable ■ exhibits, the connoisseur quizzing
round with a great'show of judgment, and the
suburbanites clattering to each other like magpies.
Then I saw a man of sentiment approach. He
stepped lightly as if entering a sanctuary, and the
light of flower-love kindled in his face as in a
Keats’ sonnet. And that man had stolen down
from the Equity Court to revel in a gathering of
dahlias.
The Public Library Board has issued cards for a
commemorative shivoo on April 28th. It is to
take the form of a musical chair party, which
means that you can move round and change places
with any pal between or during numbers without
being ejected for disorderly conduct.
The duly-organised Cat Club of the State holds
a tnuffin gathering on the 24th, which will repre-
sent the first rally of the association. Portraits of
the scratch and bark species are invited to deco-
rate the club walls. Any member submitting an
enemy’s picture to the collection will be disquali-
fied.
The’Varsity sports dance is a fixture for the
final Friday in this month. The' tickets sold off
like cheap umbrellas on a wild wet day, and the
aristocracy and peerage of the city are to waltz in
a tight crush to strains of heavenly harmony. J.
Lang and R. M. Downes are running the concern
on extra-gorgeous lines.
The Vice-Chancellor of the ’Varsity and his
dame are girding up their energies for hospitalities
of a commemorative nature on the 23rd. These
come off at Parliament House, where the ’Varsity
V.-C rules the roost as President of the Council.
He can therefore use the political quarters for
anything he likes. An inducement to the Cream
to attend lies in the significant words, “ To meet
His Excellency the Governor and Lady Talbot.”
The Cream is dead sure to attend.
An amount of hot indignation is being expressed
over the action of a pirate dame in taking; it on
herself to entertain a number of her pals in a
marquee at one of the big polo upheavals. As the
dame failed to intimate on a hoarding her pro-
prietorship of the pegged water-proof enclosure,
visitors bearing pasteboards to the Club Tea wan-
dered in and gorged to their fullest afternoon
capacity. Then the dame shrugged her shoulders
and; wondered at the cast-iron assurance of some
kinds of people. The shrugging has been duly
reported, and now those unintentional trans-
gressors are chagrined at the mistake. Some of
them threaten to send along a post-office order for
the victuals they consumed.
Some smart she-sports are quail-shooting this
season. One of the type has (she boasts) the
prettiest rifle in the State. Fancy a strenuous
she-sport talking of a pretty gun ! This particular
shot is a composer of songlets and a pianiste with
a fascinating trick of emotional play. That sort
of thing is very beautiful, but when she shoots
the miserable bird it is dead just the same.
The millinery of the hour threatens to induce a
bad squint. The lowered left rim blocks the
vision of the corresponding orb. The right eye
alone enjoys a full view of the world and has
double duty to perform. To examine the clouds
so that you may know if it is going to rain on the
sidelong hat, one has either to withdraw all the
skewers and lift the lid right off or give the neck
a horrible wrench so that a small strip of sky may
be brought into focus. The hat-drape is a droll
matter. When red, it looks like a wave of bush-
flame. When blue, like a spiral column of factory
smoke. When green, like a length of sea-weed.
When brown, like funnel belchings. When grey,
it resembles a small cloud gone astray. When
black, it suggests the wearer’s own funeral pall;
and when white it suggests a bridal veil. Which
last is, the greatest irony of all, for the greying
spinster likes this style best.
A passenger by one of the recent crowded liners
sends a few interesting details of ship-doings en
route. “It took the whole passage through the
Australian Bight to sort ourselves out. Then mis-
takes occurred. Only as we approached Fre-
mantle did the sets solidify, as it were, and the
cliques assume some permanent coherence. The
extra-prime Toorakites avoided the other sets of
frivollers as a cat does hot soup. Their
parade on the deck past the scorned sections
was a farcical business. One Chinchilla strutted
in a bright green voile, in which she looked
for all the world like a slightly maimed
grasshopper. Another plump specimen wore
thimble-heels, and had her waist girded in
to small compass by a black scintillating belt
w'hich looked in the distance like a varnished
band joining together a damaged hour-glass.
Then the vessel shook things up, and for days
nothing else mattered. The brief in stature spread
their inches in their deck-chairs, and the lengthy
coiled their yards up in the stuffy bunks. The
thimble-heels, the hour-glass bands, the conse-
quential snortmgs werenomore. Only thehardened
sinners survived the tempest and grinned at the
collapse of the sets. There’s nothing like sea-sick-
ness for levelling humanity.”
French Island, in Western Port Bay, is an
ideal spot for anyone who yearns for a primitive
and Arcadian holiday. There are no roads and
no rates on the Island. The only reminder of
“ law and order ” is the visit paid once in three
years by the policeman from Phillip Island. This
boy in blue has an easy time, having only made
one arrest in six years. The culprit on that occa-
sion was a visitor from Melbourne, who took a
drop to drink and was “pulled,” to use a local
expression, for using insulting language. On
French Island, which is 14 miles across, there are
remnants of village settlements, one called “Per-
severance,” another “Energy,” a third “Star of
Hope.” The Government gave each settler a
horse, a cow, and for a certain time 10s. per week.
As soon as the 10s. ceased, the majority of the
settlers sold their horses and cows and went bade
to Melbourne, presumably to resume agitation.
The Post-office constitutes a settlement in itself,
and is called “Tankerton.” The residents pro-
duce butter, eggs, &c., for their own use, and
export chicory. Boarders at the various farm-
houses meal in the kitchen with their hosts, who
help all the provender straight out of the cooking-
pot. Corned beef and cabbage, boiled together, is
the staple fare.
Unknown dead children are found every day or
two around Melbourne, and nobody takes any
notice. The papers have long since given up
publishing the fact. Unknown live children are
a rarity, and when they are found it becomes
the duty of the Court to give the infant
a name, and hand it over to the Neglected
Children’s Department. Last week such a child
was found, and a bunch of five honorary justices
solemnly weighted it down with the name of
“ Olivia Cromwell.”
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
The awful gradufilness of the law ! “ Are
the pleadings closed?” inquired Justice
A’Beckett, in Melbourne Practice Court t’other
day. “Oh yes,” replied the counsel, “they were
closed years ago, but they were recently
amended.” The bill of costs will also be amended.
“Alba I.”: Was in Sydney Botanical
Gardens recently. All was peace until a German
man-o’-war, just in from the islands, anchored in
Farm Cove within a few feet of the parapet.
Crowds of children were playing near, on the
grass. Ducks and waterfowl were sunning them-
selves among water lilies and fronds. Suddenly
a big-nosed gun belched out a heart-shaking report,
followed by 11 more in fierce succession. Many
children fled in horror. Men and women re-
treated hastily from the vicinity of the eagle-
nosed war ship. Ducks quacked wildly and
bolted. Dogs lighted out for parts unknown.
The violent disturbance arose because a certain
stout officer had decided to go ashore to see a man
about a dog and a consignment of sausage. Asked
a German sailor shortly after what would happen
if the officer in charge forgot to make a noise
when the stout commander went ashore. The
German shivered and then winked at me. “ Ven
us und you haf a leedle more sense,” he said, “ ve
shall stop der salute-powder-money out ob der
officer’s dam vages.”
The meteorological department of Sydney
Observatory has issued a first-class patriotic post-
card. The back part is a map of N.S.W. showing
the rainfall in different districts, and on back and
front are a few well-chosen whoops about the
advantage of emigrating' to N.S.W. and settling
on the damper sections of the country. A great
deal of good patriotic whoop is condensed into a
very few lines.
A Ballarat Dago has come in for a few in-
sufficiently insulting remarks for working three
youthful employees unduly long hours. One lad
of 17 toiled 7 63 hours; another of 19 for 77 hours ;
a third, a youngster of 12, was kept at the
unpleasant cleaning-up work of a fish and oyster
shop for 93 hours in one week ! The 12-year-old
child, said to be a relative of the sweating oyster-
man, was allowed a little pocket-money in
return for his 93 hours’ work. Save us from our
friends, but Heaven defend us from our relatives !
And Heaven defend us too from a magistrate who
fines a sweater like this a pound—twenty shillings.
“H.G.”: Don’t rail at Premier Bent for
throwing merely a shilling to “Billy Brown,”
king of the Bairnsdale blacks. “ Billy ” scored a
shilling better off Bent than he did off the Jook
of York, when he visited Sale during his Aus-
tralian trip. On that occasion, Billy travelled
20 or 30 miles, in order to reach his fellow royalty,
and when the little York approached his camp in
a drag, he treated the crowd to a fine exhibition
of boomerang throwing. Then he stepped for-
ward with his hat, but at that moment tbe Jook
was remarking to Madden, by his side, that there
was a glorious scene on the distant hilltops. The
opinion expressed by the black king about the
white prince was something that Sale talks of to
this day. There was never such an opinion heard
in Gippsland before, and it nearly ruined the
crops.
The pressure on the big landlords of
Western Yiotoria is steadily increasing; public
feeling, the threat of compulsory purchase, and the
shadow of Watson’s land-tax make them very
uneasy, Every now and then an estate is sub-
divided and sold, and the big squatters who
still remain around Camperdown have a sort
of solitary, doomed feeling every time they open
a newspaper. Erstwhile Radical Jack Murray,
of the Bent Ministry, speaking at Camperdown a
few days ago, said that the day of big estates was
past. The land was now wanted for the farmers ;
and, if it could be got no other way, compulsory
purchase would have to come. Watson’s pro-
gressive land-tax would hit these squatters very
hard, as many of them, such as the Manifolds,
Blacks, Curries, Chirnsides, Shaw and Jameson,
own over £lOO,OOO worth of land each.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The great
and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is that it
relieves without discomfort; in other words, it effects
reform without revolution. This is because it is the
best and safest natural aperient.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and S fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work,
assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money order on
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris,
5/- Fine
London.
France.
pis
GrO TO KCELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
Tor Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
sdf
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS;
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Svdnev (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Australian General Election is only
eight months off, and there isn’t one good Pet-
riananias or Six Hatters lie in sight yet—not one.
' “L.”: “Prohibited immigrant” is too
long. A thing exhibited is called an exhibit.
Let us call the undesirable one a prohibit—or a
prohib.
George Reid has again (at Dubbo, this
time) invited Prime Minister Deakin to join him
in a “broad alliance against Socialism.” Can’t
George get on without so much use of the word
‘ * broad ’’ ?
The Victorian State Government has dis-
covered that it uses two kinds of ink of much the
same quality, the Australian sample costing about
3d. per quart and the imported article 2s. 4Jd.
The Victorian State Government is now scratch-
ing its head hard.
It is proudly reported in the Sydney press
that George Reid is backed up in his campaign by
the Liberal and Reform Association, the People’s
Reform League, the women’s branch of the
People’s Reform League, the Women’s Liberal
League of N.S.W., the Women’s Political and
So;ial League, the Australian Liberal League,
and the Anti-Socialist League. Wonderful!
WELL RECOMMENDED.
Steps are being taken in Canada to organise a Labor
party.— Cable.
CANADA : “ Well, if there’s no hokey-pokey Til
take a dose, but mind ”
J. BULL: “ Pooh! if shakes you up for a bit,
but, by James, I wouldn’t be without a bottle
in the house now.”
Judge Backhouse revived at Sydney
Quarter Sessions, the other day, a sound old
criminal law principle which the Law Depart-
ment had begun to treat as dead—that which
gives accused persons confined in gaol precedence
at trial over those who are out on bail. The
Judge went the length of saying that if the State
Prosecutor did not arrange the lists so as to give
priority to accused in gaol, he would in future do
so himself.
At the recent British elections it is alleged
that women who rose to ask the candidate if he
would support feminine suffrage were often
bashed by the police and other males. As a re-
sult the Womanhood Suffrage League has decided
that it will strive to block emigi’ation to countries
where woman has not a vote. Well, she has a
vote at Federal elections all over the Common-
wealth, and at most State elections. Let the
immigrants pour in this direction.
The term “ Braddon Blot” has died with
Jack Want, and now the State Frights crowd is
calling for the permanent inclusion in the Consti-
tution of the Braddon “Clause.” It is never
called a Blot these days, and the lie that it was
designed to rob poor old Ma State is quite dead.
“G. 8.” : I heard Deakin at Ballarat, and
he was the same old, eloquent, affable, non-
offensive customer that The Bulletin has often
depicted him. The man who would do anything
much for Australia would have to be brutally
rude to the landlord class and the importing class
—and Deakin simply hasn’t the heart to be so
cruel.
The Carruthers Ministry is inquiring down
back-stairs and up lift-wells and other hinder
places to find out how the appointment of Honor-
ary Minister Bill Dick would go down as member
of the N.S.W. Public Service Board. Barling is
getting old, and his retirement is hinted at, and
even Pa Delohery may not come back to his job.
And Dick is said to be rather tired of being
honorary, which is a weary thing at all times.
Certainly the Ministry might do worse than
appoint Bill Dick. But the railway inquiry has
fanned the long-smouldering agitation for a single
P.S. Commissioner, as in the Federal service, and
Dick, M.L.A., will want a lot of luck to get that
billet.
“ Hermes” to The Bulletin :
One feature of the Sydney Agricultural Show which
impressed me very much was the enormous increase of
kerosene-driven engines and machinery for agricultural
work. Observe once more the trail of the Trust. The
agricultural machinery combine is the pup of the
Standard Oil wolf, and every oil engine that is sold in
Australia means an increased market for the petroleum
department of Standard Oil. Which is gain for America,
and loss for Australia. Now, any machine that is driven
by kerosene, or petrol, can be driven by alcohol, and if all
this oil-consuming machinery were driven by alcohol, our
farmers could supply the potatoes from which spirit is
made, and thereby keep their money in the country, in
addition to making a home market for themselves by
employing some thousands of men in the distilling busi-
ness. A little agricultural education, some decent
encouragement to the distilling industry, and a kerosene
duty would do it.
An elector writes :
The newly-elected member for Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) is
known among his intimates as “ a good-natured sort of
chump.” In canvassing the “Kernil” was accompanied
by an affable person, who was generally taken for the
candidate, as he did nearly all the talking. The only
time the “ Kernil” grew eloquent was when the frequent
elector remarked : “ I don’t, as a rule, vote for the Labor
party, but I can’t stand Joey.” Then it would have
pained Carruthers to hear how his selected representa-
tive hastened to assure that elector that he (the can-
didate) didn’t think much of the political insect himself.
Carruthers was a tremendous burden for his selected
candidate to hump, and required a deal of explanation,
so the “Kernil” deserves his luck. The Labor party
would have just about won had it attended more to busi-
ness at the Goulburn end of the electorate. With a
better-known candidate it would have more than won.
No one doubts that Millard would not have had the ghost
of a show against Dr. Blackall if the doctor’s friends
hadn’t voted against him for fear of losing his services. A
doctor who’ll turn out at any hour, even when the fee is
problematical, is not a friend to get rid of lightly in the
bush. It is possible to be too popular to get elected for
Queanbeyan.
“T.D.”: The main reason for having
Australian agencies in London seems to be that
they provide cheap office accommodation
for impecunious people with wild cats to
sell. It is almost impossible to go into some
of the Agent-Generals’ places without
encountering big men in dubious toppers
and greeny-black coats who are talking
loudly about “shows’’and “assays”
and things, and they make liberal use
of the note-paper, thoughtfully
\ provided by Government, in
writing official-looking corres-
pondence that may, or may not,
help them to float their cats.
The official paper probably
helps to create an impression
, that the Government is be-
hind the cat. They declare
interim dividends by borrow-
ing anything from a sovereign
to a shilling from any hapless
person darkly suspected of
being an Australian, and
they always exhibit their
bona fides by denouncing
Socialism and affirming that
the Labor party has ruined
the country.
The question of Woman Fran-
chise is no longer treated as a huge
joke in conservative England The
non-enfranchisement of the Sex has
become a matter for satire. London
Punch (22/2/’O6) remarks that “con-
victed murderers, suicides and women are
debarred from voting at a general election.”
“ U.” : Be Victorian Labor candidates for
the Senate (B. 5/4/’O6). Leading Labor men say
that Roily I will stand for the Senate only in the
event of his State seat being wiped out by the
repeal of the Separate Representation Act. Solly
and the other Laborites are pledged to try and
obtain this repeal. If they fail they will keep
their bird in hand, and send out another man
to stalk the elusive fowl in the Senatorial bush.
The State Premiers’ Conference decided
that after next October the Federal system of
keeping accounts between the States should be
abandoned, and the surplus customs and excise
revenue be distributed according to population.
This would simplify matters immensely, but when
Prime Minister Deakin tries to act on the State
Premiers’ recommendation he must be prepared
for trouble. Queensland, S. Australia, and Tas-
mania would gain by the change, so they voted
for it. The other three States would lose, but
Westralia wasn’t represented (Premier Rason’s
dignity was hurt about something), and N.S.W.
and Victoria, which wanted “a brief extension of
the book-keeping system, ” were voted down. That
was easy enough at a conference where each Pre-
mier had one vote, but if Deakin proposes to act
on the advice so airily handed to him, he will find
that, in the Reps., N.S.W. and Victoria have 46
votes and Westralia has five. The advice was
good, but good advice that is only backed by the
votes of three States with 21 Representatives
among them is a joke.
NOT WORTHY OF THE NAME.
The leader of the Federal Opposition said Mr. Deakin was hanging on like a ring-tailed opossum to a bough.
The only difference was that he had not such a long tail.
LITTLE BOY : “ Talkin’ of tails, George, wot sort o’ thing do you call this?”
James R. Thompson, well-known as super-
intending engineer of quite a fleet of coasting
steamers and a recognised authority on engineer-
ing matters, told the Tariff Commission the same
weary old tale. It was well-boring this time.
When artesian boring became necessary in Aus-
tralia, Australian brains and energy tackled the
problem, with the result that Australian ideas
and Australian methods now rule the well-boring
industry the world over. And the result was the
Harvester business over again. The American
manufacturers seized on the Australian ideas,
and. aided by the grossly inadequate tariff, they
now dump their well-boring tools, made from
Australian designs, on the Australian market,
and the local trade has gone where the burned
nigger goes.
Writing about the reduction of the bank
deposit rate and the accumulation of money,
Sydney Telegraph mentions the difficulty in
finding investments: —
Labor troubles still render capitalists very shy of start-
ing enterprise which calls for permanent employment on
any large scale. And Labor has its leaders to thank for
the withholding of very many millions in Australia which
would otherwise have enriched the working population.
Australia’s old friend, the unnamed man who was
going to invest an unspecified amount in a busi-
ness that wasn’t mentioned, but decided not to,
on account of Socialistic legislation, is thus turn-
ing up in a new suit of clothes. Nowadays, the
man who would invest large sums in industry, but
decides that it isn’t safe, is said to be an Australian
who has made so much money in Australia under
Australian conditions that he doesn’t know what
to do with it, because of the impossibility, or
thereabouts, of making money in Australia under
Australian conditions. In short, he has done
what the Telegraph makes him say he can’t do ;
his whole difficulty is that he has succeeded in
doing it to an extraordinary extent.
Sydney’s futile municipal misgovernment
system is advertised again by another effort to
come to some arrangement by which the various
bodies with power to rip up the streets will
consult together and make one tear-up do
for the lot, instead of each one digging
the street up as soon as another has
finished laying it down. Sydney has
existed for more than 100 years, yet it
has not yet got to the stage at which
it is possible to prevent a gas co. rooting
up the streets just after the electric light
people have repaired them, to be fol-
lowed by the telephone tunnel people,
the hydraulic power crowd, the Water
and Sewerage Board, and the Tramway
Department.
Melbourne Age figures out that in the past
three months there have been 29 accidents on the
Victorian railways, and begins to think, ap-
parently, that the engagement of an imported
genius with Canadian experience to run the show
has its drawbacks.
According to Sydney Telegraph (7/4/’O6) :
The present effect of the Braddon clause, if Mr. Oar-
ruthers’ most recent exposition of the State finances is
correct, and there is no reason to doubt, is to take out of
the pockets of the New South Wales tax-payers about a
million a year more than is necessary to carry on the
government. . . . We do not put this forward as a per-
manent solution of the difficulty, but as one preferable
to that under which New South Wales is taxed as it
now is to the extent of a million a year above its require-
ments.
Apparently the poor old Ma State has been injured
again. Yet there is something strange about the
position. N.S.W. uses about £1,000,000 of land-
sale money annually as revenue, because it is too
hard-up to be honest. It borrows about £1,500,000
a year because it is too burst-up to keep solvent.
It has cut down the payments in reduction of the
old deficit. It has annexed as revenue about
£lOO,OOO of the Water and Sewerage Board’s sink-
ing fund money. Why does poor old Ma State
do these things if she has £1,000.000 a year more
revenue than she wants ?
Reid’s latest evidence of the failure of
what he calls Socialism is the collapse of Dowie,
the theological autocrat of Zion city. Also, he
has been wailing about some imaginary state of
things under which children’s heads will be
inspected by the Government Bump-reader, and
their future occupations allotted to them, without
appeal, on State bump principles.
N.S. Wales Chief Railway Commissioner
Oliver’s solid ground throughout the wrangles
with the other Commissioners, lay in the fact-that
his style, title, position and salary, as affirmed by
Parliament and officially gazetted, indicated
authority vested in him above that possessed by
the other Commissioners. If not, why the title
of “Chief,” and why the substantial difference in
salary ? The evidence shows that the other Com-
missioners desired to treat him simply as one of
three. But it was Parliament, not Oliver, who
created the distinction.
CANDID.
Mr. G. H. Reid has written to the secretary of the
Australian Socialist League, declining the invitation
extended to him by that body to debate the question of
Socialism. He states that he does not do so from any
want of respect, and points out that the purpose he had
in view in entering into a debate with an accredited
representative of the Political Labor Council had been
fully realised. —News item,.
Exactly. He has been hauled out of oblivion
once again.
There are bitter complaints about the late
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) election : (1) That both
candidates came from the “village” of Quean-
beyan whereby other hamlets were insulted; (2)
that one was a publican ; (3) that the other advo-
cated cash compensation to dispossessed publi-
cans ; (4) that the whole thing was a burning out-
rage on Cold Tea.
♦
The State Premiers at Sydney have been
indulging in a mild revel of words. As usual the
proportion of sense has been governed by the
proportion of the premier whisky—D.C.L. of that
ilk—embodied in each Premier. D.C.L. is a
spirit which always talks wisely when supplied
with an intelligent medium for its remark.*
BRITAIN’S BROWN EMPIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The first complete census of the entire British Empire,
just published, gives the population at 400,000,000 —one-
fifth of all humanity.
That’s the very latest tip,
My Anglophobe,
Of the strength of Britain’s grip
Upon the globe !
Ii’s a perfect paralyser ! —
Take the word of an adviser,
Which ’twould probably be wiser
Not to probe !
Of four hundred million heads,
All bowing down,
Every one reveres and dreads
The British Crown I
With joy and pride we bellow—
It makes one’s heart grow mellow !
And they’re black, brown, white and yellow —
CHIEFLY BROWN !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Talking;
Machines
at Paling’s.
We stock both kinds—
Disc and Cylinder Re-
cords.
*
Band Selections.
Songs by the world’s
leading artists.
Recitations by present
day orators.
Instrumental Selections
by the greatest soloists.
*
Our Disc records are
indestructible.
Reliable instruments at
Lowest Prices at
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
PALING’S
Reliable *
Complete with Bow, Case, Set of
Extra Strings and Resin, Post
Free to any Post Town in N . S. W.
School Yiolin - £1 1 0
Student’s Model 111 6
Orchestral Yiolin 2 2 0
Artist Model- - 3 3 0
Stradivarius Models S 0
Lupot Model- - 10 10 0
Collin-Mezin’s
Yiolins - - 15 15 0
Louis Otto’s Cele-
brated Yiolins 20 0 0
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
53
Royal [
Accordeons
ac Paling’s.
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really first-
class article can be
supplied.
Catalogues and prices
are vours for the asking.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
27
BEAUTY for
SHE march of Civilisation has brought
nothing to Womankind so valuable,
so conducive to beauty of face and
figure as Scientific Massage. In the
Beauty Institute of Collins-street,
Melbourne, Mdlle. Rubinstein has an
establishment on the lines of the
great Viennese and Parisian Models, and here,
right in the heart of the metropolis, is an In-
stitution where the face can be treated accord-
ing to the most approved principles of the
science, as expounded by the European authori-
ties of most eminence to-day. The latest
apparatus and instruments have been imported
for the treatment of the skin and scalp. A
course of the treatment, terms for which can
be had on application, works wonders in
curving, reducing, bracing, strengthening, and
moulding. the face and figure, removing
double chins, superfluous hairs, warts, and all
disfigurements. Mdlle. Rubinstein personally
supervises, and is assisted by two young Vien-
nese Masseuses, certificated and fully qualified
for the scientific treatment furnished at the In-
stitute. It is little wonder that the treatment
should be marvellous in its effects when a study
is made of the wonderful apparatus employed.
To the casual eye it may look intricate, but on
every costly tube, rubber, globe, roller, and
electric sponge being explained, the apparatus
becomes a grand thing to understand and appre-
ciate. The working of every part is an educa-
tion, the Massage itself is a delight, and the
face glows, beams, and quickly beautifies under
the clever treatment, which includes the use of
that great beautifier, Valaze. This wonderful
Russian Skin-food plays a very important part
in the treatment in dispelling the most pro-
nounced facial blemishes, and producing a clear,
soft, transparent, white skin, with a glow of
youth and perfect health. The immediate
effects are marvellous. The whole face radi-
ates, the eyes grow brighter, and the benefits
of such a scientific course of skin-treatment
carries immediate conviction.
A course of the Massage Institute treatment
is, naturally, most desirable ; but, for those who
live at a distance from Melbourne, Massage
Rollers are procurable for use in the home.
These rollers are provided in a variety of shapes
and styles for various methods of Massage of
the face and figure. Illustrated descriptive cir-
culars, with full directions, are posted free on
application. To ensure to the full the best
effects of Home Massage, it is absolutely essen-
tial to follow the method prescribed at the Insti-
tute, namely, to use Valaze. But it must be
Valaze. Avoid all base imitations of alleged
skin-foods. The great success of Valaze has
naturally caused a whole host of unworthy rival
Skin authorities to spring into brief existence,
but the pre-eminence of Valaze, as the great
preserver and producer of lovely complexions,
remains unchallenged. This wonderful Russian
Skin-food plays a most important part in the
proper carrying out of the process by dispelling
the most pronounced facial blemishes, and pro-
ducing a clear, soft, transparent white skin with
a glow of youth and perfect health. Hitherto
the good results derived from Massage have
been experienced fully only by those within
reach of the Beauty Institute, but the possessors
of these Massage Rollers can obtain equally
good results by the process of Self-Massage in
their own homes.
Now that winter is near at hand, fair Women
who possess tender skinds are made miserable.
It is very hard on them, and when they are be-
wailing spoilt prettiness, chapped, chafed skins,
you hear the suggestion, why not use a good
skin-food ? No lady need have the slightest
trouble with the skin if she uses the best of all
skin foods, Valaze. Its healing properties are
marvellous. It is a soothing preparation that
allays all irritation, soreness, and roughness
caused by wind and weather. It is a pure
herbal skin-food, goes straight to the spot and
works its wayinto the tiny pores of the most
delicate, sensitive skin. The effect of its use is
magical. Wrinkles, Blackheads, the ravages of
time, illness, or weather, every blemish, dis-
figurement, or imperfection, disappear under
its spell immediately. It is guaranteed to defy
the ravages of the elements, and to maintain to
its users enviable brilliant complexions all
through the winter. It is also a most exquisite
preparation for chapped lips and hands. Used
by gentlemen after shaving, Valaze is delightful.
The fact that many of the most eminent
physicians and surgeons use Valaze is proof of
its sooth ing after-shaving properties. Bor ladies,
when Valaze is used in conjunction With the
Valaze Herbal Complexion Soap, the comfort
bringing combination is complete.
Another good point about Valaze is that it is
absolutely non-hair producing. It is simply a
pure herbal food, which builds up the tissues
and nourishes the delicate pores of the skin,
preserving the youthful freshness indefinitely.
In fact, by its use one can defy Time in a great
measure.
Valaze preparations have done more than all
other specifics to rob the cold season of its com-
plexion terrors, and ladies who are not already
acquainted with the beauty-giving, skin-sooth-
ing properties of Valaze are strongly recom-
mended to give it a trial at this most trying
season of the year.
One of the best of the many new preparations
secured by Miss Rubinstein in Europe is a
marvellous cure for BLACKHEADS AND
OPEN PORES, a facial blemish, unfortu-
nately, from which many Australians suffer.
Those who are not troubled in this respect will
not be particularly interested, but those who
suffer from this disfigurement will be glad to
know that its virtues are positive and marvel-
lous. This preparation, compounded by the
famous Dr. Lykuski, absolutely removes Black-
heads, effectively doses all Open Pores, softens
the skin, and assists in preserving a beautiful
complexion. Continual daily treatment will
effectively remove the worst and most obstinate
case.
Capillus.— Mdlle. Rubinstein has also brought out
from France a depilatory which instantly removes
superfluous hair from face, neck, and arms without
injury to the most delicate skin. It is guaranteed to
have no effect whatever on the complexion, as it is
specially prepared for the most delicate skin. The
secret of absolute extirpation was discovered by acci-
dent. In compounding', an incomplete mixture was
accidentally spilled on the back of the hand, and, on
washing, it was discovered that the hair was com-
pletely removed. We named the new discovery
Oapillus (hair killer). It is a scientific marvel,
different from anything else that has ever been used.
By a single application the hair is completely re-
moved, and by one or two subsequent applications
the hair follicles are entirely destroyed, rendering a
return growth impossible. Used as directed it cannot
fail. Is perfectly harmless, does not mark or stain
the skin, and simple to apply. A child can use it.
Sent post free, securely sealed and packed free from
observation. Capillus sells on its merits, nothipg
like it ever before known. Price ss. ; postage 3d.
Oomtesse Potocka’s Creme Promenade is another
new preparation. It is an exquisite creamy white skin
and complexion Cosmetique. Obviates, in one appli-
cation, brcwnness of the neck and arms or undue red-
ness of the face and hands. For personal appearance
at balls, evenings, concerts, open-air promenades, etc.
Represses the unpleasantness of perspiration caused
by exertion, and cools the skin in a most delightful
manner.
Comtesse Potocka’s Voskpasta is to be used in con-
junction with Valaze Herbal Soap. It produces a
marvellous effect on the skin by filling out the hollows
on the face and neck, and in giving a beautiful contour
to the face. Consists of a fat-forming cream ; restores
wasted tissue, and increases muscular tones. Enables
the skin to retain for years the smooth, full, velvety
surface associated with youth.
Valaze Herbal Complexion Soap is used exten-
sively by the famous Court Beauties of Vienna and
Russia, and is bn equalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition. Being compounded from
Almonds and Rare Herbs only, it surpasses any soap
in existence for imparting a softness and brilliancy to
the skin. Lasts three times as long as any ordinary
complexion soap, and when used in conjunction with
“ Valaze,” will be found all that can be desired.
Valaze Skin Lotion (a la pudre) is a vast improve-
ment on all other Liquid Powder. Adheres readily
to the skin, conceals blemishes, is very beneficial
and cooling, a protection from dust, wind, and bad
weather.
There is an admirably-written and fully-illus-
trated “Guide to Beauty” Booklet issued by
Mdlle. Rubinstein on the subject of skin care
and treatment, containing valuable and most
f ractical knowledge regarding the complexion.
t is published at threepence, but a copy will be
posted FREE to anyone mentioning this paper.
In the booklet one learns much that is new and
vastly interesting. Mdlle. Rubinstein is im-
mersed in the subject, and she writes with
authority on all matters concerning toilette care.
The greatest tribute to the virtue of Valaze
is abundantly set forth in the thousands of
letters Miss Rubinstein has received from ladies
in every station of life and in every corner of the
world. It would be absolutely impossible to
quote at length from a perfect mountain of eulo-
gistic letters—letters that come as genuine ex-
pressions of gratitude and appreciation—but
here are some :
Newcastle Hospital, Nov. 21,1905.
To Helena Rubinstein. Dear Mdlle.—l shall be
very glad to receive the booklet and list of new
goods. I must take this opportunity to tell you that
the Blackhead Cure is simply marvellous. I had
them very badly, and two applications made a
wonderful difference. I am still using it.—Yours
truly, FLORENCE McALLISTER, Matron.
Charlton, Victoria, Feb. 14, 1905.
Dear Miss Rubinstein.—Please send me another jar
of Valaze. My daughter has had a rash on her face
for years, and I cannot say how many doctors she
has seen. I heard of Valaze, and she has just used
one pot, and her face is quite clean.—Yours truly,
M. E. WILSON.
Castlemaine, Victoria, Dec. 11, 1905.
Mdlle. Rubinstein & Co.—Kindly send me one cake
of Herbal Soap. Postal Note enclosed. I find your
soap very {food for the skin, and will always for the
future use it.—Yours sincerely, R. E. DINSDALE.
40 Burnett-street, St. Kilda, November Ist.
Dear Miss Rubinstein, —Will you allow me to say
how highly I approve of “Valaze” Skin Tonic and
Soap—the first is not only pleasant to use, but of
signal service in counteracting- the trying effects Of
the Australian climate ; it is, in fact, a perfect skin
food, giving new life, strength and beauty to the skin
tissues. The Herbal Soap is the very best I have ever
used, and is so durable as to be really economical. It
should certainly be used in conjunction with Valaze.
The Skin Loticn, which is antiseptic and tonic, is
most refreshing and invigorating. With every good
W'ish for your continued success,—Believe me, faith-
fully yours, FRANCES E. SADLIER FORSTER,
Sec. Women’s Health Society.
LIST OF PRICES of
VALAZE PREPARATIONS.
Valaze Russian Herbal, Skin Food, 3s. 6d.
and 6s. Posted to any part of Australasia,
6d. extra.
Valaze Herbal Soap lasts six months, 2s.
Cake. Postage 2d.
Valaze Herbal Face Powder, contains no
lead, chalk, or bismuth, 2s. Postage 2d.
Capillus —lnstantly removes superfluous hairs
from face, neck, and aims, without injury to
most delicate skin. Price ss. ; postage 3d.
Dr. Lykuski’s Special Blackhead and Open
Pore Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. Box. Posted 3s.
Comtesse Potocka’s Voskparta, to be used
with the Herbal Soaps, for filling out hollows,
3s. jar, postage 6d.
Valaze Skin Tonic.— Most beneficial in coun-
teracting the effects of hard water, and will
help to keep away wrinkles and prevent the
skin from becoming loose and flabby. 3s. 6d.;
posted, Gd. extra.
Dr. Lykuski’s Hair Tonic.—Produces a luxu-
riant growth of hair. 3s. 6d. bottle ; posted,
6d. extra.
Valaze Aromatic Herbs.— Keeps the freshness
and delicacy of the complexion unimpaired
until an advanced age. 2s. packet; posted,
2d. extra.
Comtesse Potoka’s Creme Promenade, for use
before concerts, outdoor entertainments, &c.
3s. Cd. jar ; postage, 6d.
Massage Rollers, for use in the home. Single,
Bs. 6d. each ; full-sized box, small, 12s. 6d.;
large box, 20s. and 255. Last a lifetime.
Full directions with rollers.
From all Chemists throughout the Common-
wealth and New Zealand; Washington H.
Soul, 160 Pitt-street, Sydney; Civil Service,
Pitt-street, Sydney; M'Guffie, Queen-
street, Brisbane; or Mdlle. Rubinstein and Co.,
274 Collins-street, Melbourne.
A “Guide to Beauty” Booklet is sent FREE
if you mention The Bulletin.


“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
sd
r
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fs
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE * LA6€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to TTis Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bheweky and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.J.C. Autumn meeting opened on Saturday
last to a packed crowd of somewhere about 28,000 people.
Heat was terrific, and the liquid dispensers did a roaring
trade. The cash business generally benefited Noses,
although the winner of the Doncaster was heavily backed
by the stable and a coterie of those in the know.
The first w.f.a. event, the Autumn Stakes, saw Tartan
at 6 to 4, Gladsome 2 to 1, and Caulfield Cup winner,
Marvel Loch, at 7 to 2. In her stall Marvel L. had a
tucked-up appearance that put many backers off, but it
did not prevent the mare going for her life. She went to
the front at the start, and stayed there, till at the begin-
ning of the last seven furlongs she was leading the second
horse by 15 lengths. Gladsome made a brilliant effort,
and, amidst tremendous excitement, just missed the prize
by three-quarters of a length, while Tartan was only two
lengths away. The opposition rode a horribly ill-judged
race.
* * * *
Just as he was favorite for weeks before the
starting of the late Epsom, Maorilander Maniapoto again
filled the public fancy for the Doncaster. That the brute
could win if he wanted to the public felt certain. And
his backers fell in almost as badly as in the Spring meet-
ing. When saddling up it was noticed that the horse was
sweating just as he did before the Epsom, which, it will
be remembered, was explained as due to his having bolted
in the morning. He bolted again a few days later, but it
happened to be during the progress of the Metrop., and no
one saw the way he went. Nearly every horse in theDoncas-
ter had considerable support, but Maniapoto, Fitzgrafton,
Little Toy, Noreen, Airloeh, Duke of Melton and Sleeper
carried the bulk of the public coin. Coming into the
straight Maniapoto was in front, galloping like a machine,
and his name was roared in wild exultation. Then Little
Toy came streaking past the great rushing Maorilander,
followed by Duke of Melton and Noreen. Maniapoto
never seemed to make an effort, and they finished in that
order. The time, lmin. 39|sec., is a record for the race.
At card call Thursday night the Toy was backed to win
thousands, and on the day of the race the money poured
in till he looked like supplanting Maniapoto and Fitz-
grafton.
• * * *
Noreen, half-sister to well-performed Marvel
Loch, by True Blue out of Marvelette, and a very con-
sistent though unlucky performer as a rule season,
won Sydney Cup on Monday a length better than the Vic-
torian-bred Proceed, who beat Boabdil (another Victorian
crack) by a similar gap. Scot Free was favorite at fours ;
with Gladsome, against whom three points longer were
going, next in demand. Eights and nines were going on
Little Toy and Noreen. Maniapoto (despite dark hints on
the previous Saturday night about injuries that would
probably necessitate his dropping out, and also a special
request that the Maorilander’s name might not be men-
tioned at the calling of the card) was well in front
entering the straight the first time, and he moved away
in a manner suggestive of the possibility of his scooping
the Cup as he did the Metropolitan last Spring. Mania-
poto was three lengths to the good with only 1300yds, of
the two miles to go, but half-a-mile from the
end he broke up. Then Noreen, Fitz Grafton, and
Marvel Loch closed, and the four were in line.
Later Marvel Loch shot out, and Boabdil and Proceed
appeared on the scene. Further along Noreen was alone,
leading, and swerving out she crossed in front of Boabdil
and Proceed. Gladsome’s prospects were also affected.
Consideration of a justifiable protest occupied over an
hour, but the judge’s verdict remained undisturbed.
Noreen landed a big amount of money for a lot of very
confident backers. The time (3min. 29&sec.) is 2Jsec.
slower than Tartan’s for the same event last year.
* * # *
First steeple at Randwick, on Monday, was not
an edifying spectacle—such events are rarely any
better than they should be nowadays. Only
three of seven starters saw the journey out.
Verger (2 to 1) and Up-to-Date and Auriculum (7 to
2) carried the bulk of money invested. The first “ lep ”
brought Rise-Up down. Then Verger turned turtle ; and,
after flying the treble in front of the stand, ancient
Snowstorm came a heavy cropper at the logs, and broke
his neck. The same obstacle also brought disaster to the
Victorian, Baronet. Merry Jest, Up-to-Date, and Auricu-
lum stuck to each other affectionately until Merry Jest
headed his field over the final fence, and won easily.
* * * *
The beautifully-bred and aptly-named Collarit,
the son of Haut Brion and Collarette, appropriated the
Sires Produce Stakes at Randwick on Saturday. W. P.
Crick gave 145 guineas for him at the yearling sales. At
odds on, and with next best fancied, Antonious, at 7 to 1
against, the colt gathered in the Champagne Stakes on
Monday, and would have done it by a wide margin but
for the fact that jockey Barden pulled his mount back to
a canter in the straight, and narrowly escaped being
beaten on the post by Antonious. As it was, Collarit
scored by a neck. He is the most promising youngster
on the turf just at present.
• * • •
Sydney jockey T. Kyle, who won last Australian
Cup on Lord Ullin’s Daughter, put up something of a
record in Melbourne last Saturday and Monday. He
secured the Mordialloc Handicap on Eljen, at Epsom,
and on Monday he gathered half the Williamstown pro-
giamme—riding Northwood in the Federal Handicap and
Easter Plate and Eljen in the big thing, the Beach
Handicap.
* • * *
“San Remo”: Re Y.R.C. rule compelling
jockeys in hurdle and steeple events to wear skull-caps.
Racing clubs should deal, too, with the inhuman practice
of asking jockeys to carry dead-weight lead on their per-
sons. A stripling of 7st. often has 141 b. strapped about
him. Bad enough for a lad to hit this globe at 35 miles
an hour without the added moral suasion of a stone of
lead also doing 35 miles per hour. Sudden disqualifica-
tion should follow this pernicious practice—disqualifica-
tion for the trainer especially.
* * • •
Within a month two prisoners in Pentridge
(Melb.) gaol have been given a week’s hard labor extra
for making separate and distinct double and single books
on the Doncaster Handicap and Sydney Cup. If the
authorities can’t suppress Ikey Noses in a methodical,
stringently-ordered place like Pentridge, what hope have
they outside ?
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby devotees on Saturday were
mostly true to Poll, and rolled up to the practice matches,
regardless of the temptations to let the old Dutch take
car* of herself for one afternoon. The weather was in-
sufferably hot for football, or any other violent exercise,
except that of drinking and swimming, and the scrums
were sights. Each set of players leaned heavily on the
men in front, and the tongues of all lolled out in their
drought. Both teams just leaned—till someone’s knees
gave way, and down went the whole structure. It was
seldom that all the players were on the field at the same
time ; generally someone was lying down more or less in-
sensible, with smoke rising from his head. The competi-
tion starts on May sth, and will be conducted on an im-
proved plan. Each of the 11 clubs will meet all others once.
The five that score best will form A division, and the other
six B division. The teams composing each division will
then play another round among themselves. The two
best of each division will then meet, and the victors will
play off for the supremacy. The advantage is, of course,
that the best teams will be pitted against one another,
which will make for better play, and more exciting
games.
Macaulay’s Maorilander sitting on the ruins of
London Bridge appeared as probable a sight a few years
ago as that of a Maoriland team sitting on the ruins of
British football. — San Francisco Examiner.
* • * •
“ Professor ” Lance Skuthorp opened his buck-
jumping competition as a side attraction at the
Agricultural Show at Sydney last week. The first day he
gave a free show, on the ground that his best buckers had
not arrived. If the ones present were his weeds, there is
a wild time in store for the men who get on the bad ones.
One hardened-looking bushman undertook to ride a great
bay brute. When they let go, the bay monstrosity sprang
upwards and sideways, rushed across the ring, and then
propped, bucked and tied himself in a knot simul-
taneously. The bushman flew up almost vertically, and
seemed to turn two or three somersaults. When he came
down the horse was gone, consequently he struck a hard,
cold world with his back.
* * • *
It was a lucky inspiration that made “ Pro-
fessor ” Lance Skuthorp decide to bring off his great £lOO
buckjumping contest as a side exhibition at the Agricul-
tural Show. The result knocked out the wildest imagin-
ings. In two days 12,000 people paid for admission, and
scores more climbed over the fence. The “Professor”
was heart-broken at having to refuse money at the gate,
and tried to stem the rush and save his gatekeepers’
lives by raising the price to the best part of the ground
to 2s. The contest is a genuine one for £lOO, and any
member of the public may compete by paying his
entrance fee ; the only people who are barred are
Skuthorp’s employees. The rush to see the treasure-
seekers flung sky-high by bay and chestnut out-
laws is tremendous. A bright and interesting
figure at the Skuthorp exhibition is the handsome Miss
Kemp, the lady rough-rider. She rides in any sort of a
saddle, or without a saddle, with equal skill, and has been
known to even ride a bullock to a desperate finish. For
daring, this Queensland girl can beat the bulk of the
bushmen hollow. The riding of the bullocks is considered
infra dig., and Skuthorp turns up his nose haughtily
when asked to do it ; but writer would willingly walk 20
miles to see the “ Professor ” riding the dapple steer with
the stumpy tail.
* » * tt
Judging by the enthusiastic letters to the press
on the subject, and the way the money has been rolling
in at a few hours notice, there is every chance that old
men Beach, Green, Kemp, Laycock, Chris Neilson (he is
one of the youngest of them, and a mere baby compared
to grandad Green), Pearce and Trickett are likely to start
in a sculling race of ex-champions. Green is now a suf-
ficiently aged grandad to be able to take a turn in his
grandson’s skiff. Beach, Pearce, and Trickett are in their
55th year, and Laycock is 61. It strikes this paper it will
be a pitiful exhibition and down-right cruelty to a crowd
of decent old chaps. Their grandchildren ought to stop
it; it’s bad enough to know that the glory has departed,
but to go out on the Parramatta so that a contemptuous
rising generation can yell “ Ichabod 1 ” is horrible.
* • * *
Sydney has eleven lacrosse teams in the field,
and more threaten to follow, so the Canadian game seems
to be “ catching on some,” as they say in British North
America. Hitherto this pastime has been run on an elec-
toral basis, but the Association has now decided that club
costume suits the game’s peculiar style of beauty better,
so to speak, and this season the Association has accord-
ingly reverted to the club system. Teams from Victoria
and S. Australia will invade Sydney grounds, and a
N.S.W. team will attack Brisbane players in their own
parks. In addition to these contests there will be a series
of matches in Sydney against country teams. In quite a
number of places where the ground is too hard for foot-
ball they play lacrosse, and some of the country teams are
said to be dandies with the stick.
• • • •
Sydney grade cricket was hung up during
Eastertide, and the town willowers spread themselves out
in the country, and played district teams with varying
success. At Dubbo, although Sunny Jim Mackay made
140 off his own bat, his team had its skull knocked
against the door-step, losing by seven wickets and two
runs. The grade competitions will resume next Sunday,
when Burwood will meet Waverley on the latter’s ground,
and Glebe will battle with University at Wentworth Park.
Glebe will be heavily handicapped by the desertion of
Cotter, Bubb and Gorry, who have gone boodle-hunting
on a tour through North Queensland. Waverley loses
Newell. This unpatriotic desertion will tell most on
Glebe, which is in a tight place. Burwood leads by one
point, and if it scores a three-point victory over Waverley
on Saturday, must win the championship. On the other
hand, if it only scores a two-point win, and Glebe can
make a three-point victory over University, the two
clubs will be level, and have to play off. Of course
it is not impossible that Waverley may beat Burwood,
and then—well, there’ll be a lot of liquor drunk out
Glebe way on Saturday night, unless University turns the
tables, and makes dust and ashes of these drinks, by beat-
ing Glebe. It is an interesting position, and if Glebe
does win the premiership it will no doubt take care to
effusively thank Cotter, Bubb, and Gorry for nothing.
* * * *
A solemn season’s cricket in Victoria has left
Hawksburn premiers with 10 wins and a draw out of
12 matches ; East, 2nd; the big M.C.0., 3rd. Play all
through has been mediocre. Hawksburn won by all-
round play—six of its batsmen averaging 31 and
upwards, and five bowlers securing over 20 wickets apiece
for from 13 to 18 runs per wicket. Also, the “ Hawks ”
are all local men, and that counts; and they have been
coached by that wily veteran, Johnny Worrall. Arm-
strong has top average, 138*5 ; Ainslie, of St. Kilda, 88 - 37 ;
Jones, of Hawksburn, 57 - 55 ; while in bowling Keller-
man, of “Saints,” got 23 wickets for nine runs each;
Hughie Trumble, 22 for 11 each ; Saunders, 57 for 11 - 4 ;
Collins, 47 for 13 - 34 ; and Hazlitt, of M.C.C., 37 for 11*26.
But whereas an attendance of 100 or 200 at the “ Big
Club ” matches was good, at the Junior final, now pro-
ceeding between S. Melb. Footballers and Fitzroy La
Mascotte, a 3000-crowd pays 6d. a head to watch the
argument; and the State school kiddies settled their
final before an even larger swarm, admitted free. In this
competition the undefeated Oollingwood school downed
all-comers as strenuously as it has done for the past two
years both at cricket and football.
* * * ■*
N.S.W. Cricket Association possesses the ball
used in the first inter-State match in Australia, and the
ball used in the first international match. They are
mounted and preserved as relics. They were originally
the private property of Dick Driver.
* * * #
It is a cynical comment on cricket as a sport
that English professionals are conspicuously short-lived,
and there seems to be some ground for the theory that
the wear and tear incurred by constant playing in import-
ant matches undermines the constitution. This seems
to be especially the case with fast bowlers, and that is
intelligible enough. Heart disease and pneumonia are
apparently the diseases most easily contracted by
professionals ; of the great players who have died of
recent years, the vast majority have been under fifty.
* • • *
S.A. has decided to import a cricket coach. It
was Jesse Hide, of Sussex, who, about 1880, worked up
the Adelaide players to hold their own against Victoria
on equal terms, and it is thought that the great number
of “coming” men justifies a fresh experiment. The
bowler selected is Walter Mead, of Essex, a medium-pace
right-hander, who has given a lot of trouble to Australian
teams in England, and has played in two or three test
matches. Mead is now 37, and is said to have promised
Darling in 1905 to come out for three years if wanted.
• • * •
N.S.W. swimming season came to a brilliant
finish with the close of the Country Carnival, at which
the swimmers from “outside” came into the city and
showed that Sydney, despite its illimitable water-frontage,
had not monopolised all the skill and speed. At Manly
the 100yds. championship of the country went to J.
Canning, of Newcastle, with T. Smith, of the same town,
second and H. Farlow, of Wellington, third. Time
lmin. 4 l-ssec. On Monday the carnival was shifted to
Watson’s Bay, and the same three men were again placed
in the 220yds. championship of the country, but in a
different order; T. Smith won in 2min. 49sec., and
Canning and Farlow were second and third respectively
The season has been highly successful. Owing to the
splash made by the late champion Kieran in England
hundreds of athletic young men rushed into the sport,
and the result is that nowhere in the world is there a finer
or more promising crop of young swimmers than in
* • » *
Cormack, the diver who does the Monte Christo
act at Wirth’s circus just now, is a young man of only 24
years, but he owns the London Trix Championship for
1903, ’4 and ’5. He started diving at the age of seven,
and could shoot through the water before he could swim.
His first startling performance was when he dived into
3ft. of water from a height of 50ft. A friendly old
gentleman came up, and, regarding him with an
amused smile, remarked, “Are you dead yet?”
“Not much," said Cormack. “Well, you ought to
be. Any man who plays fool tricks like that
deserves capital punishment, and you’ll get what you
deserve some day—probably next time you play the fool.”
But Cormack was not impressed, and went on practising,
and slowly raising the platform, till he broke his own
record by flashing down from 125 ft. into Bft. of water. It
is all in the way you strike the water. He has dived from
London Bridge, and declares he will do the Brooklyn
leap when he gets across to Uncle Sam’s biggest city.
* » * *
The ptetrol-car was just pulling itself together
after being beaten for the world’s premiership by the
steam vehicle, when it received another shock to the
system. The electric car has been very quiet for a long
time, and in Yankeeland the making seems to have
stopped—so little is heard of it. The new surprise
comes from France, where a firm has improved the
accumulators to such a degree that two electric cars ran
120 miles at top speed without having to be recharged.
Furthermore, the recharging consisted merely of opening
a box and replacing the exhausted accumulators with a
set of fresh ones, which can be either carried in the car
itself or sent on by rail, if it is more convenient. The
advantages claimed for the electric car are that, once it
gets going, it never breaks down ; and that it is cleaner,
smells sweeter, and, best of all, is noiseless. Writer only
saw one kind of electric car in his life, and that sort used
to make a clatter that cleared the country-side five miles
ahead. If an electric car has been made that swallows
its own noise it is little short of a miracle.
• • • •
Another world’s cycling record has gone by the
board : Emile Bonhours and Henri Contenet, French
cracks, and A. Yanderstuyft, a Belgian, started for a 24
hours ride after huge-powered motors on a Paris track.
For seven years the wild rush of A. E. Walters, an English-
man, over 634 miles 674yds. stood the standard. At the
end of an hour Contenet had covered 46 miles 661yds.—
equal to an average speed of 41 miles an hour. Bonhours
was a mile and Vanderstuyft eight miles behind. Then
Bonhours howled for more pace, and came up to the
leader with an amazing sweep. At the end of seven
hours he was leading Contenet. Yanderstuyft began to
make an effort to get another pound of steam on, and
slowly crept up on the second man. Eventually Bon-
hours won, covering 815 miles 482yds. in the 24 hours.
Vanderstuyft, whom an irreverent English tourist
christened Van Whiskers for short, was second, 29 miles
behind the winner, while Contenet was 13 miles behind
the Belgian. But, between ourselves, brethren, this sort
of thing is making hard work of healthy sport.
* • • •
The Druids’ Gala, at Melbourne, saw some
exciting cycling, Saturday last week. The Druids’ Cup,
a mile event, found H. J. Thomas, from the 70yds. mark,
leading at the bell. Clark and Mayer took Rutt to the
front just as the bunch entered the straight, and the
German flew home an easy winner in lmin. 57 l-ssec.
After the race one rider was charged with collusion, dis-
qualified, and fined £2. Now, why wasn’t the other
fellow with whom he was acting in collusion fined and
disqualified also? Even a cyclist, remarkable animal as
he is, cannot be guilty of collusion with himself, except
under rather extraordinary circumstances.
* * * V
White Australia, which is mostly of German
descent as regards its professional wrestlers and strong
men, hopes to hear of Hackenschmidt (the Russianised
German) downing the “ Terrible Turk ” when they meet
again in London at the end of this month. If the Terrible
one should emerge triumphant from the fray there will
be other Turks careering around, and we’ll probably have
a Mahometan challenging Buttan the Hindoo for the
championship of Australia. Hackey admits that the
Turks, as a race, are the strongest, smartest and most
resolute combatants he has met; and he attributes their
muscle and pluck to their free consumption of sweet-
meats. They wax mighty on lollies. Had Reid taken to
wrestling in his youth he might have been a Terrible
George.
* *
Those elaborately-planned police raids on tote-
shops, two-up schools, and similar houses of alleged
iniquity, are evidences, not of police cleverness, but of a
bad police system. A large, sensational capture is plotted
for, sometimes for months. The half-dozen offenders
could be pounced on and the nucleus of contagion swept
away, but to the police idea action at an early stage is
tame and unromantic. Recruits are allowed to enter ;in
fact, the authorities treat the place as a nursery and bide
their time till the haul is worth handling. In a proper
sense of police duty, two-up schools would be stamped
out as soon as discovered.
* * « *
There was a mighty assemblage of bowlers at
Waverley Green, Sydney, last week, to contest the Aus-
tralasian championship. The winner turned up in
Mr. Ben Hale, of the City Club, Sydney, an old Maori-
land bowling veteran who has more medals and
championships than he can count. The runner-up
was Mr. Stephens, junior, of the teetotal Armadale Club,
Melbourne. Their respective scores were 22 and 14
games. A surprise of the competition was the excellent
bowling of young Mr. Woodhouse, of the Wickham Club
(N.S.W.), who divided third and fourth trophies with the
Redfern bowler, Mr. Carrie, of Petersham.
* * * *
The newly-formed S.A. Amateur Athletic As-
sociation ran up against a horse-race afternoon for its
first meeting, and was plentifully neglected by the
public, but it put up some good sport. Angwin
did the hundred in lOjsec., and won the 220yds.
in 23 2-ssec., but the best performance was that
of Moyes, who high-jumped sft. 7 7-Bin.—enough to
win the Australasian championship most years. Angwin
and Moyes, with others, will represent Adelaide ’Varsity
in Melbourne next week. It is curious that S.A., so pro-
minent in all sport, should have let track-athletics die
right out for the last 20 years (Leg.-Council President
Stirling was a noted athlete in his day, and so was C. C.
Kingston), but the revival seems likely to be thorough.
“X.”: Bathurst pigeon-sir,yers have a greyhound
for gathering their birds. The long, spidery brute dashes
out as soon as the shooter fires, and is baek with the
pigeon before the gallant sport has got back to his gun
case. The dog: is particularly expert in catching wounded
birds, and will jump some feet in the air to retrieve one
so that pigeons which an ordinary dog would lose are
brought in, and, of course, count to the shooter. At a
recent match the dog excelled himself by doing a record
jump and taking a pigeon on the wing when it seemed
certain to escape. The greyhound is. unlike most of his
race, soft in the mouth, and does not hurt the buds. All
the hurting is done by the inhuman vagabonds with the
gun. „ *
# * *
S.A. pigeon-murderers chose Good Friday for
their deeds of blood this year. It is appropriate enough
that this miscalled “sport” allows entries under false
names, and most of the tame-fowl butchers preferred to
conceal themselves as “ Snowy,” “Flat-iron,” or kittle
Jack.”
* * • "
In New York the gay and giddy middle-class
ladies dress in male attire to attend boxing exhibitions
at certain toney scrapping halls, where none but
“ members ” are admitted. The only stain on the mem-
bership business is that for a small fee anyone can be
made a member for one night only.
* * * *
Ted Nelson, of Sydney, met Bob Fraser, of
Melbourne, conqueror of “Soldier” Thompson, at Mel-
bourne Olympic Club’s hall on the 12th, and a long* and
somewhat trying fight resulted —trying to the spectators
and to Fraser, especially Fraser. The latter, although
much the heavier man, did not get a look in throughout
the 20 rounds, and Nelson was voted the smartest at his
weight seen in Melbourne for many a year. He dealt out
trouble to his opponent, quietly and systematically, and
before ten rounds had gone Robert was a damaged in-
habitant. He strove persistently, and with dogged
courage, to do Nelson some injury, but failed in every
attempt, and Ted finished quite as good as new. Stokes-
bury gave him the big end of a rather small gate. Nel-
son made so favorable an impression that there is bound
to be a big house when he meets Ed. Williams in a few
weeks time.
* . *
Jones and Murphy, featherweight pugs, put up
a vigorous scrap at Sydney Gaiety Club on Saturday last.
It was their second time of meeting. On the former
occasion Jones administered severe correction to Murphy,
and the latter announced that it was all due to the fact
that he was “ rusty.” Smarting, in more ways than one,
under his defeat he arranged for another mill, and went
down to Manly and started training vigorously. Jones
went to Hunter’s Hill and also went in for violent
exercise. On Saturday night Jones led the attack, and
although he was cautious during the first, the second
round found him close in, hooking and crossing with
effect. Murphy tried to keep out of reach, and seemed
on the point of collapse. Jones bore in once more to
finish him as one ring-sider forcibly put it, “ like er stuck
pig.” But Murphy in his desperation uppercut savagely,
and a certain amount of aloofness was noticeable between
the parties. After that they walked round one another
with respect of the cold, distant sort. Suddenly Jones
sprang in close and tried to cross the right. Murphy upper-
cut with a hiss, and down went Jones. The bell brought
respite. Still, Murphy regarded Jones as cold meat, and
commenced the next round in a jaunty style. He was
shocked to find that Jones had got his madness out, as
the Greeks say, and suffered a cyclonic experience at the
hands of the man whose name he thought was Cold Meat.
Later on he thought he would do the hurricane act him-
self, but he found that Jones had wonderful control over his
feet, and no damage was done. In the seventh Jones re-
turned to the attack. Murphy responded with straight
lefts and right uppercuts. Jones stopped them with his
face, and looked bad. Then Murphy missed one, and
Jones whirled all round him, bashed him across the ring,
and was on the point of knocking him out when a wild
back-hander caught Jones on the mouth and nose. He
went down with the crash that tells the knock-out, and
the staggering Murphy looked at him, wondering how on
earth he got into that curious position. The chance
blow again!
* * * *
Having mastered the speed problem, and made
machines that will travel so fast that only a shadow can
be seen rushing across the face of the earth, and also
having reduced weight to the minimum below which lies
the perfect smash, the makers of autocars have turned
their attentions to luxuries. A Frenchman has invented
a chemical compound which you mix with your petrol,
and, lo ! the stink of the car that passed in the dust is
become a perfume ; and the motor leaves behind it a wake
of attar of roses. The most charming feature of the old
coach and six was the merry blast of the driver’s horn,
echoing over wood and dale, and the aesthetic were
all broken up when it gave place to the screech of
the railway engine. Writer has heard music (of the sort
that would have delighted Wagner) played on screaming
whistles and hoarse sirens, but it was on State occasions
only. But the motor swings backward, and a man named
Dunhill has invented a horn which is fitted with any
number of notes from four upwards. The bellows to
operate the thing are worked by the action of the wheels,
and by depressing some foot gear the blast is driven
through the horn, and sweet music follows. Hitherto
the glass screens that make motoring pleasant in windy
weather have been horribly expensive and dangerous
when driving - at high speed. The latest makes the use of
ordinary window-glass quite safe. Instead of being
placed perpendicularly in front of the driver it is
placed in a slanting position, so that it acts as
a hood and keeps the rain off, and offers but little
resistance to the wind. But this screen is not an
unmixed blessing. It deprives motoring of one of its
best features —its lung - -developing power. It seems that
motoring at high velocity is now a recognised cure for
consumption, and it is becoming quite common to order
the phthisis patient six months “auto” treatment, in
which the sufferer simply lives in a car rushing
through the atmosphere. The germ cannot stand
fresh air, and rushing through the atmosphere at a high-
speed forces huge volumes of air into the lungs till the
uttermost cavities are filled, distended and invigorated.
Said also that consumption of the throat, which has
hitherto defied all treatment, is showing signs of proving
amenable to motoring.
* * * »
How differently the genuine “go,” as against
the put-up job, makes itself palpable at a glove-fight and
a “ wrastle” ! Given a substantial stake and an eager
puncher the fight doesn’t last half-an-hour. A determined
assailant compels his opponent to lose or win in a very
few rounds. But the genuine “ wrastle,” if the men are
at all evenly matched, lasts until the spectators are sick
of it. In the one case they don’t get enough performance
for their money ; in the other case they get too much
contest, with no excitement to speak of.


AUSTRALIAN MADE HATS.
£200,000 or so a year sent out of the country to import
Hats for the hatting of Australia’s head doesn’t argue
much sense in the head. That same money—or even a
portion of it spent in buying Hats made by the Austral
Hat Mills Propy. Ltd., at Abbotsford, Victoria—would
keep thousands of Australian workmen in constant employ-
ment. It would also keep the money—the life blood of the
country amongst your own people to your own and
your fellows’ advantage. It would mean getting a better
Hat, too —better than any other selling at the same price.
Austral Hats are made of pure Australian fur worked up
by Australian workmen—paid full union wages and work-
ng 48 hours a week —with every latest modern appliance
to help them. These Hats are sold in either Hard or Soft
Jelt—in all the recent colors ; and shapes suited to the
varying Australian climates. They are light, durable,
and the colors guaranteed to be fast dyed.
AUSTRAL HATS cost Half*a-Guinea anywhere in
Victoria, and 10s 6d and 12s 6d in other States, every Hat
having “Austral Hat Mills Propy. Ltd.” stamped on the
inside leather— without which none is genuine
Ask your Dealer for an Austral Hat. Don’t let him
foist any substitute on you. If he can’t supply you write
to us giving his name. We’ll arrange for his doino- so
and refund your postage.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROPY. LTD., ABBOTSFORD.
I MOTHER’S FRIEND.
| PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On ail hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
£ Manufacturer—P. KLEES ATTBL,
Traralgon. Victoria.
HANDSOME AND STYLISH
WIRE NAME BROOCHES
CHEAPEST AND BEST
df
Note the Low Price,
only 2/6
Post Free to any address, with any Name or any Three Initials*
A Present any Lady will be Delighted to Receive.
'T'HESE tasteful Wire Name Brooches bare become so popu-
lar that our Wire Artist has imported from America the
very latest and best plant and materials, and can thus produce
much more Stylish and Substantial Brooches and Pins
then have hitherto been offered m Australia and at greatly
reduced prices. GENUINE GOLD-FILLED WIRE is used
and the De-igns are very graceful and attractive. The
Prices, you will notice, are about half the rates usually
charged. Fine Round Wire, only 2s. fid.; Heavy Twisted
Wire, 4s. 6d. ; if mounted on 'Pearl Tablet, 2s. add tional ;
Heart or Bell Pendant, Is. 6d, additional; Novel Initial Hat
Fin,2s.6d. The prices include postage. Money returned if
not satisfactory. Send Postal Notes of any State.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
The Union Wlfg. &, Agency Co.*
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
By the BROOKS SYSTEM.
If you can drive a nail and cut out a piece
of material from a fuii-sized pattern—you
can build a canoe—row-boat—3ail-boat—or
launch—in your leisure time—at home, and
the building' will be a source of profit and
pleasure.
All you need are the patterns, costing- from
10s. up, and materials, from £l. The tools are
common in every household. Patterns of over
40 styles and sizes—all lengths from 12 to 55 ft.
The Brooks System consists of exact-size
printed paper patterns of every part of the
boat—with detailed instructions and Working
Illustrations showing each step of the work
an itemised bill of material required and how
to secure it.
Over 6000 amateurs successfully built boats
by the Brooks System last year. Fifty per
cent, of them have built their second 'boat.
Many have established themselves in the boat-
manufacturing business.
Catalogue and particulars free. For Is.
100-page catalogue containing valuable
information for the amateur yachts
man, showing several working illus-
trations of each boat, and a full set for
one boat. Full line of knock-down
and completed boats.
Brooks Boat Mfg. Co
Originators of the
Pattern System of
Boat Building,
Ship Street,
- Bay City,
*Mich. U.S.A.
s
df
I®! CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT.
wmmm n
Wftlfiiipp;!
Mmm 1 ,,
weir
?£.i d-bhaham & c?; <
?. ' ■
■. . • ■'•■--■■ u..
NEW PREMISES of DAVID BRA HAM & CO., Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
rpO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAI
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—As our respective terms o
office as Directors of your Society expire at the approach
mg Annual Meeting, we have the honor to announce tha
we are candidates for re-election.
Respectfully soliciting a continuance of your support,
We beg to subscribe ourselves
Your faithful servants,
J. T. WALKER.
BENJAMIN SHORT.
Kidney Disease Can be Cured.
From Mr. F. Andrews, farmer, Aspenaale, via Mordialloc, Vie., 12th August, 1904.
“Previous to about a year ago, I was remarkably healthy and strong, but my health then broke
down and I was seized with severe pam around my kidneys and my heart. My appetite became very
capricmus and I began to lose flesh rapidly. When in that condition, not knowing what the outcome
would be, I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure from one who had taken that medicine, and began to take
it myself. I took it as directed, and it has completely and effectually cured me. I have had no
return of the trouble since.”
From Mr. J. R. Bavinton, corner of Barkly and New Streets, North Brighton, Vic., 22nd March
1905,
. “For many years past I have been subject, at frequent intervals, to excruciating pain in the
region of the kidneys. Whilst the attacks lasted I used to suffer terribly, and, for some time, could
scarcely straighten my back, being bent almost double. lam inclined to think that the trouble was
hrst brought on by a severe strain, which, in some way, affected the kidneys. I tried to obtain relief
by taking advertised remedies, but derived no permanent benefit until I took Warner’s Safe Cure. I
had only taken the contents of two bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure when the pain was entirely removed,
and I have since been able to work without pain or inconvenience.”
From Mr. P. Burns, Bootmaker, 162 Bourke-street, Sydney, N.S.W., 7th March, 1905.
“ Having caught a severe cold, which I unfortunately neglected, it ultimately developed into
kidney complaint. I suffered excruciating pain in the back, down my right side, and, at times, in the
region of my heart. I also had periodical attacks of piles, which gave me great trouble. I obtained
the advice of a doctor who prescribed for me, but the medicine did me no good. On the advice of a
friend, who had derived great benefit from taking Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided on giving that
medicine a fair trial. I bought a bottle, and, as I found that it was doing me good, I continued to
take it, and soon became strong and free from pain, and was able to got about my work as well as
ever. I feel that it is my duty to recommend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone suffering in a similar
manner.”
From Mr. F. H. Davies, 11 Ada Street, South Fremantle, W.A., 27th October, 1904.
“ Two years ago I suffered terribly from pain in the small of my back, which was so severe that
I could not stand upright. A friend of mine, who had suffered in a like manner and was cured by
Warner’s Safe Cure, advised me to take that medicine. I did so, and began to feel better after taking
the first bottle. In a very short time all the disagreeable and painful symptoms disappeared, and I
was quite cured. I have had no return of the complaint, and can heartily recommend Warner’s Safe
Cure to all sufferers from kidney troubles.”
From Mrs. Mary Gordon, Second Street, Bowden, S.A., 3rd December, 1904.
“ For a long time I suffered unceasing pain, almost torture, from chronic pain in my back, head,
and sides. I was under the treatment, for several months, of one of the leading physicians of the
city, who said I was snffering from kidney disease, and treated me accordingly. Month after month
went past, and I gradually got worse and weaker each week. Seeing that the course of treatment
and medicine. was doing me no good, he, at last, decided that it would be necessary for me to undergo
an operation in order to effect a cure, and, if I did not consent to that, he could do nothing for ; me.
At that time I was in such a weak and helpless state that I felt sure an operation would only hasten
my death, so I decided to consult a herbalist, who, I had been told, was very clever. After a short
consultation he said that I was suffering from an abcess in the stomach, and that he could cure me for
a sum which it was beyond my means to pay. My husband, who had just got some work in the
country, sent me some money, and advised me to buy some Warner’s Safe Cure, and take a course
of it, as he had heard it well spoken of. I got some of the medicine, and commenced to take it
at once. In a few days I began to feel better. I continued to take Warner’s Safe Cure, getting
stronger each day, until I was quite cured. The pain and weakness all left me, and I was once again
able to do my household work. lam quite convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.”
.•’rom Mr. Joseph Mudkins, Burn-street, Invermay, Launceston, Tas., 10th October, 1904.
“ Fourteen years ago I was cured of dropsy by taking Warner’s Sate Cure, and had no return of
the complaint until July last, when my feet, legs, and eyes were so much swollen with dropsy that I
was laid up in bed. I took Warner’s Safe Cure again, and am thankful to say that I am now on my
feet again. I might also state that I have taken several vials of Warner’s Safe Cure. I heartily
recommend Warner’s Safe Cure and the Pills to anyone suffering as I did from dropsy.”
From W. H. McGlew, Esq., J.P., Springside, Smith’s Mill, W.A., 11th November, 1903.
“ Seventeen years ago I was suffering with Bright’s Disease of the kidneys. I was treated by two
doctors, and by them was gi ven up as incurable. They had been attending me for some time, and finally
decided that it was impossible for me to recover, and told me that I must prepare for the worst. The
announcement came as a great shock to me, and more to my wife and family, who were greatly dis-
tressed. At the time my head and body were in an alarming state, being swollen right up to the eyes.
I had a vague feeling of unrest and tenderness in the kidneys ; I suffered from extreme wakefulness
and gradual failure of strength also, as I was not able to keep anything in my stomach. The fact that
I am alive to-day, is, however, proof that doctors are not always correct when they tell you you are
going to die. I did not give up hope myself, and was determined to live as long as possible. Provi-
dentially, about this time, one of W arner’s Safe Cure pamphlets was placed in my hands, and in it I
read a letter from someone who had suffered from the same complaint, and had been cured by taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. lat once decided that, as the doctors said they could do no more for me, I
would give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial and see if that would dome any good. I sent immediately
for a supply of Warner’s Safe Cure, and a vial of Warner’s Safe Pills, and commenced taking these
medicines without delay, keeping strictly to the diet rules given, which I believe to be most
important, in order that the medicine may do its work without hindrance. I did not at first inform
the doctors that I was taking Warner’s Safe Cure, for fear that they might object to my doing so
After taking a few bottles I began to feel better, and this gave me faith to continue. The swelling in
my head and body went down gradually, and I continued to improve in health, gaining strength each
day. The doctors were delighted at my rap'd and almost miraculous recovery, but when I informed
them what medicine had produced the result, they would scarcely believe me. In a few more weeks
I had quite recovered my normal strength, and have since had no return of the complaint, and am in
as good health to-day as ever I was in my life. To prove that this is so, agents for insurance co.’s
have offered to insure my life for any amount.”
A treatise containing fuL particulars and valuable diet directions will be sent, post free, by H. H.
Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Victoria. [l.
l«K- S' \
o'' %> c^v t -;^
**>£. *•s**■
<£*'£ v*
After a fearful expenditure in costs, the
State of N.S.W. has lost its case against the
Commonwealth for £5 10s. N.S.W. demanded
that the N.S.W. taxpayer should, in his Federal
capacity, pay himself £5 10s., which he would
receive in his State capacity, as stamp duty on a
transfer of land bought by the Commonwealth, in
order to supply N.S.W. with a post-office. It has
been decided that the N.S.W. taxpayer doesn’t
need to pay £5 10s., so be loses that amount in his
State capacity and gains it in his Federal capacity.
And in his State capacity he makes a dead loss of
the costs—owing to his State Government’s in-
capacity. ,>
Victoria’s Agricultural Society has just
appointed a committee to inquire into a charge
that George Chirnside’s manager and groom
monkeyed with the tests of dairy cows at the last
show, by adding a syringe-ful of cream to the
daily yield of milk. The syringe is said to have
been found in the milking shed; and, though
all the parties concerned deny having had
anythingtodo with theimplement, both Chirnside’s
manager and groom admit having imported from
Hingland the pleasing habit of “ giving cream to
cows before a test—a gallon of cream being given
in a bran mash.” And still Chirnside’s animals
failed to win last year. Possibly the other man
fed his cow on cheese.
Prime Minister Deakin showed his finan-
cial incapacity by his proposal, made to the State
Premiers’ Conference, that there should be a fixed
permanent annual payment by the Commonwealth
to each State, or a permanent annual payment
subject to periodical readjustments. The great
object should be to cut all connection between
Federal and State finance, and have no payments
at all. The Commonwealth should take over all
the State debts and keep all the Customs and
Excise revenue to make things square. That
would cut all connection for the present. Later
on, when the Commonwealth takes over the rail-
ways with their revenue, it should take over some
more of the State expenses (the Education Depart-
ment principally), but still there should be no
system of payments or repayments. The mixing
up of Federal and State finance is a failure.
Alderman Abigail told the Newtown (Syd-
ney) Council a few nights ago that he knows four
families, some of the members of which are in
an advanced stage of. consumption, who collect
printed papers and sell them to the butchers,
“who use them for the purpose of wrapping
up meat.” Sydney Council passed a resolution
three years ago calling on butchers to use clean
white paper, but that does not get rid of the
abomination alleged against Newtown. Some-
thing much more drastic is wanted in a community
where there are such people as Mr. Abigail
“knows,” and such tradesmen as Newtown
butchers are said to be.
Either the average Chow is even more sav-
ing than he has been accused of being, or some rich
friend of his is trying to knock a large hole in
the Immigration .Restriction Act. In November,
1904, Li Wan Quai, a fireman, disappeared from
the Changsha, was arrested, and given 14 days as
a preliminary to deportation. He appealed,
and Judge Eagleson upheld his appeal on
the ground that no offence was disclosed.
Then Li was arrested for being “found
within the Commonwealth while a prohibited
immigrant,” and given seven days to go on with.
Again he appealed, but last week Judge Moles-
worth dismissed the case. Now Li makes further
appeal to the High Court. No one blames Li for
taking advantage of any flaw he can find in the
Act; still, it would be interesting to know whence
come the funds to pay four or five expensive
barristers and the other costs of these appeals.
The S.M. Herald has a fiendish capacity
for being on the side of rotten finance. As a case
in point: Sydney Water and Sewerage Board,
whose very perishable works were all built with
loan money, has accumulated, in a long course of
years, the very inadequate sum of about £lOO,OOO
towards renewals ; it hasn’t accumulated anything
towards a sinking fund. This £lOO,OOO was paid
into the Treasury, and the Reform Carruthers,
with his usual lack of political honesty, annexed
it as ordinary revenue. Then the Herald rose
(12/4/’O6) and demanded, not that the money
should be used to diminish the Board’s debts, nor
to provide for future renewals of the fast-perishing
pipes and mains, but that the debt and the
renewals should both be left to Providence and
the money used to reduce rates. And it headed
its yell “ Over-Taxed Ratepayers.”
Another testimony to the devastating
results of making a Labor man Premier and
Treasurer, from the Courier, Brisbane :
A great deal of money is being put into buildings of
various kinds in Brisbane, and business men are evidently
of opinion that prosperity is flowing in with a strong
swell. “ Things have not been so busy for years—not
since the boom, in fact,” is the report of a leading
architect.
“There is sunshine in every sentence” of the
Brisbane business-man nowadays, according to
the anti-Labor Courier. Yet down in Sydney,
which has never had a Labor Premier, and doesn’t
know what the animal is, but takes the daily
paper’s word that he has horrid claws and fangs,
the mere hint that he may turn up some day is
supposed to mean disaster. In fact, the Tele- 1
graph blames the Labor party for the accumula-
tion of money in the banks—people won’t invest
because they are afraid. It looks, from what is
happening in Brisbane, that it isn’t the Labor
party the people need be afraid of; their own
magnificent capacity for being fooled by their
daily papers is likely to do them more harm.
Magistrate Panton, of Melbourne, lately
encountered the beginnings of an interesting case
—and then the whole thing vanished. Adeline
Bell charged Robert Bell with wife desertion, but
said she really didn't want anything save that he
should be bound over to keep the peace. She
said he came to her abode and made a “holy
show ” of her, and so forth. Adeline ad-
mitted she had been tried for bigamy, charged
with marrying Bell while her first husband—one
Bull—was still alive ; “ but,” she triumphantly
remarked, “ the jury acquitted me, and that
shows he is legally my husband.” Just here
Robert Bell entered the box and swore that Ade-
line wasn’t his wife at all, that she had certainly
“ kept house ” for him, but that on his terminat-
ing the partnership she persisted in entering his
happy home, and selling the furniture. Questioned
once more, the lady said her marriage lines had
been burned by Robert in a temper one day, but
if the case were adjourned she would endeavor to
get a copy. Case adjourned, with scepticism.
>n resumption, the lady wasn’t there. And
Panton, P.M., sat wondering if Adeline had
really been married at all, or whether tfie original
Bull had noticed the report of the case and turned
up when he was urgently wanted to stay away, or
it might be that Adeline had acquired a fresh boy
in the meantime. As a side-issue, he probably
thought of the vast number of women who seem
to believe that once their precious “lines” are
logt they can never be replaced*


YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s Cd, 20s, 255, 30s, £“•
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £‘l-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL BRCOCII,
Pearls and Rubies. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Pearls and Rubies, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH.
Set Pure White Pearls. £5 ss.
Diamond Centre. £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH,
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3 10s, 14, £5, £0
£7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Fancy Curb l’auiock BRACELET, 1
Sizes, £2 10s, £3. £3 10s, £4. All with.
Chains attached.
i Four
Safety
Country
Residents !
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
jt personally selecting
in our great store. ;
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre BROOCH,
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Fearls and Rubies,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold CROSS,
Os Oci.
Larger,
7s 6d, IDs, 12s Od.
A. ■ vUKDERS.
!)ct. Gold Half - Chased Bamboo
Safety Chain attached, |£2 15s.
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 60s.
BRACELET,
Smaller, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ruby
or Sapphire, 20s.
Pure Double, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
Pearl Set
WISHBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Spray
BROOCH.
Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Two-Heart
RING,
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds. Aid 10s.
./The Loud Watch
/Between We
a Ihee
Watch
JWntN;
;iA«BeNT;.v
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM, 8s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Pure Double Cut Diamond
BROOCH, £2. Larger Diamond. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Orescent NECKLET, Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £4.
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete in Silk-Lined Case.
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10S,S£10, ! £l2 iOs, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS,
ldct. Gold Circle
BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
18et. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 los.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, LG 10s, £/ los,
£8 10s, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Marquise
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s. £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS,
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger, 12s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Envelope
CHARM. 12s 6(L
Post Card. 10s tid.
Silver, 4s 6d.
SPECIAL,
15s.
SUPERIOR,
*l7s 6d
\ I /
s
A. SAUNDERS
BJS George Street
SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
6s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, ISs, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, SOs.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
Guaranteed.
- : T>
’i .
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS. 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15ct. Gold, £5 10s,. £6 10s,
£7 10s, £B,. £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, • 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £3.
15ct. Gold. £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
LINKS. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Initials Engraved Free.
SOLID
SILVER,
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
I
w
WJUsifm
*mfuP&iia,
m
figm
B
/V
81
: i
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS*
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, )
| SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


m
m.
C 3
a
\
L
S
M
&
r
%
%
tm
* ■
■ j
gjfr'ojk}
fcvv'/,ii
mm
M
7- 0
* w
1%
gk *■;*;,:*. <#%& «
■ ■ •-
f ■ ■ ■*
C . :.. . .
mf;
ppp
*k '
; ■
K itM
'■ S,- /-VV-/ ■■■'■■■.• ..
V
. *r
J
t v $k
V-?<
iMg
m
"N
'
■i)
4>
"-
Bfc&i
-'; ■■
#
gf”2
H
if *»* %* :
DR 'N
HORSES
Directions
i
>
ADULTS tw« to four Pats.
CHILDREN Aiialt to a
whole Pill dissolved
in sweetened water
.yS/i'c 6tfcre idiuru?
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
r
Good
Health
ts
Obtained
lakin^
X
r.
£ i
i
Mi
m


i
;/■
•*»
. . .
«aSWr?ll
isS** 8 ®?
ssl^SlF
C*
< v
vyGffw -V
i
v
3SF
Tmi
\
>A
3
«T #
/*
■
I F
Jk
-ft
"' 3
-*4
i -. yokmt.
Hie sox
IJfefcVi
1
_*•
v
. #■ «
*®sB
feSSSSS
■■ v. '• _
. .- - ■
tiM
:
**'''■ F ’,*z:’J-?:'>
;
• :
7 tV/C* fh>n*.
«f*—3>
"
«?**
Ffes
S<B**-r
Sir:
The Weed of our Grandfathers.
Three Castles Cigarettes still unsurpassed.


«UL
r
0
sew
tnrW
r M
Ah'
iW* JA
fV
••584/F-'
*
a*
PPI
V :-■ /t> 7
ram
s/sa
&y
! >•'
- , /fi
* ■' . '-,'l
Upper Ilorehead Cataracts
mm
y&stm
M.
wm?
<md
"%
Bellenden Ker Rang© *.
j
W\ \ P e '
-... . ....
%
VfV
%%>'
x s£a®>i
V V
sa
Barron Falls —Fall 700 ft
\if) v?
Stony Creek Falls
SS'W' ‘ '— ■
tVr'.K.-..
- ....
Tropical Foliage, Cairns
m
wSMhk
<mA
3>
The Barron Gnro-p
'.ra;
k.
SS, flßSreffi
n
wmm
M
pOor*
:Z&xh%. $i mate
, fSUk
Looking up the Gorge
Cairns End of 15 Tunnel
«
F or (-Up months of April, May, June, July, and August, tourists or
those seeking an equable climate and magnificent scenery can be
thoroughly 1 recoimnended to take the trip to Cairns North
Queensland. The scenery on the way there and round about
Cairns stands unrivalled. The famous Cairns-Herberton Railway, a
marvel of engineering skill, runs from Cairns over the ranges past the
celebrated falls to Ohillagoe, with its wonderful copper mines and lime-
, Thp Onirrm Mulorave Tramway Line also takes you through
some tvpfca, Zthbrn y Cairns is an ideal resort for the invalid,
andnleasure-seeker. Australia has not any winter trip
for the tour , P . , f rom Melbourne to Cairns and back
•» *** » 20 B ™'»”
to Cairns and back in 14 days.
Per ,
GABO
WOLLOWRA
BUNINYONG
MARLOO
WYANDRA
WODONGA
ARAWATTA
aramac
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE
Class CAIRNS CAIRNS CAIRNS
£ s.
6 16
11 4
\ SALOON . £ s.
Single . 5 4
V Return 8 8
STEERAGE
Single 310
SALOON £ s.
Single 610
r- Return 10 10
STEERAGE
J Single 310
I
4 10
£ s.
8 10
14 0
4 10
£ s.
8 0
13 4
5 10
£ s.
10 0
16 10
5 10
For Further Particulars apply to
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD.
HOWARD SMITH CO., DTD.
ADELAIDE S. CO., DTD.
Offices at BRISBANE SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE) ADELAIDE,
FREMANTLE.
Agencies at All Ports.


sd
B. MUUNTCASTLE
SONS *
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANGHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. 0,,.
CAPETOWN and NAtXI " £* B £ £3l 10a
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
, Agents, 7 Bent-street, Svdnev
llfSS ra: JOIIN SANDERSON
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & no
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO '
Banking.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated, under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland
Under Agreement Extending- to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413 240 15 0
Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
A D?nleT« Cana i a ’ S ?, llth Afrlca ’ and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A J
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., MLA ■ Jas
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ' ’ Jas -
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
mDITIT 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.' ED
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ~ £9O 000 n n
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures, ’ °
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £2O 000 0 0
Directors: F.R Esq., Chairman f
Smith Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe,
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M P ’
JAMES BQRROWMAN, Manager. ' '
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE— ’ ’
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
• in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY. Mun^r
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
n°'^’ , JoHN Sbe > Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns)
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq
Managers; Melbourne, D. Clynb; Adelaide. W. N.
M I'arlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth A. W*
‘ A ,r. Q '!f IAI ! - J - J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
It rite for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461 —Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,508,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales •
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Brucf, Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Neiv South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- 2,000,000 0 o
... 1.425,000 0 0
... 2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors „
Total . ... „ 6,425,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKbllar, M.L.C., President
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. /Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M L C
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker. ’
Auditors:
Harrinqton Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents throusrh-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
states, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits : Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Servants Wanted.
MINE MANAGER,
APPLICATIONS will be received by the
undersigned up to 12 noon pn Tuesday, th.e
first day of May, from persons competent to fiil
the position of GENERAL MANAGER of THE
HAMPDEN CLONCURRY.COPPER MINES
LTD., at Cloncurry, Queensland.
Applicants must submit testimonials and state
age, experience and salary required.
A full knowledge of mining engineering essen-
tial. A liberal salary to a competent man.
By order of the Board,
EDWARD. H. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Shipping.
JNT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mai! Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Effvpt Nanlen fionAn
Gibraltar, London. Antwern anH . *•
oLeamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
xrtfw ® verv Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
*PRINZ SICISMUMD. 3300 tons.. 9th JUNK
“WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Sneed
LOHMANN & CQ,, 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUBTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (under cover) to any part {
of Australasia or New Zealand. 1
Sous Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIG and AITKEN,
N. B.W. Barber’* Supply House,
W* Street, BYDNEY
fs
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
SOPHOCLES
•MILTIADES
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
R. M‘Killiam
T. F. Spalding ...
Noon, April 21
Noon, May 19
Noon, June 2
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
_ . Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
1
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
12th MAY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUEVIC to follow.
FAllES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Oo * - A ~ & -A.. X-X3VT3E3 ( via SAN FRANCISCO).
ter assgt swag" ILuxuriously 1 Luxuriously Equipped Trains
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME Tn
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, w’ applyVo- S MONDAY * APRIL 30.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
- CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
df
STOCK AND STATION
OWNERS.
AN IDEAL HOLIDAY.
And a Complete Change from Country
Life, is a CRUISE AMONGST THE
PACIFIC ISLANDS, now possible at
a cost of less than TEN SHILLINGS
PER DAY.
FULL PARTICULARS MAILED FREE.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
lO BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
Past terms.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT.S.-W.
fflont depete fl.^|.Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LIMIIJSD. ™
Capwal Paid-up £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175 812 10 0
Reserve FusD(ln vested in Government Stock) 66,’000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mnifr., VV. B. Alford
D LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS— "
May 14, June 11, July 9.
The
Most
Interesting
Route
to
Europe.
AST Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing- Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. \T
' WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rinw or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H* L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket-
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
i SHOHH3I ON SVH 3UIJ
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
’lnsurance cannot quell.
Fut the South British on Quart!!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METOALEE, Assistant Manager.
T £ e South British
PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
„ Skipping, __
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australians
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOUENE
ADELAIDE,
POET PIEIE
And GULF POETS
ESPEEANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FEEMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, April 20.
•S.S. Grantala, May 2.
S.S. Marloo, May 4.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, April 25.
S.S. Wollowra, April 28.
Route to Goldfields.
first Pnrt nf SSa fi e ckets are interchangeable after the
serving inter-State Companies on all
on ,tof,co"(lll;!onsio f , co " (lll;!ons i which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,’
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
lVlessageries IVEaritimes
Steamers" of°fi DoN ’ V J a COLOMBO and PARIS.
French Gov P ,-nm <° nS ’ T det Postal Contract with the
LATDE mS A a t MELBOURNE, ADE-
POBTS A Tn EM M, N i COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows •
Steamer
YARRA
NERA
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIEN
Com-
mander
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne.
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
Sellier .. April 23
Schmitz .. May 21
Combe .. | June 18
April 26
May 24
June 21
April 28
May 26
June 23
Verron ..jjuly lejjuly lgjjuly 21
“™“”““sro D N u gs E E D ™ “ glish
o ° mp * ny '‘ °“ ces '
R. BRASIKR DE THUY. Principal A,,e,.r
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
N™ decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
Z n iT e o 0 V the b6St a PP° inte d and up-to-date
ppnf-r i n y nQy ' Tlle P osifcion is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding; Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
W. CUPIT, Manager, j
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
WUI flnd ev ery omtor and convenience at-
MRS, TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, VtcTT BeaconsfieUi Parade
r ST KILDA.
-L the Col^m^« an<i M' :,eBC -"« ippoin - ted Boarding-house in
Charges much low,wi!? nl r cen * s ’ tuafc ' on > facing Beach,
bv tram S?' thanhcensed hotels. City, J-hour
ov tram. Bilhards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
2 Guineas per Week. v •'* rironi
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
.CATERER,
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and careful]v
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS bv
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
T fee Bank of north Queensland
limited.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS Eso
n/pita? AN a Y \ v, • , ( Messrs - Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd. )
CAPlTAL—Authorised . .. £7OO 000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO " ’
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) / £370 000


A (Sreat *
L ■ -
'
A Good Macintosh —one that is. WATER-
PROOF—is better than a Doctor’s• Bill.
Our Macintoshes are made of honest
materials, and sold at honest prices.
Every one we sell will sell another —that’s
how we build a reputation. These are
priced to go quick !
Made of finest proofed Materials
in the styles of tc-day.
Price -27 s 6d
CARRIAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
MURDOCH’S
. . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
A Few Guinea Panamas Left. "35B(iS
For Public Information only,.
PROSPECTUS
OLD CALEDONIA
COMPANY.
Near Queenstown.
Capital = = £7500
In 30,000 Shares of
Five Shillings each.
G,OOO Shares, fully paid, to bo issued to the
.Vendors. .
24,000 Shares are offered at Gd. each on appli-
cation,‘and the sum of £5OO net will
be placed to the credit of the Com-
pany,, and. the Contributing Shares
are issued paid up to Is.
It. GILPIN, Manager pro tern.
56 Market St., Melbourne.
Directors to be appointed at First Meeting
of Shareholders.
THE Company is formed- to work a Lease
of 20 Acres situated.about 30 miles, from.
Melbourne, on what was originally the .Old
Caledonia diggings. Several shafts have been
sunk on the property, the deepest being 200
feet (worked by a windlass), and the last
crushing from here went loz. 7 dvvt. per ton.
The 140 ft. shaft is timbered in three com-
partments, 10ft. x 3ft. Gin. in the clear, and it
is proposed to unwater this shaft with a winch
plant forthwith, as it commands the two lines
of rcef’khown to exist in the property.
For general information I append the re-
turns, copied from the Government Quarterly
Mining Deports, December, 18S9, by Mr. J.
Stirling, F.O.S.
No. 5 “ Main Line. ’’-Shaft and : tunnel, to depth of
116 feeb—2oo tons, average from 260 z. to 40oz.
per bon.
; No. H, “ Hirtz Line.” —Shaft and slopes to 126 feet
—4OO bons, 260 z. bo 4oz. to the bon. . _
No. M, -Murray’s ;LiNE/’-Shafts. and drives 110
feet—6o tons, idoz. to.tfin-
No. A, “ Allan’s Line.” —Shafts and drives 100 feet
,_2OO tons, from lOoz. to loz. to ton.
No. B,*“ Eureka Line.”—shafts 90 feet—lso-tons,
* to loz. to the ton,.
THE JER-DAN BILLY CRN
m
The finest and most
unique BILLY CAN
ever made.
Looks like an ordin-
ary Billy—hut it’s a
Teapot, a Billy and a
Kettle combined.
It has a wire handle
—a strong one. It is
fitted with a TIN-
ORENER and CORK-
SCREW combined,
which serves as a
handle as well, and is
detachable. It has a
TEA BOX and
STRAINER com-
bined, which can be lowered or raised at will.
This holds the tea leaves, and is raised when
the tea is being poured out, so that the leaves
do not re-enter the water to make it black
and to increase the tannin or poisonous
principle of tea,
Post Free, 2/0
TIER'D AN BILLY CAN CO., box 4is, g.p.0., Sydney.
sd
DANDRUFF MEANS BALDNESS
95 per cent, of men who are bald owe their
present deplorable state to the neglect of
ridding the scalp of Scurf or Dandruff.
Dandruff clogs the scalp pores, strangling
the growing hairs and eventually causing
complete baldness. CAP ILL A Hair Ton.o
cleanses the scalp of all impurities such as—
Dandruff, Scurf, Itchiness,Eczema, and all
scalp eruptions by its medicinal antiseptic,
curative and healing properties. It revives
and stimulates the starved hair roots* giving
them food and renewed life.
£,lOOO Given Away
£lOOO will be paid to charities by the Inventor, W. OLver Richards, if Capilla fails to grow
hair on any head—no matter how bald—providing a slight down still exists on the scalp.
Sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6 per bottle. Posted, free from observation, direct from the
Capilla Proprietary, 166 Pitt Street, Sydney, on receipt of 1/9 or 3/-. Advice
on all hair troubles free of charge. Correspondence invited.
For “THAT BALD SPOT” use
fs
Hair
Tonic
*‘A Necessity for every Toilet Table.”
le&sant&ddifion toffy
%
iv
e
ursfore
BASED UPONTHE WEUKNOWff‘hONTSERRAT’'LIME FRUIT JUICE,
rHE ZOBO
ANYONE CAN
P-L-AJT IT.
The Zobo is a new invention made on the same principle as
the Kazoo. - It has a rawhide disc on the inside, and by
singing in and against this disc, wonderiul music is produced.
Anyone can play any tune upon it; irtiitates fowls, bagpipes*
animals, etc. Very popular witli singing club and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
df
sd
A more unique merry-making and fascinating little novelty
would be exceedingly hard to find. It possesses real merit. It
is an intensely amusing article for adults as well as for children.
It is not a mere toy. as many might suppose, beingsubstanti-
ally constructed and easily operated. The sweet and varied
tones possible to be produced with this little .device are incred-
ible. No tune ever composed that cannot be accurately pro-
duced. It is justi the tiling /or duets, quartettes, chorus,
carnivals, masquerades, serenades, parades, etc. It may be
accompanied with various other instruments with very pleasing
effects and never fails to make a hit. Remember, that if yOu
do not obtain satisfactory results • the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument. Read over the directions, and persist a
little, when you will be delighted with the results. Best article
to-be had for the money.
DIRECTIONS.
Place the stem against the lips, or hold between the teeth as in
the act of smoking.' Simply.HUM the air of Anv Tune into the
stem DO'NOT BLOW-. The notes are produced by vibra-
tion, the voice alone causing the vibratory, diaphragm to act,
reproducing and modifying any sound emitted, against it. The
tones thus produced resemble those of various instruments, such
as the Cornet, Clarionet, Saxophone,, Bagpipes, and many others,.
Very little practice is required by even a child to master the
instrument \ there is a little ** knack to it* that s ail*
Send postal note to > ‘ -
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229-231 Collins St., Melfc
[Mention this paper.]
113^" If interested, write for Chtap List, Pianoforte
Vocal-STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, Box
406, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Don’t
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ungTontc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can be obtained from
any Chemist or s, tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
Hardware Merchants, Storekeepers,
Canvassing Salesmen throughout
the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Will do well to write us if they wish for
EXCLUSIVE Town cr District
Agency for Light and Hand-
some Appliance
indispensible to Farmers, Gardeners, Fruitgrowers, and
many others. Nothing like them in these States. Great
Sellers. Will go through the Mails. Obtainable from us,
only, in Australasia. May consider proposals for whole
State Agency, if made by right parties.
Address s ROBINSON & STEPHENS,
Eltham, New Zealand.
Visitors to Melbourne Eat.T
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate. ■
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
No. I— Gunmetal Open-lace Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
: corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 lOs.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Servioeablc
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUIMKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
FOP>
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
fs
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cy le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without on- stion
it not pirfectly satisfactory. Highet
cycles, warranted six years. _
LA'i EST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
E»<3ie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or i iincher A Won Tyus, Inverted Dover 41m
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
f ackecf and Delivered Free
.0 anjvport m the’ world. Wa guarantee safa
delivery.
200
Second-hand Cycles
all makes, JPf go £2mtO
Great rectory clearance sale at half factory price*.
313Aa 0 NHV3
taking orde.i from” sample
machine. Active Agents
wail fttttt cnc'K (iiatrict. Lar'ge
me A D GYOLE CO, Depf. B3 *
ifyERPOOL LOMDON ANO CHICAGO*


Missing: Friends.
OHIS CONSIDIIS 1 E please communicate
with undersigned brother. Urgent.
M. B. CONSIDINE,
Mildura, Victoria.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, Magnificent Production by
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S GRAND AUSTRALIAN
COMIC OPERA CO. of Jacques Offenbach’s Celebrated
Romantic Military and Spectacular Opera Bouffe,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING
of the
WORLD - FAMED SOCIETY ENTERTAINERS,
MADAME YEAMANS TITUS,
AND
MR. LESLIE HARRIS,
in HUMOROUS;'SKETCHES, SONGS and STORIES,
MUSICAL MONOLOGUES.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., l s .
Box Plan at Allan’s.
m
«SSv
w-
V s * v!
%%
California
Syrup of Figs
is a positively reliable and
at the same time the most
agreeable family medicine foi
Constipation,Biliousness, In-
digestion, Headache, etc.
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
is strengthening, invigorating and energising, not
weakening and lowering as most ordinary pills and
purgatives are. There is no discomfort or inconvenience.
It simply aids and seconds nature, and its results are
healthful regularity and freedom from dangerous im-
purities in the system.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 325110 W Hill, London, Eng.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
I Acts 1
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming ■
Habitual
Constipation
The Royal Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Offices MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIRTY-SIXTH REROFtT,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on Slth April 1906
rpHE Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the Annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of
Accounts, for the half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified “ btatemen t of
The net profits (including £2876 9s. brought from last half-year) amount to
Which it is proposed to allocate as follows, viz. '
To pay dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum nr »cn
Transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £50,000) ” " 5 000
£12,948 11 5
And to carry forward the balance
0
0
2,698 11
The Directors are glad to be able to report a considerable accession of business during the half
denced by the all-round improvement in the figures now submitted. A satisfactory increase in profits has also taken
place, enabling the Directors to recommend the declaration of a higher dividend Without interfering with the usual
augmentation of the reserve fund, which now stands at a substantial figure. mtenering with the usuaf
The vacancy in the Directorate caused by the death of Mr Charles Oamnhpll hno nn„n i ,
of the Hon. Allan McLean, M.H.R., a selection" that will, no doubt? nieet^a^ovaf o?Z&S£ meab
thp S^ e wd f T ar a bra ", Ch ha f- been cstablished at Bendigo, with every prospect <of^satisfactory^VesuTts and
occur! 1 Übe prepared > as time goes on, to open at other important centres as favorable "opportunities
~ The Directors trust that Shareholders who have not yet seen their way to do business with the bank will Hke
the mattering serious consideration. The progress of the bank, so tar, has been largely due to the effort! of the
accounts^ 618 ’ “ d " haV6 theirpower t 0 n ' ateria »T assistin its further development b!in?roducfng desfraWe
accounts. By order of the Board,
. H. T. WILSON, Manager.
BALANCE
Dr.
SHEET of the ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
For Half-Year Ending 31st March, 1906.
LIMITED.
Or.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital Subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares .. .. £600,000 0 0
Capital paid up .. £150,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 45,000 0 0
Profit andloss account 12,948 11 5
£207,948 11 5
Notes in circulation 11,419 0 0
Bills in circulation 36,817 15 2
Government Deposits Nil
Other Deposits—Rebate and interest
accrued—
Not bearing interest £255,415 19 0
Bearing interest .. 797,088 17 2
1,052,504 16 2
Balances due to other banks .. .. 266 17 5
£1,308,957 0 2
Contingent liabilities as per contra— 259,306 0 0
£1,568,263 0 2
„ „ . ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion and cash
at bankers .. ..£237,286 7 1
Money at call and short
notice 25,000 0 0
Notes and bills of other
banks 2,376 10 7
B ilances due from other
banks .. .. .. 9,849 19 4
B 11s and Remittances in
transit, and payable in
London .. . .. 160,718 16 11
Government, municipal
and other public stocks,
debenturesandfunds.. 171,800 0 0
Stamps .. .. .. 615 3 7
Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises ..
Other real estate at cost to bank
Bills discounted and other advances
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts ..
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery, &c.
£607,646 17 6
55,000 0 0
20,646 4 4
624,023 18 4
1,640 0 0
Liabilities and securities of customers
and. others in respect of contingent
liabilities as per contra
£1,305,957 0 2
259,306 0 0
£1,568,263 0 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent and other charges .. ..£4,399 13 0
Balance 12,948 11 5
£17,348 4 5
By Balance at 30th September, 1905.. ..£l2 376 9 0
Less dividend decared 27th
October, 1905 .. .. £4,500 0 0
Carried to reserve fund .. 5,000 0 0
9,500 0 0
Balance carried down .. .. # # 2 876 9 0
Profits for the half-year after deducting 1 '
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad and
doubtful debts .. .. 14 471 15 5
£17,348 4 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance..
..£45,000 0 0
£45,000 0 0
By Balance at 30th September, 1905.. ” £4O 000 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss account .. 5,000 0 0
£45,000 0 0
declare I ;— GH THURBURN WILSON > Manager of The Royal Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely
in the'busihess, SerVe fUnd aDCOUnfc ’ amountin 8: fco £45,000, and the-accumulated-profits of £12,948 11s. 5d., are used
trueYneve^parSr' 1 " 8 ' Statement and Bala,lce Sheet of the banb is, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
ALOOCK, J.P., Merchant, Melbourne ; HONORABLE SIR SAMUEL GILLOTT ML A Solioi’tnr mvu AB A MES
HONORABLE ALLAN McLEAN, M.H.R., Stock and Station Agent Melbourne:’ ’ Sollcltor > Melbourne ; the
And. I make ttiis solemn declaration conscientiously believing tbe same to be trnp nnH hu
coTupl rer“y°' °' ViCt ° r1 *’ SKI;
thh sth d,y «, April, thousand hundred end ,ir.
„ ro We certhy that we have audited the above Balance Sheet, and that the same is correct. We further cerHfvVhar
wte® dnor have we ,, beco ™ e acquainted during the audit with any breach of the “ Companies Acts ”
tmu niwf, d bj the company or any director, manager, employee, auditor, or shareholder thereof. We further certifv
complied with? lUSltlonS aS audltors ’ lncludln ° our requisitions with regard to the private Balance Sheet, have been
THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A. (Eng.) )
~ , ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND. FH A V (Auditors.
Melbourne, 11th April, 1906. 1 *•*••*• v. j
We, Frederick Sheppard Grimwade and Randal James Alcock, of Melbourne, being directors of The Rnval Rant
as of a the'company’s < “““ a ° d 5S
Dated at Melbourne Jdiissth_day of April, 1906 p. g. GRIMWADE i
r! j. ALCOCK, ’ / Directors.
Witness-J. PACE SHARP,
AUDITOR’S REPORT.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITEd”'"’ o”'"’’ 0 ”'"’’ 1111 iP "'' 1 ”* 1
o ' wlth th - pro ~ - **•
THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A. (Eng.) > . J . i
—ARTHUR W, CLEVELAND. F.I.A.V. f Auditors.
The Australian Widows 1 Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual) FOR N.S.W.— 263 George Street. Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
SPECIAL*BENm f J? ’ I?,®? 0 ," a^ ed 30 > P a V able a * 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
DisahkuiVpnt • p 4-000 if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
lJisatHement, (3) £5OO foi Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Dkahipmpnf •
specified d i s P P «J ee V° r / J if lnP ?' ai T Parti , al Disablement-'and (?) £6 ?rweefTtakjKaSS?S
P ed diseases. lor full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his
FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in a Complete Representation of the Up-to-Date
Russo-Japanese War Drama,
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR,
or, ALLIES AND ENEMIES.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION T HEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Brough-Flemming' Comedy Company
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, APRIL 19 and 20,
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON !
Revival for TWO NIGHTS ONLY of
QUALITY STREET.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ * Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in—
THE CINGALEE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE theatre, sydn e y.
■ Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
“ Theatre Packed to the Door Nightly ” to witness
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD, in conjunction with
THE BRESCIANS,
Orchestra and Singers from the Royal Albert Hall.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose. ,
gUPREME MONARCHS OF ALL ENTERTAINERS.
WIRTH’S
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION GROUND.
EVENING, at 8 p.m.
7 HUGE SHOWS COMBINED 7.
GREATEST LIVING OBJECT COLLEGE that a life
of Travel could reveal.
A CHAMPION PROGRAMME of 30
WONDERFUL ACTS.
ALL NEW SHOWS IN ALL NEW TENTS, WITH
ALL NEW ARTISTS.
PRICES—Is, 2s, 3s. Reserved Chairs, 4s.
Plan at Paling’s. Children Half-price to Matinees Only.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
COUNTRiTtoUR - oF’tho "
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURCIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia.
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public.
All subjects instructive and entertaining.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat. Each artist a star.
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmony
and finish.
DUBBO, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 20.
NARROMINE, MONDAY, TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 24.
COBAR, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY
APRIL 25, 26, 27.
NYNCAN, SATURDAY, MONDAY, APRIL 28, 30.
BOURKE, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, MAY 2, 3.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. SLADE MURRAY
8 ENGLISH PRIMROSES 8, THE TWO BELLS
Great Success of TAMBO and TAMBO, Direct from
London. The Original and Only Tambourine Spinners.
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP
HARRY CLARK’S RADIUM GIRLS.
t^ EES ’ THE giIb ERT SISTERS.
HARRY SADLER. BABY WATSON, BABY SUTTON
MISS MAY COLLINS, MISS FANNY POWERS, &c. ’
OP~ERA house, Melbourne:
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MARTINETTI and GROSSI, Novelty Act.
NADA MORET, Vocalist Raconteur.
O’NATIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers.
MDLLE. OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
THE CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS, Part Singers.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
Plan at Allan’s. IET PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
■VIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
THE MIDNIGHT MAIL.
Reappearance of Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
DOROTHY VERNON, OF HAODON HALL
Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Pl&n at Allan s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
Music, * *
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
EDISON
PHONOCRAPHS. Cash.
GEMS £2 10 0
STANDARDS.. £5 0 0
HOMES £7 10 0
VIOLINS £2 10 0
ACCORDEONS £2 0 0
ANGLOS £2 10 0
ORGANETTES £3 0 0
AUTOHARPS.. 12 6
Packin'* Free
Edison Gold-Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT - & SON,
137 King Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
Alf. Griffith writes :—
mler ■ Be u t ? iay be a bit of a lar S e OX in his way, bub
culfc !rprt e »nH h n,^ a i? m^ re 8 ' e " tlenian! y instincts than the
cultured and Cocky Carruthers, of the Ma State. The
25**“* Premiers were taken to see the training- ship
f,™ ° T board "; h ; ch vesse i 400 boys are being turned
fiom street gamins into good citizens. Of course there
nf l-c K b \f me speeches, and Bent voiced the admiration
of his brother Premiers for the excellent institution they
thf ‘"® pected \ Tu en Carruthers ? ot U P and explained to
fjj® k lpany ’ '"A 116 P rese nce of the assembled lads, that
Putter” 8 ™* 6 the.fnm of the streets, taken from the
fhn <fh; ’on d that ! f they had nofc been Placed on board
W. 8h , ip ’ 90 per cent, of them would have been in gaol
rMBSSr ■ss&nsaa
fiaifisss.”* to c *" th ' '” or bm ‘
Joe Cook resents Labor-leader Watson’s
reference to his starting the Sydney telephone
tunnels by Socialistic methods, and, like most
men who try to explain things away, commits
himself very badly. This is his explanation
(Sydney Telegraph, 10/4/’06)
First of all, they were not begun from Socialistic
motives. Socialism was never once thought of. The
considerations were two. The first was a recommendation
by the Messrs. M'Credie, the private architects in charge
of the work, that the work could be more cheaply carried
out by the Department than by contractors. Tlie reason
for this was that the ground below the pavements was
v ari ?« s service pipes and unforeseen obstacles, and
tnat the risk to the contractor, being very great, was
charged for accordingly. It was thought better to take
it ourselves.
Which, summed up, means that the work was of
a delicate character, requiring unusual care and
more than extra skill, and could be, therefore,
done better and cheaper by the State than by
private enterprise. It looks as though Judas
Cook is going to rat even on private enterprise
shortly.
An occasion of pomp and dignity was the
re-dedication of Brisbane synagogue on Sunday
April 8 (Nissan 13th 5606). The “Gates of Faith ”
had been lately painted and gilded and needed a
fresh Benediction. The gallery was filled with
womenfolk, dressed in all the splendor of fashion
and much gold hung round the neck of Judah’s
daughter and clanked on the wrists of the sister
of Benjamin. The main part of the sanctuary
was mostly occupied by males, all wearing
hats. One could almost hear the odds
being called. Seven of the officers, sashed
in silk and top-hatted, marched in with
great solemnity carrying large volumes of the
Pentateuch in scroll form, encased in figured
satin. They were as awkward-looking, these
bundles, as a Scotchman’s bagpipes or a tired
baby, and it required some heroism to maintain a
hold. To the top of each bundle silver ornaments
were affixed ; they resembled fancy buggy lamps,
studded with little tinkling bells of the size seen
on a set of flash harness. The elders sternly
marched seven times around the reading-desk,
a raised enclosure in the centre of the
synagogue. The walls of Jericho did not
fall, a,nd no bell was rung for the last
Jap The preacher spoke eloquently about
faith, and Father Abraham, and the synagogue
funds, and carried a clattering bell-decked scroll
around-the floor on his own account two or three
Japs. There was much praying in English and
Hebrew, while a choir burst in every now and
then, and relieved the cry of “Arh-arh” or the
monotonous jingle of the bells on the Pentateuch.
I hen they lit the perpetual lamp, and hoisted it
up as sentry over the interior of the synagogue
and Israel filed into the street.
The alleged “ lunatic sailor ” Smith, who
reached Melbourne from ’.Frisco a while back,
chained to a stanchion of the barque Loudon Hill’
has got things into a fearful tangle. First, the
barque’s captain said he was a lunatic, wherefore,
though two local doctors certified to his sanity, he
wasn’t allowed to land. Then he escaped, and
wandered ashore, but was brought back and
ordered to “ turn to.” Refusing, he was taken to
South Melbourne Police Court, and remanded on
a charge of refusing duty. Then the gaol doctors
certified he was insane, and he was committed to
larra Bend Asylum. As the ship was ex-
pected to remain in port for three weeks
the authorities endeavored to “come to some
arrangement” with the captain. Meanwhile |
the allegation was made that Smith, though sail-
ing in a British ship from an American port, was
really an Australian native, born at Castlemaine !
(vie.). Then the Loudon Hill’s skipper casually
remarked that he proposed to sail immediately, 1
and he didn’t care a brass farthing whether he I
took the alleged lunatic or not. After much
palaver, he consented, however, to ship him, and
the Federal authorities fetched a sigh of relief and
washed their hands of Smith. But just here State
Chief See. Gillott recollected the horrible circum-
stances under which the lunatic arrived, and
demanded a guarantee that he would be treated
properly on the return trip, and the skipper said
he would see Samuel durned first, or words to that
effect. So the undesirable remains in Victoria.
It is understood that the British Board of Trade
is responsible for his maintenance and return,
under the Merchant Shipping Act; but as Smith
is allegedly Victorian born, and was shipped from
the States, though in a British ship, the Board of
Trade may feel inclined to argue the point. Any-
how, it is a very bad thing to be a lunatic onboard
a ship sailing from a Yankee port.


df
OSTRICH PLUMES
BLACK
From our Famous Farms In South Africa.
WHITE CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
’TIPPED ’WITH WHITE (Length, 10£ inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
3 for 10/-
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Wnte To-day Send Posta'
Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post
. va-nmAt FEATHER BOAS, 1216. I11 ueis.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Also at Corner
WE ARE ONTHE SPOT
with Crystalate Billiard Balls
■v;
Only
Substifufe
for • •
Ivory
ALCOCW & CfrryMJ.
ELIZABETHS7
ME LB.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms —
422 GEORGE STREET
Gam Electric Mine Locomotivem
GANZ Electric -
Mine Haulage
Equipments..
Have been specially designed to
meet Australian mining conditions,
and have been brought up by
many years’ experience to the
highest degree of perfection.
Sole Australian Agents—
a AUSTRAL OTIS ENGINEERING CO.
telephone Cr. Hanna and Kavanagh Streets, SOUTH MELBOURNE*
.No. 331. ;....
t 3
'WINCHESTER
Model 1905 Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers,
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading- system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By All Dealers .
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAIL.O.
Ask youp Chemtst for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.’
mi
(ADBURYS
—* ABsolutely Fui^
(OCOA
It is tKe purest ai\d nvost 1
cocoa iivuse. It’s ivicest too.
77i£ LANCET says .'-“Codburys is the tan dat'd of high est punt/.
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
700 Prizes.
UU
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, , Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIAj
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
ARE YOU TIED DOWN P
sd
To the overcrowded and consequently poorly-paid trades, where advancement)
slow, wages small, and where the supply is always greater than the demand? it
so, let us qualify you to enter the linest, most up-to-date and best-paying
profession of to-day, namely, Electrical Engineering. We train by mail,
to your home, in your spare time. Distance from London is no : bar *°. 1 S
No high education is required, only ability to read and write. No one is too old
or too S young. We have students to-day from 10 to 60 years of age in all walks of
life, all over the world, whom we are lifting to the pinnacle of success.
OUR SYSTEM HAS PROVED SUCCESSFUL.
We don’t ask you to acceptour word as to what we can do but to
vourself it will cost you nothing to prove the matter and satisfy yourselt.
Do it now. To-morrow never comes. We are waiting to hear from you,
when we will send you our interesting Free Book,
« how to become an Electrical or Mechanical Engineer.”
It tells vou the story of success; how we have lifted thousands of people
to firstXs positions^as Electrical Engineers with first-class pay We have
courses of instruction beginning with the simplest arithmetic, others of a
moie advanccd'nat'ure, bSt all frith the one aim-Perfection. We supply
our students with a complete Keference Library, Free. We nave,
amongst others, the following courses
Complete Electrical Engineering; Electric Light and Power; Short Electrical
Course • Dynamo Tender’s Course ; Electric Motorman’s Course; Dynamo
Design; Mechanical Engineering; Steam Engineering; Telephony;
Telegraphy; Mechanical Drawing; Mathematics, etc., etc.
We are waiting to send you our Free Book, “ How to become an Elec-
trical or Mechanical Engineer.” bend for Free Copy to-day to—
f
The Electrical Engineer Institute oi 1
Correspondence Instruction,
5 Norwich House, Southampton St.,
Holliorn, London. England, j
A CARD.
OLD DOCTOR LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Begs to inform his patients and the ailing public
generally that HE and HIS STAFF OF EXPERT SPECI-
ALISTS may still be consulted as in years past, either
personally or |$Y LETTER. FREE OF CHARGE.
IF YOU ARE m NEED OF MEDICAL ADVICE,
WRITE FOR QUESTIOtkCHARTA^NCE.
POST FREE, Doctor Langston’s
Popular Ulcdical Work, latest edition
(lUuiti ated):
MENS SANA IN CORPORE SAM.
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know.
WRITE FOR IT NOW.
™ E DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1887.
All Communications Sacredly Confidential.
Mention thi* paper when writing.
The craze of attributing every evidence of
intelligent warfare to the Japs has reached ridi-
culous lengths. The other week several Australian
journals exuberantly applauded “the plucky little
Japs ” for having invented a sort of detachable
shelter-tent, portion of which was carried by each
man, and was available for use by itself as an
overcoat, while the lot, laced together, made a
shelter-tent. The so-called Japanese invention is
only about 70 years old, and originated in France
in the time of Louis Phillippe. The tentes d' abri
of the French forces in the Crimea were known to
every military expert of the time, but latter-day
colored labor enthusiasts have short memories.
One of these days some stout person will wring
tears from a Tory assemblage by telling it that
trousers have just been invented in Japan —their
very first appearance.
Nowadays, when the South Brisbane (Q.)
municipal council mentions its overdraft of
£14,000, and thinks of its huge loan and its other
obligations, it just laughs. The aldermen have
given up being serious about the city’s debt; they
apparently reckon things have got to a point at
which nothing matters. The place can only be
saved from bankruptcy by an increased rate; but
if the property-owners preferred payment of an
increased rate to public insolvency, they would
never have put the present lot of kookaburra
aldermen into office. What’s the matter with a
law that, when a municipality becomes insolvent,
it shall lose its mayor, aldermen, town-clerk, muni-
cipal whisky cupboard, and all the rest, until the
State officer who is put in charge shall, by heavy
local taxation, have paid off its debts and got it
out of liquidation ?
Generally understood that Christchurch
SSI
the ghoulde r, as Mayor, for the Exhibition
r> It ig not pre tended that the ex-Premier has
a par ti C ul ar genius for civic government, but
Exhibition year is to be a time of great food and
dr j nk . and< as a tribute to his glorious past, old
j 0 i s to be chief feeder and drinker. Auckland
p i aved the same prank on somebody it delighted
tQ h onor when the Dukeling was round those
par t S) and the unfortunate man never enjoyed a
mea i afterwards. The usual curse of this sort of
Kreatness i s indigestion,
, . , T , „
Y.F.M. : Victorias Iceberg Irvme is
always being admiringly paragraphed as a nephew
of the Irish patriot, John Mitchell. A few facts
to show that the uncle was worthy of the
Mitchell never even pretended to be a democrat. Me
re j ec t ec l the friendly overtures of the English Chartists,
and vehemently declared for no alliances ; and, moreover,
denounced the Chartist movement with all the eloquence
he could command. He was a narrow-minded, intolerant
=
? tock of the world, and brought the rebellion of
, 48 | 0 a ludicrous end in a turnip field. After this alleged
mar ty r had been transported to Tasmania, he made his
escape from there in a manner that no one with a shied
of honor would have attempted. He thereafter fled to
fSal.S'hfc.md tobmstot
American Union. He fought fiercely (with the pen)
to perpe t ua te the curse of slavery, and in the columns of
his paper declared that if “the chivu.r-ns gentlemen of
the South were overcome by the du„y rabble of the
North,” he (Mitchell) would forthwith emigrate to the
purer atmosphere of Russia.


From Pain of Terrible Itching Eczema
Unless Hands Were Tied Would
Scratch Till Face Was Raw—Mother
Could Get No Rest,
FACE NOW CLEAR,
CURED BY CUTICURA
“ For over two years my little baby girl
suffered with., a raw, itching, and painful
eczema on her head and face, the pain
causing her to scream day and night, and
my wife could get no rest. We tried sev-
eral doctors, but without success. Unless
we kept her hands tied she would scratch
until her face was like raw beef. One cake
of Cuticura Soap and two boxes of Cuti-
cura Ointment completely cured her, heal-
ing her face without mark or blemish.
■—(signed) W. J. Morgan, Orchard Town,
New Lambton, N. S. W., Australia.”
AWFUL SUFFERING
Baby’s Face Solid Sore—Would
Scratch and Tear Away the
Flesh Cured by Cuticura.
“ My baby’s face was a mass of sores.
The doctor called it eczema, but his treat-
ment did no good, as the child was getting
worse, the disease eating the flesh away
from his nose, and spreading to his body.
Neighbours said it was the worst case
they had ever seen. His suffering was
terrible, and he would scratch and tear
away the flesh. We then used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, one set curing him com-
pletely, and healing his face without scar
or blemish, Wm. Cridland, 35 Winches-
ter St., Pentonville Rd., N. London, Eng.”
SLEEP FOR BABIES
Rest for Mothers.
Instant relief and refreshing sleep foi
skin-tortured babies., and rest for tired,
fretted mothers, in warm baths with Cm
ticura Soap, and gentle anointings with
Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure,
and purest and sweetest of emollients.
Cuticura Soap, Ointmeut, and Pill, are sold throughout th«
world. Depot,: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, { Rue da
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug*
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
B9“Send for “ How to Cure Baby Humours.” Mailed Free.
The SHine that
Outshines
EVERYTHING else in the
way of shoe-shines is the shine
you get from Hauthaway’s
Crozine
Blacking
which is pleasant and easy to use, and more
than pleasant in the effect it has upon your
boots and shoes There is no uncertainty
about it. While putting the shine on to the
boots it puts softness into the leather, and
and thereby renders them more comfortable
and more durable. The shine that Crozine
insures is a shine of deep shimmering
black, as brilliant as jet.
Can be had from all Boot Stores.
Insist upon having Hauthaway’s.
It is best to get the best.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
L-S^
r.Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
: .'SYSTEMS for Correspond-
: SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
; SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
: SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
: SYSTEMS for Indexing.
• S YSTEMS for all Records.
: SYSTEM for Evkrytiiino.
. Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
3'JHHMSI.AND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G. P. 0,, Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.-r-
-> NORMAN. BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia —
MIDDOVVS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
lias it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER I
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
iIOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney
Solk Australian Agk.nt
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP,
A remedy composed of the extracts
of leaves, roots and barks, and that
has the splendid record of 35 years
of popular use and approval,
CURES
INDIGESTION
AND ADI, OTHRR
DISORDERS
OF THK
STOMACH,
UVER & KIDNEYS.
Wm. Francis Meaney, of 18, Hope
Street, Spring Hill, Brisbane, was
cured of severe kidney disease by
Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
Mrs. Jessie Mathewson, of Botany
Street, South Randwich, N.S.W.,
was cured of indigestion and bilious-
ness by Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
TRY IT.
IT WILL SURE YOU.
j)
n
. "Is superior even to meat and of
kd Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
*‘ A diet rich in proteid M AKES PHYSICAL &
jgj MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
y'i deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
w
Tor* Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
OF n
THOROUOF ®iED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stnd Book andi
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
Auctions.
THURSDAY, MAY 17th .
PRELIMINARY ADVERTISEMENT.
Kyogle Estate,
RICHMOND RIVER, NEW SOUTH WALES.
PTFINAL SALE.
'TPHE balance of the above Estate,' containing 9,400
* Acres, to be sold bv Public Auction at KYOGLE on
THURSDAY, 17th MAY, at 12 o’clock, together with the
Third Subdivision of KYOGLE TOWNSHIP, containing
127 Allotments also 17 Suburban Blocks of from 31. acres
to 171 acres each.
Terms up to 20 years for the FARM BLOCKS.
Terms up to 10 years for the Suburban Blocks.
Terms up to 5 years for Township Allotments.
10 per cent. Cash Deposit. TITLES FREEHOLD.
Full Particulars in future advertisements.
Plans now ready, obtainable from the Auctioneers—
HAMILTON, GROOM & CO.,
117 William St., Melbourne.
J. B. McDOUGALL,
Casino, New South Wales.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA. AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3 750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3 700
URMSTON GRANGE 6 600
LANGTON GRANGE 9 200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. io!o00
ELSTREE GRANGE .. .. .. .. 6 000'
ROYSTON GRANGE .. - 6’330
Steamer. Tons !
BEACON ORANGE 6,300 .
RiPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200 '
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE .. .. .. .. 6,350
HAYERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. J 4 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
Made in Australia by Australians for Australians.
“The House
that Jack built.”
— No. 5.
m
5 hfa
) if;
v ms
01
s
-3M-
PP^iSSfisP'S
SS&
wmm
infffifiliiti
IifMiilMI
1
“This is the cock that in the night*,
Awoke and saw the Welsbach Light,
And thought it day it shone so bright,
* Outside the house that Jack built*.*'
Look for the Trade Hark
on every article.
WELSBACH Mantles
and Fittings can be
had of all Ironmongers
and Plumbers.
<>\L
it
w
G
The UJelsbach Qight Company
Have Showeooms at . . .
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co., Adelaide
Perry Bros., Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Oleo”: I have received from England a
pamphlet called “Butter Manipulation. Millions In-
volved. An Exposure How the British Public is
Cheated and Many Australians Robbed of their
Just Due.” The writer says his object is to ex-
pose and prevent the continued perpetration of one
of the greatest and most profitable sophistications of
modern times. He makes public some of the processes.
Water-logging has been treated as the principal form of
adulteration, but it is not. The present tests and
standards of purity are unreliable and wrong. Twenty-
five per cent, of the British retail distributors are dealing
in faked butter. Eighty per cent, of housewives will not
pay more than from lOd. to Is. a lb., and the grease has
to be faked up to their fancy standard of qualitv. Large
English factories manipulate and adulterate butter up to
a total of from 1000 to 2000 tons per week, according to
the time of year. From 10 to 20 per cent, of cunninglv
rmxed fats are put in. The author gives a description of
t... plant and machinery of butter-fakers, with kneading
machines, blenders, pans, and what not. It is important
for the faker to produce solidified milk and treated milk,
and the chemical formula; are given as to the processes.’
“ Milk so treated and added to butter produces a very
delicate flavor and aroma.” The cost is ridiculously low
—about Id. per gallon, or one-tenth of Id. per lb. The
whole business is gone into with the closest analysis, both
chemical and financial. For instance, a fine profit can be
made on 1001 b. of butter made up of 721 b. genuine Maori-
land grease, 21b. beef suet;, 21b. neutral lard, 51b. cocoanut
oil, 51b. solidified milk, and 141 b. treated milk.
* * » *
“B. Elliott ” : The Bulletin (15/3/’OG) suggests
that bribery of surveyors was the cause of squatters’ hold-
ings being bigger than the areas paid for. It was at least
partly due to the use of' the old Gunter’s chain,'a cum-
brous affair of link-ended iron rods. It would easily
stretch 3 per cent, of its length in a day’s work, and thus
would introduce an average error of 2'25 per cent, in the
areas laid out. Have often re-measured old lines, and
found the error singularly constant. I could tell a tale
of a boundaiy—but you would blue-pencil it. Damn blue
pencils!, [As the correspondent doesn’t send along the
tale, there is a dark suspicion that he doesn’t know it
himself.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
The safe-breakers’ trick of syringing nitro-
glycerine through the key-hole or door interstices of a
safe, and then exploding it with an electric wire, having
been defeated by new improvements in safe-building, the
breakage and entry man falls back upon thermite, a
chemical which, if put on top of a safe, burns through its
plates as though they were paper. But thermite has the
disadvantage of causing a blinding light which would
attract even a policeman, and great masses of smoke.
Also it is very hard to obtain.
* • * *
The salt of the earth that goes down to the sea
in pleasure yachts got an unholy showing up lately in a
New York court, where the manager of one insurance
office testified that they rarely “touched ” yachts or
motor-boats. Most of these craft, he explained, were
kept by rich men for the pleasure of their wives, and if
these ladies wanted new fittings, or if a new style of cabin
decoration became the rage,' they usually made the
insurance companies pay for the alterations by the simple
expedient of burning the old fittings and decorations. If
a new style or rig of craft came into vogue—then there
would be a run of bad luck, and all along the coast old
style vac'hts would be piled up on reefs, scuttled at sea,
or burnt at their moorings. In the case before the court
the toneji ones had overdone the business. With the keen
business instinct of the Yankee the husband of the owner
of the yacht had removed all the expensive fittings, and
replaced them with very cheap ones which burnt better.
All the same, an ironical American jury, in a humorous
outburst, awarded the lady who owned the yacht the
value of the cheap fittings that had been destroyed, on
the ground that her husband made the exchange with-
out her knowledge or consent.
* * » *
“ L.” : An old lady, who had just been handed
threepenn’orth in a billy through the jug-and-bottle win-
dow, suddenly started to wail “ I’ve lost me thrippenoe ! ”
The bar-girl hurried round to help her to look for it, and
found it in a corner, thereby upsetting the theory of
certain cynics in the bar who held that the alleged loss
was only a bluff, put up so as to get ihe beer for nothing.
“Oh, 'she’s all right,” said the bar-girl. “I know
her; but some of them round this way would do
anything for the sake of a free beer. When I
was new at the game I was had fairly often,
but now I know enough for most of them.” She went on
to tell of -her early experiences of the type of man who
came in and ordered two drinks—one for a friend in an
imaginary vehicle in the street—then went out with the
drinks and to return and' nay, but sometimesdeft
the glasses on the window-sill. Just as she was finishing,
another customer came in at the jug-and-bottle entrance.
He got sixpenn’orth in an enormous jug, then -handed
over a bottle, saying, “ You might as well fill that, too.”
F’’! wV n the b u- g r, who knew all their tricks, turned
to hand him the filled bottle he was not there. Neither
was the sixpence.
' ' '
THE SOUTHERN UNDER SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prom the suburbs and the towns where the trading
princes throng— 6
To the organ notes of Gain—hark the Southern under-
song I
TiS flat hi mn SelflShness ’ P‘ tchftd for singing sharp or
Known to all the sleepy South as the Gospel-song of Fat:
“ Governments were made for us 1 Let them borrow all
they can.
We hel P t 0 s l ,end it well; help them spend it to a
“ cl os« settlement’s a fraud. Why cut up the squatters’
Staple of the country’s wealth held in well-reputed
hands ? 1
“Open up the inland ways; lock the rivers of the
west; *
Build us railroads out to them in the country’s in-
terest 1
“ Then we’ll buy the bettered land (if we do not own it
now),
That the working man may live by the sweat upon his
brow.
“ Only, that the work be done, do not tax us, indi-
gent;
Borrow 1 borrow! that, indeed, is the course pre-
eminent.
lools may talk to us of war; in their nervous inno-
cence
Ask that millions should be spent on a system of de-
fence ;
We have found a simpler way, holding it as far the
best—
’Tis to bind Bull-Cohen here with the bonds of interest I
“Guns! What need have we of guns? in an over-
whelming debt
Is a navy and an army by the world unconquered yet.
" Let us then go forth and borrow ; let us borrow while
we may—
There is safety in the millions that our sons will have to
pay.
“ There is safety in the millions if we only borrow now’
And a good time in the spending if you let qs show you
how.”
N.S.W.
ERN, S. EMERSON.


pm
Hav/€ YoO a 6ran)opboQ€?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
Columbia Ioin Disc Records
are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
of Tone, and Durability.
Price 3/6 each.
They are made of the very best Black
Composition, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest List 3 to—
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenL),
Australian
Headquarters :
;
Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
n
J
SHAVING
■ /
m
mm
:mrnmm
«fca
' H
H
sail
“A ROYAL SHAVE"
and the only way to get it. Whether
you shave yourself or the barber shaves you,
insist on Williams’ Shaving Soap.
“ The only kind that won’t smart
or dry on the face.”
Sold by Chemssis, Hairdressers and Perfumers, all over the world,
or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is. Williams’ Luxury Tablets, is.
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d.
(Trial Size) of Wpj&ms’ Shaving Stick, 2d. Trial Tablet Williams’
Shaving Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., London, W, C. 161 Clarence St., Sydney. (
Hifti&Qflwje and Factories, GLASTONBURY, CONN., U. S. A.
fs
THE.
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
out -of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
KUJNAL>UuI than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car. ’
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard
Runabout.
7 H.P.
Touring Runabout.
20 H.P.
2-Cyl. Touring- Car.
10 H.P.
Light Tonneau.
1G H.P.
Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS s
SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE. 253 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Tb«Se TER POTS njak? a
SPLENDID CUP OF TER!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now,
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value—every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, IGs 6d
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 16s
s
No. E 3763. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated-Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. K 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s.
No. F6I3C. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot, Full size;.
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £2 10s..
No. F 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
Kichly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6d
No. E 7134. Full-size Silver-plated lea Pot,
32s (id .
No. 307. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£2 5s
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s
No. 308. Full-size Silver-plated lea Pot, £3 3s
No. E 7090. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£4 10s.
!No. F 0137. “Louis Quatorze” Tea Pot, Very
Massive Solid Silver,‘£22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
o
SECS
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington
Cbristchuroh , DwnedJn, London.


The first
p CCP flf'ifl/ tor ths preservation of the
ivoowmiMi teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
manes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jFm
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
■ what it will accomplish. Send for
It and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
df
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, aa Pitt St., Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
HOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, {riving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treac-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
St-?™ Sons h a d lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY*
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambew,
street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY. *
X. Gentleman having tried In vain every
ad J™i se £ remed y, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o 2 charge, to any-
one Interested. a
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
sd
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
i T \h? a Powerful tone, handsome ebonised ease, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Priff'P
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
to-told Eellovvs with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d-
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
J “ , “" ery ’ E,c ■ 210 Queen St., Brisbane
(211)
/
i
sris
The McCormick Harvester is
"WITHIN AN ACE” of : Perfect!
. S °J lear k in fact > that it’s extremely difficult to detect
the difference.
It makes the best sample.
It runs the lightest.
It is the most convenient, and easy to operate.
It s “within an ace” of absolute perfection.
28-page catalogue with particularly useful information
tor Harvester buyers now ready. Send for it.
International Harvester Company of America
Agents throughout Australasia*
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Launceston and
Christchurch.
WILL ANDRADE BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK 01 NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
ABK Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donklly’s Art oe Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings. Is. Maria Monk Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter
Is each Reynolds’ Court of London Series 2s.
Li it'le Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches
ls ’ PjoH ls .? d - All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each!
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post ls 3d
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees ls.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition *l9O
illustrations, ls 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise •
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making Is 3d
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, i s . Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and ls 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
m
»-VS9».
*-//#
Free Catalogues:
■ No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2— Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. S—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,''Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Bn gin kkr’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain- Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, ,1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. : Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d.. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter. Writer,
Is. Photography, is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and poricraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
iraininj' r^Ju - 1 -T-'!^V’, 1 £^SC - Ful ly Illustrated.' Deals with breediuar, breaking.
hew *h«. -d
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
W i
?;i i
I AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES'
PLASMON
COCOA
I* non-heating. One cup contains
“ more nourishment than 10 caps of
R any ordinary cocoa.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop ;» a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of dur
latest improved nigh grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will aloe free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co. t
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S3TID Untie 3T-
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation' of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and ctire? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neural gi a, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 220-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent, with my Valuable Rook—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., HELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they no* only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/li and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
Holman Hunt, painter of the “Light of
the World,” began his career in an auctioneer’s
office where, in his leisure moments, he used to
draw flies on the window-panes. Those flies
greatly troubled the boss, who used to try to flick
them off with his handkerchief.
Bryson made the facilis descensus to Syd-
ney Domain, and tells about it:—
It wor de Seven Garters I went into, an’ as I wanted to
act on de square, I showed de boss nine sovs. I wor
“Mr. Thomas Bryson ” while de first sov. melted. De
barmaid, who wor de boss’s wife, said “ Yes, sir,” an’
“ No, sir,” an’ de boss took me to a inside room where
there wor a sofy, an’ said “Best yerself, Mr. Thomas
Bryson, for a hour or two whenever ye like—it’s blazin’
’ot.” When de second sov. neared de goal de barmaid
“A little soup would do yer good, sir. I
made some specially for yer. Wouldn’t ye like a
little, Mr. Bryson ? ” I took soup an’ counted me money.
All fair an’ square ; no lambin’ down at de Seven Garters.
De fourth day I broke de eighth sov., an’ I noticed I wor
now “ Bryson,” an’ de barmaid said nothing about soup,
an’ de boss let me lie on de floor an’ said nothing about de
sofy. When I broke de last sov. I wor “ Ole Tom ” an’
“ Bushie,” an’ de barmaid stopped sayin’ “ Sir.” On de
afternoon of de fifth day de barmaid said to de boss—l
wor only partly asleep—" Shift de ole fellah ; 'e ’as only
half-a-sov.” An’ de boss says, “I wor just thinkin’ o’
doin’ it. If 'e spent de nine sovs. in five days ’e might
talk o’ lambin’ down an’ give de Seven Garters a bad
name, but if ’e goes away with half-a-sov. ’e’ll see we’re
not greedy, an’ it’s de place dat takes his last half-sov. as
’e’ll have de grievance against.” An’ den ’e shakes me
an’ says, “ ’Ere, bushie, go an’ see de town like a man.
Ye ’ave plenty o’ money," an’ ’e hits me pocket where the
coppers were. “Ye’ve been this end o’ the city long
enoup-’.; go an’ see the sights, man.” It wor blazin’ ’ot,
but were no soup an’ no sofy, an’ out o’ the side
’’ K»r he shoved me. Howaniver, he wor right about de
o rievance o’ de last half-sov. I shepherded it like a miser,
an’ ’ad four long ’uns for iverv shillin’. I fought for full
vally—l mind gettin’ inter rows over de size o’ de pewters
an’ glasses—an’ at last, I dunno ’ow it wor, I woke up in ’
de Domain. I can’t say as I wor lambed down—least- |
ways, not as used to be in de bush ; but dis city way
cleaned me out just de same.


To soothe
Skit! smarting under the heat at &
*■ burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is Specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of (whence its name'
and other irritation of the skin, it'is also
popular for general bath and toilet Use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by till local Chemists cltid Stores,
in bars tltid tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvem & 0&., Manchester.
ENQLANb,
SOME
BOOKS
.
SOLD
BY
SR
m
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
RMBIIACIN&
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HONIfi TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B; FOOTE;
18 Plates-. 36 Chromes. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages;
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS* and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense* can afford to dispeiis'e with the information embraced
in its covers. The rteW 20th CerttUry edition just arrived;
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED; Complete, unabridged*
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide*
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How To Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love' Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump .Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Mare Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science, of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Caros, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,. Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple v (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own-Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers HANDYBOOK, Is‘3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be -fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, lev - Established W Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT PROn THIS ADVT .
~ . ~~— Z l .. ♦ ■■•==7=-
Write lot- my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhete for the Asking-.
REMIT tN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST;
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted; New Tricks with Gauds, Is. Saitiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
■Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SArPHO, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
Q| O
oi n
ERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
AWMW AEEOVHG
“ Hotter sYvouVd \>e nnWAvouA ft \ sewt OTX softest.
£
f! d/'etary adapted to ode prowftp d/pest/Vepowers
Milk Food N?l I Milk Food IN?2 1 Malted Food N 93
from 6/rd to 3mortts i from 3to 6mortds i from 6 moot/is e/p words.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
MELBA ACGORDEONS
S3
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are . .
easily learnt
No know'
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer. ;
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street. Melbourne. a
THE BALLET GIRL
fs
Set theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
ahd Confessions of a.
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post tree, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 1 G.P.O. t SYDNEY*
df
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If von are deaf, dr have head noises, dori’t wdste time and
money as I did. Write fiih, mentidning' this paper) and I
will Send yoii full infdrmatidn FREE; Address-
Mil. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All. Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYCIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. j. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored ii
Four Weeks by the use of
£ S RI C O R O'S
\.IF fc-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
"MORRISS*
IMPERIAL
EYE
OIHTMEHt
-CURES
FRAN
Superior
to
AH Others ,
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ !
*
Fop IUFA NTS, INVALIDS, and tho AGED.
BENGER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, ftc., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Suggested by the Launcesfon (Tas.) cen-
tenary :
Sergeant William Dell was one of Lieutenant-Colonel
Paterson’s soldiers, who selected the site for Launceston,
which had its .centenary jthe other day. Dell had
a fatherly feeling foy Che town, and lived in jt till 1867,
when he died at the age of 102, and was Mried in the It. C.
cemetery at Glen Dhu. The old man was a cousin of
Dease, the draper, of Brisbane-street, Launceston, who
was one of the crowd that helped Thomas Francis
Meagher, the Irish revolutionist of ’lB, to escape from his
gaol in Tasmania to the United States. Dell lived with
the Deases, in York-street, in a house that wasi.latety
pulled down to let Dr. Hogg build a Queen Anne man-
sion. The old chap used to parade in front of the house
with a big, knobby stick, which is now exhibited in the
Launceston Museum. One day he suddenly went indoors,
and, saying “ Time’s up,” lay down and died.
Griffis writes, in “ The Mikado’s Em-,
pire” (ch. xvii.): —
The only religion in Japan worthy of the name is Bud-
dhism ; yet even in this there is no hope of immortality
for a woman unless she is re-born as a man, which means
that there is rio salvation for a woman. In the eye of
Buddhist dogma, woman is but a temptation, a snare, an
unclean thing, a scapegoat, an obstacle to peace and holi-
ness. Duty to parents overshadows all other duties. The
Japanese maiden, as pure as, the purest Chfistiah virgin,
will, at the command of her father, dhter th? brothel
to-morrow and prostitute herself for life. Not'a murmur
escapes her lips as she thus filially obeys ; to a life she
loathes, and to disease, premature old age, and’an early
grave she goes joyfully. The staple of a thousand novels, '
plays, and pictures in Japan is written on the.lifp of a
girl of gentle manner's'and- tended heart, who hates her
life and would gladly; destroy it, but refrains because her
purchase money has enabled her father to pay his debts,
and she is bound not to injure herself.
: The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board
of Works has got the sound of the death-
rattle; in its throat. Since the death of Fitz-
gibbon,l the Board, helpless enough before, has
further degenerated. The Board is as big as a
Federal Parliament, and costs a lot of money, for
though the members are not paid, the expenditure
on printing, clerks, secretaries, &e., run's into a
big lump. Then the whole of the Board’s opera-
tions are said to be over-staffed, and with all this
staff to do its calculations, it managed to be some
£2,000,000 out in its estimate of the cost of sewer-
ing the Fitzgibbon city. Probably the Metro-
politan system will be handed over to three com-
missioners. . .
“J.D.”: Have just seen a prominent
Australian almost in tears because the highly-
respectable, but not very conspicuous, King of
Denmark is dead. Wondered at his excess of
sympathy until I discovered that he had made
arrangements for being presented at court, and
had gone to great expense in the purchase of
knickerbockers wherewith to garnish his unim-
pressive shanks, and silver buckles, and ruffles and
a toy dagger. As he Was about to leave for Aus-
tralia a day or two after the important ceremony,
he was scared that he Would miss the chance of
loyally fumbling at Edward’s hand for a fraction
of a minute, and would never have an opportunity
of stalking abroad in his hundred pounds’ worth
of store garments. He seemed inclined to set
King Christian’s death down to the horrible
machinations of the Labor party.
The United States, since it was bitten by
the Imperialistic centipede, steadily drifts towards
Royalism. The Roosevelt-Longworth wedding is
described as a more exclusive and aristocratic
affair than any monarchical pageant. And, since
the bride’s father allowed presents to come from
the European kings, in future the United States
must join in such compliments, its President
giving and .receiving as a king. He can’t do that
on £lO,OOO a year (unless he is a millionaire), and
White House finances will have to be revised.
Thus the rugged Republicanism of Hamilton,
Jefferson and Lincoln gradually passes away.


CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN ADELAIDE GUP, Adelaide,' S;A., May 9
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Raiidwiek, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tasinaniav June 4
MELBOURNE GUP, Flemihgton, Victona, Moveirfbei* 0 111 Ui
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 sach.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
NOTICE;
;r, -On alj Sweeps on Races ! run -after JANUARY V, 1905, \ TctsmctHfCtHGQVernment Stamp Tax Win be 2di ori each'
ss. Ticket, and 4dm on each /OsJ Ticket m . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
.T-t-S-J-Tlm-iili*) J. .> J.' _ ' U 1. 1 t J. , iJ-JSK-I
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate o’f the late, CBO'ROE ADAMS to chrry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded througfi ttnf PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
DR. J. COLLIB BROWNE’S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c. bears dn the
GrOvernment Stamp the name df
the Inventdr
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE itLUSTHAiEU LdNbdN hhwS bf
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
41 If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
Inost generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CJhlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple aililients forms
its best recommendation:”
eir.
Fop Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 G.F.W; Cartridges are known By §\\ expefiefi§@d
sportsmen to be reliable, They are specially
adapted for; and tested in y Marlin; Winchestef
Remington and other stdfidafd rifles, When puf-
chdsing cartridges; Specify these ihade by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
DRtjQ tiAßiy
HAVE YOU FAILED THEOUGIf
nRIIMIfENNESS
UIIUIIH DON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one
liarensthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
//are finished the half course, which has
effected a cine. J have ho desire for drink ,
in fact, hute a repugnance to the very idea
of iti Yours faithfully ,
Write for Treatise So. 5. Posted Free.
The Di. Langston institute,
129 A COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
LIQUOR HABIT
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
T*Tyn3 FAiVtOXJS REMEDY FOM
(JOIN JUS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE 01* ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, Hoi - Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain*
B£3WAftE: OB’ COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong,
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack of influenza, artd was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of Which time, feeling some-
what better, I got up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me hut temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—lLearne’s Bronchitis Cure —from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
I was able to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faith-
fully, J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “ GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker, •
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
manhursb a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that had a distressing- cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment. —Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydale Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used man}- cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, andnow recommend it to toy friends. Wishing you
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything-, and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of my chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours truly,.
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort. —I remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well.—
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASK
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURK
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth.—l am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE y VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- Qflj ce ; No, 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Nice Medicine
sd
—Verdict of the nursery
upon Scott*s Emulsion
of cod lft>er oil and
bypophosphites of lime
and soda*
——+——+ +
A bit of advice to mothers;
Scott's Emulsion keeps sweet to
the last drop* Get a bottle to-day,
keep it by you, and give a dose
at the first sign of S'<s•
COLD or COUGH, BRONCHITIS,
WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP,
WASTING,
TEETHING,
MEASLES,
RICKETS.
+ + +
,3* 67, Murray Street, Pyrmont, N.S.W.,
December 17th, 1904. “My friends
used to tell me I would never rear my
little Arthur, aged one year and nine
months. While suffering from measles,
he had a severe attack of bronchitis
and I decided to try Scott’s Emulsion.
The change was wonderful; he is not
like the same child, his cough has
entirely disappeared, he has gained
considerably in weight, and looks
splendid.” (Mrs.) J. Wallace.
+ f +
There are nurseries
which have never at
known a clay's serious
illness, because the
mother has always
kept a bottle of Scott's
Emulsion, and used it.
& The purest food-medicine and
wonderfully nourishing, thanks
to the superb, original Scott pro-
cess of manufacture* Always
SCOTT'S for children.
—». -
Would you see how they like it?
Write us at once for a free trial bottle
(sending 4d. for postage and mentioning
this paper. SCOTT & BOWNE, Ltd.,
483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.5.W*
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
6000 1 GOOD 1 6000
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
MAKES YOU
FEEL GOOD
3i»
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
£
vs.
P u fui»: !
sjs;
Like a DIAMOND
IN THE SKY.
DR. SHELDON’S
DISCOVERY.
Of all the new discoveries in medical
science, the most remarkable in recent
years, is one which will prove invalu-
able to thousands of people, and
which it is believed will take the
place of all other remedies for the
cure of coughs, colds and consump-
tion. The preparation is called
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
COUGHS, COLDS
*■»> CONSUMPTION,
and is a scientific compound
of great merit. It is most
healing to the lungs and
throat, and cures the
cough or cold in a re-
markably short time,
leaving no bad after-
effects. As it contains
no poisons of any
kind it is a perfect-
ly safe remedy for
children, and is
particularly good
for croup and
whooping cough.
The dose is
small, and it
is pleasant
to take.
What a
Well-known
Chemist has
to say of
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery.
April 27th, 1905.
Sheldon Drug Company,
13 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs, N.S.W.
Last week I took home a bottle
of Dr SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS, COLDS & CONSUMPTION.
I obtained this for my two boys aged
seven and four years. The elder lad had
a nasty troublesome cough and cold: the
other a bad cold and a cough just beginning
to trouble him. They each took your cough
remedy, which, by the way, they liked immensely,
and in two days the cough and cold of the younger
boy had entirely disappeared, having been cut short
in good time, and at the end of the third day the elder
boy was absolutely cured.
Being a Chemist for seventeen years, I am naturally
somewhat antagonistic to proprietary and patent medicines,
but in this instance I must recognise and acknowledge the
efficiency and merit of your excellent preparation, and give
credit where credit is due. I was greatly pleased with the
marvellous and striking curative and soothing properties of your
admirable remedy, which I will add, from a pharmaceutical stand-
point, is splendidly compounded. —Yours faithfully,
CHARLES A. FINCH, Ph. C., M.P.S., etc.
Kuranda, Boyce Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, N.S.W.
Br. SHELDON'S
HER DISCOVERY
FOR
AND
COUGHS, COLDS\
CONSUMPTION, ]
The BEST
LUNG REMEDY
in the World.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. PRICE 1/6 4 3/"
SHELDON DRUG COMPANY, Proprietors,
BOSTON, U.S.A. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
In Memoriam.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
IN a deserted hut on the Melbourne road
two travellers were camped. They were
old, white-bearded, travel-stained battlers
of the track. They owned bulky swags, and one
possessed a sore-eyed, sad-looking dog. Also,
they were old acquaintances, who had not met for
years, brought together again by chance. Things
were not at their worst with them, for there was
beer in the billy, and as they drank they talked
and grew confidential.
The bigger of the two —he with the dog—grasped
his companion’s hand, and told him how pleased
he was to see him once more.
“ I can’t git over meetin’ y’ after all them years,
Bill. I can’t think it’s me ole mate Bill. Orfen
an’ orfen I’ve thought of y’, an’ sez t’ meself,
‘ Pore ole Bill, I expec’ he’s gorn aloft.’ He was
one ev th’ white ’uns, he were. Th’ whitest wot
evet humped his drum.’ That’s wot I use t’ say,
Bill” —Bill was standing the beer—“an’ I sez it
now t’ y’ face. Bill, y’r a white man.” He let
Bill have his hand back, and drained the can to
the last drop.
Bill looked regretfully at the empty billy, and
sighed. “Ah, well,” he said, “this is me last
trip, mate. I’m givin’ up travellin’ f’r good.”
“ What! y’ ain’t goin’ to take a job, Bill, are
y ’?”
“No mate, not that. Me workin’ days is over,
me trampin’ days is done. I’m goin’ ’ome at
last.”
“ Oh, it ain’t come t’r that, Bill, Y’ ain’t goin’
t’r chuck er seven jest yet. Cheer up. Never
give in. There’s a good time cornin’,” said the
other, vaguely.
Bill smiled. “You mistook me meanin’, mate,”
he said. “ I ain’t goin’ t’r turn me toes up. I’m
goin’ ’ome t’r the bosom of me family to live in
comfort.”
“Y’ ought t’r see a doctor, Bill,” said his com-
panion, “ y’r brains want overhaulin.”
Bill rose and procured a bundle of papers from
his nose bag. They were mostly newspaper
cuttings. He handed one to his mate.
“What’s this? A ’moriam notice? Charles
Morton ; who’s he?”
“That’s me, Jimmy. That’s me real name, y’
know.”
“But y’ ain’t dead, Bill.”
“No, I ain’t dead, though they think I am.
Y’ see, I left ’ome un’appy circumstanced. I was
insulted. Because I give up graft, and was fond
of a drop of beer, the ole woman an’ the girls got
nasty. Said they wouldn’t ’ave no beer-chewing
loafers spongin’ on them. I left them, an’, much
as I loved them, me pride wouldn’t let me go back.
F’r fifteen years I’ve kep’ me word. A mate of
mine got cut t’r pieces by th’ express about five
year ago. There wasn’t enough of him left to
know him by, but he was wearin’ a pair of my
pants that had some letters with my name on in
th’ pocket.
“ They concludes he’s me, an’ buries him in my
name, an* I never let on. When th’ annivers’y of
me death comes round the ole girl an’ the
daughters puts mournin’ notices in th’ paper, an’ if
they miss me all they say an’, loved me so much, I
reckon they’ll be overjoyed t’r ’ave me back, an’
keep me in beer f’r th’ rest of me life. Touchin’,
ain’t they ? What y’r grinnin’ at ? ”
“ These is dead funny,” said Jimmy :
‘ In sad an’ loving memory o f my dear husband, Charles
Morton, who went aloft, August, 1899.
I have lost me soul’s companion, a life linked with me
own ;
He stands upon th’ golden shore, an’ I am left alone.
His ’onest ’art an’ willin’ ’ands will toil for me no more ;
Th’ memory of ’is crool death will ’aunt me evermore.’ ”
Bill sighed and wiped his eyes. “ Lovely verse,
ain’t it, Jimmy?” he said.
“Yes, ’specially th’ ’onest ’art an’ willin’ ’ands,
Bill. Fancy you toilin’. An’ this is good too :
‘ Inserted be ’is lovin’ grandchildren.’ It’s plain
they never met y’, Bill.”
‘ We’d never seen our grandfather, an’ it makes us very
sad,
But th’ Lord wanted another hangel an’ He took Grand,
dad.’
“Ho! ho!” laughed Jimmy—“ole Bill as a
hangel. What a beauty you’d make to be sure.”
Bill was crying. “Don’t laugh, Jimmy, don’t
laugh. Y’ don’t understan’ th’ feelin’s of a ’us-
band an’ father,” he sobbed. “Read some more,
they makes me pore ’art bleed.”
“No more f’r me,” said Jimmy. “I’m not
takin’ any. Why, it’s real disgustin’. They
hunts y’ from ’ome, lets y’ wander around f’r
years starvin’ an’ without th’ price of a beer for
all they cares, an’ when yer dead they spends
money puttin’ ’moriam poetery in th’ papers f’r
their friends t’r see. It’s sickenin’, ’Ere’s y’r
lovin’ daughter Queenie wishin’ f’r—
‘ Th’ touch of y’ vanished hand,
An’ the sound of y’ voice what is still.'
Why, if y’ war to touch ’er with that dirty paw
of yours, Bill, and breathe on ’er with y’ perfumed
voice, she’d ’ave y’ locked up after she come
round. Bah ! y’r a ole fool, Bill.”
Bill took back his papers and wiped his eyes.
“Y’ never knows a father’s worth till he’s
gorn,” he signed. “Queenie, she were me
youngest—a lovely gel. I was proud of ’er.”
“ An’ she’ll be proud’ve ’er ole man if y’r fool
enough ter go back, I don’t think,” said Jimmy.
“ Don’t be a ole hass, Bill. They don’t want y’.
Them m’moriam notices is all tommyrot, take it
from me. Hi know mutton from goat meat, let
me tell y’. Th’ world’s full ’v ’ypocrites, slaves
ter custom an’ fashin. ’Cause the widow Jones
puts a notice in the paper when the hanniversary
of the late lamented Jones comes round, sayin’ as
’ow she misses ole Jones, Missus Brown goes one
better, an’ shoves in arf-a-column ’v poetery,
praisin’ the virtoos what Brown never ’ad. An’
all the time the last thing either of ’em wants is
ter see the ole blokes back agin. Stick ter the
track, Bill, where y’r sure ’v tucker an’ weed, an’
let y’r old woman an’ daughters still think y’r
floatin’ around in Paradise with a pair ’v wings
an’ a ’alo.”
Jimmy’s advice was lost on the “ ’usband an’
father,” for when he awoke next morning Bill had
gone.
* * * *
The residents of a rather exclusive street in a
Sydney suburb were somewhat shocked one
Saturday afternoon at the sight of an unusual type
of visitor. He was a real, ancient, properly-
accoutred sundowner—the Murrumbidgee whaler
that they’d heard about but had never seen in
real life.
There he was, with swag, nosebag and billy,
his old hat decorated with a fringe of small corks
on strings dangling from its rim. Also, he was
in a state of liquor. Passers-by turned to gaze on
the sight, and a crowd of small boys followed at a
respectful distance, and shouted words of ridicule.
The wanderer managed to grab one more
venturesome than his mates. The rest retreated
and armed themselves with “gibbers.”
“ I ain’t goin’t’ hurt y’,” said Bill to the strug-
gling urchin. “I don’t eat kids. I ain’t a wild
animal, as some er y’ seems t’ think. I’m a
gentleman fr’m the country, that’s what I am.
Show me where Missus Morton lives an’ y’ can
go t’ blazes.”
“ This is it. We’re right at th’ gate now,” said
the boy.
It was the middle house, of a rather stylish
terrace. Bill entered the gate and mounted the
steps to the front door. A crowd collected round
the gate. The occupants of the other houses came
forth on their balconies and leaned over.
As the veteran approached the door, it opened,
and a boy and a girl appeared.
“Missus Charles Morton live here?” asked
Bill with his most winning smile.
“Grandma’s upstairs with Mummy and
Auntie,” said the boy, looking scared.
“ Oh, she’s y’ Granny, eh ? D’y’r know who I
am ? ”
“ You’re a wild man,” answered the lad.
“ No, I ain’t; I’m a hangel fr’m ’Eaven, my
dear.”
“You’re a funny angel,” said the girl.
“Y’r know what y’ put in th’ paper about ‘ The
Lord wanted a hangel, an’ he took Grand-dad ? ’
Well, that’s me. I’m Grand-dad.
The children fled inside, and Bill followed with
his accoutrements.
“Fancy,” said Mrs. Bilson from her balcony
to Mrs. Smythe-Rooney on hers. “Their gran’-
father! I never thought they were any class, did
you, dear?”
Mrs. Rooney didn’t, and elevated her select
nose in disdain.
Bill closed the door and strolled into the draw-
ing-room. “By cripes, things has looked up with
the family,” he murmured. Then he became
aware he was not alone. A young man in a high
collar and other things sat on the couch holding in
his hand his hat, stick and gloves.
“Day, mate,” said the traveller, depositing his
bundle on the carpet and producing an old black
pipe. “ How’s it f’r a pipe er weed ?”
“I er—er don’t smoke A pipe,” ventured the
young man timidly."
“One er them cigarette-puffin’ wasters, I sup-
pose,” said Bill. “Never mind, mate, no harm
done. Boardin’ here ? ”
“ No.”
“Thought p’raps th’ole woman was takin’in
boarders these times. What y’ want here, any-
way ? ”
“I—l—really, my good feller—l ”
“D’ye know who I am?” demanded Bill. “I’m
Charles Morton, that’s who I am. I’m here to
’sert me rights. This ’ere place belongs t’ me ole
woman. If y’ ain’t got any right here, git.”
“I understood from—er—my—er Miss Queenie
Morton that her father was dead and that he was
a gentleman ” said the scared young man rising
and edging towards the door.
“ That’s right, young feller ; he’s a gentleman
but he ain’t dead. Do I look like a corpse ? ”
“ Oh—no—really I ” ——
“So y’ stickin up t’ Queenie, eh, you scamp.
That’s y’ game.” Bill dug him violently in the ribs.
“ Well, sit down, me boy ; make y’ self at home.
Don’t mind ”
The young man dashed into the hall, where he
met Miss Queenie herself dressed for an outing and
looking lovely. His lip curled and he made as if
to pass her. '
“Algy,” she gasped, “what has happened,
where are you going ? lam ready now.”
“ Miss Morton,” he said haughtily, “ all is over
between us. Yon have basely deceived me. You
told me that the late Mr. Morton was dead, that
he was a gentleman ”
“ Well, so he is, d y\” said Bill, stepping
forward. “I’ll”
“ Oh,” screamed Queenie. “ Who ! What!
Save me.” _
“ I’ve brought back th’ vanished hand, an th
voice what was still, that y’ been wishin’ fr.
Won’t y’ kiss y’ pore ole”
Queenie swooned on Algy’s shoulder, but Algy
dropped her and bolted, slamming the door
behind him. Bill heard the crowd outside cheer-
ing as Algy ran.
“Things is only middlin’,” muttered the re-
turned one, following. “ I’ve broke it to her too
sudden.”
At the foot of the stairs he collided with a stout
old lady.
“Damn me if it ain’t Maria. Cripes, y’r
lookin’ great.”
“Who are you?” demanded the lady, fiercely.
“I’m y’r soul’s companion—least, so y’said in
J r ’r ’moriam poetery. Y’r own Charles. I’ll never
eave yer no more.”
“Oh, y’ won’t, eh?” said Maria, waddling
away. “Just wait a minute.” She came back in
less than a minute armed with a pot-stick, and
fell on Bill with a shriek of rage.
Bill made for the door, flung it open, and took
all the steps at a leap.
t » * *
“Jimmy was right,” soliloquised an ancient
whaler as he toiled, with Matilda up, along
the southern road. “Them ’moriam notices
is all a crool sham. Ah, well, I know now
what a ole fool I was ter think they’d weep with
joy ter have me back. Ah, well! ” Bill wiped
away a tear and struggled onward.
ARTHUR WRIGHT.
There is some talk of asking Lady War-
wick—“the titled Socialist” —to Australia to
speak on behalf of the Labor party. Lady W. is
an exceptionally smart dresser, drives in a most
expensive motor, and confided to an audience the
other day—
I have no money, as you all know ; but I have a great
wish to help the laboring people of this country to a
better state of things. If I have money, I always spend
it in trying to work out some problems, and the result is
that I always have an overdrawn banking account, and
am in trouble.
All things considered, a lady with a title and a
motor and an overdraft is not quite the sort of
Socialist that would appeal to the Australian
worker.
The removal of the long-familiar, dilapi-
dated judges’ box has obliterated the last vestige of
an old-time Adelaide sports ground. Thebarton
racecourse covered the land now occupied by
West Adelaide, and, during the 70’s and there-
abouts, was the only important race-ground near
the Holy City. The Adelaide Cup was first run
there. Tradition has it that an English co. owned
the land, which was leased by the S.A. Racing
Club. When the course was abandoned, a local
syndicate bought the site, cut it into sections and
streets, and auctioned it during the land boom of
the early 80’s. By way of preserving the horsey
traditions of the locality the streets were named
after famous racers of the time, some of them
Adelaide or Melbourne Cup winners—Falcon,
Norma, Roebuck, Ebor, Darebin, Tarragon, and
Lurline. Some time afterwards some people tried
to set going another course, on the opposite side
of the Henley Beach road, but in the meantime
new sporting centres had arisen and cornered the
market, and the project didn’t pan out well. It
was abandoned after a few years of strugglesome
existence.


Piles
SUFFERED
EXTREME
AGONY.
COLD and Damp, Liver Disorder and Constipation—these are the cause s
of Piles. A chill on the liver obstructs the blood-circulation of that
organ, the veins of the lower bowel become congested, and Piles occur.
Constipation has precisely the same effect. When Bile Beans are taken the
\
cv
kJ
congestion in the liver is removed, the organ
proceeds with the secretion of bile, and, as this
is the natural aperient of the body, Consti-
pation is soon removed once the bile is regu-
lated. It is in this simple manner that Bile
Beans cure Piles. Better than all local appli-
cations—which only deal with the matter
superficially—Bile Beans strike at the root
cause of the trouble. Hence their cures are
. permanent.
“Some time ago I had a severe attack of
Piles, brought on by Constipation,” says Mr.
George Weale, of Mary-street, South Singleton,
N.S.W. “I suffered intense agony always,
when either sitting, lying down, or standing.
I tried many so-called remedies, but without
avail. I was happily advised to give Bile
Beans a trial, which I did. The first few
doses afforded me great relief, and, subse-
quently the Piles disappeared, and I feel
assured that by taking an occasional dose of
the Beans, the Piles will return no more.
My wife and aged mother also use Bile Beans,
the former for Biliousness, and the latter
when she feels at all out of sorts. I can confidently recommend the Beans
to anyone similarly afflicted.”
BILE BEANS have a world-wide reputation as a proved cure for BILIOUSNESS;
HEADACHE. INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANJiMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMA-
TISM, and in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defectivebile flow, assimilation,
or digestion. Obtainable generally. at Is. l|d., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (contains three
times the Is. size).
1
I
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Parted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Woman :
OH, think of me not with sad thoughts be-
decked in mourning grey,
But weave ye a woof about me of colors
gold and gay;
For if I were all your own, love, we might regret
some day.
streams at their source united have yet diverging
flowed,
And mine is the twisted pathway and yours is the
trampled road :
Who follows uncharted ways, love, alone must
bear the load.
In dreaming of me say never—“ Her love was
false and vain
As cloud of a crimson dawning that falls at noon
in rain,
As light of a luring mirage that pales upon the
plain.”
Think of me with the forest when o’er its ways
you see
The.sun on the sombre cedars, and flash of bird
and bee,
All things that are pure and bright, love, mix
with your thoughts of me.
The Man :
I dream of you—’tis sundown, and low a late bird
calls;
A slender moon is pacing beyond the forest walls,
And loud amid its boulders the brawling river
falls.
I think of you—not sadly, yet with a half-regret,
As of a song remembered whose rhythm haunts
me yet—
As of a fairy legend I cannot quite forget;
Your face against the twilight in dusky shadow
lies.
And o’er the bush behind her, where home a late
bird flies,
A few white stars are shining as cold as wise
men’s eyes.
N.S.VV.
LOLA RIDGE.
“In the Name of the Law."
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ rMHEY are that, said the fat police-
man; “they are that.”
“Why, ut takes three me sizet’ run
in wan little bit iv a woman sometoimes. Ye see,
yes kin club a mahn. But women ! An’ they’ll
undhress” — He chuckled.
It was outside the Town Hall gates upon the
evening of a Paderewski concert. I was waiting
for a g , I mean another fellow, when a sar-
casm winged past my ear and struck two
draggled young women who giggled upon the
kerb. It flew heavily ; I could have knocked it
down with my stick. I turned and saw the
Majesty of the Law personified in six feet of
height and two-feet-six-inches of diameter at the
belt buckle. He was a fine man, would have
made an ideal drum-major. But he was no ladies’
man. I told him so—of course very politely. I
found him as good-natured as he was fat. And
the conversation circled about “ the sex.”
“Well do Oi remimber me fir-rst arrist—a
woman ut was!” he went on. “Oi laugh now
whin Oi t’ink iv ut, an’ how grane Oi was. But,
moind ye, t’was no laughin’ matther at .the toime.
Sevarely riprimanded Oi was, an’ the laughin’
shtock iv the foorce. Until Mah’ney (he’s gone
now, good mahn) fill aslape in Hoide Par-rk an’
gothis boots shtole. Thin that unenviable dish-
tinction was thransferred to him.
“ ’Twas this way—quit gigglin’ an’ squir-rkin,
now, an’ move on, ye throllops. . . . Ho ! —Oi
know both iv ye ! . . . Listen to that, sorr. . . .
An’ me a rispictable married mahn wid a yoong
fahm’ly. Me ? No dahm fear, Oi won’t. ’Tain’t
wor-rth whoile gittin’ me unifor-rum tor-rn to
ribbons. Wance befure, that same piece in the
pink blouse—an’ not only me unifor-rum.
“ Yis ! Oi remimber callin’ in at the Cinthral
wan mor-rnin’ to repoort mesilf. ’Twas me fir-rst
wake iv sthrate juty. The inshpicthor was con-
varsin’ wid Roiley, the sanior constable.
“‘Roiley,’ says he, ‘Black-oyed Shusan’s bin
cornin’ the Doochess iv Yor-ruk on a poor yoong
cor-rn ilivator fr’m the niver-niver out bevant
Parramattha. But her consoort, not recavin’ re-
muneration, has basely bethrayed his aw-goost
shpouse t’ the sthrong ar-rum av the law, which is
us. An’ Oi have information which lades me to
shrewdly suspect that she will,’ says he, ‘ evacuate
this Shtate, per s.s. Gam bier, at two post moroo-
diam. Heaven—an’ mesilf—willin’. But Oi am
not willin’, Roiley. An’ who’ll we sind ? ”
“ ‘ Hogan here’s joost the man, sorr,’ says
Roiley. ‘He’s a foine lad, an’ joost pantin’ f’r
glory, ain’t ye, Larry?’ Roiley shmoiled at me
fr’m ear to ear. ‘ An’ she won’t foight— at laste
not much. But take care she don’t boite your
ear, Larry; she’s very fond of polaceman’s ear,’
he says.
“ * She’ll not git indoolged this day,’ says Oi,
an’ Roiley an’ the inshpicthor laughed again.
“Don’t go aboord till about half-past one ora
quarther t’ two. Iv she sees ye waitin’ on the
bar-rge,’says the inshpicthor, ‘she will take the
ladies’ privilege,’ says he, ‘of changin’ her moind,’
he says, ‘an’ waitin’ f’r the next boat,’ says he.
‘ An’ ye will bring her here an’ report to me as
soon as possible.’
“Utwas me fir-rst brafe, as the yoong barris-
ther says—noice yoong shar-rups they ar-re too—
Oi c’d tell ye
“But toreshoome. Oi presinted mesilf in good
toime befure the haughty cominandlier of the
shcow. He referred me to the pur-rser, who
passed me in tur-rn to the chafe shteward.
“ ‘ Dar-rk,’ says Oi, ‘iv majum hoight, mole on
lift chake, indix finger iv lift hand moinus top
jint, shear undher roight brist’
“‘That’ll do,’ he says. ‘Oi think Oi kin
obloige ye—barrin’ that last, which Oi have not
inshpected,’ he says.
“‘Ye’ll foind her,’ he says, ‘in foorty-siven,’
says he. ‘An’ look shar-rup, f’r the captain,’
says he, ‘ has confoided to me that we sail at 2
p.m.,’ he says. ‘Ye have,’ he says, ‘joost elivin
minuts,’ says he.
“ Oi knocks at dure foorty-seven.
“‘Who’s there?’ braythed a doolcet faymale
voice.
“‘Open,’ says Oi) ‘in the name iv the Law.’
Oi t’ought that was foine. Phwat a fool Oi was.
“Oi waited a couple iv minuts. ‘Ar-re ye
goin’t’ open the dure ?’ Oi says. ‘ An’ remimber
that anny’ting ye says ’ll be used agin yous.’
“No reploi.
“Oi called the chafe stheward. He come
shufnin along the passage-way.
“ ‘ Oi’m afraid,’ said Oi, ‘her Royal Hoighness
amt resavin’ visitors. O’ll have t’ boost the
dure.’
“He scr-ratched his hid. “ Oi’ll have to ask
i 6 i P ur - r ser, ’’ he says. So the pur-rser was
called, an’ we demanded inthrance agin.
“No reploi.
Go ahid,’ says the pur-rser.
“Oi put me shouldher to ut —ut give sooden,
an pray-cipitated me into the ar-rums iv a yoong
lady. Oi was a modest mahn— then. She had,
sorr, divil a rag more clothes on her than thim
hay then statoos iv Vanus and Apollinaris. Oi
r ' r ®°oiled blooshin. The pur-rser laughed.
Shame,’ says Oi. ‘ Put ver t’ings on now an’
come along.’
“ ‘ Be phwat roight,’ says she, ‘ d’ye come into
me r-room loike this ? ’ she says, wid her hid hoigh
m -the air. Oi noticed the mole on her chake.
“ ‘TJt’s no use, Shusan,’ says Oi; ‘no use at all,
at all. Ye’d bist come quiet.’
Me name, ain't Shusan,’ she says, ‘an’ Oi
don’t shtirout iv this. Oi’ve done nawthin’,’ she
says, ‘ that gives anny tlirap in Sydney the roight
t’ waltz into me cabin phwin Oi am in the nood,’
says she.
“‘ Iv ye don’t come quiet ye’ll be took be
foorce,’ Oi explains.
“ ‘Loike this?’ she says, an’ laughs.
“ ‘ The shtewardess kin dhress ye,’ says Oi.
“ ‘Oi t’ink ut ’ud take a dozen iv ’em,’ says she,
‘ an’ they’d git scr-ratched bad. Ba-a-aah !ye
calf,’ she says.
“Here was a noice shtate iv t’ings. Phwat
c’ud a poor innocent yoong polaceman do ? Whoile
Oi considhered, a bell r-rang up above.
’“Hurry up,’ says the pur-rser; ‘finish your
love-makin’ ashore, conshtable.’
“ ‘ The lady is coy,’ says Oi.
“‘Well, Oi’m afraid the captain won’t wait,’
he answers.
“Oi saw that ut was to be. Over the shtroogle
that enshood Oi will dhraw a veil. Amidsr woild
excoitement Oi carried her, wropt in a blanket,
to a cab outside the whar-rf buildin’s. Did she
r-resist ? She did that. Ut was gr-reat shpoort—
f’r the crowd. But f’r me—well, Oi was, as Oi
have p’raps mintioned, a modest mahn.
‘“To the Cinthral,’ says Oi to the cabman.
“ ‘ Yessir,’ he says. ‘ Corfee Palace, sir ? ’
“He caught me oye, an’ seein’ Oi was in no
mood f’r loight plisanthry, dhrove off wid me an’
the enr-raged maiden widout more blarney. She
shcreamed an’ fought all the way. The cab was
shtopped wance be a brother orficer. Seein’ me
shtrooglin’ wid me fair companion in dishabillv,
he laughed.
“ ‘ Dhroive on,’ he says to the divil on top iv
the cab. ‘Oi didn’t know ’twas an arr-tist an’ his
model,’ he says.
“Oi will not harrow your falin’s, sorr, anny
rriofe —omittin’ the fact that Oi had to carry me
bewchus burden wid her blanket up the sh’teps iv
the Cinthral, to the gr-reat deloight an’ inth’rest
iv the loafers in fr-ront iv that classic poile.
“ ‘Phwat the divil’s this?’ says the inshpecthor,
shternly, as Oi de-posited me bounteous ar-rumful
befure the char-rge disk, where she immajitly tore
her blanket to sthrips an’ used language ad
liboitum.
“‘Black-eyed Shusan, sorr,’ Oi says; ‘dark,
majum height, mole on lift chake. Oi hadn’t
nayther the toime nor the inclination to considher
the r-rest, sorr. But here she is—an’ be dahmed
to her! ’
“Roiley came in wid a dhrunk-an’-tearin-me-
uniforrum joost then.
“ He sees the captive iv me bow an’ shpear, an’
shtares perplixt. ‘ Hullo, Katie! ’he says, ‘ phwat
is ut this toime?’
“Oi looked at her careful. A horrid suspicion
begun to dawn on me. P’r thim other mar-ruks
weren’t there. She was led away to be dhressed.
“ The inshpicthor wigged me f’r twinty minnuts.
‘She’s a bad lot,’ he says; ‘although she ain’t
wanted joost now. But she moight have aisily
bin some shwell’s haughty par-rtner, an’ where’d
ye bin thin, Hogan, me lad ? ’ ”
A gentle touch on my arm. The fat policeman
saluted politely.
“Do come along,” said the —er —other fellow,
crossly. “ I’ve been waiting for you ever so long.”
She—l mean he— wondered mightily at my ill-
timed mirth during the Chopin “Ballade in G
Minor.” There was just one point
But when we came from the hall to the gates
again Constable Hogan was gone.
HOWARD ASHTON.
At Flinders-street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
THE train pulled up at Flinders-street
with a rattle of brakes, and the waiting
crowd rose.
“ Train not going ! ” yelled the porter. “ Train
—not— gmngll” and the people resumed their
seats.
“Right away !” said the head porter, and the
guard signalled the driver to pull out to the
siding.
As the carriages commenced to glide forward,
the prominent citizen, breathing Old Scotch, his
whiskers fluttering in the breeze and with a large,
bare crayfish tucked under his arm, galloped up
out of the subway and leaped wildly for the door
of the last smoker which he, being drunk, caught.
Then, like an old railway hand, he swung the door
open, stepped inside and pulled it to.
The porter, who had pursued him in order to
save his life • or pick up his remains, sprang on to
the footboard.
“ Here, you,” he said, “ give me your name ! ”
The prominent citizen, of course, thought the
train was bound for Brighton, and that in another
minute the porter would drop off, so, by way of
retort, he leaned far out of the window and lashed
the man over the head with the crayfish.
The porter staggered on to the platform with a
yell and two lumps of red shell in his hair, and the
citizen howled like a hyena in the midst of his
whiskers and shook the last claw at him.
Then a whistle shrilled out —once —twice, and
the train, which had barely cleared the platform,
backed softly in again.
Long after the crowd had dispersed to their
various trains, I heard the prominent person
assuring the constable (1) that he didn't intend to
hit anyone with the crayfish ; (2) that he couldn’t
remember hitting anyone with the crayfish ; and
(3) that it couldn’t possibly have been him because
he hadn’t bought a crayfish for years. He then
asked the constable to hold the claw while he
searched his pocket for his card case. He didn’t
find it, but discovered instead some loose silver,
which did just as well.
Last I saw of him he was wearing the claw in
his button-hole and smiling fondly at an engine.
KODAK.


Had no appetite, and could not sleep. Read what
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla did for Mr. Marsden, whose
portrait and letter we publish below:
0
$
“I was in a very weak condition, had
no appetite, and could not sleep. After
trying several so-called cures, I began
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and it did me
so much good that I took, in all, tea
bottles. It was the cheapest in the end,
as it cured me entirely. I now make it
a practise to take three or four bottles
during the year, and it keeps me in good
working order. I can honestly recom-
mend it to other like sufferers, as I feel
sure it will cure them as it did me.”—
Horace Maesden, Adelaide, S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been
tried and tested in every way;
and there is nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment.
It is too dangerous. Unknown and untried medicines
often work more serious results than the disease. When
you need a Sarsaparilla, get “AYER’S,” for it is the old-
est, strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy. Hold
fast to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For
purifying the blood, strengthening the digestion, and brac-
ing up the whole nervous system, use
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Builds up the System.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness.
%
m
CURES! CURES!
They Speak for
Themselves.
For twenty-five years
we have been telling the
public how to get rid of
its ailments, and we want
your eye just for a few
moments. . . . You are
weak and run-down be-
cause your Nerve life is at
low ebb. Nerve life is
Electricity, and without
it you cannot be strong
and vigorous. Electricity
is the only cure for Weak
Men. Applied to our
method it will cure you so
that the old complaint
will never return, unless
brought back by the same
cause that originated it.
Once worn, the patient
becomes an ardent advo-
cate and supporter of its
virtues. We would like
to talk with every man
who feels that the lack of
Nervous Energy, Vigor,
and Health has kept him
down. We want to have
a heart-to-heart talk with
you, either personally or
by post, because we know
our Belt wiH be worth its
weight in gold to you.
Let us send you—post
paid and Free—our hand-
somely - illustrated Book,
which tells how Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric
Belt cures, to stay cured,
Weak Back, Nervousness,
Insomnia, Atrophy of
Functional Organs, Ina-
bility to concentrate your
Faculties, Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Paralysis, Epil-
epsy, Stomach or Liver
Complaints, and Weakness of the
Bladder. Write for our Book to-
day. . . . Call for free consultation at
our office if possible.
Hours : 9 a.m. till 8 p.m
The Dr. McLaughlin Go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. 99 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD 19/4/6 B
rf/Qj.n/osqn s/Tdai/w si ojhq *ue>fX)}jepun osvo
Ajoao ui pßß)ux>JT>nQ si SMITH Of) "UG
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S Electric Belt is Guaranteed in every
case undertaken. The Cure is always absolutely certain.
We have Thousands of Testi-
monials in our offices, from
which the following* have
been picked at random:—
WEAKNESS AND DEBILITY.
RENO, via GUNDAGAI, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—Before commencing- the
use of your valuable Belt my general
health was very much out of order, and,
to use the colonial parlance, I was just
about fit' for the grave-digger and the
boneyard.
I started-to Me your Belt on Septem-
ber lOtb, and have worn it till now regu-
larly every evening. The black specks
that used to be floating before my eyes ;
the singing noises like bells ringing in
my . ears; my bladder and other trou-
ble^; 1 the stiffness in hips, knees, and
legs—which you said was Sciatica—are
all gone, and, I hope, never to return. I
am very well pleased with the benefits I
have received from your Belt, and the
only thing that I regret is that I did not
take the higher grade appliance.—Yours
truly, JESSIE HARFORD, Senr.
SCIATICA.
COOLGARDIE, W.A.
Sirs,—l have felt nothing of my old
trouble for over a month. I have worn
the Belt every night and worked con-
stantly every day, sometimes in damp
clothes and with wet feet nearly all day.
I now consider myself permanently
cured, and the Belt is as good as new.
I will willingly recommend it to anyone
suffering from a similar trouble, and you
are-at liberty to use my name as a grate-
ful testimonial to the value of your
Electric Belt.—Yours truly,
J. H. BEARD.
A LIFE-SAVER SAVED I
BONNIE DOON, YIO.
Dear Sirs,—lt is with great pleasure
that I am able to inform you that your
High-Grade Electric Belt has entirely
cured me of my many troubles. I had
Insomnia very badly; also Lumbago,
Weak Back, Indigestion, and Kidney
Troubles. I felt very low and miserable,
and my nerve had left me. Now I am
Frr and Well. lam enjoying good
health, and again find a pleasure in my
work. lam fairly w;ell known hereabout,
as I hold the Royal Humane Society’s
Merit Certificate for rescuing two men
from drowning in the Delitite River.
You have my permission to use this in
any way you like, and you may refer
anyone to me.
I remain, faithfully yours,
S. DOAK.
i'Xv 1
HANDY TO HAVE
IN THE HOUSE.
A Box of BEECH AM’S PILLS is a handy thing to have in the
house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need, much
illness will be saved.
Any Trouble arising from derangement of the
Digestive Organs is quickly set right by
BEECHAM\S
PILLS
This unrivalled medicine will do more to
build up robust health and maintain it
than any other remedy .
THEY ARE UNEQUALLED FOR . . .
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEADACH E, Indigestion,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
Females especially will find that BEECHAM’S PILLS will restore free
and regular conditions, and bring about that physical grace and beauty
which only come through perfect health and regularity.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price 1/1i (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills). [B
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Bach Capsule bears the name DM
fs
(m)
ASTHMA CURE
GHIAULfS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRI3IAULT & Co’b INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrdphy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
yeu not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHIELINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
16L000 POISON.
| FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
I we have made the cure of blood poison a
■ specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
fl Blood Poison Permanently You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
| 1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.B.A.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
jand Hkad Noises, no matter of
'how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Meibom*
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medicine Practising 1 as a Specialist
in Australasia, and holding 1 the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If you have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being cured, CONSULT
DR. MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronie and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible on Private, Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Cure
any Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Fhysician-in-Ordinary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
“ DR. MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgery, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner. He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms and in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK: “THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE.”
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all on application. The Book
contains 700 pages, over 500 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for general
use, and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely different to the many so-called Medical
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day, or
send for specimen copy—FREE.
“ELMLEY HOUSE ” 151 ELIZABETH STSYDNEY.


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwfc. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. ewt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165.,
18s. cwt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
Perdriau Rubber Co.“-
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
N 3
N
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
Sold'
by
all first-
class stores-,
in Australasia.
No. 817/4 2-BLADE
PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle • 21-
Stag Handle - ■ ■ 2/6
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to
SIMPSON
BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SilVHWVN
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
Mb
WOLF
Bot
Aa
'sx
2ep
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“TUB BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
A Policy for the Oommonwealth:
.. .....
Showrooms with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
WOOL
SHEEPSKINS
A«
TALLOW
. L. & F. CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
HIDES
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUfViPS for every kind of service
kept in stock, SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head. Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingukstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizrs, 9d. Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
m
site
-*SFi
- i
i
v
BanaaaßßsaoßgßcnagflßCtf^apPlißßaagl
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
CTSBBcsroaamwßrcx!.
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South .Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Randle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
NOVEL PRESENT.
;
)
ON receipt of P.O O.
forward to anv
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5 /- we will
address in Australia one
Set. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES,
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15et. G.F Twisted Wire,
S/S ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Gold
Wire Kitigr, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHIT BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
N. G-XJTSK-IIDCS-E Ltd.
263
Co!!ins St 7
ST.SYDNEY
Melbourne.
ifoir, -
Card Concentrator- Sperry Sli'mer. R a id« Eco h o my Stamp Mill.
Slugger and Little Giant Kock Drills.
Rand Air Compressors. • Pulsometer Company’s English Pumps of All Minds.
Lister Motors and Dynamos. Electrical 'Machinery.
Panklasi Dry Crusher. Cam Brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies.
!' Rstckaroek. ■ Rendrdck. Fuse. Electric Fuses. Batteries.
Bil Sett’s Pat- Hot Air Tuyere. “ Quihridge”' Gold Saving Canvas. Abbott Water Filter.
