

The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1355.]
[Thursday, February 1, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN'S ALE
it
99
R. O. WATKINS «SC- CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
3BC « 33 JSk. 3EL'T.
&K
Radley's Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
j, C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for
McLAREN’S COMPOUND
TRACTION ENGINES
e e, w r FnoTE whakapara N Z writing re a “ MCLAREN ” S H.P. Nom. Compound Engine, says: “At present we are hauling logs a
* & W m«;/ “sing^ver K of hilts up and down grades all the way. We average over five trip.; eometunes we do elx-an
twenty-four hours. Three waggons each trip, with a load of 7000 ft.
\
"Take it back,
I must have -
Pine-Apple Srancl
“Am-s Q
LBACON . ‘
SA
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security -
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wale* Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w Ai qibb, Manage)-.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “*3
to
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
M°INTYRE
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
TEA!
s
CH
COCOA
is the Queen of &d Cocoas
FOf^
k Arom^trewjtht'Puritjc
ASK
FOR
'Qcrrxxoe; m
■JLJLinVXIO KCI JJ3-ITIVMKHII
anvaivj
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
3L»"fccL.
SYD3XTESY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SH HIDES, TALLOW, and MAHStTFIAL
SHINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EIPBBTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by thk Company to WHEAT growers tot free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
ARDY’S
"surf .
A-zm.’ ‘
(“'5’: .’
.'.-'J,:', * ~
gays -‘ ».
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes* Sydney, Melbourne,
and
H ELI DON SPA. Gollin & Co., Agents.


THE RED PAGE.
THE SPHINN
IN a dim corner of my room for longer than my
fancy thinks
A beautiful and silent Sphinx has watched
me through the shifting gloom.
Inviolate and immobile, she does not rise, she does
not stir,
For silver moons are naught to her and naught to
her the suns that reel. . .
Dawn follows dawn and nights grow old and all
the while this curious cat
Lies couching on the Chinese mat with eyes of
satin rimmed with gold.
Come forth my lovely seneschal 1 so somnolent,
so statuesque !
Come forth you exquisite grotesque ! half woman
and half animal !
Come forth my lovely languorous Sphinx ! and put
your head upon my knee !
And let me stroke your throat and see your body
spotted like the lynx !
Lift up your large black satin eyes which are like
cushions where one sinks !
Fawn at my feet, fantastic Sphinx ! and sing me
all your memories ! . . .
Sing to me of the labyrinth in which the tvvy-
formed bull was stalled !
Sing to me of the night you crawled across the
temple’s granite plinth
When through the purple corridors the screaming
scarlet ibis Hew
In terror, and a horrid dew dripped from the
moaning mandragores,
And the great torpid crocodile within the tank
shed slimy tears,
And tare the jewels from his ears and staggered
back into the Nile,
And the priests cursed you with shrill psalms as
in your claws you seized their snake
And crept away with it to slake your passion by
the shuddering palms.
Why are you tarrying ? Get hence ! I weary of
your sullen ways,
I weary of your steadfast gaze, your somnolent
magnificence.
Your horrible and heavy breath makes the light
flicker in the lamp,
And on my brow I feel the damp and dreadful
dews of night and death.
Your eyes are like fantastic moons that shiver in
some stagnant lake,
Your tongue is like a scarlet snake that dances to
fantastic tunes.
Your pulse makes poisonous melodies, and your
black throat is like the hole
Left by some torch or burning coal on Saracenic
tapestries.
Away ! The sulphur-coloured stars are hurrying
through the Western gate !
Away ! Or it may be too late to climb their silent
silver cars!
Away to Egypt! Have no fear. Only one God
has ever died.
Only one God has let His side be wounded by a
soldier’s spear.
But these, thy lovers, are not dead. Still by the
hundred-cubit gate
Dog-faced Anubis sits in state with lotus-lilies for
thy head.
Still from his chair of porphyry gaunt Memnon
strains his lidless eyes
Across the empty land, and cries each yellow
morning unto thee.
And Nilus with his broken horn lies in his black
and oozy bed
And till thy coming will not spread his waters on
the withering corn.
Your lovers are not dead, I know. They will rise
up and hear your voice
And clash their cymbals and rejoice and run to
kiss your mouth ! And so,
Set wings upon your argosies ! Set horses to your
ebon car !
Back to your Nile ! Or if you are grown sick of'
dead divinities
Follow some roving lion’s spoor across the copper-
coloured plain,
.Reach out and hale him by the mane and bid him
be your paramour!
Couch by his side upon the grass and set your
'white teeth in his throat,
And when you hear his dying note lash your long
flanks of polished brass
And take a tiger for your mate, whose amber sides
are flecked with blade,
And ride upon his gilded back in triumph through
the Theban gate,
And toy with him in amorous jests, and when he
turns, and snarls, and gnaws,
O smite him with your jasper claws ! and bruise
him with your agate breasts !
False Sphinx ! False Sphinx ! By reedy Styx
old Charon, leaning on his oar,
Waits for my coin. Go thou before, and leave
me to my crucifix,
Whose pallid burden, sick with pain, watches the
world with wearied eyes,
And weeps for every soul that dies, and weeps for
every soul in vain.
Osoae Wilde.
[The Sphinx was published in London in 1894, in a
limited and expensive edition ; and deserves to be known
better. The poem has eighty-seven stanzas, from
which those foregoing are excerpted. It is splendid in
sonority and rich with barbaric colour, a chant in
copper and scarlet. Sherard has told of the chase for
magnificent words, and of the pride with which he offered
nenuphar.. The piece is Wilde’s most original feat in
verse, and is indeed unique. For local interest Wilde may
>e compared with Daley : two Irishmen : the one weav-
ng verse into a sumptuous tapestry, the other painting
upon satin.]
THE FOR
How many people realise that the
dominant, the overwhelming factor
in Australian politics is the Asiatic
factor ? We should speak of
Asianaustral territories rather than of
Australasian. All the paltry questions
that vex us—the Capital question and the
Drink question, the Customs question and
the Labour question—are mere dust in the
balance when weighed against the great
Asiatic questions : Can you tight ? When
can you tight ? How can you tight ? Those
interrogatories are the ultimate touchstone
before which all our careful edifice of brass-
and-clay democracy will one day crumble
like a child’s sand-castle before the tide.
When Asia moves ! When Asia moves !
Asia has moved before, and all the force of
Europe scarcely availed to save European
civilization. A new Attila may not be
worsted at another Chalons. But Australia#
the lonely European outpost, the rich land
occupied by a handful of people eager for
pleasure : who will defend her in the day of
extremity ? Not that Britain which has
accepted an Asiatic alliance for her own safe-
guard, that Britain whose native strength
has been sapped by the vices of wealth and
the diseases of poverty, whose pristine spirit
has degenerated into the hysterics of city
crowds. Australia is doomed for Asiatic con-
quest as surely as that conquest is already
planned ; unless—and it is the smallest hope
—unless she can so increase and so arm her
population as to daunt an invader whom she
will never be able to defy. We have ten
years before Doomsday : we may have fifty
years, a hundred : the day may be postponed,
it cannot be averted.
“ Japan is a poor land, with many people ;
Australia is a rich land, with few people;
therefore ! ” The conclusion is obvious
to the meanest Japanese understanding.
Australia has other things to think about,
more important; whether Codlin is really
the friend, or Short'? whether overtime pay
should be one-and-six, or one-and-nine ?
whether Brown should be included iix the
next English team’? or Jones ? or perchance
even Robinson ?
And China —“ a nation of sheep ” —the
epithet is decisive. But is it ? Sheep are
the tamest of creatures—true—and therefore
the easiest to be led ; the most timid—yes—
and have you ever seen a ram in combat ?
This at least is certain : an immense sleeping
power is an immense sleeping ' menace.
Conceive the Chinese united by one blazing
sentiment, by one enthralling cry—think of
them frenzied under a frenzied leader,
rushing “ On for the gold of Australia ! ” as
the Normans rushed “On for the gold of
Ely ! ” : who would oppose them ?
The Labour Party, natui’ally.
It is inspiring to think of the march of
China being arrested, being stayed, being
turned back by a Worker leading article.
Yet sheep have obstinate attributes. Within
the last year the Chinese have exhibited an
awkward unanimity, an uncomfortable per-
sistence, in boycotting American manufac-
tures. And for what cause ? For a mere
sentiment, a national sentiment, a senti-
mental objection to the American treatment
of Chinese. Suppose—it is only a supposi-
tion, of course—suppose a Chinese invader
refusing to be persuaded by the Worker
leading article—suppose ! What then ?
Make no mistake : one would not decry
the efforts of the Labour Party to gain for
the labourer the fullest reward, under the
best conditions. But can the Labour Party
make no other effort ? The single aim that
is a Party merit may become, has already
become, a national danger.
i There is a bigger word than Labour—and
that is People. There is a greater word
than Party—and that is Country.
To Arms ! To Arms ! A rifle for every
man, and every man to a rifle. The crisis is
Now—while there is time—before the last
sands have run down the ominous glass.
Not years hence, when the enemy is
at the gates of the North ; not even
to-morrow, but to-day. Is Deakin only a
talker? Reid only a self-seeker ? Watson only
a decent mediocrity ? If not, if they have
one scrap of imagination, if they can for one
moment shudder at the possibility of their
grand-children sold as Asiatic helots, spitting
on the graves of those who Could and Did
Not, then they will not rest easily in their
salaries till this country has a Navy and
Army of Defence, with every provision to
maintain them. These men are appointed
leaders ; one looks to them to lead. If they
are found wanting, others must be found
willing. That’s your affair who read : one
can but write.
Waste lands must be populated; hearts
and arms must be brought in for defence ;
at whatever cost of individual competition,
at whatever risk of tarnishing the gilded
banners of privileged Labour. Men in
droves and battalions m/ust be brought here
and given homes to defend and weapons for
that defence.
All unawares, Australia is even now at
war with Asia. To wait for overt aggression is
suicidal. We have subsisted garrulously Ion"
enough : it is up to us to fight for existence!
GIRLS
I.
GIRLS are of two sorts : those that you can
break in, and those that break you. I he
habits of the annual are exactly the same
under all conditions, hence it is usually
handled with very little trouble. I'roni six to
sixty is about the range of operation : after that
it gets too set m its ways. Two springs move ail
alike, jealousy and pride; if you can t get them
with the one you get them with the other. No
doubt there are some fair take-downs knocking
about; still, I think I have held my own pretty well.
Just like breaking in colts, you have to study
each one’s disposition, and handle accordingly.
They all take very keen watching, having numerous
little tricks of which the novice would never
dream. You will see a pair of them signalling
with handkerchiefs or toes to each other, just
when you would swear they were absorbed m
y o u. Ah, it takes me to know them ! \ ou can
always separate two mates by praising the one s
good looks to the other; this is a method that
never fails. The only trouble is first getting to
know them ; once you can get a bit confidential,
they ’re safe. It takes a little practice to know
when to hang back, and when to be “ bold "’; but
you soon learn.
I started when I was nine; had a red-headed
cousin to begin on. Round a knobby stick suited
her best. I got her handy as a kelpie after a
while; she used to keep watch whilst I raided
Chows’ carts for fruit. We used to watch “John”
into a house and then tie a jumping-jack to his
horse’s tail, and light it. There were always
some unbroken cases left after the upset, and slie
used to help me carry the pick away before J ohn
arrived to claim his property, bile was very
strong in the arms ; that's why I had her. Her
parents moved to another suburb after six months ;
said I had demoralised her. Some people have no
gratitude.
My parents, at the urgent request of the
neighbours, also moved to a fresh suburb.
Here was new ground, and 1 made the most of it.
I had a team of six the first week we got there.
Girls always rush a new-comer. It took all my
finesse to keep them apart; still, I managed it for
a few months. Then a rival betrayed me, and I
had to be quiet for a bit.
I am very fond of fruit. Next to our place was
a fine orchard; the owner was surly, ditto the
wife; the only child, a daughter, was worse. A
perfect bull-dog in face and nature, she was
shunned by all the local youth ; I cultivated her
from ulterior motives. Thyrza was her name;
locally this was corrupted into “Towzer,” as
being more appropriate, tihe was very religious,
so I won her affections by letting her catch me at
their fruit, and then, upon her exhortation,
“getting converted.” When she was away from
home, the only way I could get dessert was with a
butterfly-net on a fishing-rod from the fence;
their retriever was too savage.
They sold the orchard for building lots in about
twelve months, and then Towzer became my bane.
She used to follow me about (of course I had dis-
owned her as soon as the orchard went) till I felt
life a burden. Standing yarning about girls with
my mates Saturday night in the main street, com-
paring points, and quite happy, suddenly one
would say, “ Here conies old Towzer!”—a warn-
ing I did n’t dare disregard. If I were battling up
to a new girl, carefully marked down as a willing
prey, and had just broken the ice with a plaintive
“Gan I come?” I would be sure to sight Towzer
fazing stonily at me from the kerb, and get
urried, and let the girl escape. If I were just
lifting one on to my knee in the park any evening,
with a view to kissing her, just at the psycho-
logical moment I would be sure to hear Towzer’s
flip-flop on the asphalt, drawing up to us like a
slowhound. Then I would bite the girl on the
ear or neck in my excitement, and lose her for
ever. I lost a stone weight in a month ; became
moody and desperate. Twice I lured Towzer out
to Cook’s River; once to lose her. That failing
(she got home before I did), I tried a second time,
with a view of accidentally pushing her in. A
passing boat, however, rescued her when going
under for the third time, so I went home dejected.
I continued to lose weight till I felt it was time
something was done, so consulted my mate,
Jimmy Macpherson. Jimmy is so Scotch that lie
swears in Gaelic, and knows every girl in the
suburbs.
He thought a while.
“Can ye no get rid of her?” he queried at last.
“Man, ye dinna goo th’ richt wye aboot it.
Coorn intae th’ gairden.”
After whisky and girls, Jimmy’s hobby was
vegetables. He had that year won the champion
Erize at the Sydney show for onions, which
e had carefully shelved in his tool-house, his
mother considering them too powerful for indoors.
He pressed four of them on me, his eyes almost
weeping as he spoke.
“ Whin ye meet Tooser agine, be weel prepared.
Tell her ye have fund graaee, an’ wesh ta mak’ it
oop. Mak’ an apintment wi’ her. Beforr ye call
just eat twa o’yon darlins, raw ye ken, an’ hae
three gude sups ae whisky affter. Goom tae
grups affter tha firrst greetin’; clasp herr roon th’
neck wi’ both arms, an’ gie herr th’ fu’ o’ yer brith
in herr nostrils. If she stan’s yon, I gie her oop! ”
I obeyed Jimmy’s instructions to the letter.
After the first couple of whiffs, Towzer began to
struggle to get loose. I clung to her iirmly,
whistling out protests of reformation .and onion,
like a colt fresh caught in the yard. Aft each whiff
she reared and kicked, vainly trying! to free her-
self. I only held the firmer. In a voice thick
with emotion and fusel oil, I besought her to take
me again to her affections, but she only answered
by bites. My breath was failing, when with a
chance snap she caught my ear. I let go with the
pain of it. She wrenched free, and next moment
I was alone.
I met her full next day, but she passed me with
averted nose. I breathed again (though very
carefully with friends for a few days till it wore
off). Towzer ever afterwards described me as
No gentleman 1 ” The idea !
FALDE[?]
MEMORANDA
THE text of the second column will be found
in the preface to the third edition of Asia
and Europe, by Meredith Townsend (Lond.
Constable; ss.net). (This is one of the im
dispensable books of the last decade, because it is
fresh and seminal,—collecting the ideas of an
imaginative mind, a generalising mind, a phil 0 .
sopliic mind, regarding the “inherent differ-
ences” between Europe and A and their pro-
bable influence upon future his*
There is no doubt that Japan ■ >1 gradually develop
great ambitions, as all other victorious States have done
but much of her ambition will b- sated by the Protec!
torate of China, which no one ca oep from her, and by
the conquest and settlement of the great system of islands
which stretches down from Nagasaki to Australia. It has
been repeatedly asserted that, seeing her a' solute neces-
sity for territorial expansion and the vastntss and weak-
ness of Australia, the statesmen of Japan jvill, as time
advances, make some great effort to conquer and occupy
the island continent of the Southern Pacific. If Australia
were left to itself, this, judging hy the usual course of his-
toric events, would become the permanent policy of the
new Power. It would possibly also be a successful policy,
for the Australians, with a want of prudence which is almost
inexplicable, have discouraged European immigration;
they do not themselves multiply rapidly; and they are scat-
tered around the fringe of a vast continent full of harbours.
They are, compared with the Japanese, a feeble folk, not
one-tenth their number. Although they are brave, they
have not been trained to war, they have as yet organized
no great armies, they object to waste money on the
huge arsenals which could provide a whole nation with
scientific weapons, and if attacked, as the Japanese would
attack them, their States being invaded one by
one, they would probably in three years be hopelessly
crushed and driven into the untenable interior.
Townsend adds:
No such catastrophe is, however, within calculable dig-
tance, unless indeed Australia quarrels with Great Britain.
The British fleet is still irresistible ; it would perish before
Australia should be touched ; and neither Japan nor China
can hope to do what a coalition of the older maritime
powers shrinks from doing. .v..
But with this addition one cannot agree. The
British fleet may be “irresistible in British w&Vs,”
but we know very well that British shores ca-Aot
be. and never will be, robbed of their defences for
the protection, of Australia. The British fleet
might “perish before Australia should be
touched,” if the British fleet were within striking
distance. But a hundred thousand Japanese could
easily be landed in Australia long before the
British fleet had finished preparing for the voyage.
J*
Political Caricatures for 1905, by F. Carruthers
Gould (Lond., Arnold ; 6s. net.) collects from the West-
minster Gazette a year’s pictures hy the most effective
Eng. cartoonist of to-day’s events. The subjects are
taken chiefly from English politics, and their interest to
Australians is necessarily limited ; but the work shows
no diminution of the designer’s fertile fancy, no loss of his
faculty of telling expression.
Jack Holliday, Stockman, a story of Australian
bush life, is written by “ Giles Seagram ” (H. J. Driscoll),
and published in a second edition (3 S. 6d.) by Vardon and
Pritchard, Adelaide. Upon a slight thread of narrative
the little book collects bright and characteristic facets of
station life on the Lachlan in “Jhe old colonial days.”
The author has some literary faculty, and has lived the
life he describes ; and “old hands” will find his reminis-
cences seducing. There are several photographic illus-
trations of scenery, including one of Burke’s grave. We
find one of the characters (a contemporary of A. L.
Gordon) saying that Gordon was “ the poet of the
Government House and the squatter,” and “ had never
grasped the true inwardness of baokblock life from the
bushman’s point of view.”
“ Lectures teach people how to forget,” recently
declared Oanon Lyttelton, headmaster of Eton. “ I have
gained nothing whatever from any lecture I have ever
heard, excepting an increased power of forgetting ; the
only person who would appear to derive benefit is the
lecturer. I have never given a lecture from which I have
not learned a great deal myself. It is clear to me that
the system of giving lectures receives its entire support
and maintenance from the fact of the benefit it confers on
the lecturer.”
G. B. Shaw’s Cashel Byron’s Profession has
been dramatised; and pugilist Oorbett is to star the
heroic part in New York. The conjunction of intellect
and arms should make an attractive play for this coun-
try. Why don’t Shaw’s dramas reach the Australian
stage ?
George Moore, formally. abandoning Ireland
and returning to despicable London, adds insult to the
tremendous injury. “ But what about the Irish literary
revival ?” he was asked. “ There is n’t any,’' said George,
gloomily. “There ’s only one man, J. M. Synge, and he
has written only one play.” “And W. B. Yeats?”
demands a satirical Saxon.
That one’s own dispraise is a different thing
from the other fellow’s, Holman Hunt shows in an anec-
dote of Millais in his new book on Pre-Raphaelitism..
Hunt'and Millais went together to the Academy to see
the latter’s Carpenter's Shop. Hunt thought it ex-
quisitely painted, but Millais exclaimed, “ It’s the most
beastly thing I ever saw ! ” Just then two fellow-students
pushed between them, stared at the picture and then
turned and laughed in their faces. Before they moved
another step, Millais had advanced, and putting his hand
on the shoulder of the least imbecile, said to him, “ Do
you know what you are doing ? Don’t you see that if you
were to live to the age of Methuselah, both of you, and
you were to improve every day of your life more than you
will in the whole course of it, you would never be able to
achieve any work to compare with that picture? Egre-
gious fools ! ”
Anyone interested in the harp and its history
should procure The Stonj of The Harp, by Grattan Flood
(Lond., Walter Scott; 3s. 6 d. net)—a model handbook.
The writer gives a complete historical account of the
instrument, and references to all. leading performers of
\yh#m there is record. The book is embellished with
pictorial and musical illustrations ; the mechanical side
is treated ; and there are a bibliography and index. One
could not have a better literary introduction.
Stepniak’s book on The Russian Peasantry, the
author’s chief work, and probably the standard book in
English on the subject, is republished in a popular edition
by Routledge, London. People who are watching the
Russian revolution will find here an authoritative state-
ment of the foundations of critical inquiry.
A L<pnd. Times (weekly) reviewer (Sept. 22, p.
298) writes: “ All Christian dogma and doctrine is, he
holds, not only the result of development, but something
inconsistent with its essence.” If this sentence were gram-
matically right it would exemplify the use of a verb sin-
gular with two nominatives joined by and ; but one holds
it grammatically wrong. The clear distinction between
the ideas of dogma and doctrine requires a verb plural.
A.G.S.
NEW BOOKS
Warden, F., Cliffs End Farm, 3s od, post Ed.
Coates, A., Prophet of the Poor, 3s 6d, post Ed.
De Gtierville, New Egypt, illus., 19s, post Is.
Primrose, Beauty of Figure, how acquired, 3s, post 4d,
Mazzotto, Wireless Telegraphy, illus., 7s 6d, post 6d,
Punnington, Studies in Browning, Is 9d, post 3d.
Schilling, 0,6,, With Flashlight and Rifle, illus., 2 vote..
235. post 2s.
Cambridge, A., Platonic Friendship, 3s 6d, post ML
Egerton, G., Flies in Amber, 8s 6d, post sd,
Sergeant, A., Reparation, cloth 3s 6d, post sd.
Moncreiff, The World of To-day, Surrey of the Lands and
Peoples of the Globe, as seen in Travel and Commune,
many illus. and maps, 6 rols., 58s.
The University Review, December, 1905, 9d, post 2d.
Maurice, The Russo-Turkish War, 1877, 6s, post 6d
JACK LONDON, THE WAR OF THE CLASSES.
SPECIAL EDITION
Cloth 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Sydney.
nnn
: - ,
mk
m
m
mmm
m
the Great
050
m
?rGfif>sC
mtiseptic Remedy’
Influenza , Bronchifts, Affecfions of
the & lungs,& for prevention of Consumption
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, 0. HUDSON, Chemist Ipswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W.


m1]
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
A ; ' ‘ ‘ '
.vs’ ,. f
.3" ‘ LN
tod aEI Minds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., wa
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. ■'^SYDNEY.
Sydney.
Palley’s Dot Cast Cases, with Transparent Pockets,
4in., 2s 91 each ; sin., 4s 9d each
GUT LINES
TRACES
CUT
The Reliable Cut Traces, Selected Gut, Bine
or White. Single Gut, with 2 swivels, 1 yard
6d each, 2 yards Is eacii ; better, with 3 swivels.
1J yards 8d each, 3 yards Is 3d each. Twis ed
Gut, with 2 swivels, 1 yard 6d each, 2 yards Is
each ; better, 3 swivels, yards Is each, 3
yards 2s each.
The Reliable Gut Cast?, Best Selected Gut,
Blue or White, Fine,' 1 yard, Id, 2d, 3d each ;
Medium, 1 yard, 2d, 3d, 4d each ; Stout, 1 yard,
3d, 4d, 6d each.
%
rt?s
Ventilated Metal Trout Reel, 3in., 6s each
Brass Check Reel, to hold 10 yards of
Line, 9d and Is.
Nottingham Wood Reel, Star Back, Metal
Linin','' inside, fitted with Movable Cheek.
3in., 8s Gd each ; 3Jin., 9s 6d each ; 4in.,
10s 6d each ; sin., 16s each ; 6in., 25s each.
MICK SIMMONS.
m
Japanned Balt Boxes, to fit round waist, 6in.
Enamelled, 2s each.
Quit Cap
Best Bronzed Butt Caps, with screw for knife,
lin., XJin., liin., Is each.
Mick Simmons.
CEXtBI!/.TEI> t:
*W, y i
fr Medals x« h Ya „ 9 j
Boot Plaited Hemp Lines, Tan
Color, on Cork, 40 yards—Fine,
Is 9(1; Medium, 2s ; Stout, 2s 6d ;
Extra Stout, 2s 9d each
SKOWWIS XOIN
Brass Multiplying: Reel, Movable Check,
fitted with brake ; will carry 200 yards of
line, 3s Od each.
m
“ SURE CATCH ” Fishing 1 Lines are guaran-
teed. They are suitable for all kinds of Fish,
and are manufactured from the best imported
Flax and Hemp.
MICK SIMMONS
MIC
Bear
mg i
««SURE CATCH ” Mounted Fishing- Lines,
fitted ready for use, and suitable for both
river and sea fish.
V*
Bs3t Artificial Rubber
Frogs, with swivel, S'>:ill,
Is each ; Large, Is 3d each
V
Pest Eel Spears, Bright
Steel —3 Prongs, 4s each ;
4 Prongs, Gs each ; 5
Prongs, 7s each
Mick Simmons.
Running- and Split
Bullets, & oz,, £ oz.,
2d dozen
ufi
Best Oyster Knives
(this shape), 4£d ea.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports and Tobacco Lists POST FREE. ISSI
Wa Stock Millions of Fish Kooks, manufactured
specially for us by ti;e leading Fish Hook
Makers 8-iitable for ail Fish.
5/0
40
6 0
3/0 W 2 /°
Pi
n
n
*
Exact Sizes.
Best Turn Down Eyed Fish Hooks, Rustproof—Nos. 12 to 1,4 d dozen.
1/0, (id dozen ; 2/0, 7d dozen ; 3/0, 8d dozen.
- >
3 X.
suouiuiis
Best Cork Barrel Shape Floats, 3d, 4d, sd, 6d, 7d, and 8d each.
Telescope Gaff
Bee
Telescope Caffs, Rvonze Fitting and Wood Handle, Ss 6d each.
Nickel Fittings „ „ „ 12s 6d each.
Bell Shape
Leads.
jjoz. ,4d doz.
loz. ,5d doz.
ljoz. (id doz.
1 Joz. 9d doz.
(all
mam” .1“,
I“. :31 u"
‘, may
" «'va
' W
‘vJKP‘filtVs‘li
MECK SIMEONS
THE PIONEER BAIT. Best Spinning- Bait on the market for Trout,
Perch, and Ood. Small, Medium, Large, 2s each.
Dost Shark Hooks with Chain, small, Is 6d each ; large, 2s & 2s 6d each.
Best Artificial Prawns, a good river bait for Ood or Perch, Is ea.
Mick Sim mans
a
Nyssa Egg Floats— The most useful Float on the market; can
be used fixed or sliding.
Best Sheath Knives, 5-inch Blade, Strong Handle, 6d, Is, Is 6d
each ; with Sheath, 6d extra
Flat Shape
Leads,
20z., Gd dozen
40z., 9d dozen
Goz., Is dozen
Soz., Is Gd dozen
120 z., 2s dozen
We stock all sizes of Spoon
Baits, made in Light and
Heavy makes. Also Painted
Spoon Baits.
is
Best Trout Bags, made of Stout
Tanned Canvas, open at ends, 12in.,
4s (id each : 14in., 6s 6d each
nm
PATENT
“ARCHER"
SPINNER.
PIKE.
The Archer
Spinner,
for spinning
Small Minnows,
is a deadly
Spinner for
Trout,
Is 6d each.
MICK SIMMONS
Bronzed Steel Tips for Rods, Nos. 1,2, 8,
3d each.
German Silver Rod Tips, Sd each.
Mick Simmons.
Best Line Twisters, fitted with 2 hooks,, 7s 6d
each ; 3 hooks, 8s 6d each ; 4 hooks, 10s oa e I
Best Fly Minnows, made of Soleskin, fid each
Wood Buttons, to fit on end of Rods, 8d each.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
Hints on General Fishing and Trout Anglers' Guide —POST FREE
aymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Establishnr> is 49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Se3urity of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
S!!rV C .'„ P 'i tlo J ni c h J , '! ll) Pastoral ana Agricultural Lanas, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stook or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage TVed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, pf the loan during any year, without notice or payment of anv f?ne.
Directora-TuoMAS LriTLKJOHN Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
1-sq. , Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ;F. E Winchcombb, Esq.,
•General Manager and Actuary— Richard TiEECE. F.1.A.. F.F.A., F.S.S
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMPETITIOKT.
WINES
SPIRITS.
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, .CORDIALS, Ac.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
m
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
INNERB§
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
a®
MAGNESIA
iM AGNESIA
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked EMO’B ‘ FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only b, J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RISSIUSSEI, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed,
l|| , TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
■Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23'6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOtES CUBF PILLS £ upeall Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
■dB.U'UUI S-jUJ ITB ™ 3 • Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all BloocJ
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23 6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 4<3s. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Uvep Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYOWEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; ill HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. HANS PETER , ASMOSBtN .
jj good Report from Qamperdoiun
THE CASE
OF
MR. E. J. SWORDS.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
In the course of an interview which our repre-
sentative had with Mr. Swords, of No. 150 Mis-
senden-road, Camperdown, that gentleman said :
“Yes, I can tell you all that is of importance in
connection with my illness when I was at Trangie.”
“ How long were you residing there ? ”
“ Three years. It was due to the great heat
and the sed ntary nature of my employment (a
saddler) that knocked me up. When I got up in
,the morning I was languid, and did not know how
il should get through the day. I could get little
,or no sleep at night. My internal disorders caused
Such a bitter taste to come to my mouth that on
arising I often felt inclined to retch, but I couldn’t,
and jl was never prepared to sit down and eat a
breakfast, like a man should do. As soon as I sat
,to the, table 'and the food came in sight, a sickly
sensation came to'my stomach, and I would have
,to get up and leave everything untouched; but
datfjr in the day I was generally more successful in
, eating a little—very little, because my appetite
was we.ak—but it didn’t make any difference, as
,my digestion was gone altogether.”
“What were your feelings like when you had
, ?”
“Dreadful. I can hardly describe them. My
.chest had such a sensation' in it that I don’t know
v to say ; ,1 know I felt 1 that if I turned round
.quickly it would break in,two, and the way I
.sometimes had to gafjp for breath would have
.made you think I yvas asthmatieal. Then I also
suffered from cramps in the stomach, caused, no
doubt, by wind that gathered there from decayed
food, and if I had to go through the sarbe again I
would much rather die. Many a time I actually
sang out with pain, which also used to find its
way down my right side, and almost cripple me.
Heaven knows, I was a martyr.”
“How long were you ailing like this ? ”
“For fully twelve months, and you had better
believe that during that time I did not continue
suffering for the want of taking physic; no indeed.
I took a great many bottles of medicines, only, I’m
sorry to say, to find my money had gone for no-
thing, in some instances to be made worse than I
was before. There was one lot of advertised pills
I took which made me feel that I was going
to die. I felt so ill, and, after them, thank
Heaven, I procured some Clements’ Tonic. Ah \
How I .soon wished I had taken that remedy
before. What a year of torture it would have
saved me ; but it is no use regretting. I’m lucky
to have got off like I did, and there is no doubt
that Clements’ Tonic is entitled to all the credit,
for that was the only remedy that could do me
any good. Why, if you could form an idea of the
intensity of the headaches from which I regularly
suffered, you would say that nothing but a miracle
could have cured them ; and if that’s so, then
Clements’ Tonic must be a miraculous medicine,
for it cured mine. Besides this, it also put an
end to the giddy turns I used to have. Upon my
word, at one time I could not stoop down without
feeling as if I would surely fall over, and I have
often been sitting on a chair, and expecting to
come a cropper every second, owing to the same
disagreeable sensation. My sight had been very
dim for a good while, my eyes feeling swollen,
and as if they had a scum over them ; my tongue
used to be white with fur, too; yet Clements’
Tonic set all these defects to rights, even when
all other things had been put aside as useless.”
“ Did Clements’ Tonic cure you thoroughly ?”
My cure couldn’t have been more complete,
and I trust my experience may.: be an objeot-
lesson to all who require treatment. ■ In any case,
you may publish this narrative in any form yo.u
desire.” •> ■ 1 ■ \ ■ u,. , < (
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDWARD JOHN SWORDS, of No. 150
Missenden-road, Camperdown, in thfe State! of
New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in anyway my
statements —which I give voluntarily without re-
ceiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the Provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) EDWARD J. SWORDS.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
E. BARNES, J.P.
CLEMENTS’ TONIC is a guaranteed cure for loss of appetite, weakness, debility,
poorness of blood and neuralgia. Beware of spurious imitations, and see the wrapper
is unbroken.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT,
Wheat * Wheat * Wheat
The Best Wheat Land in N.S.W.
IN AREAS TO SUIT
ALL BUYERS.
Can be sold at Prices no Wheat Farmer can afford to mles.
The Land is cheap now, but district progressing rapidly.
THE...
FAMOUS
“MIMOSA” ESTATE
CLOSE TO FOUR RAILWAY STATIONS.
42,720 Acres Torrens Title 42,720 Acres
FOR SUBDIVISIONAL SALE AT TEMORA, N.S.W., ON
Wednesday, February 28, 1906,
AT 11 A.M.,
In FREEHOLD BLOCKS, 320 to 1000 ACRES, and HOMESTEAD BLOCK, comprising larger Area.
This grand Estate, which has long been spoken of as one of the most suitable in N.S. W. to support a Farming
Community, is at last available for Settlement.
The Eastern Boundary is 9 miles from Temora Railway Station ; Northern, 10 miles from BeacOnsfield Railway
Station, on Temora-Barellan Railway ; South-Eastern, 10 miles from Marrar Railway Station, Junee-Narrandera
Railway ; South-Western, 10 miles from Coolanion Railway Station, on same line. All good roads.
The COUNTRY is flat, or slightly undulating, lightly timbered with Box and Pine, RINGBARKED AND DEAD
FOR MANY YEARS, with numerous Currajong Trees left for shade. The soil is a strong red loam, very responsive
to rain, and the moisture is conserved by a rich clay subsoil. All first-class Wheat Land.
The ample WATER SUPPLY consists of numerous large Tanks, and the Subdivisions have been made to distri-
bute the supply as fairly as possible. Splendid catchments everywhere.
Land-seekers are invited to send for full particulars and lithos., which will be immediately sent on application.
Thev will be met at Temora and shown over the Estate. A thorough inspection courted.
SPECIAL FEATURES OF THIS SUBDIVISION ARE
The TEMORA DISTRICT is destined to be one of the principal granaries of N.S.W., and has a great future.
The Land for sale has been officially reported on as “ Eminently suitable for closer settlement.”
There are no residential conditions or other irksome restrictions, and no inquisitorial formalities.
The responsive nature of the soil makes the average annual rainfall— about 19 inches—ample to ensure successful
crops.
yery lightly timbered, and liavimg been dead so long is inexpensive to clear. It is estimated that the whole area
could be made ready for the plough at an average of 6s. per acre.
Purchasers will be able to put in crops this season, thereby getting a return for the first vear. A large lightly
timbered area can be put under crop without clearing straight away, and the clearing done gradually.
The immense advantage to agriculturists of the timber having been dead so long can hardly be over-estimated.
Prosperous settlers all around, few of whom started with anything like the advantages now offered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY, Limited, Sydney,
have been instructed by Messrs. BUCKNELL and MARSDEN to conduct at TEMORA by Public Auction the above
very important SUBDIVISIONAL SALE.
The Auctioneers urge all people seeking Land for farming to avail of the opportunity, as it is surely the best
available for agriculture.
It is the particular wish of the Vendors that the property is to be in no way over-described, so that distant
buyers can inspect with every confidence.
* Do not fail to send for full particulars and lithos., which will be freely sent cn application.
TERMS One-fourth Cash. The whole of the Balance may remain for three years at 5 per cent., when arrange,
ments for further terms can be made if required.
Solicitors for the Estate, Messrs. BUCJANELL and MORIARTY Yass.


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
filter's
ytair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
Silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Ilair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
.
71-92%" “ .7,
.m;+xré§x a"
,V-cdﬁ'ﬁ: '
E‘ -‘ we
His Majesty
The Kiny and
Royal Family.
If you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use
MOIR’S
“Mayfair”
Jelly Crystals.
NEW SEASON’S SHIPMENTS Just Landed.
EXCELLENT FLAVORS.
TRY . . .
OI R’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
It is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIK. AND SON, Limited
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRIIM
Wa
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BEGAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘ Viyella ’ has
borne the test of years ; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round. 1 ’
From the leading Drapers.
For Sunburn
or Sore Byes
quick relief can be
obtained by the appliea-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure cf
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. Gd. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Spiritual Bursts.
My bursts of soulfulness sublime
They do me so much good ;
I loathe all sin
Whilst I am in
An anti-mundane mood.
Mere carnal pleasures, for a time,
[ scorn as things accurst;
The grossness of my fellow men
Seems truly pitiable when
My soul gets on the burst.
I sternly chide my normal self,
I say to Me—•“ How mean,
How weak, how base,
How commonplace
Thy thoughts and deeds have been
A Vessel thou of cheapest delf ! ”
(Perchance my readers, vers’d
In rhymesters’ tricks, will tell me why
The bard resorts to “ thou ” and “thy
Whose soul is on the burst).
I put away the ribald joke,
I take but little moat,
I early rise
With smiling e; cs
The early sun to greet.
One pipe a day I calmly smoke
(Not ten, or twelve, as erst).
On clouds of faith and hope and love
Pure thoughts are borne to realms above.
My soul is on the burst.
Too soon the mood of grace must p ss
(Lord, let it linger long),
And I will be
The same old Me
Amidst the giddy throng.
Those clouds of holiness, \; s s !
Will short’y be dispers’d.
The wicked world will never know
My soul was lately white, as snow,
And went upon the burst.
Still, in its sober, sordid stars
My spirit will retain
Remembrance faint
Of what I ain’t,
But may be soon again.
When one has quaLt
The mystic draught
That slakes a secret thirst,
No fleshly forces can control
The vagrant yearnings of his soul
To go upon the burst.
VIC.
EDMUND FISHER.
Love’s Night.
Superbly in the midnight sky
The full moon floats.
Pan’s pipes are skirling clear and high
Their golden notes.
Are you content with love and me.
Here by the sombre, murmuring sea ?
Night is brief !
We’d have it endless, you and I.
Our hearts throb on in. tune and cry,
“ Halt ! Time, old thief.”
The times, sweetheart, are out of joint. . .
Let us be gay,
And dare the devil point for poii t,
While yet we may !
Life is at best so slight a thing,
And youth and joy are swift a-wing.
These fleeting years
That bring us pain and strife enough,
Leave us so little time for love,
No time for tears !
Night holds, as each glad moment flies,
Just you and me.
Zephyr goes whispering by, and sighs
Deliciously.
The pallid stars that blink and jeer
Are jealous of your eyes, my dear.
Beneath this moon,
Safe and remote from day’s alarms,
I’ve one regret in your dear arms . . .
Day comes so soon !
Day’s crowding tumult, clamor, glare
We’d hold at bay,
As Love held back the morning where
Alcmena lay.
Ah ! could these scanty minutes be
Extended to eternity !
Night is so brief I
We’d have it endless, you and I!
Our hearts throb on in time, and cry ,
“ Halt! Time, old thief !”
tas.
FRANK MORTON.
Wine, Woman, and Song.
The Austral poet, when he sings
Of little loves and amorous things,
Must needs devote each second line
To some loud eulogy of wine.
’Tis not enough to have the fair
Magnificence of eyes and hair,
With suavest curves where dimples curl,
A mouth of coral and of pearl;
The bard with all at his command
Must clutch a bottle in his hand,
And rave his ardor over-much
With courage that was erstwhile Dutch.
Is not our native girl divine ?
Have her full lips no ruddy wine
To stir his sluggard soul to bliss,
And make him drunken with a kiss?
Is Venus helpless to beguile
With warm, red blush and witching smile,
Tf swinish Bacchus there dispense
No drug to dull the sweeter sense ?
I hold the bard a sorry scamp
Whose light of love’s a spirit-lamp,
Who Cupid loads with measures odd,
And makes a potboy of a god.
VIC.
EDYSON.
MfflPWa
m
\ N
a /
C «%'
• -fl\
A HOME TOPIC.
* ♦ *
The Marvellous..
Curative Properties
0f...
Bonnington T s
ranaosS
11 For AFFECTIONS OF THE
U LUNGS. BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COLDS, 3
Beautiful Home Decorations
r*
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities,
«nITR F4VORITK" «OU» ESIAMUL (Washable) -Rich and
durable 1 * real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
Without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames,. Lamp and Ga.s lixtuies,
Highest class "ildinsr enamel* Inexpensive; easily applied.
‘‘SAPOtiIIV For decorating the brilliant white and
colors A beautiful ciuna gloss surface tor Furniture, Aletal Beds and
BATH TUB BSTAMEU. In. White Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
no? come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used iu this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFE& BROS., New York, U.S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “ SAPOLIN " FLOOR
Also ma^ IKS( WgAPOUX ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
ROTHWELL’S
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBAN •
The Best Value 8/6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
“ best present for
THE BOYS!
mHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
-L Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along' |
a wire. Oomplete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAB NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
SUE
Wow
MZZQZ/ﬂzﬁﬂW/Wiﬂ,
%WM 2% W49 {/xé/ﬁé
WMﬂW/Zﬂ/ﬁﬂ [ma/m;
ﬂaw/M/ﬂﬂw/ﬁzﬂj 2?”
{/M w?”
w 2% 4'4 My Ma
Mid/4114 Zﬂ/Z/é/Z 2%


PASTORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WKO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
; HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month —keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head Office: 13 phi||ip St., SYDNEY,
■ Manager : T. 0. BOYD.
BEFORE YOU CONSULT A DOCTOR,
THINK OVER WHAT WE SAY OF
LAXATINE.
The LAXATINE LOZENGE TABLETS act like a charm in stimulating
the intestinal organs. They give absolutely new life and working power to the
Liver and Bowels—and neither'strain nor gripe. Remember that half the dull-
ness, want of energy, fits of depression, and the “ blues” that you experience are
a result of “ waste ” and other poisonous matters accumulating in the system.
Throw them off. Feel Bright, Happy and Gay. TAKE LAXATINE.
Is per Box of 25 Tablets. All Chemists & Storekeepers,
A CERTAIN CURE for PILES or CONSTIPATION.
ARE
YOU
A
BARRACKER
For
Australia
HERE ARE A FEW FROM 1001 REASONS
WHY YOU SHOULD PURCHASE A PRIZE
A.N.A. Sewing Machine.
■"THE A. although much the
* best Machine, is halt the cost
of Any Other —because we save
selling expenses by not keeping a
staff of expensive travellers.
Your money is kept in Australia
instead of being sent out of the
country.
ft.N.A. MACHINES are the most
simply constructed of all machines,
are most durable, reliable, and the
perfection of strength and accu-
racy, with ease of operation and
superior finish.
I®l
'"THE A.N.A. is The Marvel of the
A 20th Century. Whilst pos-
sessing- the best merits of the best
Machines it has the following-
special features and valuable im-
provements possessed by no other
machine :
Sews Backwards or Forwards
with great speed, the backward
sewing being invaluable for finish-
ing and strengthening the end of
a seam.
Patent Knee Lever to turn or
withdraw the work, so that both
hands are always free.
Securely Packed
and Sent ....
Price from £3 10s . to £9 15s -
To any part of the
Commonwealth.
GUARANTEED FOR 25 YEARS. TERMS TO SUIT ALL.
For Full Description of this Great Aust. Prize A.N.A. Machine send for Catalogue A. to following address—
WARD BROS
Established 1888. Sole Proprietors.
224 Chapel St., PRAHRAN, Melb., Vic.
BOVRIL
is the Cookes best friendo
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
For The CHILD, The INVALID and The AGED.
NESTLE’S MILK
Nestle’s • Milk * Food
„ BOTH HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
V
£
Some Firms selling? RUBEROID
Holdsworth, Maopherson & Co.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd.
John Mclntosh & Sons
Anthony Hordern & Sons
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Grace Bros.
W. Cary & Sons
and all Country Storekeepers.
E. RICH h CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
HOW TO BE 70
AND NOT MIND IT.
In responding to tlie toast of his health on
his 70th birthday, Mark Twain spoke of what he
frolicked with in the eating line, and flirted with
in the drinking line, but he did not tell his
listeners that for the greater portion of the last
14 of his 70 years he had lived under a
R
A RUBEROIl) KOOF is a healthy roof—a
roof of longevity for itself as well as those who
live under it —a roof that does not mind being
70 years old any more than Mark Twain does
—-provided you get the kind with the word
EUBEEOID stamped every 4ft. of the roll.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1355.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1906.
Prick 6d.
BRINGS DOWN THE TEMPLE OF THE PHILISTINES.
British Tory Government which introduced Chinese slave labor to the Transvaal has been absolutely crushe at the General Elections.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia /or the A astral inns.'’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A AYEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing, with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Aniateurs in Jtlacle and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-dreewn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.— Braver and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
A(/cnts’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
2£Tj§j 'xllelzoi.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1906.
THE YELLOW THREAT.
There are many reasons for fearing that it is true
that America intends to sell the Philippines to
Japan. Never at any time has there been pro-
mise of much satisfaction to the American people
from the possession of those islands. They came
unasked for, as a sort of damnosa hereditas of the
Spanish war ; they have been held at the price of
an expensive and cruel guerilla struggle, which
has angered the American pride and shocked the
American conscience ; and even at the present
time the Power in possession cannot boast of any-
thing like an effective hold of the group—the big
towns are American, over the rest the Filipino
rules, or keeps anarchy. Probably the United
States would warmly welcome a way of getting
rid of the Philippines without loss of prestige.
Only ideas of national pride, mixed up with per-
haps a little thought of duty towards the lawless
Filipinos, have prevented an evacuation long
since. If now Japan were to offer a price for the
group, the American Eagle would, most likely, for-
get to shriek about the hauling down of the Stars
and Stripes. It could be argued, with a good deal of
justice, that to pass the Philippines on to Japan
would be very different to abandoning them to
drift into a state of anarchy; and that Japan
would be better able to give the islanders
the sort of rule they want than the Americans (in
the United States there have been strenuous
objections, in some quarters, to the methods of tor-
ture and treachery which the Yankee soldiers have
adopted—had to adopt, as they put it —in
dealing with that curiously mixed savage the
Filipino). In truth, the American people would
be very willing to be persuaded that there was no
loss of dignity in the loss of the Philippines ; sell-
ing them suggests the same comfortable and
grateful feeling as getting an unexpected price for
a stolen horse with the seven deadly vices in good
working order. *' i
American diplomacy, likewise, probably recog-
nises that anyhow the Philippines are Japan’s
whenever Japan cares to take them. It is in-
conceivable that any Yankee Government
would propose to spend 100,000 American lives
and 1,000,000,000 American dollars in defending a
strin o- of Asiatic hornets’, nests against a Jap
invasion. To sell what is valueless, what is
not .you:s, and what you can’t keep anyway,
is the b st of good business, a id the
American, apart from his little weaknesses for
flag-flapping, spooks, new religions and food fads,
is essentially a keen business man. Nor is it to be
forgotten that the American Government shows a
marked tendency now to conciliate Japan. A
Japanese coolie invasion of the Pacific coast of
America, rendered possible by the fact that the
Geary Exclusion Act—passed some years ago,
• when the only emigrating Asiatic was the China-
man —does not in any way restrict such an influx,
has awakened the west of America to a sense of
danger, and the necessity of checking the flood of
yellow labor has been strongly impressed upon
Washington. But Washington has shown no
sympathy, has indeed evinced a desire to extend
the toleration of Asia so far as to modify the
exclusion laws in regard to the Chinese. The
plain fact of the matter seems to be that
Washington is frightened to face the prospect of
a war with Japan. Until the Panama Canal has
been cut, and the United States thus enabled to
quickly mobilise its fleet, the likely result of an
American-Japanese war would be the Japanese
occupation of Luzon and Honolulu, the destruc-
tion of the American Pacific fleet, the destruction
of the American Atlantic fleet, if it undertook the
journey round Cape Horn to the seat of war, and
the blockading of the Pacific coast until suc.i time
as the latent power of the American people could
assert itself.
* • * *
If the Panama Canal were to-day an accom-
plished fact, giving a short sea passage from one
American coast to the other, The Bulletin
believes that the United States attitude towards
the Yellow Peril would be vastly different. The
American learns from his local negro the lesson
that the white race cannot mix with the colored
man, and the feeling in the United States as to
the necessity of a Caucasian hegemony in world
politics is well-nigh instinctive. No one familiar
with the rigid, sometimes harsh and cruel, way in
which the “color line” is drawn in North
America can doubt but that pride of white race is
keen there; and the old gold-diggings anti-
Chinese riots, with their successor, the Geary
Chinese Exclusion Act, show that the Asiatic is
looked upon with just as much dislike as the
African. There might have been expected, there-
fore, during recent events, a strong anti-Japanese
feeling in America; that certainly would have
been consistent with the past history of the
United States, and logically of a piece with that
country’s present attitude towards non-Caucasian
peoples within its borders. But the current of
official sympathy was quite otherwise, and set
steadily in favor of Japan. Since the close of the
war, the United States has even met in concilia-
tory fashion the demands of China—backed up by
a trade boycott—for some relaxation of the laws
against Chinese immigration. All this impresses
the point that official America does not care for
the prospect of a war with the Asiatic just now.
That great new Power among the nations
fears that, without a canal making possible the
mobilisation of its navy, the task of encountering
Japan might be attended with early humiliation
and only with success after a bitter struggle.
A desire to do all that is possible to avoid such
a contingency might, therefore, very naturally
prompt a sale of the Philippines to Japan,
thus shaking off the chief cause of entanglement
in Asiatic affairs, and killing, too, the trade
boycott, which has its real origin, notin the desire
of China to secure more liberal treatment of
Chinese merchants travelling through America,
but in the sense of grievance over the stoppage of
Chinese coolie immigrants to the islands—a
stoppage which began with the American occupa-
tion.
* * * •
The relations of America with Asia affect
vitally Australia. The Yellow Peril marches a
big step nearer if the Philippines pass from
American to Japanese control. Whilst those
islands were under the rule of a white race there
was a fair prospect always that, when the Jap
Jingo looked around for another war, his eye
would light on the Philippines before it strayed
to Australia; or that in the event of an Asiatic
attack on Australia, the great Republic which
shares our speech and our democratic aspirations
would have a garrison handy to which an appeal
might be made. The withdrawal of the United
States from Asia would at once narrow Japan’s
choice of a possible enemy to one, and deprive
Australia of its chief hope, failing Britain, of
friendly interference.
* * • *
This prospect of the victorious Japan marching
down undisturbed as far as Manila should be
another spur to the careless, drifting Australian
community. When the threat is from Manila,
instead of Tokio, and the great American Power is
removed from the path of a possible Hunnic
invasion of the Commonwealth, the position
for the Australian people becomes more
serious, and adequate preparation becomes a more
pressing duty. There are two classes standing
in the way of that preparation—those careless and
unworthy citizens who refuse to take seriously any
of the responsibilities of citizenship, and those
pessimists who mutter that it is no good anyway
trying to arm against Asia, since if Japan cares to
come here as an enemy it can do so, and nothing
that we can do will avail anything. The first class
it is not worth while wasting patience to argue
with. Prone to the earth its mind is and will
remain; and it will gape at the street corners,
smoking vile cigarettes and discussing horse-
racing odds until the shells of an enemy shriek
overhead. The second class —a very big class—
calls for some more or less friendly abuse. Its
counsel of despair is just as disastrous, practically,
as the other man’s counsel of laziness. Nothing is
impossible until it is proved to be so. Australia
has a small but sturdy population comprising some
of the best fighting material in the world, it has
an enormous power of wealth-production, and,
within its own sea-walls, all the elements neces-
sary for defence —men, horses, coal, iron, copper,
and the constituents of modern explosives. Estab-
lish the factories to make weapons and ships and
locomotives; train all the manhood to the use of
the rifle; encourage a sailor and ship-building
population to guard the coast; have proper organi-
sation for a decade, and Australia could face with
cheerful and equal mind any foe, European or
Asiatic.
* * * *
But the organisation is necessary. The danger
hastens on with giant strides. With every year
comes a development to bring it nearer. The
presence of America’s outpost in the Philippines
gives a sense of comfort if not of actual guardian-
ship. If that is withdrawn Australia will be quite
solitary—the one white garrison facing the Asiatic
peoples. Now the Sibyl offers the last of her nine
books.
INDIVIDUALISM—AGGREGATED CAPI-
TAL—SOCIALISM.
The tempora.-y set-back to the State Labor party
in Westralla a little while ago was heralded by a
shriek of joy from the Tory pre.is, which has
declared that Austr ilian public opinion has swung
back to healthy Individualism. This continual
barking of the reactionary press on the subject of
Individualism is humorous. Qutside the political
columns the word is never mentioned, and the
very rags which use it most keep the largest paid
staff to vvrite up the doings and prospects of
aggregated capital—which is a very different
thing from Individualism. The use of the word is
totally misleading, and not only betrays the
ignorance of the papers that use'it, but throws
dust in the eyes of the people, and does much to
prevent a proper realisation of how transient our
present economic and industrial state is. How-
ever Australian papers are not alone in this
blunder or misrepresentation; even English
financial papers, which live absolutely on aggre-
gated capital, perpetrate dreary lies about how
Australian Democratic legislation is stifling
“Individual Enterprise.” Evidently Spruce
Myth is not alone on his pinnacle of ignorance.
* * * •
As a matter of sober history the throttling of
Individualism for which Australian Democrats
are so indignantly reprobated, commenced in
England about 300 years ago, when Eliza Tudor
sat on the throne of Bull-land, and issued charters
galore to joint-stock companies. Such examples
of Individualism which still survive are merely
the platypus and apteryx of economics; and most
of them are suckled by a joint-stock bank.
Almost all the big concerns of the English-speak-
ing world are joint-stock enterprises, and Indi-
vidualism, as far as that collection of races is con-
cerned, is as dead as Queen Anne. That being
so, papers which represent Australian democracy
as slaying a thing that was pretty dead the better
part of a century ago, are run by either fools or
prevaricators.
• • * *
There seems to be a notion among the opponents
of combined capital that the death of Individual-
ism was a bad thing, and that it would be well if
we could go back to the old simple state, when
each man traded only with his neighbor in the
village, and industrial organisation was unknown.
William Morris, the Kelmscott Socialist, was a
great man, but that mediaeval kink of his life was
an unfortunate one. The days of Individualism
were days of stagnation, poverty and brevity of
life. When Private Enterprise really did exist
“ Merrie England ” was a good place to be out of.
The bulk of the population was so hideously poor
that it wore leather next its skin, because it could
not afford shirts; even its wealthiest used rushes
and straw on the floor in lieu of carpets. The food
of the bulk of the population consisted of black
bread, peas, roots and weeds. Meat it ate when
it occasionally and surreptitiously slew the fe-
rocious rabbit or hare. Roads, excepting where the
track followed the ruin of some old Roman military
highway, did not exist. The country swarmed with
people who were partly beggars and mostly robbers;
and the nobility rode round in ironmongery
and helped themselves. In the cities, or alleged
cities, the conditions were too dreadful for ade-
quate description. When streets were paved it
was with cobble stones; the drainage was that of
the surface only; and the water-supply was a
thing of tanks and wells. The man who drank
well water usually went to heaven early in life,
for the wells were sunk amid graveyards and
worse.
• • • •
When Individualism began to die all that com-
menced to change. In the reign of Henry VII.
spasmodic attempts were made at forming com-
panies, and in the reign of that eminently-married
person Henry VIII. quite a number did come into
existence, mostly for the purpose of fitting out ships
to raid and trade. They were formed by the whole
population of some seaport combining to build
and equip a ship or two. Many of the share-
holders were artificers, who gave their labor in the
building of the craft as their contribution towards
the capital of the concern, and afterwards formed
portions of the crew. But these were all
private companies which did not issue
stock. Strange to say, the proposal to
allow men who worked under discipline to
hold shares came in for bitter opposition.
It was condemned from the pulpit as a wicked
innovation which threatened to break down the
barriers that the Almighty had set up between
gentlemen and plain men, and anything that made
Jack as good as his master was calculated to
bring down the wrath of Heaven on both Jack
and the other fellow’. Then came the smashing of
the Spanish Armada, and a swarm of, for the
time, huge joint-stock companies were formed to
seize the empire of the seas that was understood
to be slipping from the nerveless grasp of the
Spaniard. The first of these appeared in 1553; it
was formed to trade with Russia, and got the
capital by selling its shares in the open market.
It was followed by other corporations, chief
among which were the East India Trading Co.
(which afterwards practically conquered British
India), the Virginia Co., the West India Co., the
New England Co., the London, and the Plymouth
Companies, all joint-stock companies pure and
simple. Modern England began with the forma-
tion of them ; and Individualism, as a pre-
dominant system, or rather lack of system, began
to disappear, giving way to a period of aggre-
gated capital.
* • * *
At the end of the 18th century England found
itself flooded with cheap capital looted from the
treasury of Bengal after the battle of Plassey.
This money was scattered around, and a burst of
company-promoting followed. Companies were
formed to cut canals, to build factories, to exploit
old patents which had failed because there had
previously been insufficient capital to develop
them, and to buy up new ones. The inventor soon
appeared when there was a market for him, and
in 10 years the spinners and weavers of England
increased from 8000 to 352,000. The fact that the
employees were not also shareholders was respon-
sible for the most hideous chapter of English his-
tory. Aggregated capital, untrammelled, irre-
sponsible, was ruthless in its oppression of a help-
less class of toilers. The machines of the joint-
stock companies ground out heaps of wealth and
heaps of corpses, most of them being those of
children—mere babies. Nevertheless, from the
scientific and economic point of view, the move-
ment was upward.
• • * *
At the present moment, Aggregated Capital has,
under the fostering influence of High Protection,
reached its highest development in the United
States of America; and how great a nation the
combination has made let statistics prove:—lt
was not till 1870 that the United States commenced
to go in for the joint-stock company in deadly
eanu st. By means of ironclad tariffs the work of
supplying the nation’s needs was reserved for its
own population, and the population had to hustle
to do it. It hustled to considerable purpose. By
1900, a period of 30 years, the country had doubled
its population, increased its railway tonnage by
200 per cent., multiplied its interlake traffic by
31, its cotton grown for home manufacture by
three, its coal production by six, its petroleum
output by 11, and its steel by 153. Its total
exports increased by 256 per cent. ; but the most
significant fact was that its exports of manufac-
tured goods advanced 535 per cent., while imports
of all classes decreased in proportion to popula-
tion. According to the amazing logic of the Sydney
Telegraph, this decrease of imports should have
shown that the U.S.A. had no foreign investments
bringing in money, and was going to the dogs gene-
rally. But, in spite of that alleged expert, the
U.S.A. was apparently prospering, as the money
in circulation increased twice as fast as the popu-
lation, and the wealth of the country trebled, and
so did the deposits in the Savings Banks. The
gold and silver output doubled, pig-iron produc-
tion increased 13-times, copper 22-times. In 1900
the deposits in the Savings Banks amounted to
£600,000,000, which was an increase of 500 per
cent, in the 30 years. In England (which had
some centuries start and all the benefits of Free-
trade since the first half of the century), the
increase in the same class of deposits for the last
sixty years was only 300 per cent.
* * * «
The telephone, the railroad, the steamship, the
improved agricultural machinery which increase
the world’s wealth by increasing the output, are
all the result of a small section of the population
combining small amounts of capital to set an
industry going on a scale in which it can play for
big stakes. If the capital and brains of the whole
community were similarly capitalised, how would
the world change ? When we have found out how
to do that we shall have evolved Socialism.
• • * •
To-day, under the regime of Aggregated Capital
a schoolboy is better fed, better dressed, and
travels to and from school in greater comfort and
with several times more expedition than a king of
the Norman period travelled to take possession of
his crown. And yet we are only on the threshold
of economic development, and our wealth-
producing machinery is owned by quite a small
percentage of the people. Probably under a
system of State Or municipal socialism, which is
already beginning to arrive as aggregate capital
began to arrive in the days of Queen Bess, the
ordinary man will live in as much wealth and
splendor as Ned VII. and Kaiser Bill do at the
present time. The chief change will be that under
a partial, anarchic system of combined capital,
dotted over with dead remnants of Individualism,
we make everything to sell. Under the Socialistic
system we will make everything to benefit the
community. The result wili be to abolish poverty,
diminish human suffering, eliminate disease and
prolong life.
• • » »
The present is not a system of Individualism —
this is the age of Aggregated Capital, and the
system that is to reign m its stead is already
pushing its nose through the curtain. We live in
a period of change, and exceedingly rapid change
at that. Already the new system begins to
arrive, and all the vituperation of the Tory press
and the reactionary tendencies of political scare-
crows like Carbuthers cannot hold it back. It
will roll over them like a Juggernaut.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N S. Wales Railway Scandal.
As most people expected, the three men who
inquired into the N.S.W. railway coal contract
find that they cannot agree. The remarkable
tiling, in view of their attitude during the inquiry,
is that they get even as close together in the end
as they managed to do. J edge Rogers and one
colleague “ cannot help thinking ” that the Rail-
way Commissioners should not have established a
private coal monopoly in the Western district
(to which they paid for coal an enormously higher
price than the private consumer did); they almost
apologise for expressing the view that it would
The Garden in the South.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a garden in the South,
Sown carelessly with scanty seeds,
And overgrown with worthless weeds,
And soiled and spoiled with dust and drouth.
The owners, lost to hope and fears,
Rest easefully, and smugly say:
“ Sufficient unto us the day ;
Why should we care for future years ? ”
“Enough,” they cry, “if sun and soil
Yield generous measure while we live ;
Enough, if this fair garden give
Us wheat and wine and corn and oil.
“ Why should we, toiling, think about
The years to come, and till the ground,
And hedge our fertile garden round
With thorns, to keep the spoilers out ? ”
The worm may pierce the timber green,
The choking weeds grow thick and fast—
They say, “When we are with the Past
Our sons shall make the garden clean.”
Their sons— God grant when many graves
Grow green above the garden-folk,
Their sons may know no foreign yoke,
Usurped, cast down, thrust out, and slaves !
For, whoso knows that garden-land—
Far-famed, wide-acred, fair, immense
He knows that by its northern fence
A swarthy crew of spoilers stand.
Slant-eyed, thin-lipped, they hold in thrall
Their eager hands that strain and strive
Till that red moment shall arrive
That gives them lordship over all.
Then they shall climb the Judgment seat,
And trumpet forth a twofold claim
To all the country bowed in shame,
The garden-country at their feet.
First, they shall hold by right of sword—
That ancient and age-sanctioned right,
That first of laws, the law of might—
The land as theirs, and they its lord.
Then they shall say, “ Ye do but lose
What ye have made a fruitless field ;
To have and use not is to yield
To those who yearn to have and use.”
That garden in the south is starred
For good or ill, and we were sent
To make or mar a continent,
To lose like caitiffs, or like kings to guard.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


have been a good thing for the railways, as by far
the largest consumer of co il, to have kept alive
some opposition to the Li hgow Coal Trust. The
other member of the commission, Mr. E. W. Knox,
•icf- mes k° same conclusion without any apologies.
More than that, he finds that the tests upon which
the competing collieries’ tenders were set aside
were unscientific and valueless, and that the action
of the two junior Commissioners in making a four-
years’ contract with the combine in the teeth of
the chairman s protest—in the end disre-
garding him altogether—was “in every respect
improper.’’ The matter of the tests involves, of
course, a grave reflection upon the professional
officers of the department, who carry a very
heavy responsibility in the whole matter; for
it was due to their representations that
Commissioner Kirkcaldie changed his views
and made the objectionable contract possible.
But even if they had a mind to do it, the Com-
missioners could not shield themselves behind
their expert advisers. If the expert is to be abso-
lutely supreme in his department, the Commis-
sioners are useless. Their business is to consider
one expert’s advice in the light of the advice of all
their other experts and in he light of the experi-
ence and commonsense which they are them-
selves supposed to have. And there they failed.
Whether they are in the habit of pursuing this easy
course of blindly doing what their subordinates tell
them there is no means of knowing ; if they are,
then the country could clearly get along just as
well _ without them. How much further the
inquiry will proceed it is impossible to tell. Mr.
Knox has resigned from the Commission of
Inquiry; and, from the other Commissioners,
judging by their attitude so far, the public will
have little hope of any disclosures that are likely
to lead to radical results. Apart from the impor-
tant though minor point raised by Mr. Knox
as to the quality of the professional services ren-
dered to the department, two questions remain
to be answered, and they will have to be answered
sooner or later —one particular, the other general.
The first is as to these coal supplies. As by far
the largest consumer of coal in the State, why
should the State not produce its own coal ? What
would be said if it hired its locomotives or its
trucks, instead of having its own ? The coal-
mine owner, taught perhaps by his employees,
has a large capacity for combination; and the
Railways cannot be sure of putting themselves
outside the power of any combination unless they
have their own mines. And the second question is
as to railway control. N.S.W. has adopted the
now largely-forsaken plan ot having three Com-
missioners. So long as it had one great
Commissioner and two lesser ones, that did not
matter much, because after all it practically had
only one Commissioner though it paid three
salaries. But later on, having three Com-
missioners to pay, it wondered whether it was
worth while having one big man—three medium-
sized men, it was thought, might do very well.
The result is seen here: they-have not been big
enough to set themselves against the aggressive
expert officers of special departments, and so a
contract has been made which two members of a
commission of inquiry condemn with apologies and
which one denounces without any apologies.
—
The British Elections.
There is no doubt now that a full measure of dis-
aster, heaped up, pressed down, and overflowing,
has been served out to the Balfouk-Chamberlain
party in Britain. The “official” Liberals have a
clear majority with their own numbers, indepen-
dent of Irish and Labor members; combined
with these —and the combination, for a while
at least, is certain—they overwhelmingly out-
number the Tories. For the life of one Par-
liament at any rate no more will be heard of
Mr. Balfour, and probably not much of Mr.
Chamberlain. The result surprises all the
prophets. Just before the elections the Outlook,
usually a very well-informed and sane paper,
pledged its reputation to the statement —“In no
circumstances can the Cabinet now obtain a
majority independent of the allied Irish and
Labor vote” ; and most other papers agreed. As
to the cause of the result, a present visitor to
Australia, a well-known publicist, throws an
illuminating light. It is his opinion, in brief,
that Chamberlain mulled the fight ; if he
had gone straight-out for Protection for the
British workman his path would have been
easier. But the appeal to “ Imperialism ”
failed. For one thing it was not easy for
the voter to see how Imperialism and Pro-
tection were necessarily connected. In the
second place the “advantage of drawing closer to
the colonies” couldn’t compete with the supposed
disadvantage of taxing food. But one typical
electorate, this publicist points out, where a
couple of years ago a Freetrader easily beat a Tariff
Reformer, and where, since, a steady propaganda
in favor of Protection had been carried on—a
propaganda in which “ Chamberlainism ” was
not allowed to obtrude—the Tariff Reformer
has won at the late elections. It is easy
to recognise the reasonableness of the view.
The British voter, appealed to in favor
of Protection on the ground chiefly that it
was “ to oblige the colonies ” and warned on the
other side that “Protection meant a dear loaf,”
would be inclined to give very little consideration
to the question, but to decide off-hand that any-
how it was little use worrying about “ the
colonies.” If he had been appealed to strictly in
his own interests, had had the fact brought home
to him that even if Protection meant a dearer loaf,
it also meant more money in the pocket, so that
the loaf could be bought, and butter withal, and
at the same time the benefit gained of a policy of
national insurance, the propaganda would
have been more convincing. It is useless
in politics to ask voters to change the
current of their ideas at the stimulus of a possible
benefit to somebody else: they want to have
assurance of advantage to themselves. But,
probably, now that the first futile attack has been
made against the citadel of Cobdenism, and it has
been shown that it is no sacred Ark, to touch
which is to perish, the Protection movemeut will
quickly re-organise for a new and wiser effort.
There is young blood in England; and it is
beginning to flow to the platform and to the
papers, and to wash away the obstructing tradi-
tions of a Chinese brand of Conservatism. One
may forecast for the Cobden cause in Britain
another ten years of life at the utmost.
♦
Lashing the Weak Intellect.
Judge Docker, of N.S.W., who has been dropping
into hot water pretty constantly for the past 25
years, has just qualified for another dipping. At
the Parramatta Quarter Sessions he had before
him a sex-maniac, who, at 26, had already been
twice convicted of his disease. Said Docker :
“ It is evidently no use imprisoning you ; I shall
order you a whipping.” And he did—2s strokes
on top of two years of_ the gaol which his Honor
says is no good for this sort of prisoner. Some
horror having been expressed, Judge Flogger
proceeded to defend himself: “Evidently im-
prisonment alone had not deterred prisoner
from committing this kind of crime, as he had
been convicted on two similar charges. It
was not true that the man was a lunatic, though
he might be of weak intellect.” It is quite likely
that he is. And there is nothing like the lash for
curing a weak intellect. The weaker the intellect,
the more lash is of course necessary ; so when the
State gets hold of a very weak intellect—in its
hospitals for the insane—the proper course is a
whipping every morning before breakfast, or,
perhaps, in a very bad case, two whippings a day.
An inscrutable Providence bestows on one man
a weak head, on another a weak chest. We
build hospitals and homes for the one ; now, for
the other, to oblige Judge Docker, we build
triangles. By the way, does J udge Docker wear
glasses ? For weak eyes. The Bulletin doubts if
gaol would do much good. But what does his
Honor think of the lash as a cure ?
-V
The New Land Boom.
The Bulletin remarked a couple of months ago
that all the elements of a land boom were floating
around, and that the chances were in favor of the
public being badly scratched if it didn’t beware.
Since then the floating elements seem to have
been taking definite form. The.last boom spent
itself in the building and small allotment craze.
But tho burnt child dreads the fire, and it would
be almost as easy to raise the dead as to raise
another boom around the big centres where the
old corpse is still partially unburied. The victims
of that boom were largely tradesmen and wage-
earners, and their savings were swept away in
the general madness engineered by bell-toppered
spielers. This time, grasping the chance offered
by the newspaper booming of agriculture, the
jobber has marked out the cocky and would-be
wheat and butter grower for his prey, and the
region of inflated land values is far enough away
from the old corpse to avoid the smell thereof.
Already land in Southern Victoria, and in some
parts of N.S. Wales, has jumped from 50 to 80
per cent, within the last few years, and the chief
reason of it is that little or no cash has passed—the
thing has been mostly done on paper. Men with
a few pounds buy slices of land, cheerfully sign the
pro. notes, and thank God with the air of a man
who has done good business and paid his way. The
time-payment jobber collects the deposit, calls
round for the early instalments, and smiles and
waits. The last two years have been good ones,
with high prices, and farmers have done well;
but the average farmer is afflicted with a strange
forgetfulness, and rushes into land buying without
remembering that there is a hereafter in which
low prices for produce and poor harvests are
almost inevitable. The end of those who buy
land at from £5 to £2O an acre 20 miles from a
market and hundreds of miles from the seaboard,
paying another 5 per cent, of the capital value of
the land for fertilisers to grow wheat; and who
have to compete in the world's market against the
cheap nigger and Asiatic and other people
who are nearer the big markets, is an easy
problem to work out. The introduction of
the complete Harvester to the big wheat centres
of S. America and Canada must also have an effect
on the world’s wheat prices ; and when this new
phase of foreign competition becomes felt, the
stench of another dead boom will be in Australia’s
nostrils. The whole truth is that Australia put
the plough in front of the horse. The cry “ Back
to the land ” had much to recommend it; but, in
the absence of a stiff land-tax, “ Back to the land ”
simply meant “Back to the land-jobber”; and a
movement which ought to have resulted in vast
good is likely to come to disaster.
+
Bent’s Lunatics.
The big public agitation got up in Melbourne
some years ago by a few medical men regarding
the barbarous treatment of lunatics in the Victorian
asylums, seemed to promise much good. But now,
after the lapse of years, things in the asylums are
quite as bad as ever. The buildings are hopelessly
cramped and out of date. Twenty years ago the
lunatics just filled the asylums. Since then the
number has grown at the rate of about 50 a year,
and the buildings have not been increased by one
square inch. Result, an awful overcrowding. At
Kew— the alleged model asylum—a large per cent-
age of the patients sleep on the floors in already
crowded wards and draughty corridors. Yarra
Bend has been condemned in toto. Beechwqrth
Asylum is antiquated and crowded. Ararat is a
grim prison, and it is crowded too. Sunbury is
being gradually improved, but the improvements
do not keep pace with the influx of lunatics.
Ballarat Asylum is fairly decent, but has far too
many patients. Yet the Government did accede
to the clamor of the reformers so far as to appoint
an expert Inspector-General at a big salary, and
promised to carry out his suggestions. Dr. Ernest
Jones, the Inspector-General, is a man chock-
ful of valuable ideas and up-to-date knowledge
regarding lunacy matters. But he doesn’t seem
to have any pluck or determination. As a conse-
quence, all his reports and suggestions have been
ignored, and Dr. Jones is content to sit tight
and let things slide. The old straight-jacket
and cold douche treatment which prevailed
in Victorian asylums until a couple of years
ago has been abolished, and in its place
the modern system of individual observation-
treatment is supposed to have been substi-
tuted. This is mere supposition, however, for
that method requires about three times as many
attendants as there are in the Victorian asylums,
and requires that they know their business
and have special training. The Victorian atten-
dants are untrained. It is admitted by all con-
nected with the lunacy business in Victoria that
nothing whatever is being done towards curing
the insane. They are herded in insanitary, ill-
built dens, and left to their own resources. One
warder (he can’t be called an attendant)
watches 40 or 50 lunatics, and generally
doesn’t even know what particular forms of
insanity they are suffering from. There are no
trained nurses to attend patients in illness and
virtually no safeguards against fire or escape of
patients. Lunatics walk out of both Kew and
Yarra Bend with such frequency that no one in
either asylum feels at all excited when a patient is
reported missing. Formal notice is sent to the
police and the rest is left to Providence. Premier
Bent has been approached time and again on the
subject, but he does nothing. His ciy for along
time was “No money 1” When he got a surolus
and was pri cteding to attract votes with it, another
attempt was made to have the State’s lunatics
at all events decently housed. But just in the
nick of time the property-holders round Kew
asked Mr. Bent to shift the asylum altogether,
and he hung up the whole idea of lunacy reform
until he had decided this question. No man in
Victoria is cleverer at finding excuses than Pre-
mier Bent, and it is clear that he doesn’t think
lunatics worth bothering about. They haven’t
gob votes.
Hospital Scandals.
As a preface— The Bulletin believes that the
majority of public hospitals, certainly of the
great hospitals, are conducted as well as is
humanly possible considering the “system.’
Doctors and nurses are usually kind and keen at
their work. That they become a little “hardened ’
to suffering is natural; they see so much of it that
their sensibilities are somewhat blunted. That,
however, need not interfere with their work—
indeed would in some respects help it, for medicine
is not a science which can lean to the maudlin and
hope to succeed. Buthospital scandals are painfully
frequent. Sydney has had two within the last few
days. A constable took to Sydney Hospital a young
woman who had been knocked down by a passing
cab. At 11.35 p.m. three resident doctors ex-
amined her, dressed her injuries, and, as she had
the money to pay for a cab, sent her home,
•where she arrived some time after midnight, very
ill and suffering severely. She was a domestic
servant and her employer wrote to the papers
complaining bitterly of her being treated in such
a “callous manner,” and stating that she was
helpless and suffering severely, and should have
been kept in the hospital. The hospital authori-
ties seem to argue that since no limbs were
broken the case was not one for hospital
treatment. The second scandal was graver.
.John Burrell was taken to Prince Alfred Hos-
pital on the night of the 11th. He had fallen
backwards down stairs while under the influence
of alcohol. According to his wife’s evidence at
the inquest, which has so far not been contra-
dicted or discredited in any way, he was bleeding
profusely from a wound in the back of the head.
On the 12th, she received word to bring his
clothes to the hospital, as he was fit to return
home. At the building, she found a nurse and a
doctor trying to rouse him, and unable to do
so. Nevertheless, he was sent home to her
that night—the evening of the 12th —in a
state of unconsciousness. On the 13th he
revived slightly, expectorated much blood,
and again relapsed into unconsciousness, and
was re-admitted to the hospital that even-
ing. He remained there till the night of the
16th, unconscious, and again he was sent home,
still unconscious. The wife called at the hospital
next day, and was told that when he got hungry
he would wake up and eat, but his wife failed to
get him to take even a glass of water. On the
19th an outside medico was called in, and
ordered the patient back to the hospital as being
in a desperate state. His wife was naturally tired
of Prince Alfred Hospital, and preferred the
Coast Hospital. A nurse from Little Bay arrived
to take him there, but declined to take charge of
him, on the ground that he would not survive the
journey. He was again taken to the Prince Alfred
institution, and died there at 5.45 p.m. that day,
and the ping-pong game with his unconscious form
ended. It is very hard toaccept any excuse, however
specious, for this incident. It lookslike sheer cruelty
or else shocking ignorance. But when a reason
is sought for these and other similar incidents it
must be found in the system. Under that system
a metropolitan hospital, and especially the Prince
Alfred, is primarily a clinic—a practice ground for
surgeons and physicians who give their services
free, partly for charity, partly for the practice they
will get. The paid medical officers are usually
youngsters fresh from the University who work
for merely nominal salaries —again partly out of
charity, and partly for practice. Naturally the
patient who is aninterestingand instructive “case”
is more welcome, and the patient with something
quite ordinary but none the less unpleasant and
deadly in the way of disease, is less welcome. The
Eatient comes to be estimated for the practice that
e gives. That is one source of scandal. The
next is that the hospital staff—doctors and nurses
—are generally much overworked as well as
underpaid. On the collection of voluntary sub-
scriptions the hospitals have to depend in part,
and this collection seldom gives adequate results.
So economy is always grinding away efficiency.
The third cause of hospital scandals is to be found
in the reaction of the first two on the per-
sonal factors. The doctor who sees nothing in
his hospital course "but experimenting and who is
also overworked, and the nurse whose nerves are
strained by too long hours, get fits of obstinacy.
What was at first a mistake is allowed to drift
into a scandal because of over-wrought nerves.
The fourth cause of “hospital incidents,”
and not the least, is the efforts of some of the
public to impose upon the hospitals. After
a dozen or so malingerers have cheated a
hospital, the time is ripe for a scandal to occur
through an honestly sick man being sent away
from the door. The ultimate conclusion to be
come to is that the semi-private hospital has out-
lived its day. There should be a hospital rate
and a health tax, and the hospitals should be run
absolutely by the State, with competent well-paid
men and women on duty, working reasonable
• hours and taught to regard every sick case as a
duty.
Fruit.
There is in N.S.W. and elsewhere throughout the
Commonwealth the co-operative butter factory
system in connection with the cult of cow ; why
not organisation on the same lines for the profit-
able utilisation of fruit? The factory system in
the dairying industry practically amounts to this :
that the individual farmer can bring his product
in its highly perishable state to a factory and have
it there turned into butter, which, under proper
conditions, will “ keep ” as far as London. Fruit
could be treated in the same way as milk. Every
fruit season the problem, “Does the orchardist
get a fair return or does he not ? ” rages in the daily
press, and a decisive negative Is generally arrived
at. Columns of “horrible examples” prove the
fact, and a reproachful glance is incidentally cast on
that economic trickster “supply and demand.”
But in regard to combating the evil —not a word.
Canada and California, the big fruit growers,
have long operated on their surplus fruit,
by drying, preserving, candying, and trans-
forming it into jam (the least profitable
process of all). Big growers can, of course,
do the same profitably here. It is the small
grower for whom the “fruit factory ” system is
suggested—the grower not producing a sufficient
quantity to make a full, scientific utilisation of
fruit-preserving methods a success. Speaking
broadly, the fruit-growing even more than the
dairying business tends to concentrate in one dis-
trict. The miles and miles of fruitful trees
streaming from Rarramatta well nigh to the
Hawkesbury in one direction, and from the out-
skirts of the western suburbs to Richmond in the
other, afford a good enough basis to start on. Let
each little nest of orchardists have a co-operative
factory with full drying, canning, candying and
jam-making plant. It would be the province
of such a factory to receive all the local
fruit each morning. The stuff as it
wus brought in would, bo cl&ssod 3.nd griidod.
Experts would deal with the bottling, drying,
and jam-making industries, with the manufac-
ture of candied orange and lemon peel and raisins,
and with the selecting and packing for the fresh
fruit market. Thus the fruit grower would escape,
at any rate in part, his two chief causes of loss—
(1) the effect of a sudden gale shredding his
almost ripened garden, and (2) the over-bountiful
season which floods the market with a very
perishable commodity, and Anally makes all
but freak fruit unsaleable at a profit.
With the factory system every bit of fruit
produced could be utilised as it is at a scientific
orchard such as Hawkesbury College. The fittest
could go to the fresh fruit market —if prices were
tempting enough. Other kinds could go to the
drying tray, the jam boiler or the preserv-
ing pan. To give the system a start an
experimental factory, purely for the treatment
of fruit, might be initiated by the State without
grave harm to the sanctity of the marriage tie,
and it could be made to pay from the jump. Of
course, a necessary corollary would be some radi-
cal orcharding legislation for the compulsory
extermination of pests by growers. Again the
dairying example might be followed (why a man
may not keep an unclean dairy, and yet is
encouraged to luxuriate in the dirtiest of orchards
remains an inscrutable mystery). Parts of Aus-
tralia are admirably fitted for fruit culture, as the
Tasmanian apple and the Adelaide grape show
now, and as the N.S. Wales orange used to show.
With effective legislation against pests, and the
encouragement of a co-operative factory system to
bring the help of science to the small grower, fruit
should become one of the great assets of the
Commonweal th.
» *
Labor and the Fiscal Issue.
Brewarrtna Political Labor League has proposed
that the Labor League Conference, now sitting at
Sydney, should endorse a Protective policy,
“ with a view to the better encouragement of
Australian industry and p;oduction.” The vast
majority of Australian Laborites are Protec-
tionists, but have hitherto not been able to assert
themselves because the early organisation of the
Labor political movement fell into the hands of
the waterside unions, the members of which
depend largely on the handling of imports for
their living, and are not far-sighted enough to see
the better jobs that Protection would give them.
And the argume.' - : was always available for the
“fiscal atheist” that to help on Protection would
be to favor the employer without any guarantee
that he would pass the favor on to the employee.
Labor has now, however, secured a firm footing in
the Legislature, and can always prevent sweating
if the community is well enough off to pay good
wages. But even an absolutely Labor Govern-
ment and Parliament could not prevent low wages
being paid if the community could not afford to pay
high ones. The natural ally of the Laborite is
therefore the Protectionist, to whom the Laborite
can say : Give our people decent wages, fair hours,
and an adequate old age pension, and in return
we will give you the absolute monopoly of our own
market. The Freetrade Laborite is in the position
of the cook who had to make hare soup without
the hare. Labor, when it has caught its
hare—namely, its local industries, by means of
High Protection —can, by legislative enact-
ments, force those industries to treat
their workmen and women properly. As
far as N.S.W. is concerned, Labor has already
got the machinery to make factory-work whole-
some and profitable, and all it wants now are the
factories and the employment, and high Protection
is the only thing that can give them. That i;
beginning to be recognised, though it may not be
endorsed by this conference, as the fiscal-sinkir.g
fetish is still powerful in the ranks of Labor. But
the fact that the resolution has been brought for-
ward at all is a hopeful sign. It is only necessary
for the Labor Leagues to honestly consider the
fiscal question to make their early adhesion to
Protection certain.
♦
The Harvester Octopus and its Friends.
The Tariff Commission has had yet another state-
ment as to the exact profit made by the Inter-
national Harvester Company on the machines it
sells in Australia. Mr. R. H. Cowles, assistant
manager for the company in Australia, has fixed
the figure at “about equal to £2 per machine for
cash sales.” It will be remembered that the
famous “apple-tree” advertisement showed that
this corporation brought its machines all the way
from Chicago to make a paltry profit of £3 3s. Bd.
each. Then a brutal Customs Minister increased
the duty by £2 17s. lid. per machine, and the
declared profit of £3 3s. Bd. immediately dropped
to ss. 9d. However, the Octopus, plucky
creature, was not at all dismayed, and
promptly reduced the selling price of its
machines by £l2 10s., and thus, according
to its own statement, sold at a loss of
£l2 4s. 3d.—for the good of the Australian
farmer. Such philanthropy has not been known
since the magician went round China exchanging
new lamps for old ones—till he got that of
Alapdin. The statement of manager Cowers
that there is still a profit of “equal to about £2 ’
on each harvester is calculated to throw doubts on
the previously advertised statements of the
profits, but it is now explained that those adver-
tisements were not “ authorised ” —whatever that
may mean. Whether the International Company
paid for the advertisements which it did net
authorise, the assistant general manager did not
explain, and the. Tariff Commission did not ask
him. The publication of this evidence was fol-
lowed by an article in Sydney Telegraph, a
paper devoted to the slander of Australian manu-
facturers, which put forward these “facts”:—
1. That the Df.akin Government desires to put the
whole farming community of the Commonwealth under
further tribute to a few well-to-do local manufacturers of
harvesting machinery.
2. That the Australian wheat grower has to accept the
“ world’s price ” for his product. That price is fixed in
markets where the competing sellers represent the cheap
lands and cheap labor of the world. In the Common-
wealth the farmer is one of the victims, not one of the
beneficiaries, of Protection.
3. That the local manufacturer is “ naturally protected ”
by transit charges which the American goods have to pay.
4. That the Protectionists demand that every farmer
who wants a harvester shall buy from McKay and at
McKay’s price.
For less than a column article, that is a pretty
comprehensive category of falsities. Of course, it
is, or should be, apparent to even a person of weak
intellect that the total prohibition of imported
machines would not prevent the International
Harvester Company coming here to manufacture,
and, as anyone would be free to start a
harvester factory, the farmers could easily
start a co operative manufactory if the pre-
sent makers got out of hand. In Canada, there
was a tariff that was prohibitive, and although
the International Company’s works at Chicago
were only a few hours’ railway journey away, the
Yankee company was compelled to build a factory
on Canadian soil if it wanted to trade in the
Dominion. Fiction number 2, which avows that
the Australian farmer is not protected in his own
market, is a choice absurdity. Look up the Tariff
guide. Division IV.. and see that the Australian
farmer is protected in every branch of his m-
dustrv. He really lives on h>s Australian market.


The third Telegraph statement is flatly con-
tradicted by the Tariff Commission evidence,
which showed that it is cheaper to bring a
harvester machine from New York to .Sydney
than it is from Melbourne to Sydney. As for
Westralian ports, the difference in ocean and
coastal freights works out at £5 in favor of the
Yankee (equal to about 17 per cent.). The Inter-
national Harvester Co. is understood to be one of
the group that forms the Standard Oil Trust, and
gets the benefit of the “General Transportation
Company’s” rebate. The fourth statement is
merely a vain repetition of the first, and as Pro-
tection does not give McKay, or anyone else, a
monopoly, is a silly blunder that even a boy
reporter should not have fallen into. The
Telegraph really shouldn’t put its economic false-
hood department in charge of such inexperienced
hands.
♦
The Commonwealth Government proposes to
establish a buying agency in London for the
Defence Department, and expects to save its cost
out of the commissions that would otherwise be
paid to the British Government. The success or
failure of this scheme will largely, if not entirely,
depend on the man chosen to run the business.
His duty will be to buy artillery, rifles and mili-
tary stores, and to keep the Department
promptly advised on all improvements in mili-
tary armament. To do this work efficiently
the man sent to England should be a thoroughly
competent Australian artillery officer, and the
appointment should be for a shortterm, four years
at the most. Outside the advantage to the Com-
monwealth, which 'would have its business con-
ducted by its own servant, would be the advantage
to the officer himself, who, it he cared to make
proper use of his opportunities, would find it a
capital educational course, of great value to him
in his profession when he returned to his ordinary
routine duties in Australia; and the selection
should specially be made of men likely to look at
the appointment from that point of view. The
mere office secretary, or business military man,
should be quite ineligible, and be absolutely
barred ; such a one would look on the appoint-
ment as a permanent and comfortable official
billet in London, and would be of no further bene-
fit to Australia; while the necessary clerical
and shipping work could easily be performed
by an ordinary clerk. The- expert knowledge
required being solely that of the artillery man,
the term of office should be a short one so as to
admit of a rapid succession of officers returning to
active employment in Australia, thoroughly posted
in all the most recent discoveries and information
connected with their profession; and in that
way the efficiency of the service will be greatly
increased at no additional expense to the Com-
monwealth.
Mr. Hillary Boucaut, of Adelaide, is at
present in Perth inspecting the W.A. Crown
lands on behalf of a number of German farmers,
who are at present settled in S.A., but are seri-
ously considering the question of migrating to
W. Australia.
QUEENSLAND PREMIER WILLIAM
KIDSTON.
Photo, by Lomer Ltd., Brisbane.
‘ Wang : There was a free show in
Bourke-street (Melbourne), the other morning.
My friend. Ah Mong, was crossing at Russell-
street with a table-top on his head. In the
middle of the tram-track he paused to say “Ho
ki ”to Ah Long. It was raining, and the blocks
were slippery as glass. A tram coming down the
hill clanged its bell, but Ah Mong took no notice.
Ah Jjong skipped to one side just as the tram
struck Ah Mong in the middle of the back. I
thought a White Australia was nearer by one, but
it wasn t. Ihe board fell on the track five yards
i* 1 tram. Ah Mong started to say
Whatfor, ' then double-somersaulted onto the
board, and along they slithered down Bourke-
street hill. Ihe tram-conductor, gripman, four
policemen and myself pursued. Passing the
victoria Club, the toboggan began to slacken
speed, and the conductor sprinted and got within
a yard of it. At Svvanston-street corner the pro-
cession stopped ; and six policemen arrested Ah
Mong and charged him with furious driving, or
being without lights, or assault with intent, or
something.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Palace “There and Back.”
llkr Majesty’s “ Veronique.”
Theatre Royal “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
Criterion “ Quality Street.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Urbanora Bioscope Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Utopia Limited.”
Her Majesty’s “Sunday.”
Theatre Royal “The Lights o’London.”
OrERA House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall “ Living- London ” Biograph.
Princes Court Miscellaneous Programme.
If the plot of “Veronique” isn’t new, it
is at least real, and if the characters are all fami-
liar comic-opera properties they nevertheless live ;
and, overspreading all that, is the music—not
music that the cigarette weed on the step of the
tram whistles after the first night, but still fresh
and delightful, and full of quaint yet artistic little
surprises worked out mostly by the wood-wind
end of the orchestra. The setting is in harmony
with the music ; three-fourths of the time you are
in the flower-shop of M. Coquenard (Coquey, for
short), kept by George Lauri, or at the picnicking
grounds of Romainville, where Elorestan takes all
the flower-girls for a final spree. Among them is
Helene, the girl he’s got to marry (by order of his
uncle and the King), who, as Veronique, has
joined the flower girls in order to mash him'before
their marriage and make him sorry he ever loved
anybody else. Sydney hasn’t seen many prettier
pictures than these.
* * * *
Miss Margaret Thomas, as Veronique,
whose acting was never so good, scored her greatest
popular success in the “Swing Song” duet with
Haigh Jackson. But the double encore was a
tribute to Messager’s music rather than the
singer’s treatment, for here her voice (it may be
because of the swinging) was not so true as it was
in other places. But she recovered the lost tone
in the encore, and the refrain was irresistible.
Haigh Jackson, playing; Florestan (vice John
Doran, who had the part in the earlier Melbourne
production) atoned for a rather spiritless perform-
ance by the quality of his singing ; in Sydney, at
least, he has done nothing so well as the “ Letter
Song,” because into nothing else has he put so
much expression. And, barring a certain flinti-
■ ness in her love passages, in the heavy part of
Agatha, Coquenard’s wife and fickle Florestan’s
earlier mash, Miss Florence Young was buoyant
and satisfactory. Lauri supplies most of the
humor—very good humor, though inclined to run
rather much to the frill on lady’s underwear,
which may, however, be the fault of the original—
and Bantoek, as a baron turned bailiff, helped
him, and W. S. Percy supported as a sprightly
groom, who gets married during the proceedings.
#* * *
“The J.P.” is back on the Bench at
Sydney Palace, but only for one week—and the
week ends to-morrow (Friday) night. There is a
good deal in the piece that calls for atonement;
and Florence Lloyd, the best imitation young
man that any modern J.P. is ever likely
to meet, does the atoning. Florence begins the
proceedings as a female, but is plunged into \
trousers at an early hour in order to dodge the
G. J. HOLYOAKE, the English Radical,
whose death is reported.
wrath of tli« uncle of the man she has married,
said uncle (J. J. Dallas) being opposed to females
in general and any female his nephew might
marry in particular; and what to do with the
infant, under these distressing circumstances,
supplies enough to laugh about—and that is the
■shallow, frisky trifle’s purpose. Next Saturday
night the co. produces “There and Back,” a piece
new to Australia—with the stamp of Charles
Hawtrey upon it as a guarantee of good faith. It,
too, is alleged to go with a rush and a rattle, and
if it doesn’t, it isn’t likely to be the fault of the
co., which was built specially for that sort of
progress.
iK- * -* *
“Very few of us ’ave got conshunshes,
but we ve all got stummicks,” says one of the
starving characters in “Shall We Forgive Her.”
The play—it was resurrected on Saturday night
at the Criterion —is packed with epigrammatic
truths put in homely language that get great
applause from the gallery. The part of the
lady with the past, not of her own choosing,
was played well by Miss Ethel Appleton. In
the Queensland scene, where the dry, fierce hot
atmosphere is well suggested by the scene painter,
the actress was an artfully pathetic figure as she
went on her vain quest for water. It brought before
the audience plain tales from the bush, tales of
death by thirst and earth with cracks in it like
’ lips opening to pray for rain. Miss Beatrice Hol-
loway took the nice little ingenue part of Nellie
West, who would surely prove a Dora Copper-
field sort of wife. Mr. H. O. Willard was told
by much noise from the audience that he was
welcomed back to Sydney stage work. Miss
Deorwyn made a capital old lady. Messrs.
Godfrey Cass, Robert Inman and Mabel Russell
rounded off a capable cast. On Friday night
next “Two Little Vagabonds” will be revived
for a benefit performance to Miss Beatrice Hollo-
way. Next day the co. will start for Maoriland.
* iff
Shortly to appear at the Palace, Sydney,
that clever comedian, R. G. Knowles, who will i>e
supported by his musician wife, and a company of
tried artists. Mr. Knowles, who, it will be re-
membered, visited Australia some years back, has
since travelled the world, and his entertainment
of “The Trifles that Trouble the Traveller”
should prove most refreshing these hoc days.
iff iff iff iff
A “ second edition” of “ Sinbad the
Sailor” has given that merry show a fillip. Some
new songs and dances and some jokes that have
renewed their youth are introduced, and public
. patronage approves the changes.
iff * * iff
They carry out the move-on clause more
strictly at the Tivoli- than they do in King and
Spit streets, and thefe'is a crowd of new faces at
. the window this week. . And some old ones.
Harry Rickards himself is dealing his new pack of
songs—some of them about Leicester Square and
other places that the Tivoli doesn’t know half as
well as it knows WoolloomooloO. Manager
Rickards gives the Australian a very good show
in his theatres; but can’t he get a song or two
for himself from the same place? There is no
mistaking his personal popularity, though, no
matter what he sings or how he sings it; you
might gag and bind every usher in the place, and
the manager-vbcalist-Cbmedian-boss would still be
sure of three encores seven times a week. New
“ turns ” already here are the Scotch Meisters, and
a new turn coming is that of the Lotto-Lilo-Otto
trick cyclists; but even these won’t be able to
pack the house tighter than it has been packed
recently, when the late bird hasn’t had much
chance of perching on a seat.
** * *
A noticeable “turn” at the little Gaiety
Theatre (Melb.) just now is Brightie Smith, late
of Bland Holt’s co. Miss Brightie turns out to
be a graceful little dancer with a melodious sing-
ing voice and a very decidedly “nicer” style than
that of the ordinary music-hall Popsy, whose
“cheek” is her fortune. One doesn’t think of
Bland Holt’s as a school for variety artists, bu^
here is Brightie Smith—the kiddie of the co. be-
fore she qualified for grown-up parts—tripping on
to a strange stage to do some song-and-dance “on
her own,” and doing it uncommonly well, although
the songs she sings are of the weakest “coon”
sort, not written for a gii’l in skirts. Given a
better opportunity Brightie should sparkle.
*# * *
Young man Buonaparte, as idealised by
Rostand, is again disturbing the Austrian Court
for the edification of Melbourne audiences—this
time at Her Majesty’s. “L’Aiglon” in its
English translation is not a very great play, but
it is at least an impressive and “classy’’deed of
atonement for a previous Napoleon drama, where
an idealised Josephine is carried forward into
historical incidents with which she had no con-
nection. “ L’Aiglon ” amounts to an educational
romance, teaching an intelligent public some
things that might have been, whilst “A Royal
Divorce ” trades upon matters of general know-
ledge, in order to give an air of truth to things
that couldn’t have been. This essential difference
between the cheap British melodrama and the
poetical French play is now so well understood
that pedagogues are recommending “ L’Aiglon ”
as a history lesson for the young.
♦ •* ■* *
Miss Tittell Brune’s clever perform-
ance of the name part is marked by the same
energy and the same cough as before. The slie-
male impersonation is fairly convincing through-
out ; the nervous force is always there when
required, and, although the actress doesn’t attract
all the sympathy due to the character,, she
makes it interesting and never allows it to
go off the boil, so to speak. Touching
the changes in the cast, a large and particular
word of praise is earned by Miss Vaughan as
Marie Louise, a princess whose sins may be
forgiven her on account of her intensely haughty
lineage. She had “blue” blood, and her morals
were tinged accordingly. Miss Vaughan has
deportment and mannah enough for three queens,
and when one remembers that she lately ap-
peared as a truculent Mrs. Lead batter, at a
lodging-house where Miss Brune did the cleaning,
one is inclined to think that all the world’s a
stage, and the distribution of characters ought to
be varied every few weeks.
** * *
“Utopia Limited,” at the Princess’s, is
receiving a good deal of the patronage that might
be expected for a work of such importance. Also,
it gets further consideration from some of the
performers who have the honor to introduce a
Gilbert and Sullivan opera to Australia, In
sundry places the cleverness of the libretto is more
artistically displayed than on the first night, and
in one important place there is a new lady. Miss
Olive Goodwin, the successor to Miss Dolly
Castles, has the advantage of a tall, graceful
figure and a reposeful air. Her singing
strengthens the show somewhat on its musical
side, and her elocution is a little less defective
than the other lady’s was. But the art of speak-
ing Gilbertian lines pointedly is not easy to learn,
and Miss Goodwin is still a beginner only.
“Utopia Limited” comes very hard on- the
tongues of the co., for the songs are mostly of the
descriptive-conversational order, set to music
which lends no brightness to the lines. These
mu iical patters are quite long enough when melo-
diously rendered. In the case of Howard Vernon
they grow wearisome. The opera rarely gets away
from Vernon. He is the ruling spirit, the lunatic
master of the situation, and he makes no attempt
at subtle drollery. King Paramount is not even
quaint in his make-up. If he were to wear an
exceedingly bald head and act up to it, the
result would probably be funnier. A distinctive
chuckle might suit the part, which is clearly not
adapted to Howard Vernon, anyhow; The chorus
is not richly endowed with opportunities to assert
its excellence, but it utters its usual volume of
sound in new costumes, and helps to make the
opening scene a festive spectacle. The second
act of “Utopia’’ is in every way weaker than the
first. Probably Gilbert, at half-time, made up his
mind that Sullivan’s music was not Sullivan’s
best, and in his disappointment he dropped his
enthusiasm.
■s^
“ The Lights o’ London,” at the Royal, is
a well-timed production. It has cooling moments
when the Bland Holts travel across a snow-bound
country in a caravan and open their warm hearts
to a frozen convict. Also it is pleasant to witness
Baker and Styan splashing about in a tank at the
close of a day that has been infernally hot outside
of the melodrama. Baker is an envied hero
these nights, because his rescue of Styan
is a palpable excuse for a cold plunge.
If he were not bent on getting wet
he could lean over the side of the tank and
pull the other man ashore, but he prefers to find a
place where he can take a header. The tank is a
comparatively modern innovation in an otherwise
ancient play, so ancient as to be honorable. The
“Lights” dates back to a time when a melo-
dramatist was expected to put a few ideas and
jokes of his own into the business, all of which
were necessarily left at the mercy of subsequent
writers who have used them again and again.
#* * *
A new form of musical entertainment at
the Opera House is supplied by Miss Alice
Raymond and John Kurkamp. Miss Alice
Raymond, a comely lady with an impressive chest,
blows music from a cornet what time her colleague
is conducting the accompaniment of the orchestra.
The lady, who is a shining light among brass
instrumentalists of her sex, plays a solo or two,
and then Kurkamp in the orchestra faces the
audience and sings the tenor part in “The
Miserere” (“II Trovatore ”), and other little
Gay Florestan,
A spry young man,
Who’s doing well, though single,
Must wed a maid he doesn’t know
Because his uncle tells him so—
A maid with coin to jingle
It’s time for him to marry,
He may no longer tarry ;
The shadow of the gaol walls
Across the spendthrift’s pathway falls,
And gaol he’d rather parry.
And so he weds within a week
The unknown, gilded Veronique.
And Veronique
The flowers to seek
To make the bridal bouquet
Must drop, by all the laws of Chance,
Into the fairest shop in France,
That’s kept by Lauri Coquey,
Where Florestan comes daily
To mash the flower-girls gaily.
With Coquey’s wife he’s making hay ;
The lady isn t saying nay
And shows up rather frailly.
Behind a curtain Veronique
Is meanwhile playing hide-and-seek.
And Veronique
With flushing cheek
(For Florestan’s been saying
Some things about his unseen bride—
“A frump, no doubt,’’.and much, beside)
Decides to do some slaying ;
She’ll captivate her Florry,
She’ll have him for her quarry ;
She’ll catch her courtier on the hop,
She’ll take a billet in the shop—
The shop that’s kept by Lauri.
And that is how, to help the freak,
She takes the name of Veronique.
Of course, she won.
To have a run,
A play must end in kisses;
And this one doesn’t spoil the rule
They teach in every playwright’s school
To please the mat’nee misses.
Swift Florry falls in raptures,
The easiest of captures.
So full the springs of joy both driilk,
They’ve got, you’re half-inclined to think,
Their own, and likewise tapped yours.
So. turns the plot on themes antique,
Till bridal bells call Veronique.
IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
/f you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For. further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch of the Society),
Please send me particulars of
Endowment..
an Equitable
I was born
Name
Address ...
m
m
J
HAVESTOODTHE
TESTofTIME
& ARE G«l KG STRONG
withouttke aid
FTSUSTorCPMBINE
The Quality alone 1
assuring it* succes
M ■■
0
Plate
& Tobacco
(HAW CUT)
/| V MAV\
Tobacco


. to the cornetiste’s accompaniment. Kur-
tmng-t 3Wee t an d unexpected warble completes
Success of the ‘‘ turn.” Some of the seasoned
•; tfq in the Rickards’ programme will disappear
v,' week or next week. Barnard’s Marionettes
* c+nving on until further notice, and in the
ar6 3 time it seems desirable to mention that the
Srfrionettes are presuming upon their welcome.
Tliev last for 20 minutes or longer.
11 * * * *
The “Living London” biograph made a
i tar t at the Town Hall on Saturday. It has
virtues and its faults. Some of the pictures
ltS the clearest and steadiest that have
Ten produced in Melbourne, and some of these
be f the best subjects in the series—pictures
nf market places, full of life and spiced with
? or The ordinary thoroughfare pictures are
mo numerous and hot invariably excellent as
hotogranhs. A succession of omnibuses loaded
with cockneys soon begins to pall upon the
flickered eye, and one narrow, crowded street
looks very like another. If “Living London”
were judiciously pruned the general effect would
be stronger. The film wants an editor armed with
!V pair of scissors.
F ** * *
In an absolute dearth of theatrical amuse-
ment at Adelaide, a Sunday evening biograph
•md concert show at the Jubilee Exhibition was
blocked by the Government, which owns the
building, to the disappointment of a 1200 audi-
ence The acting Public Works Minister explains
that these shows are only allowed on the pro-
grammes previously passing his inspection, and
the caretaker simply blocked (by turning the
lights up) items he had formally disapproved for
Sunday use —“Soot, Student, and Smoke,” etc.
The proprietors claim that they were unex-
pectedly told at noon on Saturday that animated
pictures would not be allowed at all, and “it was
then too late to make other arrangements.” So
they chanced it, and a disappointed audience was
turned out at 9.15, after making fruitless inquiries
for the “ silver coin ” admission-money.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Said that the trouble with Miss Amy Castles and
Madame Marchesi was that ,the Victorian youngster
sometimes knew far too much to be taught; or thought
she did.
According to the cables, “Sweet Nell” Stewart has
scored a big success in ’Frisco. The co. needed to make
a good start to get well on its legs for the American tour.
An early repulse would have been disastrous.
“Beth”: I don’t want “The Sorcerer” driven from
the boards by the spineless or incompetent criticism of
certain dailies. The work is characterised as a “mere
vague attempt to do nothing in particular;” “much
flapping of wings and a flight of some sort accomplished,
but a wobbly motion after all.” I know nearly every
drop of ink that Gilbert and Sullivan ever spilt, including
and excluding their collaboration, and I have more affec-
tion for “The Sorcerer” than for any other opera in
which either was concerned. It is not their greatest
work, but there is an endearing pastoral charm about it
that puts even a milkmaid’s blush to shame. From start
to finish it is redolent of hawthorn and primroses and
newly-laid milk; an idyll where villagers and the vicar
and the squire and the lady, and other quaint old-
fashioned types (rapidly being eradicated by pneumatic
tyres and electricity and general elections), pursue the
even tenor of their tea and quarter-day. And the critic
who misses its simple beauty ought to be a tram-driver.
The Nora Dane, whom Melbourne knew of yore as a
Oonservatorium pupil with an acquired German accent,
is now making her way in Britain as an Italian vocalist.
Aberdeen Free Press gave a glowing report of Signora
Dane-Valenti’s recital in that city. “The freedom with
which the Signora uses her voice, the fluent quality of its
tone, and the perfection with which she uses it as a
medium for every shade of expression all point to tuition
of the most skilled kind. Whether in a florid Rossini
aria or in a group of three short modern songs, there was
the same intelligent, finished style, the same truth in
sentiment. When called upon for an encore, and reply-
ing with ‘ Cornin’ through the Rye,’ her pronunciation
of the Doric was so perfect that one might have readily
supposed she was a native.” And this is the same Nora
who, when she sang an English-worded song on a Mel-
bourne platform, might have been readily mistaken for
a German. Her marriage with Valenti, a competent
teacher of the Italian method, seems to have worked
wonders. The conversion of Nora into Sig-Nora was a
complete artistic success.
Mrs. M. Henningham, the energetic old lady who ran
the United Service Club Hotel, Collins-street, Melbourne,
went under last week to her third attack of paralysis.
She has two sons in the theatres —Fred, the manager, and
Will, the orchestra conductor. Will’s wife, also, has re-
appeared on the stage, showing a shapely form with The
Players.
“ Hiphen ": I have been to see “ Merely Mary Ann.” I
regret it. It is a play the actors have to carry on their
backs. And they aren’t strong enough—all except
Tittell Brune, and she whines. All the time I felt inclined
to tell her to go and have a good cry and get it over. But
I didn’t like to be rude. I’ve been brought up not to be
rude. They used to tell me that in England boys are
never rude. It used to make me glad I didn’t live there.
Still, as a rule, I try not to be rude. So I sat quietly,
even when, for two acts, Tittell did nothing but put on
and take off gloves. And whined. Bah ! I could do
that, and I’m no good. They won’t even have me in the
Players. That’ll tell you how bad I am ! Still, I could
change my gloves, And whine. Then Lancelot talked
t°- cauai- y as Baker would talk to a man who
tried to shoot him. No wonder the canary died.
He is supposed to be a musical genius. Why,
urn- no *’ even dirty. And his linen’s clean,
vvifliamson can’t pull my leg. I’m only an ink-
siinger. But I’ve met musical geniuses. Once lent
n • to the man that wrote “ Dolly in my Alley.” Dirty I
nis dirt wouldn’t bear talking about. He was a genius,
esides geniuses don’t drink tea. The humor in “ Mary
tm doesn’t rise above squirting soda-water. Ten years
go that was a good joke. Now it is a waste of good
■ da-water. This hot weather too ! One lesson I’ve learnt,
ancelot plays the popular song, “ Bid me, dear Love,
oda-bye.” He makes it classical by destroying the
ne and substituting heavy-weight chords. I see now
<it grand opera is music. But with the tune left out.
_ '^ 1( ; ordy definite rule of conduct adopted by those
nneoted with the stage is never to write a letter when
oftn eK ' am W 'H d° as well.”—Pett Ridge. And they are
• ® n most effusive in their telegrams. Actors not in-
affnllr n , SUl| d superfluous exclamations and terms of
wii, v!° n , alon » wires, such as “ My God 1 darling, you
'i break my heart.” To which the darling is apt to
shn i ln J an B' ua g'e that amounts to “Rats I”—that is, if
“also happens to be a member of “ the purfesh.”
p„u by G. It. Sims, recently produced at London
j. ot theatre, introduced a representation of a full-sized
the ry Spaper P res s, running at high speed. This w'as
on n , attempt to represent a newspaper machine-room
is stage. If the noise of the property press
the Jtmng like that of the real thing, it will probably be
villiin t u , s 3 the heroine is allowed to command the
n to unhand her through a speaking trumpet.
Pr in e o 0 5? Musgrove, having lost his faith in Melbourne
theair S ’t, as secured the local Royal, and the new
Bisnr? it i i ,P as s into his hands for a very long term when
t 0 ttolts lease is out. B.H.’s term has not long
build fu now >, an( t unless he and Anderson combine to
.eontorJ?“! Ils^ ves an °ther house, melodrama will have to
“ t; with the Spring-street theatre.
alle< • J regret to disagree with “ Euphemia” re the
“ Km.v, .stralian-girl worship of male “ beauty ” actors.
sbmn(ir etni T u P™ te sts that she has rarely met such wor-
whom r 1 bave found a good many of them among girls
Plead •ii ev ? r w °ol f i have suspected. Three of them
and if i 0 au intense admiration of Andrew Mack,
nierelv to win a grateful smile from the others I
But udinf U r e -, to J ulius Knight as a superb creature.
Woisbiv-i ■ es me more painfully than their actor-
have v lr exaggerated admiration of actresses who
accents 6 beaufc y ant i less talent. The Australian girl
goose nift oonnnonplace stage goose as a swan, if the
opera tu, 8 a P re tty ” part in comedy, drama, or comic
Slio Un>f u e surroundings seem to sway her judgment.
* mtelhgently critical. She enthuses over the
poor singing of a comic opera artiste, whilst she finds
fault with a more cultured concert songstress, who has a
better voice and a finer appearance. Her heroines are
more unworthy than her heroes.
“ 0.K.” : The merits of comic opera or musical comedy
can be best judged from a matinee performance. At
night, and particularly on the first night, one’s view of
the work, as a whole, is intercepted by a number of “ en-
cores,” genuine or otherwise. At a matinee encores are
avoided, and the show goes its way with the regularity of
a drama.
“S.S.”: Chows are becoming such excellent patrons of
melodrama in Melbourne that we may presently expect
to find the Mongolian quite respectably treated when he
figures in the play, much as the Jew is, who, from being
the mainstay and colleague of the villain, has developed
into a sympathetic soul who appreciates all the hero’s
virtues, and tempers his financial transactions with
Christian sentiments. I was sitting behind a row of five
Chinamen in Melbourne Royal stalls the other night, and
the most ingenuous and susceptible gallery girl could not
have been more effectually worked upon by Miss Frances
Ross’s trials, Mr. Walter Baker’s tribulations, and the
comic interludes by Mr. and Mrs. THandolt, than were
Sins How, Me, Fat, Fit, and Cat. These five cardinal
Sins laughed consumedly at the simplest capers of the
comedians, they were rapt and tremulous listening to
the mournful complainings of persecuted virtue, they
were stirred and indignant when villainy worked its
cunning wiles, and sat with- intent faces, uttering
little Chinese ejaculations expressing hatred of the wrong-
doers. And when the climax of pathos came with the
reunion of the doting wife and the affectionate and mis-
fortunate convict, three of the Chinamen wept dolorously,
and for five minutes one lugubrious Pagan sat mopping
his tears with the lining of bis hat. Obviously the imper-
turbable heathen is degenerating under the influence of
Caucasian civilisation.
J. C. Williamson’s latest recruit is Claude Hall, the
terror of South-street. A few years ago he was a front-
rank racing cyclist, and finished second to Tom Busst
when the latter won the Austral Wheel Race. Retiring
from the track, he became a singer and reciter, and for
years has been making a regular circuit of South-street
and other competitions, winning steadily all the time.
His energy in this direction was extraordinary, and when
he wasn’t trilling ballads or declaiming poems he manu-
factured a popular brand of liver pill. Why he should go
on the stage is not quite plain. He has amassed wealth
quite up to the average of the liver pill maker, and has a
stable full of buggies, dog-carts, carriages and motor-cars.
Bland Holt, a glutton for work, promises to produce
Hall Caine’s drama, “The Prodigal Son,” at Melbourne
Royal in another week or two. He started on the pro-
duction the moment the necessary material came to hand
from London, and it will be the biggest job he has ever
tackled at high pressure.
Melbourne swimmer Beatrice Kerr announces her in-
tention of leaving for England. Why doesn’t somebody
advise her to stay where she is well off ? There is nothing
for a girl swimmer in England except showing at the
music-halls, and Annette Kellermann (who really made
nothing out of her largely-advertised Channel swims) has
taken all the music-hall money available. Further,
though little Beatrice has perhaps a more neatly-built
figure than Annette, the public likes quantity rather than
neatness and is not likely to roll up to watch the diving
of an eight-stone Venus when they have been fully sup-
plied only recently with an eleven-stone Juno. Aus-
tralian swimming girls are all mad on England just now,
owing to Miss Kellermann’s success, just as every girl who
can trill “ Dolly Gray ” from a picnic van thinks she only
wants a fare to London to send Melba back to milk cows
at Cave Hill.
“ S.T.S.” : Curious that none of “ Princes? Ida’s ” many
critics seem to be aware that the piece really is what it
strikes them as —different from the other Gilbert and
Sullivan shows. The fact of its being the only one In
blank verse ought to suggest something. Gilbert in 1883-4
(after “lolanthe” and before “Mikado”), wanting a
libretto, raked up his old play “ The Princess,” and wrote
songs into it. How old that was I can’t fix, but Hilarion
was originally played by “ Maria Simpson (Mrs. Liston),”
and the rowdy Cyril by Augusta Thomson. (All six
princes were played by girls.) The opera, as I saw iD at
the Savoy, was immensely successful. Grossmith and
Rutland Barrington were the two Kings, Durward Lely a
robust Cyril, and Leonora Braham the Princess. Our own
Henry Bracy was the hero, and his girlish-looking com-
panion was Ryley, afterwards well known in this country.
“0.K.”: A Poverty Pointer, commenting on the com-
parative heaviness and stiffness of “ Princess Ida,” draws
the very wrong conclusion that Gilbert and Sullivan were
feeling tired when they made the opera. As a matter of
fact, they were too fresh at the time. Gilbert’s libretto
is tinged with the color of his popular comedy, “The
Palace of Truth,” and the music of Sullivan, as in the case
of “The Sorcerer,” is considerably suggestive of old
Italian opera. Some of it is frankly intended for a
travesty of the Donizetti class of composition. It was
not until “ Pinafore ” (in 1878) that Gilbert's Gilbertianism
took a thoroughly symmetrical form, whilst Sullivan’s
music developed a full sense of humor and a complete
confidence in itself.
Judge Docker, after all, cancelled that
flogging sentence on a prisoner of weak intellect
found guilty of a sex offence, and substituted for
two years and a flogging, five years’ penal servi-
tude. The Judge regretted that he hadn’t power
to order the man’s perpetual imprisonment—
thereby showing a return to common sense and a
serious defect in the recently-enacted Habitual
Criminals Act. Neither penal servitude for a
limited term nor flogging is likely to cure a sex
maniac ; such punishment, as a rule, only aggra-
vates his mania, and then sends him out to once
again prey on Society. Offenders of that sort
should be shut up for ever; and recent legislation
was supposed to have given the power to do that.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have
agreed to issue tickets to Temora at holiday ex-
cursion rates to prospective settlers on the Mimosa
Estate now cut up for closer settlement. Certifi-
cates as to bona-fides must be secured from
Messrs. Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd., 15 O’Connell-
street, Sydney.
A correspondent from Laokay, Tonkin,
Indo-China (l/6/’O5)
Laokay is on the border of Yunnan, the southern pro-
vince of China, where the great railway, Laokay-Yiin-
nansen, starts. It is a French syndicate line of about 300
miles, 60 of which are being constructed now. The
French Government gives £400,000 towards it, as the rail-
way represents the “future peaceful conquest” of Yun-
nan. Country is beautiful and picturesque, very much
like the Jordan and King Rivers on West Coast of Tas-
mania. Climate for the first 100 miles in the valley of the
Red River and the Manti River is decidedly bad, though
a white man, with care in drink and diet, can pull through
with a few attacks of malaria. The heat in the shade is
not over 99 deg., but in the sun anything between a
copper-smelter and h—l. Working hours from 6 to 10 a.m.,
and 3to 6 p.m., siesta between. The French engineers,
though they take only two meals—at 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.—
eat too much and drink too much alcohol with their
meals, and consequently often collapse and blame the
climate. On the highland of Yunnan, a plateau 6000 ft.
above sea, the climate is that of France.
The Chow coolies, mostly imported from Canton, die
like flies ; every day six to 10 or 20 have to be buried (if
throwing a corpse on a spall bank and shovelling loose clay
over him can be called burial). When a Chow gets ill his
mates drive him out of their “canya,” and the poor
wretches die all the sooner on the railway line. Rain or
heat, day or night, I see them daily crawling about aim-
lessly, with glassy eyes, some resigned to their fate, some
lifting hands for help, which is beyond me to render, as
most of them won’t even take quinine when offered. No
food is given them by their mates. All work on contract,
though we offer as much as Is. 3d. per day against 6d.
anywhere else in China. Only from 10 to 20 per cent, of
the coolies work at a time, as one day’s work will keep
them in tucker for a week. The rest squat in their
“canyas,” about two dozen in one, smoke bamboo water-
pipes (some opium), and wonder if they are ill or not.
When too many get sick in one “canya” we put a match
to it—not so much for sake of the Chows, who love filth,
and, as the French say, “Every dead Chow means one
less to fight some day in Europe ’’—but for our own sakes, as
cholera will soon break out now. What a pity that your
Australian Chow friends don’t come here to have a look
at their darlings. Domestic servants are all Annamites,
natives of Indo-Chinm a much more intelligent, but
bodily weaker race. Tlie Anuamite women are not bad
looking, and are often taken as wives by the French, and
a nice lot of half-castes are grooving up.
The Jumbledeen Bush Fire.
(A STORY OF THE SORT “ THE BULLETIN ”
DOESN’T PRINT—AS A RULE.)
Occasionally a paper has a vague
doubt of its own judgment. “E-ot,” an
editorial reader ejaculates as he gets
through a story and thinks out a reply for the
“Answers to Correspondents,” which will be
plain without being rude, or rude without being
too plain. After 99 “Rots” a doubt sometimes
intrudes. The story after all represents a good
deal of careful work. Obviously it has pleased
more than pleased, its author. Obviously,
too, the author is of some intelligence. Now
is the editorial judgment at fault ? The
THE MAN WHO DID.
THE CURATE: “My good woman, who inflicted
those fearful injuries on you? ”
BILL (putting his head out): “I did! Wot
about it !”
THE CURATE: “ Oh , nothing !”
question is perhaps of some general interest.
The Bulletin prints—in a condensed form
—this story, which it hadn’t the least doubt,
on first reading, was unsuitable for its columns.
The great army of the Rejected has possibly some
claim that the public should be taken into confi-
dence now and again; at any rate, rejected
artists at Sydney Spring show always seem to
contemplate an exhibition of the damned. Space
won’t allow the publication of the entire work
(that would be a matter of some columns), but the
tliread of the story and samples of its eloquence
are given.
-*•»#*
The opening scene discovers Arthur Eddlestone,
swagman and shearer, “receding” from Jumble-
deen station, having, all unknowing, managed to
win the love of the haughty proprietor’s sister.
The event occurred thus :
For but a brief space had the soft, lustrous blue eyes of
Laura Marsh met the honest, manly gaze of Arthur
Eddlestone, but in that glance a life’s story had been
exchanged, and thenceforward no circumstance could he
so adverse as to make void the mutual interest of these
newly-awakened hearts.
The lady’s affection is returned —for she, be it
noted, is “ some pumpkins ” herself :
The eye of the master-artist could only drink to reple-
tion, while his brush would falter in his despair of por-
traying the ethereal radiance and entrancing form of
Frank Marsh’s only sister as she, seeming like an awakened
soul gracefully poised preparatorily to taking its flight
for a fairer world, and partially concealed by the trailing
woodbine which had transformed an angle of the veran-
dah into an incense-breathing alcove, kept her eyes fixed
with a wistful longing upon the swaying shrubs and sun-
beat path by which his steps carried the stranger further
and further away till, at last, the intervening landscape
obscured the view.
The stranger having “receded” to an adjoin-
ing station, word is suddenly brought of a bush fire
at Jumbledeen, and volunteer fire-fighters are
called for. Some grasping and currish “serving
men” are justly scarified :
One or two totally ignored the call to the rescue of the
women and children ; others inquired what would be the
remuneration for their services ; but one, while this mer-
cenary wrangle was in progress, had hastily dressed and
placed himself under instructions from the chief director
of the rescue party, and was chafing at delay which pro-
longed the suspense of waiting.
Needless to state that “one.”
Intuitively, Arthur Eddlestone, had been allotted a
mount that made him the envy of many of his
companions, who knew the quality of the steed
he bestrode. A two-mile gallop brought the first gate
across the roadway, and, disdaining to dismount from his
capable beast, the impassioned lover had humored his
mettle and ridden him triumphantly over, to the unfeigned
astonishment of the foremost knot of his companions,
whose spontaneous cheer was cut short by their hurrying
through the now opened gateway, and whose strenuous
efforts to overtake their fearless leader were unavailing
throughout the rest of the ride, for, when next they saw
him, he was singed and blacked, and heroically combating
the flames which, almost simultaneously with his arrival,
had begun to lick the palisade within which stood the
hospitable homestead of “Jumbledeen.”
The fire extinguished, Mr. Marsh with bluff
open-handedness asks all volunteers to remain and
form a sort of impromptu house-party. But all
refuse, except one.
The following day found Arthur Eddlestone installed an
honored guest.
Arrives the post-prandial hour —squatter and
swagman are in friendly converse on the verandah,
when :
The opportunity to clear away any uncertainty that
might exist with regard to himself in the mind of his
host suggested itself to the guest. “ You have learned
my name somewhat haphazard,” he remarked in courteous
'te.ms, as he laid aside his cigar, “andhave, unquestion-
ing, honored me as your guest. Will you kindly permit
n.e the privilege of proffering my card, or rather what
was my card in the not yet very distant past. As there
is a tide in the affairs of every man which demands
promptitude and exactitude, I wish to place my position
before you explicitly.”
A “low and graceful bow” follows, and the
pastoralist is handed a card :
“ Arthur Eddlestone, R. A.,” he read aloud in a voice of
astonishment. “ This is indeed a link in a strange chain
of coincidence. I should say we have long been potential
friends. Your father and mine certainly were exceeding
great friends, as often I have heard my father tell. .Some
gleam of the wherefore of your present position glints
into my mind now; but I cannot understand why you
have preferred manual toil to the manifestation of your
art, seeing that a number of your creations are the proud
boast of our Australian galleries, and take rank with
the pride of many galleries in other lands where art
is even more highly prized than here.”
In a series of crashing poly-
syllables, Arthur, later,
learns that lie has
inherited a for-
tune ; and with
Olympian calm he
delivers the follow-
ing few remarks:
“ This kindly turn
of fortune, for I
think I may rightly
deem it such, re-
moves what to me
had seemed an insur-
mountable barrier
in the path of my
most cherished hopes
and the attainment
of my dearest ambi-
tion. My brush and
palette have accom-
plished something
already, and I have
had the temerity to
hope they would
yet accomplish much
more, but have al-
ways realised the
fact that monetary
increments as per-
taining to Art
mostly accrue post
mortem, as regards
the artist, and
usually benefit other
than he. Art for
art’s sake has indeed
been a solac e co me
at all times, but it
has brought me but
little profit, whereas
what now comes to
me through no worth
or seeking of mine,
confers upon me the
freedom to aspire to
an exalted social
plane, and liberates
my hitherto shackled
spirit that it may
do homage at the shrine of a divine love.
Being assured that my love is not in vain
it devolves upon me to apprise you of pro-
bable events of the near future. An
immeasurable sacrifice is involved when
you are asked to resign the companionship
of one who has been to you the sunshine
of your childhood and the day-star of your
maturer years, and I can but hope for your
goodwill and favor in your consideration
of the prospect of parting from her whom
you so love and adore.”
This means that the gentleman would like to
marry his host’s sister: —
The heartiness of the hand-clasp and the impetuous
cordiality which greeted the lover as he paused for the
brother’s answer cemented the bond of fellowship which
already hound these two estimable natures. “ A sense
of loneness may at times beset me in the absence of
Laurie’s voice and cheering presence,” said Frank, “but
the reflection that I have gained a brother so noble and
so devoted to my sister will fully recompense for the
sacrifice I make. But when, may I ask, do you purpose
leaving me in my realm of solitude ?”
How charmingly arch is Arthur’s reply !
“ I will not pass sentence ” (laughing), “ for I perceive
we are about to be joined by a judge than whom I could
scarcely be more lenient and merciful where your wishes
and welfare are concerned.”
Whereupon enter Laurie. In a perfect flood of
verbiage the lady is swept to the altar. The cere-
mony is over:—
“ Sleeping or waking, cara mia,” said her lover, gazing
fondly into her twinkling eyes, “ the essence of Beauty is
ever being distilled for you from the choicest flowers in
the garden of Love, and no queen of fairies or queen of
the hearts of men was ever more bountifully endowed
with the graces that have won our praise and admiration
right down the ages.”
That is not the end ; but it is near enough.
Reverend Carr Smith, of St. James’, Syd-
ney, said last Sunday that under our Immigration
Act he would not have been allowed to land here
now. He came out under contract about nine
years ago. The Rev. Smith is a decent sort, and
it’s a pity that he doesn’t look before he talks.
The contract provisions of the Immigration Act
apply only to manual laborers, and a parson isn’t
a manual laborer, and doesn’t come under the Act.
“L” : Melbourne owns a bar-loafer who
cadges drinks “ on the Times instalment plan; ”
when he can’t get a shout, he snatches an empty
glass and coaxes those in the bar into helping to
fill it out of their glasses. It takes him anything
up to an hour to get a glassful, and I have known
him swallow a weird mixture of as many as 10
different liquids. As soon as he drinks one of his
cocktails he starts collecting for another. The
landlord of the pub. at which I first met him
allowed him to hang about for a few months, as
he used to amuse customers who had a crude idea
of humor.
“Itan”: “ S.R.” (B. 25/I/’O6) does Pre-
mier Kidston some injustices. “Ugly split in
party...Kidston has grown unpopular...He is
apathetic upon labor questions... His party is sore
that he did not secure more representation in the
Ministry for Labor... Missed chances at coming
out as a Democrat.” This is mostly Bosh, with a
very large B. The split is not due to Kidston.
Seven Socialism -in - our - time members have
fallen out with the P.L.L., mainly to play
to the gallery, for there are a number of
unionists, led by Boot’s Worker, who are
reaching after something in the moon. The P.L.L.
men, with Kidston at their head, are-content
to read* after reforms obtainable on the earth.
And they are securing some, while the Worker-
Lesina crowd are creating difficulties. The Pre-
mier is as good a Labor man as ever, and better
than some of the extremists, who themselves are
talking about committing the country to further
losins. Kidston’s Governmentlastsession, although
the Chamber of Fossils stood in the way of more
{irogress, passed several measures which put Queens-
and ahead of other States for Democratic legisla-
tion. Also, how could Kidston get other Labor
representatives in the Cabinet? There has been
only one vacancy during the life of the Govern-
ment due to the retirement of Morgan, and
O’Sullivan, who is bidding for a seat to fill it, is as
good a Labor man as many of the extreme party.
Kidston has not missed any “ chances to come out
as a Democratic Minister.” His chance as Premier
has only j ust come. He will carry on the good wo'rk
of Morgan during the lifeof the present Ptwiliaineirt,
and next election will see Ji*m leading a Demo-
cratic party in Queensland with a programme
liberal enough for all but cranks.


SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
LUCID.
THE SAMARITAN: “ Come , come, my good
fellow— how far do you live? ”
DRUNK : “ Not (hie) she far as you'd (hie)
think!”
A boy can get a University or an Adversity
training. The first mostly makes him ornamental,
the second useful. An ideal training would com-
bine both.
In one S. Australian district a private
citizen—not in any way connected with the Forces
—has made a military survey of the country,
marked out routes for artillery, lines of communi-
cation, fodder and water supplies, and, roughly,
places for position guns with approximate ranges
to points where an invader would have to pass.
He did this for his own satisfaction, during the
S’African war, on Boer principles. It is a very
rough scheme. But has any military officer in
S. A. done that much ?
* * * *
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade is now
forced to admit that the new Liquor Act can’t be
administered strictly. It is to be administered
“ with discretion,” like many another Act passed
with indiscretion. Hotel-keepers forced on this
decision by rigidly interpreting the new Act to
mean what it professed to mean. Now neglectful
administration will be utilised to neutralise
neglectful drafting. That system of half adminis-
tering half-considered laws is common, but it is .
vicious. If the Liquor Act is unreasonable, as
Mr. Wade seems to admit, it should be amended,
not suspended by Ministerial edict.
The Argus lists of the ‘ ‘ Twelve Best Pic-
tures ” show the massive ignorance of the alleged
cultured and upper classes. If the working people
fancied such things, the Argus crowd would
look down on them with horror, and want to take
away their franchise. Banal story-pictures hold
pride of place in the Argus list; these and gory
battle scenes, or traitors being tossed from the
Exhibition dome, or else “sweetly pretty” Xmas
supplement things, like the “ Dying Child ” or
“When Father Reads the Bible.” The Argus
competitions as to the Twelve Best Books,
Public Men, Pictures, and so on, have done its
respectable readers little good by exposing the
disreputably low standard of their taste.
* * * *
Brisbane water-supply is so notoriously
dirty that recently a local cordial-maker adver-
tised that not only did he refrain from using the
fluid for the making of his cordials, but also for
the washing of his bottles !
* * * *
Some of the Westralian returned cohen-
tingenters recently “celebrated” in Perth their
farm-burning expedition. Contributions to the
spree were invited. In an advt. on Jan. 13th, 35
individuals or firms are thanked for donations.
They pan out: hotels 14, breweries 4, beer-bot-
tling works 2, wholesale wine and spirit merchants
7, retail ditto 2, “soft-stuff” factories 2, vineyard
1, cigar merchant 1, cake factory 1, and private
individual 1, the last being an officer. Well,
one section of the community still remembers
gratefully the farm-burner.
* * * •
N.S.W. State Goverment is the landlord
of three marriage shops—institutions where you’re
married on the quick notice system, ring and
witnesses found on the premises.
* * *
“The Hack” : There is a
good deal of expensive laxity in the
regulations as to the use of school-
books in Victorian State schools. At
present the books to be used in a
school are selected by the head
teacher, and that leads to wire-pull-
ing. There are probably not two
schools in the State which use the
same books. If John Jones moves
(say) from Brighton to Middle
Brighton, all the junior
Joneses have to be provided
with new books ; and to a
man with a large family
that sort of thing is very
burdensome. Also, the
continual changing of
books without notice
means heavy loss to
the small bookseller,
through accumulation
of unsaleable stock.
Here is an instance of
what happens under
the present want-of-
system : A Melbourne
book firm published a
geography for a (then)
junior State school
teacher. It didn’t
take, and for some
years the unsaleable stock
drew wild curses from the
boss. Then one day the
author offered to clear the lot
at an alarming sacrifice, and
the boss agreed. A couple of
weeks later the author was ap-
pointed to a big school, and
every child who has attended
that school uses that book and
pays full price for it, too.
“ Elmore ” : I put in
New Year’s Day culling
good resolutions from old
proverbs. Some of the
results of my researches :
“Absence makes the
heart grow fonder,”
“Out of sight, out of
mind”; “Penny wise,
pound foolish,” “Take
care of the pence, and
the pounds will take
care of themselves”;
“Birds of a feather flock
together,” “Two of a trade
never agree” ; “Many hands
make light work,” “ Too many cooks spoil
the broth”; “Delays are dangerous,” “He
who hesitates is lost,” “Look before you leap,”
“Second thoughts are always best ” ; “The early
bird catches the worm,” “ All things come to him
who waits.” I believe G. H. Reid wrote the
proverbs.
Velasquez Venus —“ the Venus with the Mirror ”as it is known—just bought by the British
National Gallery for £40,000, is practically the only famous nude in Spanish art; the gloomy,
almost Calvinistic character that Roman Catholicism took in Spain did not tend to encourage
the nude in art. The Venus was painted by Royal command, and is accounted one of the loveliest
figure subjects in the world. The pose, it will be noted, makes a liberal concession to prudery.
Victorian Board of Public Health lately
gave a hint as to the cash value to the public of
freedom from sickness. In ’O5 the State had 700 ,
fewer cases of typhoid fever than in 04. Taking <
the ages of the persons affected at between 15 and
25, and putting down the loss of wages and cost
of medical attendance at the moderate estimate of
£l5 per head, the State was thus better off in one
year alone by about £lO,OOO. When the unclean
person raves about the cost of health inspection
and dairy supervision, he might remember this.
• * * *
“ Gebo ” gives a reminiscence of a Gov.
Brassey party, showing how the memory of vice-
royalty lingers, and the crimson tie that binds and
so on :
It was about the time I left school to fight the world,
that I was asked to visit Govt. House, at one of the
famous Lord Brassey parties. We were ranged outside a
marquee, Ohow fashion, one behind the other. Sub-
sequently we marched in alongside a lengthy table. For
each “ scholar ” was a plate containing a sausage roll, a
sponge cake, a jam tart, a bag of cheap boiled lollies, and
a bottle of ginger beer. With dreadful threats we were
told by some autocrat at the festive table “not to touch”
anything till the word “go.” Then he timed us, giving
us five minutes to “ get through ” the lot, and every now
and then calling out how many more minutes were left.
This took place in Lord Brassey’s presence. He stood
near by and didn’t fall off anything. In the afternoon
there were amusements—conjurors and Punch-and-Judy
shows. We amused ourselves by throwing the lollies at
the latter, and many of us were publicly ejected from the
holy grounds.
* * * »
Tuesday, Jan. 23rd, when Melbourne
buzzed under a temperature of llOdeg., saw
almost a repetition of the Gippsland bush-fires of
’9B, which Longstaff has so vividly presented.
Over the Hoddle Ranges, down on the little
townships of Toora and Woorarra, swept a wall of
flame 100 ft. high. Fast as the blistering wind,
giving little chance to man or beast to escape, it
licked up everything over miles of country. Six
little mites, toddling home at noon from school,
were met by their frenzied mother and rushed
back along the track to a main road, where they
stood while she strove to keep the waves of flame
away from them. They lost their heads and
broke away—every child being suffocated. The
six little bodies were buried next day in the one
grave, while the father stood by, blind, ban-
daged and broken. Here and there others,
adults, met a horrible fate, fighting hope-
lessly. One man struggled to within two
chains of a house in a clearing near Woorarra,
then collapsed. In that four-roomed cottage were
sheltered 20 men, women and children, cringing
away from the fierce heat, and only rushing out
now and then to beat out flying sparks that struck
the building. There were tales of heroism too— of
cool-headed teachers who kept their pupils inside
and covered them with wet bags, themselves blinded
and singed in the effort to save the little ones.
Others kept the panic-stricken weaker ones in
waterholes and fought the flames and the hysteria
that meant absolute destruction. Three schools,
a church, a Mechanics Institute and houses with-
out number were reduced to ashes. So far the
tally of victims totals 14, but it is feared it will
mount to a score or more when all is known.
A story of a desperate fight attaches to the
death of one lonely settler. A rescue party, know-
ing that the fires had swept over this man’s land,
went to see how he had fared. The outhouses had
been burned, but after a long, hard struggle the
fires had been beaten off from the dwelling.
Entering this, the searchers found the settler dead
upon the floor, a wet bag still in his blackened
hand. The man was singed and burnt from head
to heel. The poor fellow had conquered, but the
effort had proved too much for him, and he had
died when the danger was past.
From “ Red Tape Junior ” :
For circumlocution N.S.W. Police Department is diffi-
cult to beat. Suppose a hairy selector named Thompson
calls on the Minister for Lands to complain that his
neighbor’s bull has been making faces at him. He can’t
be sent to blazes because “ his member is with him,” and
the member’s vote is going to be wanted. So Thompson
is promised an inquiry, and the Minister politely requests
his colleague the Chief Secretary to make them. The
Chief Secretary instructs the Inspector-General of Police.
Thompson and the bull reside in a hamlet in the south-
west, and instead of sending down direct, red tape
demands that the Inspector-General should consult the
superintendent of the division, who perhaps is stationed
at Bourke. The superintendent asks the sub-inspector
of the district for his report, which means that the
I.G.P.’s letter zigzags down to Wentworth. This official
sends down to the nearest sergeant, some hundreds of
miles away, who has to find the senior constable stationed
near to Thompson. Finally, the complaint of Thompson
reaches police-constable Murphy, Who discovers that a
Murrumbidgee mosquito on the nose of the bull was the
cause of all the worry. So, back along the road it came,
goes this letter to the 1.G.P., after a tour that a record-
breaking motorist would envy, and reaches him when
everyone has long forgotten Thompson.
CIVILISED RELIGION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballarat, Sunday.—No formal charge has yet been
made in respect to the alleged ritualistic practices on the
part of the vicar of St. Peter’s, Start-street.
Some years ago similar trouble arose at another Angli-
can church in Ballarat, owing to the alleged llomish
practices of the then vicar, and a section of the congrega-
tion showed its displeasure by assembling in a body
and smashing the windows in the buildings on the church
grounds. —Melbourne Aon.
And is the vicar on his ritual bent,
And at our purple indignation mocks he!
Then let him meet the proper punishment
Of heterodoxy.
Drop, O ye faithful, thought of age or sex,
And hasten to the rubbish-bin to garner
The agbd egg, and possibly the ex-
Tra-ripe banana.
Appropriate the plum of moilldy hue,
And though upon your arms you feel the load weigh,
Add to it jagged lumps of metal blue
From off the roadway.
Charge ! With macadam hurled that none may miss,
’i'is sad to knock the stained-glass saint to Hinders ;
But naught we spare in such a cause as this —
Not even windows.
Not without reason should we cry a truce ;
While forth to remonstrate our pastor reaches,
We’ll therefore daub his visage with the juice
Of mushy peaches.
lleed not his loud “ Dear me !” and “ Well, well, well!”
But make the tire of squashy ligs intenser
Yea, even till lie hastens him to sell
Caudles and censer.
llow sweet to coax the brother who has strayed
Until he learns to walk as v ' think fitting 1
The Heathen of such joys, I a.a afraid,
Lives all unwitting.
Benighted islander ! He knoweth not
Tne ritual pouts on which we spend our judgment;
And if he did he’d use the word that “ Rot!”
(Or maybe “ Fudge !”) meant.
vie.
LAY BROTHER.
GOOD-BYE FOR EVER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
yY HAD you but a fierce,
M M relentless father.
I $ I might have loved you
longer than I did ;
But he,’with smiles and sweet
composure, rather
Dismayed the passion I would
fain have hid.
Too easily he granted me per-
mission
To woo and win you, free as
meadow air ;
Love waxes fonder when there's
opposition—
FIERCE,
RELENTLESS.
And danger makes a woman doubly fair.
WITH SMILES.
Id sooner climb a
little hempen
ladder,
And scrape my
knees to reach
your window-
sill,
Than be a dead-
head parlor-
singing gad-
der
With Pop pre
pared to foot the breakfast-bill .
And this I say (because you are not ugly):
’ Twcre better if your Daddy
greeted me
With half a broken brick,
instead of smugly
Inviting me to buttered
scones and tea.
I cannot, and I will not,
ever love you;
Nay, never call me fickle —
fie , for shame !
I swear, by all the stars
that glow above you,
Your Father is the villain
you must blame!
N.s.w.
HEMPEN LADDER.
HUGH McCRAE.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
Is the National Remedy for Sandy Blight, Swelling Blight,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids. It gives strength to weak eyes
and rest to the tired
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion may be used at all times by old
and young with benefit.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally , send postal note for 1/9 for a bottle to the Sole
Proprietors and Manufacturers:
H. A. ROSE & CO„ 531 George Street, Sydney.
IMP- Ask for Rose’s Celebrated Bye Lotio 1 and refuse a'l Substitutes and Imitations “Md
n
k
mm*
■ £ t|6 tWii
r
THt
EXQUISITE MODELS. & PERFECT FIT,
& # GUARANTEED WEAR. * *
THE NEW
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.


The model for the Melbourne statue of
Queen Victoria follows closely the proportions of
the departed lady. In the Ma Country it is an
accepted axiom that all monarchs look majestic.
Consequently sculptors who have to image forth a
Sovereign Lady of somewhat dumpy figure hire a
6ft. Gibson Girl as model. The Melbourne statue
compromises with the conventional rendering to
the extent of tricking out the Queen in crown,
robes, sceptre and orb. Considering the realism
of the figure, the statue would have been more
appropriately finished off with the bombazine gown
and garden hat of Victoria’s everyday life. That
famous garden hat would have looked well in
marble.
* • * •
According to Detective O’Donnell, whoso
sofa was recently blown up by a bomb, gambling
in Melbourne is practically unchecked at present.
The Chows let you mark tickets, but tell you
nothing, promise you nothing; and it’s impossible
to prove anything without a fearful rigmarole of
ticket-marking and endless law fights. The open-
air two-up schools must be arrested by warrant or
proceeded against by summons, and while the
watching constables get the warrants the school
casually disperses and meanders home talking of
the weather. The betting clubs defy the_ law,
and, when tackled, enter on an endless series of
appeals—gambling steadily the while. As to
Wren’s tote-shop, it’s an institution ; and Wren
is said by some to be making £5O a day out of it.
O’Donnell’s proposed remedy is to give the police
large powers of summary arrest. But that, at the
best, would be poor and ineffective. The law
should decide to regulate gambling—it being im-
possible to suppress it—by legalising the tote on
certain licensed racecourses and for those who
like a little flutter; but anathematise racing,
inaugurate a State lottery, with a 10 per cent,
commission to be devoted to liquidating the
public debt.
LUCK.
MISS A. (chattily): “ And which of you two had the luck to win the widow?”
MR. B.: “ Well, we divided it. Jones had the luck and I have the wdow.”
Adelaide is excited in a holy way over a
young m an with a broken neck, who lies, with
mind and memory quite clear, in the Home for
Incurables. The doctors say positively that the
fifth joint of the neck is fractured, and the pre-
vious record for living on in that condition is five
weeks. Yet this case has dragged on since a
trolly accident in September, 1904 ! The patient
is paralysed as to the lower part of the body, but
is fairly cheerful. _
_ . , ~
Those Australians who are shocked at the
idea of the Commonwealth attempting to create
an Australian navy, and who declare that we
couldn’t possibly make a success of the work of
undertaking our own defence by water, are called
upon to consider the cruiser Encounter, now on
her way to join the Australian Squadron. Every
time the Encounter has been called upon to per-
form at a pace beyond a cautious hobble she has
either ricked her spine or dislocated important
masses of gear. She has been patched and altered
and repaired at a cost of about £lOO,OOO, and at
length, when it was reasonable to conclude that
she was fit for nothing but to be sent to the boil-
ing-down works, the dear old country recollects
that it has bargained to supply Australia with
certain ships at a large annual rental, and the
Encounter is carefully nursed across the water to
keep that contract.
A STERN SOUL.
JAMES HENRY : “If yer break yer engagement wir me, Muriel Agnes, I’ll buy frec-pennorth of
beer an’ drink meself inter a early grave."
Ever since this writer, on St. Kilda pier
one perspiring day in the long ago, saw a massive
lady, of flabellate habit, with a balloon-like con-
tour and a stolid tread, step on a penny-in-the-
slot weighing machine, he has had doubts about
the veracity of that device. The pointer stopped
at lOst. 51b. without a blush, and the lady got
herself carefully off, smiling like a kookaburra.
The other day a Prahran (Vic.) weights-and-
measures inspector prosecuted the penny-in-the-
slot on the ground of inaccuracy. It was ex-
plained on behalf of the slot that a machine might
go wrong, but that it could be easily repaired.
Case dismissed ; and probably the machines will
be more accurate in future.
December number of the London Magazine
op Commerce advocates an extension of the
Law of Debt, giving more ample poweis
than at present for gaoling non-paying
debtors. Better to give less law into the hands of
the creditor. Unless where false pretences can be
proved, the transaction which makes creditor and
debtor is one purely between the pair, and they
should settle it between themselves.
The Irish R.C. objection to the English
R.C.—the Cartholic. as he dubs him with infinite
scovn _shows in Michael Davitt’s letter to Dublin
Freeman’s Journal, declaring that
the as ; n ; ne stupidity of the Irish Bishops in insti-
gating Mr. John Redmond to assist Mr. Balfour to enact
the Education Act of 1902 has been the chief cause of a
triumphant Radical majority being returned pledged to
secularise schools, but not pledged to Home Rule.
Of course, the Home Rulers didn t want the
Liberals to get a sweeping victory only a
moderate victory, which would leave them depen-
dent for a majority on the Irish JN ationalists.
Now, with the Nonconformist crowd antagonised
by Balfour’s concession of State aid to Anglican
and Roman Catholic schools, the lories can t
even muster an effective Opposition tor the Irish
party to play off against the Liberals; and
Michael Davitt asks bitterly why this thing
should be just to oblige a lot of English Car-
tholics,” who are mostly against Home Rule.
The same old benzine accident again. It’s
used for cleaning gloves and polishing the furni-
ture, and the other day a Castlemaine (Vic.) man
got his wife to rub his back with it to relieve an
internal ache. A lighted candle happened to be
alongside, the benzine caught fire, and the last
state of that man’s back was worse than the first.
* * * *
There was a great time in a Melbourne
suburb the other day when a local shopkeeper
took the hint from a recent biograph picture and
inserted an inch ad. for a wife in the morning
papers. By eight o’clock the applicants started
arriving, and as he took each one into his room to
examine her as to her qualifications, there was
soon a block. By ten, he had put through about
half-a-dozen, and there were still 20 waiting.
Meanwhile the crowd had got wind of what was
going on, and a couple of hundred on-
lookers gathered round the shop and criti-
cised the applicants audibly. Then the police
arrived, and just in time, for the applicants
had started to criticise each other. One expressed
the opinion that it showed some people’s cheek
when they expected to get married with such
faces, and the lady referred to retorted that at
any rate she was a respectable woman. There
was every probability of a free fight, when the
much-sought came out and announced that he was
suited. Eighteen ladies at once rose to the occasion,
laughed contemptuously in the face of the bride-
elect, and marched off saying that the bridegroom
was no gentleman, and if they’d only seen him
properly they wouldn’t have troubled waiting.
Most of the applicants were past their first youth
and not lovely, but they included a couple of
attractive, little, fringed suburban girls of 16 or
so and a staid widow of 50. The bride was a
bright-looking, intelligent girl, and the choice of
the advertiser showed that he kept his senses
about him to the end.
* * * *
The Central Post-office Bureau has practi-
cally decided that the toll system of telephones
will be started in Melbourne and Sydney on July
1 next. Under this system, each conversation
will be paid for. The idea just now is that pre-
sent subscribers will have the right to keep on at
their subscription rates, but all new connections
will have the toll tariff imposed. When results
are known, a general system will be introduced
As a compensation to the toll payers, their instru-
ments are to be connected with a common battery.
This will mean that conversations with the
“Hello” girls will be conducted without the
innumerable rings of the ordinary phone. In
place of the bell is a tiny electric bulb, which
glows when the phone is rung up or off. lhe
“ ring up ” for inattentive subscribers will be the
only tinkle the instrument will know —a great
advantage this to a busy office.
The Blue Lake, Mfc. Kosciusko, has at
last been sounded ; difficulty before was in getting
a raft from which to plumb, as the lake is far above
timber level 5 a rough canvas coracle was brought
up on a pack-horse. The lake had the reputation
of being of enormous depth—“bottomless the
Monaro men said. And the real depth is 75 feet .
Rodin’s bust of Jean Paul Laurens, the
French painter, and Clausen’s “Ploughmans
Breakfast” have now arrived at Melbourne to
complete Bernard Hall’s purchases from the F el ton
bequest. Doubtless some person whose training
consisted in handling fancy socks will cry out in
the Akgus that something dreadful has happened
after he has seen the Rodin. Clausens work is
■just a good, solid picture, with no special mean-
ing It is an English country scene, with horses
and plough, and two men sitting under a tree-
after Constable, but a long way after. It has
some solid qualities, is conscientiously felt, and
well painted ; but the color m places is a little
cheap; and it is by no means a modern master-
piece. On the whole, Hall bought well; for he
kept to a definite scheme of buying only repre-
sentative works. Clausen is not violently repre-
sentative, but that was a slip that can be excused.
For Clausen is going to buy the next batch ot
Felton pictures, and it is just as well to humor
him. _ „
* * * *
A casual Australian story was told at an
inquest at Charlton (Vic.), a week or two back.
The corpse was named Jack. He had left his ship
at Geelong, and at Maryborough had met Bill and
Jim 'Hie three tramped together for five weeks,
and, coming to the Avoca River, tned to swim
across. Halfway over, Jack sank. Bill and Jim
concluded this to be a display of humor, and
grunted in the bushman’s attempt to laugh.
Jack’s joke was protracted ; he stayed under
water for a minute and a-half. Then Jim dived,
and brought him up for the inquest..
* * * *
Mr. Somebody or other was lately appeal-
ing to the British public for subscriptions to
enable him to continue his “good old custom
of sending a Xmas sovereign to each of the thirty
survivors of the Balaclava charge. The Balaclava
charge has thus dwindled down to £1 a head tor
30 old men at Xmas.
• * *
In Westralia it is suggested that the vacant
Judgeship should be filled from England. The
last creation, Justice M'Millan, came from the
Cold Country. The difficulty is not so much the
dearth of local talent as other considerations.
Attorney-General Moss, who had no claims to
preferment, was offered the post so that
he might decline it. Of the other eligibles
Mr. Gus. Roe, city P.M., though a lawyer, forgot
most of his law while pearl-shelling, and the police-
court bench is not a good qualifying ground, any-
way ; Mr. “Dicky” Haynes. K.C.., is supposed
to lack dignity, and no one else, except perhaps
Solicitor-General Sayer, K.C., is supposed to be
amongst the first flight in the running. It was
the Barristers’ Board that suggested a second
importation from England. But what about the
last judicial importation from the Cold Country !
It was hardly a brilliant success.
*v* * *
J. D. Campbell, M.L.A., of Bananaland,
rather wasted both energy and cash on his trip to
England if the only thing that impressed him
there was “the disparity which exists between the
conditions of the wealthy and the poor and the
unequal treatment they receive.” Why have gone
further than, say, Melbourne to find that !
Henley-on-the-Yarra affords a type of the treat-
ment of the wealthy. Once a year some unknown
authority filches from the public the north and
south banks of the Yarra opposite the winning
post, and encloses them in barricades of galvanised
iron'to form reserves for “immaculately gowned
society ladies” (Age, 30/10/’O5) to the rigid exclu-
sion of the poor general public, to whom the
banks belong, but who might contaminate the
“nice” folk. Next day (Age, 31/10/’O5) notice
the treatment of the poor. Ten unhappy little
boys prosecuted at Fitzroy for playing m the
Edinburgh gardens on Sunday with a rag football.
Batson, town clerk and mouthpiece of Fitzroy’s
aristocracy, states that
The commmittee had made the lawn for the use of
children (rich children !) and not for a lot of hoodlums
(young Australia) to play rough and tumble upon.
So his worship the Mayor discharges the ten
criminals with a severe caution, and announces
that the bench intends to put a stop to this sort of
thing in future. In Australia, just as much as in
England, Campbell, M.L.A., will find that the
rich flourish, and the poor are persecuted.
“COMMITTED.“
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Committed to Asylum ”
Quick, curt, and precise ;
The clerk takes the papers to file ’em —
All’s done in a trice.
Out goes some poor devil, half-witted,
They’ve dealt with him well;
He’s done with at last ; he’s “ committed ”
Committed to hell.
In the yard with the rest of his brot hers
He sits in his gloom ;
They’ll stow him away with the others,
Wherever there’s room.
He’ll have company—oh,, never doubt it!
If he isn’t mad yet,
There’ll soon be no question about it,
From the chances he’ll get.
Committed ! The cross of his madness
Is nailed to his back,
All prospects of sweetness or gladness
Are torn from his track.
He’ll find his way down to his level
Before very long,
For the keeper who’ll thump out his devil
Is stalwart and strong.
VIC.
LAM.
BEAUTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beauty was horn of the world’s desire,
Of laughing water and flaming fire.
She treads the Earth, and the flowers spring sweet
Under the arch of her dainty feet.
The Spring of the year is in her veins,
Where pulses the passion of suns and rains ;
Out of the breast of a crimson flower
Her lips were fashioned in one sweet hour.
Out of the winds were made her feet,
Lovely, elusive, and white and fleet.
Out of a cloud was made her hair —
Heavy and black, with the storm held there.
What is her name? There’s none that knows.
Mother o’ Mischief or Month o’ Rose ?
Where is she going ? but none can tell,
She climbs to heaven or falls to hell.
W. A. P.
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & Genera! Auctioneers,
V
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
A Boon to Country Gentlemen-
JuM
No need to wait till you come to town.
I can mail you, free of postage,
A Perfect Fitting Suit,
&4 4s.
On receipt of a post card, Patterns, Fashions,
and New Scientific Self-measurement Forms
will be forwarded.
All you have to do is to make your choice,
fill in a few figures, and return to . . .
R. C. HAGON,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Merchant
Tailor,


The WILD CAT
COULUMN
It is almost inconceivable that the A.M.P.
directors will pursue business in Britain and S’Africa on
the vote recently taken. They called on members to
give them certain powers, and only 95,336 votes assented.
That is, only about one in every six gave the directors
the authority they sought. True, if they stand on their
legal rights, having got the necessary majority of “ Yes”
votes over “No” votes, they can extend the business.
But, as directors of a mutual society, they presumably
vvon’t stand on narrow legal rights. That is the one
simple fact they have to wrestle with : they sought
proxies from members representing over 500,000 votes,
and all they got in their favor was 95,336. If they accept
that as sufficient authority, they would accept almost
anything.
The directors ought to say promptly whether
they intend, in view of this miserable response to their
request for proxies, to go on with a business for which
they have got only one-sixth of the members to express
favor. If they persist, then it will be quite open for the
holders of the other 400,000 votes to record their opinion
between now and March 9, when the confirmatory meet-
ing will be held. The proxies already sent in will stand
good for that meeting; presumably between now and
March 9 some definite decision will be arrived at with
regard to other proxies. But the directors, in view of
the previous persistent refusal of members and the
present miserable response to their application for
authority, ought to make an announcement rendering
any furtherappeal to members unnecessary.
“Disgusted’’ opens up a large question :— “I
am a policy-holder in the Australian Widows’Fund. We
have on our paid staff Dr. Marshall, minister of Scots
Church, Oollins-street, Melbourne ; Mr. A. Dick, chair-
man of Dr. Marshall’s church committee ; Senator Simon
Fraser, bosom friend of both ; and Rev. Keith Mackay, a
peregrinating Congregational minister. The first three
are directors; the last is chief inspector. Board fees
work out at about £6 per man per week, with £2 2s. for
the members of the local boards. Over two-thirds
of the interest goes in expenses. The A.M.P.. wants
to extend its operations. Could it not take
the Widows’ Fund over bodily? Tell me—How many
policy-holders have left the Wid'ows’ Fund Society by (a)
death, (b) maturity of Policy of Endowment, (c) 'surren-
ders, ( d ) forfeitures for the years ’O2, ’O3, ’O4, ’05.”
Something might be done with profit in life-
office amalgamation. There is a shocking multiplication
of little concerns, and a shocking proportion of themonev
which ought to reach the widow or the insurer in his old
age is supporting unnecessary directors and superin-
tendents and other people who mostly have too little of
the business to do to know much about it, and in pro-
viding rent for unnecessary offices. Besides three or four
societies that are doing a mixed medical benefit and in-
surance business, and the three great American offices,
and the Red Indian concern, there are no less than 11
offices struggling to take the life of Australasia; and
the struggle is all the mere tremendous because 60 per
cent, of the whole receipts in Australia reach one society.
There are three offices—the A.M.P., Citizens’, arid
National Mutual—which in 1904 were able to add 35
per cent, of their receipts to their funds; while the
aggregate additions of all the other offices were only 24
per cent, of their receipts, Seventy-four per cent, of the
whole life-assurance income reached these three societies ;
all the rest of them (nearly a dozen, doing life assurance
business in some form or other) struggled for the other 26
per cent, And each of these competitors has its boards
of directors (one of them alone has 33 directors), its staffs,
its offices, its brass-plates, and its advertisements.
According to latest official figures, the premium income
and management cost of some of the offices are as follow
(ordinary business only)
Premium Manage-
Income. ment.
A-M.P. .. ~ ~ £1,763,993 £237,293
Citizens’.. .. ... 209,698 31,894
National Mutual . , 487,385 128,570
Total three offices .. £2,461,076 £397,757
Widows’Fund .. .. 184,246 49,543
T. & G 65,320 18,302
Aus. Metrop. (mix;ed)., 4,652 13,436
Total three offices .. £254,118 £81,281
If, in proportion to their premium income, the manage-
ment of the latter three offices had cost the same as in the
former three, the total, instead of being £81,281, would
have amounted to just over £40,000. In other words,
about £41,000 more, which went in management, would
have gone to the policy-holders in bonuses ; and in that
case the reversionary bonuses would have been trebled.
Whether any large office would take over the
businesses of several smaller offices is, however, doubt-
ful. Similar proposals have been made several times in
America, and the reply has been—“ Yes, but only on a
re-examination and re valuation of the risks.” The theory
is that the poorer the office and the less its bonuses, the
worse its risks ; the healthy members who can get insur-
ance elsewhere get it and drop out of the poorer office,
which is thus left with the sediment. What is the rate
of surrender and forfeiture in the Widows’ Fund, to
which the correspondent above-quoted refers, it is
impossible to say ; like a good many other
offices, the Widows’ Fund blazons in its reports
the number of new policies issued during the year,
but doesn’t mention the other highly important matter of
lapses and surrenders. Note this, however : In 1903 poli-
cies were issued for £425,254, yielding an annual income
of £16,606. In 1904 the claims totalled £152,266, or only
about a third of the amount of the new policies; so,
roughly, the premium income should have increased by
about two-thirds of £16,606. Instead, however, of in-
creasing, the premium income (apart from new premiums
for 1904) actually fell from £160,848 to £159,097 ; so, in
addition to surrenders, there must have been severe
lapses. And the insurance that lapses because the office
isn’t fascinating enough to cause the policy-holder to
struggle to keep his policy in force, is more pathetic even
than the insurance which only carries a small bonus be-
cause the expense rate is too big.
If policy-holders want amalgamation, they will
have to fight for it themselves ; for the directors won’t.
The position is the same as it is in connection with the
“ Greater Sydney ” or “Greater Melbourne” movement.
You needn’t look to the 47 Sydney suburban mayors to
agitate for a scheme, no matter how good, which means
their own disappearance. And you needn’t look to the
directors either.
* * * •
H. Y. L. Brown, Government Geologist of
S.A., on return from a long trip about the north coasts,
tells an Adelaide interviewer (Register, Jan. 4th): “My
opinion is, as it always has been, that the Northern Terri
tory has never had a fair trial in the way of mineral de-
velopment. They talk about the thousands of pounds
spent there by English companies. It has never been
spent in true mining, but chiefly wasted on the surface.
. . . There are some good-lookingcopper and tin shows,
but the country is a gold country.” Brown selected a
spot at Port Keats where it might be advisable to bore
for coal, and says that any that may be got will be valu-
able, of the Newcastle class.
* # # *
The refusal of English holders of over £1,500,000
worth of Victoria’s 4 per cent. Treasury bonds to take
advantage of their option of conversion into Bent’s 3£per
cent. Consolidated Stock at 103 gives Australia a glimpse
of rocks ahead. The one unconscious good the Stinking
Fish crowd is doing this loan-drunk land is in scaring Bull
off supplying further tipple. Should that party’s efforts
culminate in Australia being unable to get the price of
“a permanent and reproductive ” beer at anything under
25 per cent., it will be a happy result in some respects.
Though the Daily Telegraph kindly gave it
permission, the Royal Bank (Melb.) won’t expand to
Sydney just yet. Negotiations broke off when they were
nearly ripe.
* * * •
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):
Profits by
Bank- Purchase Added
ing of Depre- Written to Re- Re-
Profits. ciated Off. serves, serves.
Deposits.
June, 1899.. £1,358 £1,358 £59,095
Dec., 1899.. 2,912 £88,908 91,820 150,915
June, 1900.. 2,057 20,505 22,022 173,537
Dec., 1900.. 2,548 19,963 22,511 196,048
June, 1901.. 13,465 21,947 £ll,OOO 24,412 220,460
Dec., 1901.. 3,584 12,663 16,247 236,707
June, 1902..' 2,043 20,840 22,883 259,590
Dec., 1902.. 3,463 17,559 21,022 280,612
June, 1903.. 4,190 18,384 22,574 303,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,166 21,760 22,926 326,112
Capital written down from
£1,168,042 to £154,529
June, 1904.. 2,459 326,112 2,459 2,459
Dec., 1904.. 2,964 2,964 5,423
June, 1905..- 2,144 2,144 7,567
Dec., 1905.. 1,421 1,421 8,988
Previous to the writing down of capital the profit made
by buying old deposit receipts at a discount was turned
into a special reserve, and used eventually to write down
assets. Latterly less buying has been done ; and what
profit has been made has apparently been used to write
down assets internally. Some “B” deposits (repayable
1912 and 1917, or earlier, after May, 1907, at the bank’s
option) have apparently been exchanged for inscribed
deposit stock: —
Dec. ’O4. Dec. 'O5.
Deposit stock .. £788,267 £791,805 Inc. £3,538
A&B deposits .. 3,581,683 3,290,988 Dec. £290,695
The reduction of A and B deposits is mainly the result
of clearances of A deposits under the. scheme, by which
about £254,000 is repayable annually. Only one more
batch remains now to be paid. In the way of repurchase,
very little has been done in the past six months; only
£3336 has been wiped out. And it isn’t because B
deposits have gone back to face value. In fact, their last
quote was 13s. in the £ ; yet that is better than the 11s.
9d. of twelve months ago.
What are the prospects for these B deposits,
amounting to just over £3,000,000? They carry 3 per
cent, and are repayable in 1912 and 1917. Take first the
advances as written down and now amounting to
£4,073,106. Allowing £6OOO per half-year as being earned by
British Consols (£195,700), London bank balances
(£303,389), and other liquid items, the advances last six
months earned gross. £104,323, after providing for bad
and doubtful debts on new business only. On the mean
of the advances this was at the rate of £2 10s. 6d. per
cent, per annum. And that is gross. Now a moderate
gross-earnings rate would be £4 per cent. To get the.
assets down to that basis the advances would have to be
written down to £2,545,700. Add premises (written
down to the same extent) £229,000, and liquid assets
£1,004,502, and you have assets £3,779,202. Deduct
£1,693,000, which is the amount of outstanding A deposits
and interest and new deposits and other liabilities which
are a prior charge on all assets f and you have £2,086,000
available to pay B deposits, amounting to £3,037,000.
These are merely estimates and valuations, of course, and
affect the value of B deposit receipts only. As for new
deposits and other first-charge liabilities, the calculation
means that they could be met and leave £2,086,000 over.
As for current business :
Dec., ’O4. Dec., 'O5.
Notes.. .. £62,568 £66,687 Inc. £4,119
Bills, &o. .. 131,543 156,934 Inc. 25,391
New Deposits 992,680 1,150,018 Inc. 157,338
Liquid Assets 1,273,291 1,247,551 Dec. 25,740
Advances .. 4,147,455 4,073,106 Dec. 74,349
Premises .. 365,789 365,789
The reduction of liquid assets in the face of a fall in
advances and a growth of deposits is due to the paying-off
of A deposits (3 per cent.) mentioned above. The liquid
assets (largely unproductive) represent 87 per cent, of the
new debts, and that absolutely bars good profits, so the
dead-horse can’t be lifted that way. Yet the A.J.S.
Bank’s old depositors, and the modern gamblers in the
old receipts, have this hope : the A.J.S. plunged heaviest
in pastoral securities, and given a run of four or five good
seasons and high prices, no sort of security can recover
so rapidly.
* * * •
The Bank of Victoria (Melbourne)
Dividends.
, ' Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. 2£ p.c. serves. serves.
June, ’99 £27,637 £10,419 £17,218 £107,249
Dec., ’99 27,906 10,419 17,487 124,736
June,’oo 28,554 10,419 £13,266 4,869 129,605
3 p.c. '
Dec., ’OO 30,178 10,419 15,919 3,840 133,445
June, ’Ol 31,399 10,419 15,919 5,061 138,506
Dec., ’Ol 33,136 10,419 15,919 6,798 145,304
H p.c.
June, ’O2 33,323 10,419 18,572 4,332 149,636
Dec., ’O2 33,715 10,419 15,572 4,724 154,360
June,’o3 29,440 10,419 18,572 449 154,809
Dec., ’O3 34,354 10,419 18,572 5,363 1430,172
June, ’O4 34,555 10,419 18,572 5,564 165,736
Deo., ’O4 34,583 10,419 18,572 5,592 171,328
4 pc.
June,’os 34,260 10,419 21,225 2,616 173 944
Dec., ’O5 34,524 10,419 21,225 2,880 176,’824
This bank’s profits continue very steady ; but they should
show an increase in order to justify the higher dividend
which the directors unwisely began to pay at the
beginning of 1905. The amount put by last half-year to
cover the accidents that will happen ‘in the best regu-
lated banks is only 8 per cent, of the profits, which is by
far the smallest rate among Australian banks of issue.
It is highly probable that the recent profits of Australian
banks generally will not be maintained (several of them,
in fact, show a shrinkage already), and the danger is that,
in an attempt to maintain the dividend—for the reduc
tion of a div. is one of the hardest things for a bank to
bring itself to do—either business will be forced, or
insufficient provision made for doubtful accounts. Of
course the Bank of Victoria may have been making - extra
provision of the latter sort a couple of years ago or there-
abouts, so that the true profits then may have been higher
than they look ; but that is only barely possible. Apart
from this flaw, matters look fairly cheerful. Make a
comparison :
Dec., ’O4. Dec., ’O5.
Notes £123,174 £121,426 Dec. £1,748
Bills, &c. .. ... 482,120 504,619 Inc. 22,499
Deposits at interest .. 3,206,946 3,507,801 Inc. 300,855
Free deposits .. .. 1,478,574 1,856,459 Inc. 377,885
Liquid assets .. ..1,731,705 2,105,592 Inc. 373,887
Advances, &c 4,984,842 5,316,154 Inc. 831,312
Premises .. .. 252,597 255,035 Inc. 2,438
Advances have increased, though not quite to the same
extent as deposits at interest. Generally speaking, a
growth of advances, when the money is available, is a
good sign ; but prices of securities are high now, and a
management which couldn’t resist the Temptation to put
up the dividend may not be ’able either to resist
the temptation to make advances on puffed-up values.
So, under the circumstances, the growth of advances falls
under suspicion, too. From a depositor’s point of view
the position is, however, still strong, because the share-
holders’ capital is large. Debts to the publio amount to
£5,990,305 ; liquid assets total £2,105,592 ; and against
the debt of £3,884,713 not covered by liquid assets there
are non-liquid assets valued at £5,571,189. All non-liquid
assets could therefore shrink 31 percent., and the deposi-
tors’ and other public money would still be intact. By
reason of this large proportion of shareholders’ money in
the business, profits show up rather small; on the basis
of capital and reserves, the movement has been
June, 1902 .. £4 2 1 p.c.
Ded., 1902 .. 4 210 „
June. 1903 .. 3 12 2 „
Dec., 1903 .. 4 4 2 „
June, 1904 .. £4 4 4 p.c.
Dec., 1904 .. 4 4 2 „
June, 1905 ..4 3 1,,
Dec., 1905 ..4 3 7.,
The Royal Bank of Queensland :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’99 £8322 2£ p.c. = £5056 £3266 £48,695
June, ’OO 8384 2£ „ „ 5056 £3500 48,423
Dec., ’OO 8434 „ ~ 5056 3378 61,801
June, ’Ol 8657 2| „ „ 5056 3601 55,402
Dec., ’Ol 8758\ p6OBO 3000 65,080
June, ’O2 9024 J *3 „ „ I 6700 2324 57,404
Dec., ’O2 8646 V -{ 7223 1423 58,827
June, ’O3 9052 f3J „ „ 7227 1825 60,652
Dee.. ’O3 9455./ 17227 2228 62,880
June, ’O4 9182 3£ „ „ 5422 760 63,640
Dec., ’O4 9569 3* „ „ 8427 1142 64,782
June, ’O5 9673 3J ~ „ 8463 1210 65,992
Dec., ’O5 9896 3| „ ~ 8468 1428 67,420
*0 .'dinary. fPreference.
That first column looks very healthy ; in tact, though too
big a proportion of the profits is being paid away, and it
was a mistake to put up the dividend two years ago, it is
a good-looking table altogether. And there should be
better figures ahead, judging by this
T)pn f OA.
Bills, &c £41,227* £41,684* Inc. £457
Deposits .. .. 841,657 928,256 Inc. 86,599
Liquid Assets .. 362,867 360,876 Dec. 1,991
Advances .. .. 988,328 1,080,215 Inc. 91,887
Premises .. .. 62,437 62,277 Dec. 160
In proportion to its own funds, the Royal of Queensland
has for many years past had very little public money to
work with. Even now, though the deposits have grown,
there is only 375. of public money in the business for
every 20s. of the shareholders’ money, whereas the Bank
of New South Wales, for instance, has about £7 10s. of
the public’s for every £1 of its own money. The bank
has to stand the racket of a slump in the securities into
which it puts its depositors’ money, and the heavier
the proportion of such money thus invested, the
larger the risk; on the other hand, the more
of the public’s money the bank can use, the larger
the profits for the shareholders. Having so little help
from public money, the Royal's earnings are compara-
tively small; recently, on the basis of shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves) profits have been at this
rate
June., 1902 .. £3 17 0 p.c. June, 1904 .. £3 10 7 p.c.
Dec., 1902 .. 3 8 10 „ Dec., 1904 .. 3 13 5 „
June,. 1003 .. 3 10 2 „ June, 1905.. 3 14 1 „
Dec., 1903 .. 3 13 0 „ Dec., 1905 .. 3 15 7 „
But in spite of these rather poor figures, the business
appears to be very sound. All assets show average gross
earnings of £4 6s. per cent, per annum; and, as a
reasonable 37 per cent, of the public’s money is still repre-
sented by liquid assets, in spite of recent movements, this
rate of earnings ought to mean that there are very few
unproductive assets in that office. The liquid assets
could pay all but £609,065 of the public’s claims ; and to
meet that £609,065 there are these other very good-
looking but non-liquid assets totalling £1,142,492. Prom
the depositors’ point of view this is a strikingly strong
position.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Carried to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1895 .. £4,159 6 p.c. =£lsoo £2659 £7,536
1896 .. 3,361 6 „ „ 1500 1861 9,397
1897 .. 4,588 6 „ „ 1500 3088 12,485
1898 .. 3,633 7 „ „ 1750 1883 14,368
1899 .. 4,010 7 „ „ 1750 2260 16,628
1900 .. 4,538 8 ~ „ 2000 2538 19,166
1901 .. 4,754 8 ~ „ -2000 2754 21,920
1902 .. 7,237 10 „ „ 2500 4737 26,657
1903 .. 10,519 10 „ „ 2500 8019 34,676
1904 .. 12,200 10 „ „ 2500 9700 44,376
1905 .. 1,719 10 „ „ 2500 43,595
That is how the matter stands on a net-profit basis. But
it might be made to look a good-deal better :
Profits for the year .. .. .. .. £7333
Less premises alterations written off .. £2600
„ Written off premises .. .. 2406
„ Commission reserved a/o written off 608 5614
Net Profits .. .. .. £1719
This co. has its reserves split up as follows: —Reserve
fund, £23,500 ; dividend equalisation, £2500 ; commission
reserved account, £16,602 ; undivided profit, £993. The
commission reserved account apparently consists of com-
missions on estates in hand but not realised ; and this has
been drawn upon during the year to the extent of £6OB.
For some years past many estates have been going into
the co.’s hands as trustee, and it has apparently passed a
portion of the commission on corpus or capital value (this
commission runs from 1 to 2£ per cent.) to this reserved
account. In addition to corpus commission, the trustee
co. charges a commission of 2£ per cent, on income. In
some cases this 2J per cent, does not cover current
expenses of management; and a co. which passes the
whole corpus commission to profit and loss without wait-
ing for realisation (as some co.’s do) is therefore liable to
find itself later on showing a loss. It looks as if during
the past year this co. has had to go to its reserved com-
missions to eke out the com. on income in some cases ;
and, if any additions have been made to this reserved
account, they have been less than the aid called for from
that quarter. This, of course, throws some doubt not
only upon the reserves as shown above (seeing that more
calls upon the reserved account may have to be made in
the future), but also upon the profits for recent years as
shown above. Another way of showing the case follows :
Current Commissions Written
Profits. Reserved. Off.
1901 .. £4474 £548 £268
1902 .. .. 6911 651 325
1903 .. .. 6320 4199
1904 .. .. 8218 3982
Taken from Re-
served Corns.
1905 .. .. 7333 608 ■ 5006
The point is that the reserved commissions are not fully
earned and are to some extent doubtful; so that the
heavy increase in profits shown in the first table presents
the co.’s recent history (prior to 1905) in too favorable a
light. Nevertheless, on the published figures, it appears
to be the only way to present it. The trust-estate
balances amount to £5,829,396, as against £5,589,194 in
1904 and £2,424,413 in 1895 ; expenses were £10,905 against
£10,096 in 1904, being at the rate of just under 3s. 9d. per
cent, of trust balances, as against a fraction over 3s. 7d.
the previous year. The current profits, as shown in profit
and loss, were at the rate of £l3 15s. 9d. per cent, on
shareholders’ funds (including reserved commissions) in
1904 and £lO 11s. 7d. per cent, in 1905.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged to off Re-
Profits. dends. Revenue. Stocks, serves
June,’00..47,129 8 p.c.=34,258 532,524
Dec., ’00..58,727 8 „ ~ 34,288 1,442 655,521
June, ’Ol.-53,955 9 „ ~38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., ’01..56,872 9 „ ~ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June,’02..50,212 9 „ ~38,574 11,643 568,712
Dec., ’02..50,454 9 „ „ 35,574 5,172 5665 569,755
June,’03..46,776 9 „ ~38,574 7,573 570,384
Dec., ’03..52,017 9 „ ~38,574 9,481 2000 672,346
June,’04..48,971 9 „ ~ 38,574 6,901 575,842
Dec., ’04..51,941 9 „ ~38,574 19,293 1434 568,482
June,’05..52,588 10 ~,,42,860 4,207 3207 570,796
Dec., ’05..56,565 10 „ ~42,860 4,841 4660 675,000
The reserves are made up of share-premiums £466,535,
meter renewal reserve £21,036, formal reserve £84,570,
undivided profit £2859. Apart from what has been
contributed by shareholders in the shape of premiums,
the reserves therefore amount to £108,465. The amounts
shown above as written off are in respect of
meter renewals and stoves ; the latter is tantamount
to a subsidy on the use of stoves, the rents being insuf-
ficient to directly recoup the co. Besides these writings
off, and apart from meters and stoves, £16,746 was
charged to profit and loss for repairs, renewals, and main-
tenance, equivalent to lj per cent, per annum on the
capital expenditure. This amount varies little; 12
months ago, it was £16,165 ; six months ago, £16,924.
Nothing, however, is being written off the capital
value of the co.’s fixed property (mains, machinery, &c.).
Therefore if the writings-off, plus addition to works on*,
of revenue, do not fully counterbalance the depreciation
of plant through rust and wear-and-tear, then the reserves
to some unknown extent don’t really exist. The whole
capital in the undertaking returns £6 13s. 6d. per cent •
and of this capital £848,000 is 6 per cent, debentures’
which leaves the co. £ll3s. 6d. per cent, on this borrowed
money for profit and for depreciation not charged to profit
and loss. Shareholders’ own funds show a return of £6
11s. 9d. per cent. net. This is substantial, but it is small
potatoes compared with the £lO Bs. percent, shown by
the Sydney co.—a co. which hasn’t, however, borrowed to
the same extent, and probably is in the unique position
for a gas co. of having written down its fixed assets below
their value, so that its reserves rather under-state than
over-state the case. This, in fact, suggests the possible
weak spot in the Melbourne co.—the doubt whether rust
and decay aren’t getting ahead of the balance-sheet. If
they are, then either reserves or current profits will have
to be heavily drawn upon at some future time to make
extraordinary renewals.
• • • •
The Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N.S. W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves..
June, 1900.. £7,577 15 p.c. = £7.500 £77 £51,47k
Dec., 1900.. 10,183 20 „ „ 10,000 183 51,654.
June, 1901.. 15,534 30 „ „ 15,000 534 52,188.
Dec., 1901.. 17,968 35 „ „ 17,500 468 52,656:.
June, 1902.. 17,645 35 „ „ 17,500 145 52,801
Dec., 1902.. 17,673 35 „ „ 17,500 173 52,97 k
June, 1903.. 15,202 30 „ „ 15,000 202 53,re.
Dec., 1903.. 9,566 20 „ „ 10,000 52 712"
June, 1904.. 4,009 15 „ „ 7,500 49,‘ 51
Dec., 1904.. 5,003 10 „ „ 5,000 3 49,254)
June, 1905.. 5,027 10 „ „ 5,000 27 49,281
Dec., 1905.. 3,759 10 „ „ 5,000 48,040>
The reserves are—lndemnity account £19,348, formal re-
serve £28,158, and undivided profit £534. The indemnity
account stood at £20,348 six months ago, but it has been,
drawn upon for £lOOO to aid profit and loss, which looks,
very sick as the result of keen competition among coal-
owners and the absence of the industries which Australia,
hasn’t got because it imports too much. The capital is.
£lOO,OOO ; of this, £93,296 is represented by mines, lands,,
plant, &c. The whole of the reserves are out on loan.
But, unless the mine, &c., is still worth £93,296, after the-
tens of thousands of tons of mineral have been mined,
from it, the reserves are not real reserves ; and the profits-
are not true profits either. Mining profits rarely are
mostly the dividends are to some extent divisions ofi
capital. But the Newcastle-Wallsend has £5 15s. 3d. pet
£lO share apart from mine, plant, &c., and after paying
all public debts and the div. ; and there are not many
mining co.’s which have made that much provision,
against the inevitable day when the bottom will drop out..
• * * •
The Australasian Plate Glass Insurance;
Co. (Melbourne): —
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves;.
1901 .... _ £2936
1902 .. ..£1059 20 p.c, = £lOOO £59 2995
1903 .. .. 936 13J.,, „ 800 136 3131
1904 .. .. 1182 13J,, „ 800 382 3513
1905 .. .. 982 134 „ » 800 182 3695
This little co. has investments which last year returned
just over 6| per cent, gross, or 5f per cent, net, on the
capital of £6OOO. Claims amounted to only 25 per cent,
of net premiums ; at that figure or thereabouts they
remain fairly constant. Expenses, apart from income-tax
and up-keep, etc., of premises, were £1336, as against
£1259 the previous year ; expenses now amount to 50 per
cent, of premiums—50 per cent, expenses, 25 per cent,
claims, 25 per cent, profit; a nice, comfortable position.
The investments, in which it is possible to put almost
every 7 penny of the capital and reserves, are a mixed lot,
comprising mortgages, debentures, deposit receipts, and
property.
* * * •
Sydney Ferries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1900.. £4,701 7 per cent. =£4200 £5Ol £solt
Dec., 1900.. 5,089 7 „ ~ ~ 4200 889 1,390.
June, 1901.. 5,377 7 „ „ „ 4200 1177 2,567
Dec., 1901.. 5,268 7 „ „ ~ 4200 1068 3,635.
June, 1902.. 5,742 7 ~ ~ „ 4200 1542 5,177/
Dec., 1902.. 8,040 8 5453 2587 7,764 s
June, 1903.. 7,464 8 „ „ „ 5600 1864 9,628.
Dec., 1903.. 8,702 8 ~ „ ~ 5600 3102 12,730.
June, 1904.. 10,339 10 7000 3339 16,069.
Dec., 1904.. 11,499 10 „ „ „ 7000 4499. 20,568;
June, 1905.. 11,104 10 „ „ „ 7000 4104 24,672:
Dec., 1905.. 12,986 10 „ „ „ 7000 5986 30,658;
This luckiest co. in all Australia—a co. whose ferries are.-
fed at both ends by a State tramway system—is now,
adopting further means to make its profits look less con.,
spicuous. There are at present 140,000 shares, a large.-
part of them representing water, and, though the £li
shares were at about £3 in the market before any new
schemes were outlined, the remaining 60,000 shares are tot
be issued to present shareholders at par—2o,ooo straight,
away, 40,000 at the directors’ discretion. So the share-
holders will get a present of £120,000, equal, when all are'
distributed, to nearly £1 per present share. The profit,
and loss account sets the profits for the half-year at
£6986 ; but add to that £6OOO by which the reserve for
special repairs and new steamers has been increased.
Certainly a reserve like this might in some cases not be a
genuine reserve, and the additions to it might not be
counted as profit; but in this case it is obvious that,
quite apart from this reserve, large provision is made
for depreciation. The new ship Kareela, the report men-
tions, was taken over in September ; yet ship property is
in the balance-sheet now at £57,932, whereas six months
ago it was in at £61,326. So also, though large additions
to landed property 7 have been made, this item is in at
£88,408 as against £87,756 six months ago—an addition of
only £652. Into these items it is evident that profits are
being stowed. So much profit has been used in writing
down the assets that the total assets, at book value, show
a return of just upon 15 per cent, per annum on the basis
of the profits shown above; even if the co.’s £6986 be
taken (that is, assuming that the £6OOO set aside was
required to cover depreciation, in spite of the ordinary
writings-down), the return on all assets is just about
8 per cent. But the 15 per cent, is probably much
nearer the mark. There is evidence of this in another
annnounceinent; after this new-share scheme goes
through, a special bonus of 3s. per share will be paid
(March 31), as “ certain funds which have been set aside
will be set free,” the new capital being “sufficient to
provide for new boats and the furtherance of the co.’s
developments.” Evidently the “ reserve for special
repairs and new steamers ” (to which the £6OOO was added
last half-year) is to be divided. Practically the shareholders
will draw out a little more than they pay in for the new
shares ; in other words, this reserve is really going to be
capitalised—which shows that it is undivided profit. And,
if the £6OOO added to it last half-year was profit like the
rest, then the assets earned 15 p.c. p.a. as stated above.
The co. is to be congratulated on being located in a city
which is apparently content to provide such profits on
public services.
* « * *
Pt. Jackson Co-operative Steamship Co ,
which takes Sydney down to Manly to blow the cobwebs
away:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. 6 p.c. = £750 £5625 £1,087
Dec., 1903 .. £3,996 8 „ ~1000 2800 £196 1,283
June, 1904.. 7,973 8 ~ ~1000 5268 1705 2.98 S
Dec., 1904 .. 6,407 8 „ ~1000 1068 4339 7,327
June, 1905.. 11,038 10 „ ~ 1250 8664 1124 8,451
Dec., 1905 .. 7,966 10 „ ~1250 6716 15,167
A change has been made in the form of the published
accounts. Previously it was possible to tell how much
had been written off for bumps and barnacles, but now
shareholders and investors are left in doubt as to that.
Also they are not permitted to know whether the
working expenditure is soaring up or otherwise. As
far as .can be guessed, however, nothing has been.
written off the 'fleet during the term. Even the new
boilers and repairs to the Brighton are reckoned as an i
asset. There is an item, included above among the re-
serves—“ Plant renewal and depreciatigii, £10,000”—to ■
which £5OOO has been added during the term ; and this is
probably reckoned as a fairamount to write off. If this item .
is an allowance for depreciation which has already taken .
,10
Qd
Cood City Posts await
Our Postal Btudents.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & UOARE’S
Business College,
Moore Bt., Sydney. [3.
‘ - ; i
.‘.;117:
1 ”:1 MI
W
6:)
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY a PP uances_pro^ LTD-
-504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
RHBEY Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines:
_ for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.


place, then the reserves are £5167 at the most, and the
£lO,OOO item would be best out of the balance-sheet alto-
gether. Standing where it does, it leaves a doubt whether
it is provision for actual or expected depreciation. Six
months ago the co. had in bank balances £13,701 after
paying sundry creditors ; it has since paid £13,517 more
on a new steamer, and that, with work on old boats,
has turned the previous balance to a debit of £1775
before paying the dividend. Probably the business is as
profitable as ever ; but wear and tear is a tremendous
iteiil, and as to whether sufficient allowance is made for
it the irianagement’s word has to be taken. And in this
fcasti the management’s word isn’t as definite as it is
desirabie it should be.
a * « *
CJtTKENSLAND MEAT ExPCfilT ANIS AGENCY CO. 1— 1
Dividends and Added td Re-
Nov., Profits. -Dividend. Tax. Reserves. serves;
1896.. £l,OlO N.l £l,OlO £33,660
1897 .. 8,189 N.l 8.L89 ll f Bl9
1898.. 11,011 Nil 11,011 52,860
1899 .. 17,310 10 p.c.= £11,171 33,806 88,726
1900 .. 75,050 10 „ „ 11,174 63,576 152,302
1901 .. 39,180 10 „ ~ 11,171 28,006 150,308
1902 .. 72,308 20 „,, 22,919 19,359 229,607
Forfeited Capital Added to Reserves 210 229,907
1903 .. 52,793 10 „,, 11,474 41,319 271,226
Loss.
1904 .. 9,472 Nil 261,754
Profit.
1905 .. 20,330 Nil 20,330 282,084
But there is a doubt about some of these reserves. The
amount shown in the last line above is made up in this
way: Formal reserve £105,000, depreciation reserve
£87,511, undivided profit £89,570. The depreciation
reserve, to which £12,240 has been added during the year,
most likely covers only actual depreciation ; in that case,
the year’s profits were £BO9O, and the total reserves are
£194,570. This plan of puffing up the figures in a balance-
sheet by keeping assets at their original cost, instead of
using the depreciation fund to write them down to their
real value, is one that wants hitting with something hard
and heavy. Also as long as some co.’s provide only for
wear and tear which has occurred, while others provide
out of their fatness for the wear and tear of the future,
when things may not be so fat, one can never know for
certain what a depreciation reserve is really worth. The
Q.M.E. Co. has made some progress during the year, but
not much. A little under three years ago it plunged
into northern cattle holdings, and piled up debt whole-
sale ; and the chief feature of the year is the reduction
of some of these items :
1902. 1903. 1901. 1905.
Overdraft .. .. Nil £56,059 £118,728 £72,100
Creditors, secured £26,617 86,905 72,379 66,812
Creditors, sundry 20,136 28,952 27,013 20,998
Total.. .. £46,783 £171,916 £218,150 £160,210
The pastoral properties, including stock, into which
about £150,000, was put, were valued 12 months ago at
£165,023 ; they have now been reduced to £150,484, ap-
parently 7 by 7 sale of stock* The bulk of the debt-reduction
has, however, been effected through realising products ;
this item has been reduced from £151,795 to £116,619.
The shrinkage of the overdraft has saved something solid
in interest; and there appears to have been a general
reduction of management and general expenses —£17,429
was in 1904 charged to profit and loss, and in the past
year only £8166, which accounts for the whole of
the net profit (assuming that the net profit is the
amount of profit less the sum transferred to de-
preciation reserve). The future hangs upon the seasons
and the foreign meat market; and what they are likely
to be can’t be told from post-mortem- ing a balance sheet.
The co., in short, went into debt about £150,000 (and still
owes about £120,000) for the purpose of plunging in almost
the biggest gamble in Australia ; and there is little infor-
mation as to how the gamble is shaping. All that the direc-
tors say is, “The increase of stock is satisfactory 7 .” There
Were aboiit 65,000 cattle 12 months before. Now, appar-
ently, about 8000 have been sold, The natural increase
should exceed that; yet station properties (with stock)
are in this year at £15,000 less than in 1901. There is no
sign of “satisfactory increase” there. Or has it been
necessary to write down stock, even though they cost
only £2 per head? Possibly the products which have
been realised during the year were bought at boom-prices ;
if so, it would, of course, affect the year’s profits. What-
ever the explanation, the year’s results appear to be very
disappointing. * * *
December yield and profits of chief W.A.
minesOroya, 12,8040 z. and £39,9.00; Fingall, 31,7900 z.
and £30,000 ; Boulder, 11,1350 z. and £26,000 ; Ivanhoe,
10,7060 z. and £23,500 ; Horseshoe, 13,5610 z. and £22,500 ;
Perseverance, 81520 z. and £19,900 ; Kalgurli, 66420 z. arid
£16,600 ; Associated Northern, 37770 z. and £B6OO ; Sons
of Gwalia, 53070 z. and £6740 ; South Kalgurli, 33500 z. and
£6200 ; Associated, 46800 z. and £2650 ; Pole, 16850 z. and
£2900 ; Lake View Consols, 37320 z. and £2300 ; Hainault,
17240 z. and £2OOO ; North White Feather, £2lOO ; Ida H.,
10270 z. and £950 ; Great Tower Hill, 11760 z. and
£730; Merton’s Reward, 9720 z. and £550; Cumber-
land, 5530 z. and £550; Gwalia Consols, 518 oz. and
£520; Menzies Consols, 8540 z. and £270; Bellevue,
13990 z. and £300; Princess Royal, 3S6oz. and £l5O ;
Hannans Main Reef, 2690 z. and £125. Following
worked at a loss t-—Vivien, 4700 z. and £llOO ; Red Hill,
6480 z. and £320; and Craiggiemore, 3460 Z. and £lOO.
Associated Northern’s profits are reduced by deduction of
£2625 for div. duty, while Associated bears cost of plant
alterations, £5600. Sons of Gwalia has charged £4OOO
more to capital account than usual, without explanation.
The chief point noticeable in the returns is the continued
decrease of Great Fingall, White Feather Main Reefs, and
Vivien and the collapse of Lancefield and Golden Ridge.
* * * *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), needs watch-
ing. Expert Rolker said six months ago that ore reserves
were worth 80s. per ton ; but the actual return for July
(just after- Rolker’s visit) was only 665. 3d., with a profit
of £38,400. In December it was down to 51s. 3d., and the
profit was £30,000. Directors cable that “ the method of
sloping prevents the maintenance of a regular output,
and fluctuations must occur. Stoping has proved ore in
mine greater than C. M. Rolker’s estimate. But an esti-
mate of tonnage is worthless if estimate of values is ig-
nored. As to stoping, the same method has been in vogue
for two years past. Between Jan. and Sept, output fluctu-
ated between 13,6580 z. and 13,6670 z.; then it fell away to
12,5590 z., 12,4820 z. and 11,7900 z. There have thus been no
fluctuations, but a continued drop. The shaft has followed
the lode on the underlay for 300 ft. below 1270 ft., and it
is worthless all the way. The shoot is pitching north,
and, at No. 11 level, was not reached till 173 ft. were
driven, and became poor after 307 ft. of pay 7 ore. At No.
12 the shoot was entered 475 ft. north of crosscut, and
only 120 ft. were payable. At No. 13 quite 600 ft. will have
to be driven in barren country, and the split in the reef,
which cuts off values, will be reached in that distance.
By reducing grade mine may spin out for some y ears yet,
but the recent developments have been very unsatis-
factory. ,
Efforts are being niarie to boom East Fingall
and Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.). Main shaft
on former is down 500 ft., and on latter 800 ft., and cross-
cutting for the reef is now proceeding'. Both properties
are ancient wild cats, but are strongly tipped by the
London press. Gaudy reports are issued periodically,
and, last September, East Fingalls were dealt in at 6s. on
a report that a reef had been cut at 413 ft., worth 71du t.
for 3ft. wide. Nothing has been heard of that reef since.
East Fingall is in 400,000 shares of ss. each, and co. should
have a good deal of cash, as a lot of shares have been
placed within the past few months. Murchison Asso-
ciated is in 500,000 shares of ss. each, of which 50,000 are
in reserve. Mere gambles both.
* » * *
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, has its main shaft down
1640 ft., and has started its No. 13 level at 1523 ft. Owing
to the discovery of pay ore in Great Boulder’s north block,
the Ivanhoe is continuing the north drives at Nos. 7, b,, J
and 10 levels, all of which had been suspended, as the
country was blank in the upper levels, and the lode was
supposed to have petered out. The 14 Wilfley slime
concentrators are working very satisfactorily, and, as it is
found that four furnaces cannot treat all the concentrates,
a fifth is being added. The management is admittedly
first-class; nevertheless either extraction is poor, oi
values of ore reserves ate over-estimated, as returns
only show 555. per ton, while estimates were 78s.
* * *
■ After the mine had been worked for over two
years the 10-head mill at Hannans Main Reef was started
in November, and first crushing- panned out 540 tons,
worth 235. 4d., and the second 900 tons worth 225. lOd.
When the mine was taken over, some 400 tons were
treated for 655. a ton, and shareholders were led to believe
that this was the average of the mine. Three levels were
driven, and the first two were said to carry a reef 4tt.
wide worth 20dwt., and, in the bottom level, the reef was
said to be 2ft. wide, worth 70dwt. The crushings mock
these optimistic assertions. Mine is equipped with a 10-
head capable of crushing 12C0 tons monthly, and there is
an ample water supply ; so it appears to be the old story
of the mill knocking the bottom out of the mine.
* * * *
Capt. Parkes, late of the Oroya, has a disap-
pointment in the Star of the East, Gabinmtha (W. A.), of
which he took charge a year ago. First crushing in
June was 293 tons for 1720 z., and the second in Novem-
ber, 265 tons for U3oz. Neither can possibly pay.
*•* * •
Great Tower Hill, Leonora (W.A.), has had its
first crushing, 11760 z. from 3360 tons. Ore is woith
255. 7d., and costs on mine are 21s. 4d.,-leaving 4s. 3d.
per ton, or £730, for profit and outside exes. As co. is in
1 000,000 shares of ss. each, of which 930,000 are issued
paid to 4s. 9d., scrip as an investment is dear at any
price. Co. is successor to Standard Exploration Co., and
is ridiculously capitalised. Lode is very big, and, it
properly handled, with a 200-head mill, might make a
name for itself; but, under existing conditions, equipped
with the Paddington Consols rattletrap 40-head, it is a
delusion.
* * ♦
Waihi, Davy hurst (W.A.), is looking much
more promising, and is earning a profit of *4OO to £5OO
monthly. If directors continue to allow Manager Watt
to spend profits in improving the equipment and develop-
ing the mine, he has hopes of eventually earning divs.
The millis doing very good work ; for a month the 10-
head treated 1310 short tons against 1685 tons for Poles
20-head. The Waihi is ill a belt of country parallel to the
Pole, and is traversed by numerous reefs and leaders,
most of them erratic, and carrying short shoots, Ihe
district has earned a bad name, which, to a certain extent,
it deserves. But Watt is a genuine grafter, and Ins lead
is worth following when he says “ Go.”
* * * *
Bayley’s, Coolgardie, now in the hands of
tributors, may yet give shareholders some sort of a run
for their money. At the north end of the big outcrop
tributors struck rich stone at 70ft., and have followed it
down to 90ft., where it is still rich. In 1899 the co. got a
hunch of 9 tons, which yielded 9940 z., in shallow ground
at the same place, but, on the gold cutting out, work was
abandoned. The present tribute party won 20/oz. from
127 tons, but the stone they are now on is much richer.
There are still four months of the tribute to run before
the co. regains possession. Mine is so patchy that it is
quite possible the tributors will get the cream and leave
only skimmed milk co.
Once famous Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.),
has been sold for £9OO. The defunct co. won about
120 OOOoz. from 60,000 tons, and paid £160,000 in divs.
All'the gold was won above a vertical 400 ft. The lowest
level (366 ft.) was so. poor that manager Rayfield decided
it was useless to sink deeper, and his successor, laulkner,
said ditto. The Queensland Menzies lias also been con-
demned at a vertical depth of 300 ft. Had the majority of
the Kalgoorlie mines been treated in this way, they would
have been closed down years ago. With kidney lodes it
is ridiculous to give the job best when one kidney is
finished. ° Take, for instance, the Kalgurli. The pay
shoot is one huge kidney, about 150 ft. long, and up to
nearly 100 ft. wide at the widest. The ore peters out
below 1050 ft., but, in sinking the shaft, a second kidney
has been cut at 1130 ft., and may prove as big as the first.
A Melbourne syndicate now holds the Shenton, and
should go in for deeper sinking. #
The royalty curse is having some attention
again in Vic., and in particular at Ballarat. But some-
how the people who make the complaints don t get over-
much sympathy, because the outside public knows that
they don’t attack the thing on principle, but because it
affects tlieir profits. And that takes the heart out of
the agitation so far as the public is concerned. The
Ballarat royalty kings are the Pearces. Their agreement
with North Woah , Hawp provides not only for a royaltj,
but that the co. shall use their battery. This arrange-
ment has been going on for some 20 years, and the co.
lias naid £20,722 in royalty and £63,000 for crushing,
while divs. have aggregated £36,000. The New Nor-
manby has contributed £15,000 to the Pearces. Another
royalty concern, is the Guiding Star, which holds the
nroDrietarv rights over the Star of the East and the
South Sto. Minister M«Leod has flourished the toma-
hawk over other royalty proposals, notably the Hustlers
No. 1 at Bendigo, where he refused to. allow the co. to
take a tribute from the Hustler’s Reef, saying that the
royalty ic proposed to pay was too heavy. As a result,
some Ballarat owners are beginning to wish McLeod any-
anywhere except in office. If he were a stronger man he
would now knock out the dummying crowd as well.
Thousands of dredging acres are being held without a
cent being spent, and scores of miles of deep lead country
as well. But McLeod isn’t likely to interfere m that
direction, although the one evil leads up to the other.
No tears will he dropped if he stops the royalty evil at
Ballarat. But his action won’t put gold into the stone,
or sweeten the savor of the Ballarat mining crowd. And
both those things are big troubles. '
** * .
If Bright (Vic.) is cheerful over bucket-dredging,
Castlemaine is more cheerful over hydraulic-sluicing.
Seven years have gone since the Campbell s Creek co. ;
began the game, and.learnt that it vyasn t what Maon-
landers cracked it up to be. Finally, it slung the pump
and went in for the bucket, and to-day is pay nig divs.
with the added honor of being the 'only bucket-dredge on
the field. Others, joined in the hunt, sticking ,to the
pump ; plants were gradually altered to suit the ground ,
share registers were boiled down ; and now .son 1 ® , of the
nicest little dividend-payers in the State win their gold
from the site of the Castlemaine rushes, made famous by
their richness in the “glorious fifties. In all, 73,0000 z.
have been got out of the claims in the seven..years, over
£lOO,OOO has been spent on machinery, and nearly £40,000
has been paid in divs. Not a bad record ; it shows what
can be done where the management is local and the con-
ditions suit the industry.
* * *
A left-handed gamble is going on over the Lord
Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.). Co. is the only one in the dis-
trict to pay. divs., over £250,000 profits having been dis-
tributed. Speculators have poked shafts down north and
south, but all for naught. Now the game is to
wait for the reef in the underlies; a patient and
competent crowd is doing this in the Lord Nelsom North.
One policy for the Lord Nelson, therefore, would be to
wait for the North to get its shaft down, and to see that
it fulfilled labor conditions, while the Lord Nelson itself
continued to plug away at its own upper forma-
tions. But the ■ Lord Nelson manager has recom-
mended going down 250 ft., and this advice is to be taken.
Of course, if the shoot pitches fast to the north,
and makes a, little west, the advice is sound. It may be
sound,| too, On the score that it is best to know one s fate.
From the evidence in the last two lifts, it seems indis-
putable that Lord Nelson' North will get the south end
of the shoot —where the gamble comes in is in estimating
how much. The Lord Nelson, by pegging out ground
north of the North, cut down the latter’s chances. Any-
way, the obvious policy for the Lord Nelson peop.e, if
they wish to keep the upper hand,, is.to build up a
reserve in order to sink still deeper, so that they can pick
dp the shoot on their new north lease. With funds in
hand and ground there, the gamble may lose much of its
risk. , . /
• * *
Specimen Hill, Bendigo, looks like emerging
from the darkness into which it went upon the eclipse of
the New Hopeful. Situated mid-way between two such
good mines as the Virginia and the New Argus, it should,
taking ordinary mining risks into account, have got on to
the continuation of the good stone worked by the Mew
Argus. New Hopeful, which is over-lapped by Specimen
Hill, went first for the formation, and got it. But not
the gold ; and there was a hustle out of Specimens
in consequence, because it looked, as if the gold
had petered out inside the New Argus boundary,
as is not unusual at Bendigo. But the Plugger-Bill
Specimen management refused to accept defeat, went on
prospecting, and now in the crosscut west at 1835 ft. nice
gold has been cut. Specimen Hill therefore looks like
justifying itself as a position claim. Should the shoot of
gold be of any length, divs. will come soon, and the mine
ought to have a good life, for there is 800 ft. in the line of
the formation to work. With Virginia, Specimen Hill,
and New Argus in the div. list, a nice trio of produceis
will help to burnish up the fame of the golden city.
* » * *
The welcome stranger in ,J. P. Madden’s office,
when he had sickened of the I .yell field and copper stocks,
was the Cock’s Pioneer, an alluvial show up Eldorado way
(Vic.). For years its electric plant was a bewilderment
to the board and a spectacle to the yokels. Dawe and
Madden came to the rescue, got the plant at work, and
then steered it into the haven where the dividends
come from. Gold and tin are the products, and
as the ground is rich —about the best worked
by hydraulic pumps in the State —divs. are hand-
some. None the less, costs bulk high, and a modern
plant of the Oastlemaine type would probably be far more
effective than the electric plant in use. Costs last year
had to stand a charge of £2OOO for clearing the mine of
slime after the big floods. Even cutting that expense
out, the fact remains that expenses are heavy. One good
trait of the management is that in its prosperity it doesn t
overlook the manager and the men. That is the charac-
teristic which won for Madden his popularity with the
staffs of his mines. It’s a heritage from poor J. P.
Lonergan.
* * * *.
Geological-surveyor Dunn wants to vitalise the
New Mariner, Steiglitz (Vic.). Claim paid rattling divs.
in Auld Lang Syne from Sailor’s Reef— named so because
a sailor, while sitting on a log, picked up a bit of quartz
which carried gfold, and afterwards located the reef. Ena
of divs. came when a big 1 fault cut the reef off like a Knife.
Reginald Murray and a host of others have suggested
ways of finding the stone. Now Dunn makes out that
the country is the same as the No. 2 zone at Bendigo, and
he drops tears of sorrow because no crosscut was diivcn
east or in the direction of the anticline. The surprise
directly, if Dunn moves about much more, will be to find
a spot in Victoria that hasn’t got a syncline or an anti-
cline. But all these geological finds haven’t added any
more to the gold yield of the State than have Bradford s
“corrugations,” to which Dr. Gregory lent a more
willing ear than does Dunn. After all, there doesn t
appear to be much more than terms dividing Dunn and
Bradford.-
* * *
It is still a case at Broken Hill Block 14 of much
puff and little profit. Great things are always just going
to be done ; but the awkward fact remains that, but for
the carbonates, the mine’s figures would be very poor, and
there are only odd patches of carbonates in the mine.
Block 14 was absurdly neglected at one time ; it has since
been as absurdly boomed.
• * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. is in more trou-
ble ; the South and Sulphide Corporation, which, after
the B.H. Prop., are the largest consumers of water from
the co.’s mains, have pegged a lease and propose to
provide for their own supply. To some extent the
Broken Hill Prop, already does this, but its dam
capacity is small. The ways of the Water Go.
arc peculiar. The mining cos. complained that, owing to
insufficient mains, the supply they were getting was un-
satisfactory ; the Water Co. replied that the new main
required would cost £3500, and it would be laid if the
mines would pay three-fourths of that amount. This
proved the last straw ; the two cos. most interested
pegged ground for a reservoir of their own, about six
miles from Broken Hill. They have paid the Water Co.
about £lO,OOO a year between them, as an average, for
the past 10 years.' , , .
B H Junction North mill improvements are
shaping so well, that people who ought to know expect
this co. to be shortly getting about as good an extraction
as any on the Barrier. „
* •» * *
The first drill in the C.S.A., Cobar, hasn’t got
very far vet; but as far as it has gone, things seem all
rio-ht This hole was started in a sump sft. 6in. below the
main east crosscut. In the bottom of the sump the lode
assayed 33'3 per cent, lead, Boz. 13dwt. silver and a trace
of gold ; at the deepest point in the bore-hole for which
assay results are available (10ft. to 12ft.) the resnlt is 4'6
per cent, copper, 11"2 per cent, lead, lSdwt. silver,
20gr o-old. The investor can’t afford to keep his
eves’ off these bore results for long. Drills cer-
tainly don’t tell everything, and sometimes give wrong
impressions; but they ought in this case to give some
reasonable sort of an idea on the crucial point whether
the workings so far have been in a narrow zone of
secondary enrichment. If they are not, but if the rich
ore lasts down, then the present quotation is no price for
these shares. _ „
* # * *
“ Myponga ” : Par. (B. 18/1/’OG) re extraction
of gold from sea water brings to mind the boom of 20
years ago at Ballina, Richmond River (N.S. W.). Men had
been making wages gold-getting on the beach north and
south of the Richmond Heads, and the idea infected
local people that the gold came from the basaltic rocks
which form the north head of the Richmond. In next to
no time .so many notices of intention to lease were pasted
on the front of the little post and telegraph ottiee that
they were pushing' one another for space. Excited groups
used to stand for hours on the post-office verandah dis-
cussing their chances of making a million or so and going
to Sydney to live, and every Sunday numbers went and
inspected their mines- Visitors also began to arrive and run
down to the Heads, and see how matters were going. But.
nothino- was done and no fortunes have been made.
About'all that remains is an old gentleman si periodical
visit to the ’beach, where he shakes his head and still
sees visions. - <’ • ' '
** . *
Brilliant Extended continues to do valuable
prospecting work, for its neighbors at Charters Towers.
The western ground, or most of it, has been regaided as
unprofitable, on account of excessive crushing costs.-
Now'that the co. has a battery of its own, and can treat
the stone for 6s. a Ron, all likely and not-very-likely
ground is haying attention. The-latest is No. 4 West.
Recently a rise put up from No. 7 to No. 4 earned 3ft. of
payable stone (£2 10s.) all the way in the hanging wall.
Now a crosscut 300 ft. further west has disclosed 3ft. of
mineral stone which appears to be- a continuation of the
hanging-wall reef. If this make keeps going (and it is
strong enough to live) jt must eventually reach the Deep
Levels mine. Brilliant Extended cleaned up 2536 tons
for gold andiconcentrates worth £74)00 ; fcyamde returned
£Bl5 from 1900 tons treated. A month’s run.^
A month’s run (less Xmas holidays) by two bat-
teries on Mills United stone at Charters Towers : 22.7
tons crushed for 7790 z. 13dwt., value £2689 , 152 tons
I7cwt. of concentrates sold for £2878 ; residues (1556 tons)
brought £1089; total £6657. Co. has two batteries
going : Block and Wyndham’s, four miles away, and the
Rainbow. Don’t ask who owris the latter. Output is not
being rushed, as ventilation demands attention. Mine is
lookhig well; estimated'by good judges (the management
does hot supply particulars) that the show, on present
appearances, can turn out 4000 tons a month and keep it
up for two years.
* * *
The directors of a North Queensland mine
have quite a different yarn to tell concerning the recently
much -discussed retirement of the general manager. .
What is Carrington P.C. (N.Q.) up t° .borne
time back costs of carting 25 miles to Charters Tower
and crushing took the gilt off the gingerbread, so t
directors rightly said. Other day, when the mareet
wanted propping up, a parcel was started in from tne
mine under exactly the same conditions. This 7 tons oi
sulphide ore from the No. 2 crosscut returned ooz. oawt.
gold, valued at £l9, and 2 tons lOcwt. of concentrates
brought £2B 10s. Gd. ; sands to come. When this crush-
ing was sprung upon the public, the heavens wept and
filled the co.’s dam, so crushing at the mine has re-started.
0jt.,4
ie&
earr
r.y
' /
»*v:~
«s*
WRITE tO
tnt
%
4
m.
MiAiJi
%/
*135!
5“ 7
Broken Hill Mines owe a great measure of
success to the slime saving’ appliances of their mills. The
slimes contain the richest part of the mineral particles.
Several processes were tested but it was found that the
Luting Vanners gave by far the best results. The mines
have installed Luhrigs as essential parts of their
appliances and these Vanners are erected in some
instances to save material that has been lost off other
tables. There are several hundred Luhrig Vanners erected
and in course of erection at Broken Hill, and they are
extensively used in all up-to-date reduction works. W.
& J. Lempriere, Melbourne, are sole agents.*
« * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King Streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a 20 horse-power gas engine belted
to a “Ganz” 12 kilowatts dynamo, a “Ganz” switch-
board containing all the controlling and measuring instru-
ments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The generating
machinery runs continually during the day time at its
full capacity and highest efficiency ; the surplus current
being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies all
necessary electricity required during the night; the
battery forms also a substantial reserve in case of acci-
dents. Compared with the previous method of working a
saving of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant.
The contractors for this plant were The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh
Streets, South Melbourne, as sole agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.* # i 3 d
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkkbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* # #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for ■three large
boilers, eacli of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economfser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babfcock boiler is
installed.' Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Nar.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv disermtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* , , »
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.* , « .
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* # * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
The Melbourne Herald, of 31st May, 1905, in
referring to the last annual report of the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society Limited, stated ■ “ The directors
were able to report that there had been a most satisfactory
increase in the volume of business done during the last
year. Nearly 4000 new policies were issued, and the
addition to the funds of the society was £105,414, making
the total funds £2,920,210.”* * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share. Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
Wilfley Ore Concentrating Tables. Important
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators.
The Supreme Court of Victoria has decided in the action
brought against N. Guthridge Limited that the well-
known Wilfley patent is val d, and has been infringed by
N Guthridge Limited by the manufacture and sale of
tables which they call the Card Concentrating Table.
The Court granted a certificate of the validity of the
Wilfley patent and ordered N. Guthridge Limited to pay
damages and costs of this action, and g'ranted ail
injunction restraining N. Guthridge Limited from in-
fringing the Wilfley patent. This is to give notice
that the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited will
enfore its rights against all persons buying or selling or
otherwise dealing in or using such infringing Concentrat-
ing machines. Edward J. Rigby, Attorney for the Wilfley
Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited, care of Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne.* [b.
* •» * •
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more —alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience*
hate installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z;,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. °Full particulars, to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* . ‘- ■ ' •
KENNEDY BROTHERS,
General Financial Agents,
and Company Managers,
Liverpool and London Buildings, 62 PITT ST*, SYDNEY*


Aboriginalities.
Orthos : A grape-vine in my garden is
attacked yearly by caterpillars, which destroy
more than half the crop. They are hatched
when the leaves are shooting, and destroy the
grapes whilst in flower and even when of the size
of peas. But this year nearly the whole crop has
been saved through the agency of a small beetle
(about if inch long and greyish-brown in color),
winch attaches a thread-like' tongue, finch long,
to the end of the caterpillar, and sucks it as dry
as tinder. This insect might, on this account, be
great benefit to vignerons.
* ■* ♦ »
“Prooshan”: “Elmore” (B. 11/l/’O6)
errs in supposing that ants kill aphides on peach
tiees. The ants seen crowding up and down peach
trees are those that “milk” the aphides by tickling
them with the antennae till they emit a sweet fluid
much relished by the ant. Some ants breed
aphides in their nests, attending to their eggs and
c irefully feeding the young.
* * * *
‘ Hexham ” : He the alleged impossibility
~f l l e;l,|n g effectively with the sparrow-pest
( Chasselas,” B. 18/l/’O6). What’s the matter
with a gun? lor years I’ve been troubled with
sparrows in my orchard, but I now find that a
qouple of shots a day—even knocking over one
mrd each time—are sufficient to protect my fruit.
-Nym s ” assertion (B. 4/l/’0fl) that the sparrow
keeps peach-trees free from aphis is sheer drivel
in face of the fact that our local orchards Swarm
with the birds all spring, and yet, wherever fumi-
gation or frequent spraying is not practised, tlieie.
is always an abundance of aphis.
AN ABORIGINALITY ILLUSTRATED.
When Jim Orcher was going to ride on a rough
horse . he’d carry a cigar wrapped in paper in
his left-hand pocket, and some matches in his
right-hand pocket. When the horse was buck-
ing he’d throw the reins round his neck,
unwrap the cigar and light it. One afternoon
Jim struck a pretty rough customer and was
just about to strike the match when the horse
gave a terrible buck, bursting right out of
everything. Jim landed on his feet, and, just
as the horse lashed out, he struck the match
on his hoof and lit the cigar. A good rider
Jim was.
“ Hexarn ”: He alleged discovery by
American professor as to race mixture (8., 4/l/’OG),
in Argentina I had personal knowledge of this
case : A native girl of Scotch parents had a child
by a Brazilian nigger, and afterwards married an
imported Caledonian. Her first child after mar-
riage—a girl—was perfectly white, but had pure
nigger features. Photo I saw would have been
taken for that of a full-blooded native. Brazilian
dead at the time, and not another nigger within
10 or 20 leagues.
* * * *
“Hamer”: I saw inaugurated recently a
method of shouting which, if it spreads, will bring
the red face of Bung down in sorrow to the beer
barrel. A lavish shearer had gathered in a collec-
tion of loiterers, and after vaunting his generous
intentions till the publican’s face shone with holy
joy, ordered, and paid for, drinks by the bottle.
Bung kicked the dog through the bar door, and as
he turned to get the bottles I heard his tears
tinkling among the glasses.
A FIT REWARD.
“ Hulloa, Mary, where your old man? I not
see him long time now.”
“ O, him go preachy-preachy.”
Preaching, ch? How much docs lie get for that?”
“ Tickpen.”
“ Sixpence! That's very poor pay.”
"Aha, Miter Sampson; him very poor preachy.”
Waj : A little English parson struck
the wilderness out at Angledool. He wished to
visit a station in the vicinity, so they mounted
him and enjoined him to stick to the track closer
than a brother. “Get on a track,” they said,
and it viust lead to somewhere if it takes a
month.” As he didn’t turn-up at his destination,
they set out to search, and two days later they
round him following a track. “ I must be some-
where near New Angledool Station,” he said,
for I ve been following this beastly track all
day. Why, d it all, man ! ” they said,
you re on the racecourse/” “Well, really”
said the lost shepherd, “that beastly building
ovali there did seem a little familiah.” It was the
grandstand; he had passed it about a thousand
times.
* * * *
“ G.Y.” on the casual Australian :
Two dcors from my place of residence a notice used to
hang in a front window, “ This room to let.” Six months
ago a bootmaker took it, and last month when I called to
carry away my repairs, Snob remarked casually, “You
haven t seen Jim ” (the landlord) “ about, havever?” I
® a !,, 1 1 lia,i nn b and inquired whv lie asked
Oh well he said, “when 1 first rented the room off
him he used ter knock the missus about a good deal of a
Saturday night, so one day—-he used ter be awav all day
yer know—l fixed it up with the missus to push him out
and when he comes home we had his clothes packed up in
a sugar-bag and layin’ on the verandah and the door
? il- roared a bit, but when he seen we wouldn’t
stand him, he says, “ Well, look here, gimme five quid for
the furniture. I offered him half-a-soy., and he couldn’t
resist, so I’m runnin’ the whole show now.” “ How about
the youngsters?” I asked. “Oh, there’s only two, an’
I m takin them on with the old woman.”
* * * *
“ Roily ” : Some unsuccessful private
attempts have been made to introduce krine
bumble, and wild lime trees into Moree. It’s
now up to Boretown’s experimental
farm to have a try. The trees all grow
within 30 miles of the town and extend
into Mungindi and Queensland. The
lnne (very like a small Lisbon lemon)
makes an exquisite spicy jam and a tip
top summer drink. The krine bush is
distinctly ornamental and remarkable
for its light, feathery, gracefully-
festooned leaves rather than its
plum-like, magenta-shaded fruit, the
fl esh of which is hard and acidy but
eats well with sugar. It is also exten-
sively used to color jellies. Bumble
trees grow in clumps and are very hand-
some, compact and shady. Suggest
well-pruned orange trees with their per-
fectly straight trunks and thick, glossy
foliage. The fruit, mostlv green but
sometimes dull gray when dead ripe,
grow to the size of an ordinary orange
and peel in the same fashion. Inside
they resemble a passion fruit but
are harder and sweetly insipid in taste. Their
ctner beauty is a peculiarly penetrating aroma in
ui IC T i P l^® a Ppl6 and rock-melon scents are
blended, lhe naapan also grows in N.S.W. but
is more distinctively a Queensland fruit. Has
particularly glossy leaves and varies from vine to
shrubby bush. It bears an opal, finger-length
fruit of a pale yellow shade, that opens pomegra-
nate-fashion when ripe. Pods are full of a jelly-like
substance and black, peppery seeds. The flowers
are beautiful. White and starry, and scented like
a ripe apricot.
* * * *
“ W.P.8.” : Deformity is as much the sub-
ject of unfavorable notice amongst animals as
amongst humans. When there is in a mob of
cattle a beast with some defect or other, such as a
limp or a hunchback, the creature always has a
look of ashamed self-consciousness, and keeps by
itself as much as possible. In travelling a mob
such an animal is constantly being molested by
the others. Once knew an old bull that developed
bad ‘ lumpy-jaw,” and the cows used to discuss
the poor old chap over their afternoon cud, and
poke unmerciful borak at him, till he became so
depressed that he cut his throat on a barbed-wire
fence.
* * * *
J. k.D. : Has any Bulletin corres-
pondent met an undertaker with red hair ?
Speaking to a body-boxer, his eldest son, ali
paint-bespattered, entered the shop. “Doesn’t
he follow the game?” I asked. “No,” replied
the dad. “Look at’is’air, it blocks ’im. It’s a
pity he sighed ; “’e ’ad a taste for the game
but is air is orrible.”
* * * *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
ihenyle. fry it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“E.”: They are making a noise over a
young Mallee (Vic.) Anglican parson who preached
on a recent hot Sunday in flannel trousers and a
pink cotton shirt. What would they have thought
of the Rev. Thomas Streeton, who preached to a
Forest Creek congregation in the days of Jim
Crow in a beer barrel ? The Rev. Streeton was an
ordained C. of E. parson who had abandoned the
pulpit for the pick, and in company with a profane
ex-butcher had struck it rich and thick at Jim
Crow. A few godly miners of Forest Creek,
hearing of this, interviewed the parson, and
persuaded him to agree to preach on the following
Sunday morning. A baker’s big tent was cleared for
the occasion, and when the Rev. Streeton arrived
he found his pulpit ready. An ingenious digger
had brought a big beer barrel, reared it on one end
on a stand, and cut a slice clear out of it. Stand-
ing in this cutting, the holy man had a place for
his bible before him on the remaining portion of
the bottom of the barrel, and there, with the odor
of sanctity quite overwhelmed by the fragrance of
bygone beers, the reverend preached his sermon.
Ihe collection was taken up in a pint pannikin,
and panned out 7^oz.
* * * *
“Tas.” : The versatility of the Australian
parson! Have been to church twice for ten
Sundays, and noticed how the appeal for brass is
made. Six: “ worship God in the collection.”
Two made a request that all present would
“now contribute their tenth.” Two desired us
to praise the Lord with our pockets.” In two
instances we were asked to “now present our
widow’s mites.” Five times “the deacons will
now wait on you for your offering.” In one case
the plates were just passed without any intro-
duction, while in another we were told to ‘‘give
as you have been prospered.” The most striking
appeal was when we were asked to “ cast of your
superabundance into the treasury.”
THE MARVEL.
EXULTANT FATHER: E’s a marvel, that hoy o'
mine.”
SCEPTICAL FRIEND: " Ho, is ’e?”
E.F.: My oath! Why, they wouldn't teach
him no more at the State School, so ’e went to
the 'Igh School, an' 'e polished that off, an'
then 'c went to the Agricultural College, an'
learned everything there in six months!”
S.F. (wearily): “Ho, did ’e?”
It. F. . E did. Why, you mightn't believe it,
hut that hoy can tell you the name of every
race 'orsc in Australia!"
“ Tommy J.P.” : That part of West-o’-
Darling lying north of White Cliffs and Wilcannia
(and including lilpa, Louth, Wanaaring, Tiboo-
burra, Milparinka, and Yalpunga) is still
droughty. The frontage country is bare of grass
or herbage, a grim, grey, melancholy dust-heap.
In tins part of West-o’-Darling the Big Drought
didn t break up. The year’s rainfall was between
three and four inches. The Darling frontage
country wants flooding again; it won’t recover
fully till it gets another flood.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Women sheep-shearers aren’t the wonder
you think, ’ said an out-back selector who is now"
prosperous Sydney publican. “Out on
in J ' / “ lr !; urn hidgee 1 was laid up with rheumatism
the whole of one season, and my wife took my
place at the shearing board and worked equal to
the best. Lots of women shear out-back, and you
may, one day, see a gang of them touring the
stations, just like the men.”
Ihe steamer Naming reports at Port Ade-
laide having seen an island, with a lighthouse
right in the deep water of the Great Australian
Bight, 200 miles west from Kangaroo Island. It
melted away after a time, but was a perfect mirace
while it lasted. A large globe in the Adelaide
Public Library was discovered, some time back to
have Albion Islandl” marked in a similar posi-
tion. Ihe Board of Governors discussed whether
they ought to be responsible for the accuracy of
their maps, and, while they were discussing some
practical visitor quietly scratched the islet off the
face of the waters. It is sup:. >sed now that some
old-time mirage must have been responsible for
the English geographer’s Albion Island.'
*»* * • ,
“ C.X.G.” : Last summer in Southern
(Queensland I saw the famous “ gourd ’’ duel-
catching trick worked off by the blacks. Wild”
melons were first cast into the water and allowed
to drift about for a couple of days, so that the
ducks got quite accustomed to them. Then a
nigger hollowed one out, cut eye-holes in it, put it
over his head, and swam out to the ducks When
close up he allowed himself to drift among them.
I hen suddenly a duck would disappear, the niir
having caught him by the legs, drawn him under
and fastened hi mto a string round his waist. The
other ducks, thinking that their friend had dived
for a choice morsel, would go on feeding, and the
Y keep at it until he had enough. Then
the flock m ash ° re without even having alarmed
’** - *
A big tree near Healesville (Yic.) was
christened by Gov. Tallbpttle “King Edward
Vll. .Possibly because of its great girth.
* * • *
“ R.M.” (who has gone to the ant and got
some wisdom): Was cowboy on a station once
where meat-
ants were a
pest. Fora
fiver a swag-
man shifted
the lot with
very little
trouble. His
method was
to place
straw about
a foot thick
over the ant-
beds. The
ants found
i t difficult
getting
through the
straw, which
caused them
to desert
their homes.
When ants
of the little
black variety
are numer-
ous on the
ground,have
a ’possum
fug handy,
and spread
it out on the
ground fur
side up, and
take your
lunch on it,
and the ants
will trouble
you no fur-
ther than
the edge of
the rug.
Also, never
sweeten tea
in t he
“quart,’’and
the ants will
knock off
committing
suicide in it.
* * *
“E.H.H.”:
What is an
eagle-hawk’s
limit? 1 recently came on two, which had a
more than half-grown kangaroo bailed up, and the
birds were flying at him and flapping him with
their wings and pecking him. The Too looked
much the worse for wear when I hunted the birds
■ 4 ls '% does the din g° kill for the pure love
or Killing r 1 know a man who had over 20 good-
sized pigs killed in one night, and only a small
piece was eaten out of one.
* < * *
A farmer near Warragul (Yic.) is just now
trying to make up his mind whether to be a whole
nog socialist or to curse the Government and sue
n 3r am fi? e f' read lately in the Agkicoltukal
Hazette that amber-cane was splendid fodder for
dairy cows, so sent to a firm of seedsmen for a
supply, at 6d. per lb. He ploughed and harrowed
and manured and sowed and finally reaped a crop
of broom, which was quite useless for the purpose.
o make matters worse the broom seed attracted
most of the parrots south of the Divide ; they ate
he farmer s fruit, so he shot as many as he could,
ihen the deceased birds attracted foxes by the
score and they consumed all his fowls and geese;
-3 , no ™ he 1S very angry man and you
u m t Slly c? ersuade hlm that th ® sale of seeds
should be a State monopoly.
* * * «
‘‘Puck” : The fauna of Australia evi-
dently take an intelligent interest in public
fP^ uch ha , s latel y appeared in the press on
the drift of population to the State capitals, and
111 V ictoria the lesson has not been lost upon the
rabbit. St. Kilda is the suburb of its choice, and
y n( , ei i favorable municipal game laws, which
forbid ratepayers to take it at an unfair advantage
by the use of fire arms, it is rapidly effecting a
permanent settlement there. 5
WHALIN’ UP THE LACHLAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know I’ve been a mug, mates ; •
I’ve felled the Gippsland tree,
With camels crossed the desert,
And I’ve peeled the spuds at sea ;
But splitting, packing, peeling,
The sweat’s ahout the same,
And I know there’s nothin’ in it
Now I’ve found a better game.
Whalin' up the Lachlan,
Graft is only play;
Whalin’ up the Lachlan
All a summer’s day.
Come, mates, we’ll fix our camp there
By bend and sandy bar ;
Oh, come whalin' up the Lachlan
Where the lazy fishes are.
Some like to stew in fact’ries
And some to sow and reap ;
And some like steering Wolseleys,
A-shaving stinking sheep ;
But some there are, sundowners,
Who let such matters be,
And care not for the morrow—
And that’s the sort are we.
Whalin’ up the Lachlan
Q lit yard and axe and plough !
Whalin’ up the Lachlan —
Come join the loafers now !
We’ll fill our pipes and yarn there
Till time shall canter by,
Whalin’ up the Lachlan
Under a starry sky.
LOUIS ESSON.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Rescli’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE in Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
I 7 ‘ 1 A N" | v '.r V
55255:! 11:33.3 .I I
‘..-Int y:===:f '...
"l'ﬂlﬂP. '..-IQ. L..-
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST ME
and LATEST MACHINERY
Ml, WOULD BE PLEASED TO GET IN COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE INTERESTED IN WIBE CLOTH
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EAST WAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St Sydney
Factories: S33A George St„ and A.bion Lane, P.o. Box 858. Telephone 207&


Joseph Abood, with a yellow turban twisted
round his head, appeared at the Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.) police court, the other day, to indig-
nantly inquire why he had been summoned. Evi-
dence was-that the goods which he hawked were
carried in two tin trunks and thus thrown across
the back of his horse. From chafing, the animal s
sides were in a shocking condition, lne i.iyl.
fixed the fine at £5. the heaviest penalty. ‘ that s
a lot of money; I could buy another horse for
that,” muttered the defendant. “ I wish I could
make it £20,” said the P.M., and Abood then
began to realise he was in trouble. I hey are
cruel beasts to animals, the Asiatics—except the
Chinaman, whose horse is always in plump con-
dition.
A REGULAR WARRIGAL.
“ Look here, mine frent, dat horse you sell
me ros no goot. Ven I rants to go he
rants to stop, an’ ten I rants to stop he rants
to go, an’ ven neuler of de oder of us rants
to go he shust kicks me oud de tamn trap.”
Winton, West Q., rainfall, for 1905' was one
inch and 71 points, and most of it fell m one
week. Early this year an inch and a quarter fell,
but 25 inches would be welcome. Winton is on
the vast plains that stretch from Break-of-Day to
Setting Sun, and its principal products last year
were dust storms and dead swagsinen.
* * * *
“ Reiby I feel for society twinklers and
grand panjandrums generally. To meet your name-
sake as a poddy-calf or bandy-tomcat hardly calls
for gratitude, and immortalisation in a floricultu-
ral-eum-horticultural catalogue is an unkind cut.
You pick up an innocent-looking booklet and
read : “ George Reid, a charming shade of purple
with crimson tips ; should be set in a large pot
and watered daily ; a magnificent creeper.” Or
“Lady Smarks, deep scarlet throughout, blotched
with reddish brown requires much feeding ; very
hardy and a vigorous climber.” And then there’s
the inflated cattle-pumpkin or horse-radish that
grows mightily in the name of King Ned or the
angel Gabriel.
THE GOLD STEALER.
THE SEARCHER: “ Hello I hello! What’s this, Murphy!"
MUPHY (faceman): “ Share, it’s on’y a bit of gould I was borryin’ t’ hare a tooth shtopped!"
{< Werrimee ” meets sin olcl battler .
Midway between Taabinga and Bundooma I met «
ancient, one-eyed man, who was as dry a d
looking as a lambskin on a sun-baked plain, and whose
clothes might have been made out of a clothier s sample-
rs. He was a mass of patches, with a few holes here
and there for ventilation. He had half-a-j ard oi
fencing-wh'e round one boot to keep it together and a
bit of tving-wire thrust through the toe of the .other and
twitched to keep it from gaping. The run of his hafc
suspended from the crown with twine— To keep it jiom
flomhn’about me ears,” he explained. He had also about
30 small corks, strung on thread, hanging all roundonder
the rim. When a fly lit on his nose he would si ake his
head, which set all the corks Jumping ® w “f %
bumping against one another— The best fly-veil >ei ken
a He was driving a melancholy-looking moke, which was
too poor to throw a respectable shadow. It carried the
pack-a few odds-and-ends in a wallet, secured with a
greenhide surcingle. The halter was made of hide, rope,
twine, wire find boofc-lßces. . ,
*< i » a d a month’s work ’bove Aramac, he informed me.
“ That was five months ago, an’ haven’t done a tap
I’m gettin’ that way now that I feel ashamed to sigl t
boss at all, I’ve asked so often. An you
an’ silly a question seems when you ve said it a lot
times. I’ve got a new edition out now though. I saj,
‘Anything doin’?’ or ‘Any work goin on? Sounds a
bl “ Rations? Any gorsquantity. wanted at
places I’ve seen some on em make for the store as soor s
K sighted S me. At one place the bloke ? stand, n
over the flour-bin with a scoop in his hand. 1 etc > ;
hasrs ’ere ’ he says, without so much as Hood aaj,
or anvthiri"- else. I hands him me bags, an he takes one
an’ chucks a scoop o’ flour "it 0 ; takes another, an
throws in H pannikin o’ sugar ; takes the thud, an chucks
in a handful o’ tea. There was another bag I most y
’ave four empty ones tied up ready. He picks it up a
looks at it ; puts it down agm an looks at me Wt s
this’ere for?’ says he. .Ourrants c sa}b. I. W?
s-ive currants ter trav’lers, says- he. I know it s
not the rule ’ says I', ‘but it’s a- poor station as can t
snare a few from th’ bottom V the box,’ says I.
He give me a pannikinful. They’d , a lot ore aa e
about ’em, but that didn’t matter. 'Meat?. Saysihe.
‘ Thanks ! ’ says I. He got me a big, junk, too. Could
yer spare me a bit o’turbacca, sm , says I. He looked
at me pretty hard, but be give me a plug. I m sorry to
be soSome:- says I, ‘ but I ’aven't a.match on me
I savs • “ mavbe yer ’ave a few andy ? I says. He dian c
Lv ' he looked hard agin-an’ give me a box.
‘Could yer spare a bit o’ dynamite now if .yer please
sir ?’ I says. ‘ Dynamite.?’ says he. Wot the dickens
d’ver want with dynamite?’ says he. Well, bakin
pjwder then ’ says' I, ‘ ter rise me dampers an make
puffterlooners,’ X Lys. ‘No! ’ he says, an’ he leans agin
a cask an’ folds his arms.. ‘ This
cated grocery emporium is part an parcel o the double
busted stathfn plaint, an’ can’t be 3 sparedmobtoomin how
at all.’ ‘ Thanks,’ says I; much obliged, says l.
m< He laughed a dry, jolting laugh that set all the corks
bobbing,k flicked the shadow of the horse with
whip and said, “ Get along there !” But she didn t et
along. She switched her tail and sneezed. Th blame 1
flies torment her,” herald,; He flicked
her again, and yelled at her to get up. ~, ,
her tail some mqre,- and stamped her foot, but didn t get
worth a cent. ' The man from Aramac was getting
wild, and the 30-little corks were jumping. With great
violence “Thing gets stiff standin ! he snorted.
“ Orlright once she’s warm. Goes like clockwork
- Dan«- it ! there’s a inselc in her eye. No wonder the
animal wouldn’t go.” He hauled his sweat-rag from his
belt, folded it into a point, wet it with his ton»ue, and
out the meddlesome insect and jumped, on it.
“ ’Nough ter send a man off his onion the things he sg
ter put’up with in this-blighted country 1 he rasped, as
he tucked his sweat-rag under his belt a ? d bet “h; U hand
to the posterior part of the mare. He put his Hand
against her rump and shoved her over. Then he went t
the other side and shoved her hack again, as though
were to zigzag* her to Taabing’a. But he hit Her
again and veiled “ Get up !” and she got "P;..theUUle
“ Good day,” and passed down the road with the little
corks dancing cotillions around him.
* * * *
“San Remo” : Now that snake (carpet)
lengths are rung off, allow me to clear up al
clou i its upon this matter. The abo-liars were fair y
evenly divided as to whether this snake attained
a length of 17ft. We have a specimen in our
Queensland museum certified as 17tt. long-. l
could have stated this at the outset, but jus
consider what an interesting discussion would
have been nipped in the bud !
* * * ■*
Settler Pickersgill, at Archie’s Creek
(Vic.), is the possessor of a snake-hunting cat.
Pussy frequently drags in a damaged black snake
to provide amusement for a clutch of kittens, lne
snakes are not always dead, and the other day the
housewife, going to a cupboard, narrowly escaped
the fangs of a crippled “ tiger the cat had
stowed a way >on the bottom shelf for future
reference.
THE FIREWOOD MILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a life that isn’t pleasant, and a graft that’s heavy!
too,
Where the firewood mills are busy putting curly billets
through.
And you’ll findthe men that live it mostly derelicts and
fools
That lack of grit has beaten, or a tyrant habit rules.
At times you’ll, maybe, happen on a man of healthy mind
That grim ill-luck compels td take whatever he can find,
But by far the greatest number, are beyond the sting of
ills,
And are callowsras the billets they are chopping for the
mills.
You will hear the axes ringing in the morning, ere the
light, " .
And you’ll hear the crosscuts clanging when the mopoke
calls at night,
And haulers loudly shouting, loudly cursing all the day,
And Hogging struggling horses through the swamps and
through the clay.
And the splitters curse the millers for their roguery and
greed,
But the millers never heed them, for they haven’t any
need.
O ! the heart that’s only human with the keenest pity
fills
For the sweated, struggling toilers at the little firewood
mills.
The millers find the tucker and, of course, deduct the
cost
From the wr r'-s of the toilers, and if any time is lost,
As there isn’t apy credit, then a “ settling-up occurs,
And it mostly leaves the grafter “ still in debt,” the boss
avers.
Then in apparent pity, maybe, half-a-quid he’ll lend
With, “ I won’t be hard upon you, here’s a bob or two to
spend.”
And the loot is spent on liquor from the hidden wayback
stills,
And the fool renews the struggle at the little firewood
mills.
And the bosses put advertisements in “ Wanted columns,”
so
That men upon their uppers to the mills in dozens go.
And though the graft’s abandoned by the, men of force
and grit,
There are always human ruins who are glad to stick to it.
So here you’ll find the drunkards and deserters of their
wives,
And the derelicts and “bad lots” slowly grinding out
their lives ;
And enough to make you stoical and deaf to crying ills
The sordiness and squalor of the little firewood mills.
VIC.
BEN SUN.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
MF* Buy Whole Bottles. "•!
J
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
; communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is .unde) -
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Curious C.: The brick wasn’t thrown either at
the form or the median) of investment. Actuary Teece was
arguing- against the State old age pensions, and showing
on how little a young mail may provide a pension for him-
self. Bulletin argued in reply that State old age pensions
were necessary, in spite of that, becausethe hopeful and
energetic young man can’t realise that he “ will be glad
to go into retirement in his old age on less than £1 per
week.” As to annuities in general, they are a very good
investment if you have no dependents.' If you
have, and your aged widow’s income snuffs out
when you do, then they are a mighty poor investment ....
Ben Isaf: Hopeless metre W.A.P. : Lawson, Adams,
and a dozen other poets of bigger potence have versed
that air... .Te A. : “ Evening comes creeping,’’.etc. ' Let
her creep... .F.S.B. : Too many old props-kissing at the
slip-rails, the wattle tree blowing, and so on..
Humor of a “ Wee Scots Night” wild and untamed....
Caber : Completely tired of Cameron and his golden horse-
shoes The Insect: Don’t think you’re much of a poet;
two verses as a sample :
In sacred history it is related
That when the laws for man’s guidance were spoken,
The Prophet, returning, found his followers before an
Thenin his°anger the tablets were cast to the earth and
broken.
Let us visit lightly with censure the errors of the ancient
Because even now are altars out of the proceeds of shoddy
Up on which the aspiring trickster would to Heaven climb,
Presuming to blind Deity by tricks of trade.
FJ.M. : British music-hall humor in Australian
terms H.J.S. : Don’t care to start controversies m
verse as a rule... .Jim C. : A shade too streaky H.IL.
Says nothing-very prettily.,.. W.S. : Not strong enou 0 h
for the space. It takes a lusty yarn to fill c 015....
C I M • Prettv landscape verse for which we haven t
anv r00m.... j.N.G. : Nothing new in the picture
A. A. : Lifeless... .S.X. : Not enough in it ... WiU K
No copy enclosed in your letter Otto J. .It ine
Three Shepherds” had been good enough for print you a
have got a cheque immediately on acceptance ; but
accepted M.S. is not as a rule referred to m l this column.
Sometimes when a screed shows promise, but is nob quite
up to the mark, it is given a notice accordingly....
Mopoke : Story, fairly well written, but not strong enough
of interest. Other item, too much about too 1itt1e.....
nCB - Rather weak ; main incident apparently taken
from “ Valentine V0x.”... .Excelsior : We don t quarrel
with your estimate of yourself as an illiteracy person,
but we’ve had worse stuff from more pretentious people.
Kerani: Verses fair Concert” rather flat... .Arthur
0. V Weak treatment of a strong situation... .San Remo :
If we must fire salutes at all, certainly make the
noise with the most obsolete of guns. The modern
gun rapidly deteriorates with use, and shouldn t be
used for mere “cracker” work....... Pedagogue .
Absurdly prolix and grandiloquent. The essentials of
the matter could have been put in a decimal of the
snace Sabelberg-: For heaven’s sake don t use so
many contractions in type-written MS. D is as hard
to understand as a Freetrade Labonte s policy....
Helene : Fairly good, but we don’t care tor parodies..,.,
Hamer: “Stranded” is life-like, but lacks finish....
Ne’er-do-Weel: Shorten your wind a bit, and always give
dates of items referred t0....P.0.P. : Can t deal with
such cramped up MS. Leave more line-interval.... Sord
The good one isn’t new, and the new ones are not good.
M.J.F. : Rather weakly handled M.K.I. . fine
feeling for Nature, but little literary gift....J.L.D. .
Surprisingly unequal. Ranges from real poetry, to me-
chanical doggerel... .Mary L. : “ Ambition
form and has no novelty of idea... .Lland . tail y
good beaten-track verse.. ..John P. : Do«»n fc llll P‘® s *• • v.: :
nap.; You seem to have been a good deal of a sad uo 0 ,
but you can only sad-dog in these columns with good
verse No use for weak rhymes about the girls you’ve
kissed... .Nym : Don’t scribble so vilely, waste
time in snarls that are always cut-out.. ..W.B.H. . VVe
should need the whole of a special page to acknowledge
pars. in. Items sent are good ; don t remember the
others Prix : Lies are uninteresting merely a* lies
Painsme: Often been done before, and better....
Juvenis : Reasonably well-written, but only genius coulc
carry off such a hackneyed situation...-Exile. Par.
silly; verses much better, but not quite up.... Pica •
Scribble too painful ...Rupara: 111-written anddull....
B J C • Unskilful, but promising, considering his a D e
Ake : Too long-winded for its interest... .F.J-L.■ Jen J
cation too stiff and clumsy... .Nelson : It is quite right
to compel land-owners to pay rates—even to the t
of selling- up their land after long ' "fault but that
Queensland case was represented to The Boiabt _
hole-and-corner sale at a ridiculously low ra ,f;''
No money-lender would be such a J uggins as to hnance
a wife to get a divorce from her husband and hnance the
same husband to get evidence against the wife. i rac-
tical result of that would be to have an expensive wastun
of dirtv linen and both suits dismissed .. .JN.U. . les. ii
they haven’t appeared or been paid for after a shoit '
val .. .Harmony : Each has merits of its own . the banjo
is more suitable for rollicking music, the other two in-
struments for more sentimental compositions.. ..Drumn e
Jim : Yes, send along and will remit.
“ W.P.8.” : Re the recent burning of the
soda-nitrabe-laden barque Itata at Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Hftd a volume of water been turned
on to the burning vessel a good part of the city
would have been blown to Hades. Water alone
poured on nitrate rapidly generates gas and causes
violent explosions ; but a mixture of water and
nitrate will act as an extinguisher. As it was, the
explosion caused by the sea-water that got through
the rivet-holes of the heated plates: was felt at
Raymond Terrace, 16 miles away.
“ D.M‘D.” : Was on the bridge with the
captain of a steamer leaving Byron Bay, t’other
day, when a cry from the jetty barely reached us
. “Passenger left behind!” “Confound it.
snorted the skipper. “Sure to be somebody of
importance, too. Have to send a boat, I suppose.
The boat was sent, and the captain fumed until
it returned with a mangy-looking Chow deck-
passenger, That skipper’s pious observations are
ringing in my ears yet!
“Itan” about irrigation possibilities in
Bananaland :
In many places in this State there are facilities for
water conservation. The Warrego river, e.(f., rises > n the
high country beyond Angathella, south of Tambo. lbe
distance from the source to a point eight or ten miles
below Cunnamulla is 350 miles, and throughout that belt
the finest wheat land exists. In flood time the Warrego
is a stream of great proportions, but all the water runs
to waste. An outlay of £lOO,OOO would lock up ten
thousand million gallons. A single 10ft. overshot dam
erected four miles below Cunnamulla would throw the
water back for 30 miles, giving a stream three chains wide
and 10ft. deep at the narrowest point and the shallowest
depth. Near Barcaldine, a handful of wheat, farmers
make the industry of wheat culture pay with bore water.
The conserved water would be sufficient to supply
hundreds of farmers. j
TACT.
JOHN DUNN (a friend of both combatants): Now
then, chaps, if yez don't stop foolin' about like
that, yez will be Fihtin' d'rectly!”
Ex-Cornstalk writes from Perth (W.A.) :
I am in Groperland, dragged to this place by the false
reports about the splendid land to be obtained free. -I
came over four years ago, and started at once to f
land (for market-garden and orchard purposes). I have
been looking ever since, and cannot get one acre of suit-
able land. I could get it if I went to some of the land-
boodlers, who have grabbed every acre suitable for agri-
culture. Wherever one goes along any of the railway
lines all the good or middling land is.in the hands of the
land boodlers, and their price is from £5 to £5O per acre.
The Ohows in and around Perth grow vegetables in the
swamps, and the rents they pay to the and cormorants
range from £2O to £4O per acre annually.
There is more trouble at S.A. Outer Har-
bor works; and a prospect of 500 men being
thrown out of work. The.contractors have alleged
all along that the Government plans, on which
they were working, were all wrong, how they
declare-that the only plan to make the channel
navigable is to build a continuous wall on the
northern side of the river for a great distance
' westward—as suggested in John Coade’s report on
the matter in JBBl. The Government won t hear
of this, and wants the contractors to go on dredg-
ing the channel till further notice at their own
expense. Govt, also-wants to charge the con-
tractors for 80,000 cubic yards of drifted silt on a
part Of-’ the eliahnel not yet touched. Ihe con-
tractoVs hay© struck until they can get satisfaction,
and things atd at a standstill.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Adam Plass : Picture acceptable, but you do not send
joke, nor your name and address.... W.H. ; S ° lT> '’
tar too crude... .C.H.E. : Altogether too weak for repro-
duction... .R.L.W.G. : Poor drawing; ancient joke,...
Ben. P. : Hopeless. ,
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men— Buy bottles with wrappers intact. Get
what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived, get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Eleven
Reasons
Why \ie sell
so many Rings.
“Fx and R”
Diamond
Half-Hoop
Ring,
A Marvel
of Value,
£5 sa.
Pink Tourmaline
and Golden Sapphire,
and 2 Diamonds,
£5 58,
Fine Diamonds
and Whole Pearl,
£l3 13s.
Special
Diamonds,
Our Own
Make,
£lB 18»
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3! We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring-setters;
7. We make only 18ct. gold gem rings.
8. We are gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock ot unset stones.
10*. We receive them direct from the mines.
11* We sell at London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,


Visitinp Qf.t\o*tq
WorKj
WAS j>n2.sente<i
two
|,vnbs
rtA*orAr^gg|
of
js/ni,ssive gold | j
£§? hAS been <
£j presented witjj
Rrj refuel) cerenjony
■J to % city J
k a*7
Vyrr -
Bill Ljfne. says Tljre. 7eid””’
Pc4. will be- j
tlfe /
'fiscal iss° e • 1
°f
A
( Kov wl)Vf oi
I ear-flf will / do
I witif tjje d,rij
]& I K^ ow "
w jT HI o, r >c
t' fi/), £rlse oljfi-rto
U* ! V
A w ??esfed Oood
fo |>iii tlje l?,uble to
. I
Georoe R«*d (b,cK nm'
fron> 'Vl'Ayl ’.— By
| •forgot'” to feed tfje dor^.
Q Sf <s|
/V3> 1/e Oonstrtulion, I rn,hne»"
/ v of Gov- /
Ge.*> *s tifrough /*
J*7 Advisers- (f
. miM (j)e,Kin)
lights
Vi II he Ke(t"
h«r»m7P here
will) t/ffdinjinob
-ed brt%h^nesy
% m\ v
lijjff in
window
]ok %e., .
f ifljerffull,
Oodgy Citrjch’— please Cfov, will you Sit"on De,lCi>»
”by Sending our | orolefT to Teddy f ’
Gov Gen : i " Wrttj ,11% )>le,sure in life !. but*
KVtS € TtjivjPS »nus't' T>e done Coi>st?fldlen,ll y
y wvu\ y° u Knov>r- PeAKi»>! ”
T)ut>rrp tf' 4 tecent - d,y of record
k of y/,ter.‘'
tVL Inler-StAte Jealousy Ag\»n
Sydney:- ' He*"® !
jellow, y®ull
Um. oet" So«7® liquor
liK - e
% «;V 'WBBL, y
.*e fo, '* S A \ ''NSMW y
, Wc
uf r 4 V /
m
W J ,
. TSe talking ,bout
ttje f A r ' rr 7 a SAyi
’’ t 7«ii' effort
| Should be directed
*nAKinp
3/ Country life
,ttr^c.t to 'l^cir'
C ki Idrer,
Tb* Wo S t.~ y ou Know
W,y, if you fee! it' \ tit - ' ''
you boltjer dressko
FROM VICTORIA.


/r/A) w
l\ I ] fi // |\ / Some of the British
l\i\ A' 11 / y/f ~ farmers who have
I ill iff ml) if) /f'K'' selecte «l blocks on Myall
\(l f/f/'W IrOiv/fl Creek have displayed great
A mf'/r appreh ensions regarding bush-
3felK3i/UllfJ!L rangers and b l«ks. One of the
•den, on setting out for the north,
|\/| - armed himself in readiness for a
f/M HI conflict with the blacks.
m\ Hop - doesn’t wish to "frighten capital ’*
“ \\‘ \y . •°*‘. discourage Immigration, but let the
\\ 's ut J l be told ! The above picture will give
S ,T C d K* °* agricu,tural conditions. To make I
r h * h ®' ean breast of it* let it be known that the
““f 5 and blacks, by Inter-marriage, have
produced a dangerous hybrid, and plough-persons have
to be very careful Indeed.
GEO. REID AT COLOMBO
He is here seen giving his
views to the local press upon a
White Australia, Freetrade, &c.
*• Wat you mean by • Yezno ’ ? ”
said his interlocutor.
Mr up l ? ” C<,C * loni,n : Dame Partlett - y° u look a bit off color I What’s
Al1 ’ dear mel you remember that hail-storm t’other day?
1 k "™f he paper * said the hail-stones was as big as hens-eggs ? Well,
thought they was hens-eggs, and, givin’ way to my motherly Instincts, I
lit’s whTt I»" eW tr ‘* d *° hatCh em ° Ut ’ a " d U gave me pewmonla -
THE rival of the fish-liar-the hailstone-liar.
At a recent meeting of Petershpm Bowling
Club the new Liquor Bill was fully discussed,
and finally it was decided to absolutely dis-
continue the sale of intoxicating liquors.
Future matches between the Petersham and
still unregenerate clubs will be looked for-
ward to with unusual Interest.
THE RABBIT PESJ.
The proposal to Invite Dr. Danysz, of the Pasteur Insti-
tute, to come out and organise his measures of extermjj
nation by spreading contagious disease amongst the
rabbits, may be regarded as practically certain to be
adopted. It will have to be determined whether the germ
used in the extermination of the rabbits is, under the
climatic conditions existing in Australia, fatal to other
animals or to human beings. This, of course, is vital to
the success of the proposed tests.— Dally paper.
Dr. Danysz: " Now, then, vlll someone sooply me wlz
some human beings to experiment wlz ? ” (Doubtless
the names of many who can be spared for the purpose
will occur to our readers.)
Average Citizen (reading usual list of casualties occurring
upon a public holiday)’. "How true it is I We do
take our pleasures sadly, and no mistake t ”
FROM COLOMBO TO SYDNEY.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Add Kidston to the list of Australian
Premiers who have committed poetry. The
Bulletin printed some verses of his 13 years ago.
Just deceased Sydney commercial magnate
Littlejohn was a great arbitration man. Many
guineas flowed to his pockets for arbitrating in
c immercial disputes.
Thirty-three members of the new Maori-
land Parliament are native born.
Randolph Bedford is off to North Queens-
land again in search of copper, or copy, or both.
New Bananaland Premier Kidston has a
Scotch brogue so thick that his fellow-country-
man, Philp, asked him some time ago to stop
haranguing the House in a foreign tongue.
Captain H. J. Holland, of the Adelaide
S.S. Co., who died the other day, was the British
official who accompanied Chief Cetewayo to Eng-
land after the Zulu war. He had been in the
Australian coastal trade many years, and never
' had a mishap with any of his vessels.
Late Hugh Nelson, President of Queensland
Legislative Council, was the most consistent
opportunist Australian politics have so far pro-
duced. To make room for Morgan he had to die
or be dismissed, and old “ Never mind,” who all
his life hated political violence, quietly died.
Sir Mancherjee Merwanjee Bhownagree,
defeated at the British elections for Bethnal
Green, is the gentleman whom Salisbury once
designated “the blackfelloW,” and thus caused a
broth of a row. Bhownagree is a Parsee, a Uni-
versity graduate, and of some note in Anglo-
India.
Charles McVeigh, lucky Queensland miner,
left Sydney by the R.M.S. India for his seat in
the House of Commons, to which his native
Donegal elected him. He was a big subscriber to
Irish Nationalist funds for many years, and,
though he will add nothing to the oratory of the
cause, his vote will be straight and emphatic.
Richard Jebb, known in Australia as
author of “Studies in . Colonial Nationalism,”
passed through the Commonwealth on his way to
S’Africa last week. Mr. Jebb is on the editorial
staff of the Mobning Post, a paper which now
represents much of the forward thought of Eng-
land. A colleage of Jebb there is Spenser Wilkin-
son, the British authority on foreign politics.
The contracting for the S.A. Outer Har-
bor works seems to be a somewhat worrying
business. The original contractors were Waring
and Rowden. After the first 12 months their
health broke down and they had to retire. Then
Baxter and Boyne took it on, and after six months
Boyne succumbed to the strain and died. Now
Baxter has it on his own, and he doesn’t look
too happy.
Young Daly, of Dalyston (Powlett River,
Vic.), is a hard bov to kill. A few weeks ago a
mate shot him in the head with a pea-rifle.
Young Daly let the bullet stay there. Later on
he was snagged while diving, but the snag refused
to hold him. Then he was bitten by a snake
when swimming across the same hole. Amateurs
scarified and sucked the bite, and young Daly
got better.
SIR DO-THE-THING-PROPERLY JENKINS.
Re Malouf, the Syrian immigrant. Malouf
is a tribal name, and is in Syria considered some
pumpkins; therefore the gentleman from Asia
Minor frequently adopts it for trading and other
purposes in this country. There are two sects
among the Syrians—the Maronites and Druses,
each hating the, other virulently. Syrians make
splendid strangers.
A Gippsland (Vic.) farmer whose home-
stead was bush-fired last week paid a high tribute
of praise—as he thought—to the heroism of an
Italian employee, who practically saved the family
from destruction. “.Clavarino acted like a true
Briton,” said the grateful boss. Interesting to
hear the views of Clavarino on the subject. Pro-
bably he had a patriotic notion that he was acting
like a true Italian.
Deceased J. Marfcineau Pillars, of Sydney
and Melbourne, was son of Rev. James Pillars,
who conducted Unitarian services in Sydney from
1864 to 1873. A couple of years later the Rev.
Pillars was killed by falling over the cliffs at
Watson’s Bay. His widow married Charles Bright,
the well-known journalist, lecturer and life-assur-
ance officer who died in Sydney a short time back.
Mrs. Bright is still a figure on the lecture platform,
spiritualism being her chief topic now.
Vic. Premier Bent lias a “double” in a
night watchman employed at one of the Melb.
City Corporation yards. The likeness is very
striking, even to the vast lower chest, and the
double finds it a cause of much annoyance.
During the Chinese-labor
war several daily paper poets
burst into pathetic verse over
the alleged fact that Queen
Victoria was frequently to be
seen weeping and bemoaning
the fate of “ my poor soldiers.”
Horace B umbold’s recent diplo-
matic reminiscences tell this
rather different tale :
Par from evincing' the discourage-
ment, the desire for peace almost at
any price, attributed to her, the
feelings dominant in the Queen at
that period seemed to be more of
deep resentment at the insolent
challenge of the Boer President, and
at the unfortunate turn taken by
our military operations. The Queen,
in short, was in no meek, despond-
ing mood ; she was very keen, very
angry, and very determined.
‘ ‘ G.B. ” : S o m e t h i n g
named Bent visited our town-
ship the other day and I was
enabled to examine the animal
at short range. Somehow, I
haven’t thought very highly of
Victorians ever since. A com-
munity that keeps THAT at
the head of affairs must surely
be sadly deficient somewhere.
Strange how these things happen. At an
informal Perth farewell to Bigjohn Forrest before
his departure for London, ex-Premier Daglish
brought up the High Commissioner question, and
strongly urged the claims of John for the post.
It is whispered that if Mr. Forrest gets the ap-
pointment, the British Government will give him
a peerage—a safe enough step, for John has no
children and enough money to guarantee that he
wouldn’t wear his title on an eleemosynary barrel-
organ.
Appearance of accused W. P. Crick in the
Police Court without arrest repeated an incident
in one of the great political trials in Ireland.
Alderman Darley, grandfather of N.S.W. Chief
Justice, was Police Magistrate in Dublin when
the order was given to take action against Daniel
O’Connell and a number of others for sedition.
Darley had authority to arrest, but, instead of
doing so, sent letters to the accused persons invit-
ing them to attend at his private house and
arrange for the necessary bail.
Arthur Morgan, who has allowed himself
to begin the process of political ossification, is
still on the cradle side of 50, and had years of
fight left in him. And an elegant fighter he was.
His first hustings address was to the cookies of
Cowan Creek, near Warwick, on behalf of his
father, James Morgan, who was down with a
broken leg, and whose seat was being fought for
by a little Hebrew, Horwitz —backed up by the
late W. H. Groom and the MTlwraith party.
Arthur fought gamely, but Horwitz won, and the
bitterness of defeat killed James Morgan, worn
out by weeks of pain and suffering with a limb
that refused to knit. Both Groom and Horwitz
went over to the Liberal party later, but Arthur
Morgan never buried the tomahawk that he had
sharpened for those two.
That John Burns would be included in
the new Ministry was forecasted three months
ago by R. 8. Smythe, who has a conditional
contract with him for an Australian lecturing
tour.
“ O’F.” : When I came across a biogra-
phy of early Australian Governor Thomas
Makdougall Brisbane I expected to learn
something of this country’s remote history.
But the Australian portion of the book con-
sists of one chapter, and that is mainly filled
with an extract from Brisbane’s diary, which
seems to be an exercise in the art of saying, in
thirty-seven different ways, that he Went to
church. The rest of the chapter is taken up
in recording that the Rev. Samuel Marsden
was pleased at the advent of so devout a
Governor, and that Brisbane once took his
Australian-born son to church and had him
christened Thomas Australius.
The late Hugh Nelson was much liked
by officials in the Queensland departments.
For many years he never travelled any dis-
tance by train or steamer without Jesse
Hooper, a railway steward. On one occasion,
many years ago, Nelson and the then Gover-
nor had started to steam from (Jairns to
Maoriland on a holiday trip. Nelson took ill,
but the Governor did not think there was
anything very serious the matter. Hooper
knew there was, and said so. NeverthffeiS
the boat steamed on. A few hours later
Hooper approached the Governor and told
him emphatically that the Premier would die
if they did not return and secure medical
aid. Accordingly the steamer ran back to
Cairns, which the doctor there said they had
just reached in the nick of time.
H. M. Hyndman, the English Socialist,
and a recently-defeated Parliamentary candidate
in the Cold Country, is about to pay a visit to
Australia. He made a sojourn in Melbourne in
’O9, when he was a contributor to the Pall Mall
Gazette. He was at Cambridge University with
Purves, K.C. (Vic.).
The question again arises as to the identity
of the first gold discoverer at Yilgarn (W.A.).
Recently a deputation asked W. A. Mines Minister
Gregory for an annuity for veteran-miner R.
Greaves, who is now past work and impecunious,
on the ground that he was the first discoverer.
According to the Minister, however, the Mines
Department reported that it was prospector
Anstey who lead the original Yilgarn party, of
which Greaves was a paid member, and that
Anstey had got the Government reward. An
investigation is to follow.
IN THE HOLY CAUSE OF ART.
“ Then, if you cant pay me my rent, why do you
keep giving your great musical parties — YOUß
musical 'parties, indeed! I'll clap a bailiff in!”
“All right , old fellow! And, if it makes no
difference to you, see that he has a tenor voice.
We could do with another tenor!”
J. F. Hogan deals with J. B. O’Reilly in
a recent Advocate. O’Reilly, as Fenian,
entered the Hussars, and was instrumental in
“ poisoning” the minds of 15,000 soldiers. After
getting away from Westralia he wrote a novel
called “Moondyne,” foretelling the Coolgardie
and Kalgoorlie gold rush.
Allan M‘Kinnon, for 12 years cox of
the Newcastle (N.S.W.) lifeboat, crossed the bar
the other day, aged 58. He joined the boat’s
crew, 34 years ago. His record of shipwrecked
crews saved from death on the Oyster Bank and
thereabouts is a long, heroic one. Some notable
rescues were those made from the ketch Jonathan
(August, 1882), steamer Lindus, barque Adderley,
and in 1904 from the French barque Adolphe.
The heroism of the last feat was recognised by
the French and N.S.W. Governments, and by the
vessel’s owners.
N.S.W. Judge Docker, who recently gave
a lash sentence to a “looney,” is Wont to plume
himself on doing what the general sense of the
community condemns. Time and again his sen-
tences have been referred to in Parliament in
terms of unequivocal condemnation. But his
Honor has never minded. The late J. P. Abbott
hammered Judge Docker in Parliament on one
occasion; W. P. Crick on another, George Dibbs
on another, and Levien and other members at
different times; Judge Docker took these animad-
versions as ducks take water on their backs.
A Supreme Court Judge has to be ap-
pointed in Victoria. There are half-a-dozen men
at the Bar anxious to fill the post; but Premier
Bent is in trouble. Thera is an honorary Minister
named Mackey who is tired of being honorary ;
but there is no billet for him. Mr. Davies, how-
ever, is Solicitor-General, and he would like to be
a Judge. Mr. Bent’s plan is to appoint Mr.
Davies Justice of the Supreme Court, and give Mr.
M ickey Davies’ portfolio. He is faced by one
obstacle, however. Mr. Davies is a solicitor, and
a solicitor has never yet been raised to the
Victorian Bench ; and anyway, he is too up
to 70 to be put up—he lias been in practice in
Melbourne 43 years. Also, the cool, calm, strong
Mr. Irvine wants the job.
Bent’s team of Ministers, leaving out
Thomas himself and Swinburne, has about as
much spine as an oyster. The most spineless of
all is Mr. Samuel Gillott. He will take respon-
sibility for nothing. Though he is a lawyer, he
refers all prosecutions to the Crown Law Depart-
ment for an opinion; then he generally refers
that opinion to barrister Cussen, and then lays
the lot solemnly before the Cabinet, and asks it—
which is Thomas and Swinburne—to decide. The
most trivial matters, from the promoting of a
policeman to the engaging of a junior laundress
for a lunatic asylum, are minuted by Samuel
and referred to the Cabinet. No one who has
seen the man walking down the street could help
diagnosing his character. He looks as though he
felt he should refer the advisability of each timid
little stride he makes to the Cabinet. When he
stood for election last time, he used to dissolve in
tears at the votes of confidence and the nice
things that were said of him.
Thus “Tipstaff No. 99 ” in a loud
ink of agony
Do please cease your railing at Real J. No
man less deserves it from a democratic paper.
Real worked himself up from the carpenter’s
bench to the judicial Bench by his own talents
in spite of every opposition, lie reached the top
rung at a time when not only the higher branch
but even the lower one of the law was something-
extra in the way of a snob. And he never kicked
the ladder from under him. Will walk with and
talk to any poor man on his way to business or
church, and not in the “ haw-haw ” style of some
we could name, but as a cove and a brother. He
is head and shoulders over any of his judicial
brethren intellectually as he is physically.
He was no political hack jammed into
office to be got rid of, but accepted
his billet at a great financial loss,
urged thereto by Bench, Bar, and
Government, backed by the whole
community. A vote throughout
Bananaland would put him at
the top of the poll as the most
able and upright of the Judges.
Others wouldn’t he thought of
except by themselves and a few
Lodge brothers. Real looks every
time for the absolute right in every
case. That is why he continually
jerks up counsel. When the sub-
stance and fibre of evidence are sifted
between the teeth of both Judge
and counsel the right of a case is
more likely to be got at than if his
Honor sits back and winks and
blinks while the respective Buzfuzzes
drone out their particular views,
concealing unpleasant things, and
thereby giving jurymen false impres
sions. Better that counsels’ balanced
periods should be ruthlessly spoiled
than that the truth should escape.
Therefore, dear 8., stop railing at
Patrick Real, and oblige 590,004
Queenslanders.
' Tom Glassey, for years
leader of Queensland Labor
party, is a neglected and forlorn
politician nowadays. The old
man was a main factor in the
creation of the party he left in
a fit of pique and mangled
vanity. But he has paid for
his pique in seeing younger
ex-comrades rise to the top
place—Kidston, for instance;
for Glassey’s name was known
and esteemed through a large
part of the Labor world before Kid-
ston was heard of even in his own
State. The new -Premier would like to give
his old leader a show in the Council, but Glassey
still has boundless self-confidence and boiling
egotism, and wants something bigger than a seat
in the Council.
Diaz, the great President of Mexico, is
now, at 75 years of age, active as a gymnast,
and seems to be good for another 15 years of
busy life.
The Dowie craze seems to he nearing its
end. Population of Zion city has decreased from
6000 to 3000. Five trustees have been appointed
to manage the city. “Profit ’’ Dowie himself is
sick to death with paralysis and bronchitis, and
has gone to the Bahamas, hoping that a mild
climate will do what faith doesn’t.
Late David Lee, Melbourne’s first and
only city organist, used to take credit for haying
made the match between Fitz Gibbon and Micky
Dawson’s daughter by introducing him to her at a
mayor’s ball, and advising him to court the
heiress. It was fairly late in his life when
Fitz Gibbon decided to relinquish bachelor joys.
As part of her dower, his wife possessed the
“Waterman’s Arms” in Little Collins-street,
which, on her decease, fell to hubby’s lot. Every
Monday morning the frugal Fitz., who in private
life did not display the lavish and profuse
prodigality that marked the chairman of the
Metropolitan Board of Works, called at the bar of
the “Waterman’s Arms” to collect his weekly
rent. On those solemn occasions Fitz., it is said,
would order a threepenny beer, and drank it in
solitary grandeur.
Mr. G. E. Brodie, for some years Chief-
Inspector of Accounts in N.S.W. Public Service,
has been promoted to the position of Director of
Charities. Mr. Brodie, as Chief-Inspector, was a
demon as Government prosecutor before the P.S.
Board in matters involving irregularities. His
motto was that he and his staff were “watch-
dogs not bloodhounds,” and this text he
signally failed to live up to., No bloodhound
on a hot scent was more eager than Mr.
Brodie on the trail. The qualifications which stood
him in good stead in his old position—the flinty,
remorseless d isposition—would seem to be strangely
out of place in one whose new work will be among
the human Wreckage filling the Government poor-
houses. On paper there has been no crueller
appointment ever made. But who knows ? Han-
son, his predecessor in the job, was also a Treasury
inspector. The effort to turn himself into a man
with a heart, instead of one without, seriously
affected his health. Perhaps Brodie will be able
to do it and live. What kink has got into the
Public Service Board’s mind that it must make
this appointment from the blood-and-iron In-
spectors of Accounts—men in whom the milk of
human kindness must be dried up before they can
get on the staff!
RE CLERICAL MILLINERY.
At a recent meeting 1 in Mel-
bourne regarding the
amalgamation of sea-
men’s missions, the
dress of chaplains
came up for discus-
sion. A lady re-
marked that sailors
did not like white
surplices, bu t
preferred more
“ manly ” attire.
—News item.
Salt Junk
services
mir/ht, in
future , be
conducted by
•parsons in maritime costume. Here we have
the Her. Beran (for instance) winding up pro-
ceedings with an excellent pretty little hornpipe.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 43 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France.
G Kill Rabbits
timismy”
jAnywkere. 4. Every wlcra
All tkeie*rßourd.
Write US.
am
sge&j:
or manures «
»,OTELBQUIIME.
Wffim
'isSfrml
%SSX@£&C,
smstoS^ss*
1m se
@941 “w
‘ rm»
4»..- ,5
GO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Naggi), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.


Anthony Hordern’s Sale
DELIGHTING THE TOWN.
SALE CATALOGUE sent POST FREE TO ANY COUNTRY ADDRESS.
SJg
igg
m
m
vs
1
m
\Sm
i m
_ <g?
Anthony Hordern Sons,
S ?roviders PALACE EMPORIUM. SYDNEY,
a .
HEALTHY LIFE.
Professor F. H. Griffin,
M.D., wrote :
“ I only wish every soul in the world used
Kutnow’s Powder ; they would experience
great benefit. Four of my family besides
myself use it regularly.” It is a.splendid
corrective for liver disorders. It is as mild
as the purest water, but as certain as the
rising of the sun. It is delightfully refresh-
ing as a health-draught, and removes the
severest headache almost instanter.
Professor L N. Love,
M.D., wrote s
t( The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a gouty
diathesis, was not only one of the world s
greatest surgeons, but an able physician and
a skilful therapeutist. For years he found
Kutnow’s Powder of great value to him per-
sonally and in his practice, and this remedy
is one of the few he conspicuously endorsed
over his own signature. He realised, as all
careful, observing practitioners do, that it is
necessary to cleanse the system frequently,
to remove the debris of undigested food, and
to hasten the elimination of uric acid to
properly guard against serious disease. Kut-
now’s Powder stimulates the activities of the
bowels and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in
a tumblerful of water taken immediately on
rising in the morning cleans out the bowels,
acts as a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys
in a most satisfactory way. Thorough
elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s-Powder.”
Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children
and Hygiene, Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.
How to Secure Both.
How many people are there to-day m the British Isles who could
answer the greeting —“How are you?” by saying, “Very well,
thanks ! ” „
The percentage who could truthfully say, “ very well, thanks,
is very small, but really (with care) everyone ought to be always well.
Good health is your birthright, but, unfortunately, you have an
organ to keep in order called the liver, an unruly member.
If you have a strong, active liver, you will lead a strong, active
life, but you must keep the liver up to the mark.
If you find a difficulty with the liver, be careful to avoid drugs,
mercurial pills, and all drastic remedies —they hurt.
Adopt Kutnow’s Powder, the liver encouraging remedy ; it acts
gently, yet, nevertheless, does its work with extraordinary efficiency.
If you wish to excel in brain-work you will find a dessert-spoon-
ful of Kutnow’s Powder of immense benefit. The same applies to
every action of our daily life—work, play, sleep—no matter what
you do, if you would do it well you must keep the great organs of the
body in perfect working order. The stomach needs cleansing, the
liver stimulating, the kidneys flushing, and the bowels dealing.
Herein lies the whole secret of health, and Kutnow’s Powder does
this for you, and does it perfectly.
IMPORTANT CAUTION /
Ivutnow’s Powder is sold everywhere, but should you be shown a bottle
similar to the genuine Kutnow 3 Powder, bear in mind that to be
genuine every bottle must have the fac-simile signature, “ S. Kutnow
and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” on the carton and label on the bottle. This signature
and trade-mark alone ensure your obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER
Dr. A. A. O’Neill, M.D.,
wrote :
“ Columbia Hospital, Chicago,
“June 10, 1904,
“It gives me pleasure to state with #hafc
satisfaction I have used Kutnow’s Powder in
my practice, I find that it is one of the best
neutralisers, and at the same time a gentle
laxative and gastric sedative, which over-
comes the most distressing symptoms so
often remembered by patients with so much
dread. Given in small freshly made doses
every few minutes, it soon controls the
gastric distress, keeps up gentle peristalsis
and laxity, the importance of which surgeons
appreciate, “ A. A. O’NEILL, M.D,
Dr. W. R, Jones,
Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology,
University College, Virginia, wrote:
“I am constantly prescribing Kutnow’s
Powder, with invariably good results. I also
use it myself in order to regulate the
inactivity of the digestive and excretory
organs. It is especially beneficial in stimu-
lating a sluggish liver, preventing biliousness
and dyspepsia, and permanently removing
the baneful effects of chronic constipation.”
Removes Liver Trouble .
“13, Acland Street, London E.,
“August 4, 1904.
“ Sirs, —I have tried many remedies for
liver complaints, but they have done me very
little good. After the second trial of Kut-
now’s Powder I felt immense relief, so I
cannot help giving your Powdera^od word.
TAKE KUTNOW’S POWDER
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO,, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. proprietors m u.s a. : kutnow bros., Ltd., ssa Broadway,


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 30, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
The Lady Northcote has forwarded to the hon.
secretary of the women’s committee for the Victor
Daley Memorial Fund a cheque for ten guineas.
• Further, she conveys through Captain Greville
her great sympathy with the movement to make
some provision for the poet’s widow and young
children, and incidentally to mark his grave with
some suitable monument. The Lady Northcote
had, long before Victor Daley’s death, read and
admired his “Dawn and Dusk.” Women’s com-
mittee for the fund is in course of formation. The
hon. sec. will be glad to receive subscriptions
addressed to her at The Bulletin office, and to
hear from ladies willing to work on the com-
mittee.
Queensland Governor Chelmsford threatens to
gain some Australian experiences of the bush, and
talks about a trip to look over The Edge. He
made a start the other day by drinking tea out of
a pannikin at Eton Vale sale, where a crowd of
buyers had assembled to participate in the crum-
bling up of another section of that big land mo-
nopoly. Lady Chelmsford broke the ice—the ther-
mometer hovered about the century at the time—
with her maiden speech recently, by telling the
women of the Toowoomba Benevolent Society that
they were wise to keep their show out of debt as
they had been doing.
One of the funniest things that struck the Blue
Mountuns (N.S.W.) this summer was the “sum-
mer school,” run by the Australasian Students’
Christian Union. Large numbers of Pharisees
were present, leading the simple and strenuous life,
sleeping on spring mattresses and stretchers in
tents. The rural roads of Lawson were cumbered
with the paraphernalia of an effete civilisation
providing a 20tli century adaptation of the wan-
derings of the Israelites. The Hittites, Jebusites
and Amalekites who were summering on the
mountains in the usual felt hat, singlet and
trousers, looked on with mingled scorn and amuse-
ment as the sacred relics tiled slowly past, and a
hot Christian Unionist, weary by the wayside,
struggled with a climbing collar with liberal curse
citations from the minor prophets. Disgraceful
orgies on lemonade and buns took place after-
noonly in the nice white tents. Piety never seems
to go arm in arm with a sense of the ridiculous.
What a crowd of handsome Australian women
are in Europe at present ! If Mr. Coghlan could
get them all together as an exhibit it would be a
good advt. for the Commonwealth. There is Miss
Elsie Anderson—l hear that when she enters a
restaurant in Paris the gallant Frenchmen rise to
have a better view of her—Mrs. Ernest Watt,
Mrs. Sep. Levy, Lady Rupert Clarke, and Mrs.
Jay, and Mrs. Herbert Marks. These last two were
Pilchers, daughters of the K.C. They have a
great time exploring Paris, and confess that they
didn’t know real conservatism or genuine, iron-
clamped nobility till they got to know of— of, mind
you —French aristocrats. Women of the French
aristocracy, that is. As to knowing them to speak
toJ-Hyell, some day the Australian beauties may
speak to archangels face to face, but unless there’s
a huge levelling-down in Heaven the French
aristocrat and the Australienne will never meet.
For that matter the former would not know the
King of England, One item that made them
patch their breath was the sight of the Faubourg
St- Germain dwellers coming down to Benediction
to the swell churches, in evening dress. Painted,
dyed and “ transformationed” women ; but they’d
dip at the stake sooner than meet on terms of
equality other than their own tiny “ set,” or move
from their places on the Tribune at a racecourse
except to go to their carriages.
Concerning the beautiful Australiennes abroad,
you’ll see in Sydney, say, on a fashionable first
night, as beautiful women (married women, we
haven’t so many remarkably pretty girls), as you’ll
see in any other country. And this is the age
of beauty women. As a London doctor put it
recently :
The golden age of beauty, owing to a more healthful
manner o£ living, has arrived. Physiognomists, physical
culture experts, and beauty specialists see an extra-
ordinary change for the better in national looks. Both
men and women of the upper classes are improving in
feature, in coloring, and in physique. Women are
attaching importance to the necessity of preserving and
perfecting their looks. Powder and paint are out of date.
Massage., electricity, and muscular -manipulation have
taken the'r place ; complexions have improved because
of the rage for fresh air, and the carriage has been im-
mensely benefited by physical culture. Brighter eyes,
clearer complexions, and a more erect carriage are the
three main directions in which appearances have im-
proved. r 1
Some months ago a male Maorilander came over
here to Sydney to have two deep lines that curved
from his nose to the corners of his mouth removed.
With them his beauty was not of the fatal order.
A rnan physical-culturist in a barber’s saloon here
worked a little while every day for five weeks on
those lines, principally with massage and air-suc-
tion' pups, and as the Maprilander gave him a
liberal money present on leaving, as well as what
he paid the chief of the saloon, the footprints of
Time must have been satisfactorily erased or much
softened, was, in our mammas’ early youth,
when one put one’s frightsomeness down to God,
and wouldn’t dream of trying to stipple up His
alleged handiwork.
A returned Australian, amongst other chat, tells
me he was at Monte Carlo when Lord Villiers,
our Jersey’s son, broke the bank. Suppose it’s
an bid story here, but I hadn’t heard it. There
was an old Yankee looking on enviously, a man
so mean that his confidential clerk said of him
that “ whenever he makes a rise in Wall-street he
runs out and faints on the sidewalk so as not to
wear out his office floor falling on it.” The
noble'Jersey sprig, raking in £30,000, beat Mr.
Frank Gardner’s breakage of the same bank a
few years ago, when he won £16,000 in 15
minutes by staking on the number nine.
When we hear of an Australian—apparently a
man of some culture, if not of “culture rare”—
making a mild splash in London, we usually know
COUSINS NUMEROUS.
ERNEST : “ Bar, Jove, I wondah at Beezley letting
his wife fly round uhth that Bloman Johnnie
the way she does."
MADGE: “Oh, Bloman's her second cousin."
ERNEST: “Rubbish I He's her tenth to my
knowledge. ”
somewhat of him. But there’s a young Australian
now in London who has a house in Park Lane,
belongs to some good clubs, possesses a thousand-
guinea steam motor-car, knows this country well,
and draws all his wealth from here, yet none of
the well-known Australian colony in London has
ever heard his name until lately. And, short of
asking “what particular piece of the Common-
wealth lies under the heel of your ownership?”
they can’t “ place ” his possessions.
Miss Nance O’Neil has appeared in San Fran-
cisco in “Monna Vanna.” You may remember
Maeterlinck’s play, in which the beautiful wife of
the head of the army (of Pisa) goes oyer by night
to the tent of the conqueror, a splendid barbarian
clad only in her cloak. That she shall come and
in such guise is the only stipulation of the be-
sieger, and in return he will raise the siege and
feed the starving city. San Fran, was chiefly
concerned about the kind of cloak Miss O’Neil
would wear. It proved to be “ample—a dark-
green blue garment of heavy lustrous cloth that
occasionally revealed under flowing sleeves a
generously-moulded naked arm.” The two
Majeronis are with the O’Neil co. Miss Hilda
Spong was also playing in San Fran, when the
mail left, and Miss Nellie Stewart, according to a
private cable, has had a “sensational success” in
“ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
A girl who got engaged to a member of a
squatting family just before leaving Sydney for a
visit to India in Royal-progress time, took off
her engagement ring after leaving Adelaide, say-
ing that she wasn’t going for an Indian holi-
day labelled and ringed as the prospective
property of someone who wasn’t Lord Kitchener.
Until that warrior is married, no smart girl
visitor to India will wear her engagement ring.
She might be the Sirdar’s matrimonial destiny.
Mr. Secretary-to-the-Post-Office W. Gray, who
accompanies Minister Ward, of M.L., to the
Postal Conference at Rome, is a picturesque
widower, who has been in the service 40 years.
His father was Secretary to the department before
him. The paternal-looking chief is light, guide,
warning, and dictator to the Telephone Exchange
girls, and he must till the quadruple bill with
satisfaction to them, for they don’t approve of his
intended absence.
A Sydney stroller, with artistic leanings, on a
holiday in New York: “This place is simply
crammed with artists, all after the magazines, and
they sit along the walls in editors’ ante-rooms like
a lot of dismal crows, ready to sell their work for
next to nothing. ... You should see artist Nuttall
in his prosperity at the Sunday parade on Fifth
Avenue ! Slate-grey boxer—latest from Paris— a
dinky suit, frock overcoat, very tight in the waist
and full in the skirts, silver-headed cane, tan
gloyes, and Wind ing-sh i ny 1 xkj ts. O he's a peache-
rino, and one of the successful invaders.”
“They found a large caterpillar and two little
kittenpillars trespassing on their doorstep. These
were quickly disposed of (by the bees) and pushed
over the edge.” From Mr. Byron Moore’s book,
“Her Royal Highness Queen Bee and other
Stories,?’ written for the Children’s Hospital
(Melb.). Isn’t “kittenpillars” quaint? Even
middle-aged children—so many children under 12
are middle-aged—will enjoy this book and its
70 illustrations. Latter are done for love, by
Miss Hope Evershed, of Launceston, a teacher at
the Technical School there, who has a gifted
pencil for outlining the small child and the big
dog, and Her Beejesty receiving the homage of
workers and drones. Last book, “The Cruel
Imp,” written by Mr. Moore for the same worthy-
end, realised £250
A London correspondent, writing of the Victorian
League which is run by Lady Jersey and aims at
making the colonists known to each other and to
English people: “Lady Jersey and other English-
women think they know better than any Aus-
tralian authority Who’s Who, and won’t con-
descend to ask help or information from women
who could give both. Consequently they make
such blunders. One Sydney lady met her -hus-
band’s tobacconist at a ball in Mayfair, and a
Maoriland lady met her grocer at the same
(League) function, and on her return to M.L.
found her butcher boasting of having been to a
garden party at Osterley Park. Colonists of cul-
ture don’t come here for this sort of thing.” The
horror of it! Fancy the wife of a Tobacco. Trust
magnate meeting a mere retailer, and Steak being
admitted on nodding terms with Beer !
The axis of the earth sticks out these days at
Bong Bong, and the hat of someone named
Osborne hangs on the projection. Osbornes are
as numerous in that region about this time as are
bush fires elsewhere, I believe some 30 Osbornes
are. members of the Australian Club, and some 40,
a,ll cousins. answer the society roll-call at 8.8.
The progeny runs to the masculine gender, and
there are not -many girls, or else they are very
self-effacing, or live in London. Mrs. Pat Osborne
is the smartest woman of the clan. Now that old
Pat Osborne is dead and Currandooley empty—
the Henry Osbornes live in a wing or a feather of it
—Bong Bong is the only neighborhood where any
country-home entertaining is done after the old
crusted English manner —elaborate dinners, white
tie de rigueur, and the family butler in evidence.
The house-party form of entertainment is almost
unknown elsewhere in Australia. The Charlie
Fairfaxes, the Oswald Watts, and Ewan Frazers
had or have houses at Bong Bong, and the holiday
Government House is in the neighborhood. As
well as the race meetings, dinner and bridge
parties, attractions include a famous annual pigeon
massacre for a £lOO prize. The pastoral custom
of eating lunch on the Bong Bong course in a
species of gumleaf bush house still prevails. The
drowning locust or beetle which has plunged to
its doom from the adjacent roof only adds a dis-
tinctive and gamey flavor to the iced hock-cup.
Other guests face the mid-day worry from the
top of a coach or “ bus ’’—the “ chic-est ” thing, by
the way, in English country race meeting con-
veyances. The man who hands you a cup of tea
and two boiled beetles is pretty certain to be an
Osborne, and it isn’t safe for you to ask this man
who holds your doped tea for you while you run
a chamois over your blazing countenance about an
eccentric-looking Unknown. He is always an
Osborne, and a cousin of the interrogated.
Mr. Goring Thomas, somewhat known in Syd-
ney, is now in Canada. Miss Louise Mack (Mrs.
Creed) is in Florence doing newspaper work.
Miss Alice Mack (Mrs. Pilcher) is in London.
That’s all the locations I can think of just now.
Lovely woman is prone to attach herself to all
sorts of pet-freaks, from little curly dogs to little
tame men. The quaintest pet-story of the season
comes from Maoriland :
A Miss Swares, of Slippery Creek, Manurewa, in South
Auckland, has a school of fifteen tame eels, which live in
thi ereek, but on occasion era -1 out and slither about on
the g rass. All the eels have names bestowed upon them by
their fair patroness or proprietress, and they come up to the
bank of the stream when they hear their names called, or
whenever the lady’s shadow is cast across the water. . She
brings down small pieces of beef with which to feed them,
and the slippery creatures snake out on to the grass and
have their meals there, while their fair mistress coos to
them as if they were babies. Sometimes the eels show
their agility by crawling through the lady’s bracelet, held
an inch or two above the ground. The slimy things are
quite fond of Miss Swares, and would follow her for miles,
only the grass is not damp enough. She is now teaching
them-a sort of “eefine ” steeplechase, in which one eel
follows the other through the bracelet, like a string of
horses through a circus hoop ; and to dance upon their
tails to the music of a tin whistle.
That Slippery Creek eel-farm deserves a visit
. from some enterprising “side-show” proprietor.
Laurence Phillip and Col. Kenneth Mackay
have collaborated on a song, which goes to London
for publication. Mr. Mackay, I hear, has a
volume of verses —some of which have appeared
in The Bulletin— almost ready for publication.
Philip Lytton (he, by the way, it is asserted, is
going to build a theatre at Katoomba, and take
his company to perform there at acceptable
times) gave “Lady Windemere’s Fan” to
Sydney on two broiling nights, when a windmill
wouldn’t have raised a wind. But a packed
audience of good quality came, and was grilled on
the silver grill of Oscar Wilde’s epigrams.
“ Purity and goodness. What' have men like us
to do with such ! A well-thought-orit buttoh-hole
is much more effective,” declared a harmless local
colt. And “ The world is simply crammed with
good women. To know them is a middle-class
education.” It gave him a jolt to say it, even
after many rehearsals. Miss Oriel Hobson played
Lady Windermere, Miss Fletcher jvas the talky
Duchess, and Miss Bernard, a Tasmanienne of con-
siderable presence, acted Mrs. Erlynne. They did
very well—for amateurs. 1 Men, including Mr. Lyt-
ton himself, did very badly—even for amateurs.
Legs and arms of the male amateur actor look like
fatal accidents. In last scene of the second perform-
ance one of the mummers broke down ; the frailty
was due, ’tis said, to the presence (in a box) of
Mr. J. C. Williamson.
References to Miss Mermaid Kellermann and
her Channel swim were introduced into the Latin
epilogue of the annual play at Westminster School
(London) this year. The Australian Fishlady is
pictured quite flatteringly under the name of
Canthara.
The lingerie joke in “Veronique” is long and
loud. There was one, but it was such a little one,
in “ The Girl from Kay’s”—“ Fancy having your
monogram on every nighty.” Miss Rose Mus-
grove used to say it. But the dessous jest in
“Veronique” is twanged on by Lauri, and the male
audience yells. These humorists would fracture
their ribs. I suppose, with “Ho, ho’s” and “Ha, ha’s”
likewise “Hee-haws” if they werelet looseinalaun-
dry when a forest of freshly-ironed and elegant
lingerie was waving in the breeze. The Swing
Song scene, with its background of fruit trees in
flower and its rain of apple blossoms on the
swinger and the swung, is one of the fairest of
pastoral effects.
Mr. Harry Rickards’s friends are congratu-
lating him on the advent of a grandson.
Mrs. E. L. Paul, a popular local palette and
brush woman, left by the Manuka yesterday for
M.L. and lake and river work on canvas.
Miss Alice Roosevelt and her future husband,
Senator Longworth, will go to England after their
marriage in June and will be presented to King
Edward. Afterwards they’ll go to Paris, where
the bridegroom elect has a countess sister. All
swell Americans seem to have a betitled relative
in the pleasant land of France.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Mdlle. Rubinstein, of Yalaze fame, who
returned to Melbourne recently from a trip to
Europe is on her way to New Zealand and she
will break her journey at Sydney for a week or so
in order to give the ladies of this city and vicinity
an opportunity of interviewing her. She may
be consulted at Washington H. Soul’s, daily.
She has with her many new and wonderful
beauty .preparations secured in Europe. Her
visit to the Old World convinced her, after care-
ful and indefatigable inquiry, that Yalaze stands
supreme and alone as a skin-food, a conclusion
gratifying to herself and to her ever-increasing
Australian clientele. Among the new prepara-
tions are —a marvellous “Blackhead and Open
Pore Cure,” guaranteed to cure the most obstinate
cases (2s. 6d.).; a “Creme Promenade” for use
before personal appearance at concerts, outdoor
entertainments &c., (3s. 6d.); a delightful prepara-
tion “ Voskpasta” (35.) to be used in conjunction
with Valaze Herbal Complexion Soap (25.) ;
Valaze Massage Pollers, for use in the home, &c.
Valaze Herbal Skin-food is the most exquisite
preparation for removing wrinkles, freckles, tan
and facial disfigurements (3s. (id. and 6s. posted
6d. extra). Sydney ladies are invited to make a
point of seeing Mdlle. Rubinstein during her visit
in Sydney. Washington H. Soul, 160 Pitt-stree(,
where she may be consulted on skin and coinplex-
tion treatment free of charge. Valaze obtainable
from Civil Service, Pitt-street. All leading
chemists or direct from Mdlle. H. Rubinstein, 274
Collins-street, Melbourne.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post; to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
A true fish yarn comes from Wollongong
(N.S.W.). The local light-keeper seeing a lqng-
fish swimming leisurely along the harbor, har-
pooned him. The astonished fish left hurriedly
for mid-ocean, and, as the light-keeper had the
harpoon line tied round his arm, fish and fisher
left Wollongong together. Luckily three men in
a boat saw what happened, and, giving chase,
towed man and fish to land. The captured king-
fish measured f>£ feet in length.
“O’F.” : A married slattern, living near
my dwelling, spends a great part of each day
leaning over her unpainted front gate, bare-
armed, unwashed, and with her -hair in perpetual
curl-rags. Behind her stretches a “garden” of
rags and bones, broken crockery, arid bottles,, and
a brown patch where she empties out the tea-
leaves before each meal. Several dirty children
and a dog sprawl on the greasy verandah, and,
when they are not making too much noise, the
passer-by hears the phonograph in the “front
room ” singing “ Home, Sweet Home ” through
its nose. But nobody who is even slightly ac-
quainted with the gate-leaner can pass the house
without stopping. Any local Mrs. Smith or Mrs.
Jones is promptly buttonholed for a gossip, and
entreated to wait when the phonograph reeprd
runs out, while the music-loving lady rushes ipto
the house and sets the machine going once mqre.
Out she comes again, passing a table covered with
unwashed dishes, and. stumbling over a crawling
baby that badly needs a bath. Then conversation
is resumed, with the remark • “ i can’t never ’ave
enough er that lovely ‘ ’Ome, Swee Tome/ ”
“ H.G.” : Learned London correspondents
of Australian dailies have recently been explain-
ing why Russia has “ adopted the American word
‘hooligan’ instead of the Australian •larrikin’.”
Another injustice to England. The learned per-
son evidently confuses hooligan with hoodlum.
Hooligan is pure English, and is derived from
Patsy Hooligan, a Cockney of Irish descent, whose
name is still revered as that of a great prophet
through every tough quarter of the city. Vfh.en
in London, a couple of years ago, I ; was
being shown through Lambeth by one of “ the
boys”—a stunted lad with a suetty face and a
furtive look. He led me through the costers’
barrows of Lambeth Walk to a tiny opening in
one of the walls, and paused before a dirty,
disreputable house, in a small count, with the air
of a devout Moslem at the tomb of Mahoined.
“D’ye know what this ’ere ’ouse is?” he asked.
“No,” I replied, thinking it was a resort of Shak-
speare when he frequented the locality. “ That’s
whur Patsy ’Ooligan was born—’itn as give ’is
name to the ’Ooligans.” Subsequent inquiry
confirmed the story. Patsy was the leader of a
South London push, and eventually killed a
“John,” whose body he concealed iri a mud-cart.
The discovery of the body led to the crime being
traced, and Patsy was found guilty of man-
slaughter. Sentenced to life imprisonment, he
died in gaol after five or six years ; but he did not
live in vain. He has given a word to 40 million
Britishers and 100 million Russians.
2: V
/ $“w 93:9“
‘ i 6 ﬂ“ ‘ﬂ‘eﬁ' o c}
jigkq'ﬁg'
'. 2% °1§\
9’6 “‘09:“. -
“/3, I
PIVERS
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
I WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WEUINGTONhz
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
§ty
"§■ 6k e^AV’EMETTE;s"
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.


MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 30, 1906.
My Dear Yarbie,—
.-A Himalaya passenger complains of the annoy-
ances caused by having people known as per-
on board. Firstly, the Jersey pair, a
aide or two, half-a-dozen notable satellites,
and Mr. Willie Kelly were upsetting the humble
voyager’s peace of mind, Then, at Fremantle,
the liner was kept half an hour waiting for
the Bigjohn Forrests. They, it appeared, had
missed the train to the port, and the whole ship
had its programme altered in consequence. When
the stout Federalist and his missus did at last
arrive, they were followed by a niece in festive
raiment and two maidens, in vestal white, bearing
great floral trophies. Then the Falstaff of the
party took a position at the head of the gangway
and cheerfully shook all fare welling hands like an
Eastern potentate in a sudden spasm of condescen-
sion. The voyager found the whole business try-
ing, and dreaded four weeks more with such a
shipload. A wise She goes to the head office and
carefully scans the booking-lists before embark-
ing. Then she knows the best, or the worst, to
be expected, and can act accordingly.
One sad social tragedy has occurred at a seaside
hotel. A girl managed to attach herself to a
large imposing chaperon in order to get her fiance
down for the New Year jollifications. Everything
was arranged satisfactorily. “It is nice to have
your own boy to fetch and carry at these picnic
places,” explained the joyous one to her green-
eyed mates. “Besides, he’ll be useful to all of
you. Don’t hesitate to put him to use. He’s in
training.” And the engaged one gave the girls an
artful wink. Well, one minx found him soattrac
tive that she couldn’t spare him for anybody else.
Down at that hotel for four days a lonely, wretched
girl wept on the shoulder of a large, tall chaperon,
while another flaunted with a deserter. Then two
sorry souls quitted the place and left the scandal
of the new love to the wrecking cause. The
maidens who saw all are taking to hear t the moral,
“ Never loan your chappie to your pals ” for picnic
purposes.
In announcing the approaching marriage of the
Rev. Charles Moore, an English naval chaplain,
and Miss Catherine de la Pole Clarke, the Eng-
lish Naval and Military Record and Royal
Dockyards Gazette (call it the “ Rec.,” for short)
refers to the bride as “elder daughter of his
Grace the Archbishop of Victoria, Australia.”
It’s a wonder nobody suggested the “ Archbishop
of Victoria” title as a way out during the Carr-
Clarke dispute as to who was Archbishop of
Melbourne.
The Rev. Hughes, who is rather famous for his
High Churchism at Eastern Hill, let a little light
in on the subject of his domestic life when, in an
attempted robbery charge the other day, he told
the court that he endeavored, to the best of his
ability, to rise without awakening his wife, but
unfortunately he couldn’t always manage it. The
fashionable congregation which crowds the Rev.
Hughes’ tabernacle was horrified at such a dis-
closure—it mostly rises and sets in one-half of the
house, out of hearing and sight of the worser half
which inhabits the other.
All the she-sports from the neighborhood of
Colac and Camperdown flocked into the hub for
the Polo match of Tuesday, and once more were
prevented by the weather from attending. The
Polo Club has suffered this season from most
uncalled-for furnace blasts and frantic dust-storms,
but Tuesday’s top-score temperature and scorch-
ing typhoon were the most outrageous experienced
on any day. No audience transpired, but two
valiant teams of steaming horsemen faced the field
and rode their small neddies at the fray with
praiseworthy grit. There was any amount of grit
in the air.
The Waxellency told his Frankston admirers
the other day that theirs was the loveliest spot on
earth, and more to that superlative end, and
worked by flowery metaphor up to the climax that
there it was he and his wife had done their
wooing. Loud applause and cries of encore. But
the Waxellency couldn’t encore, and further-
more had to extend the word of regret with an
apology for the dame’s absence. The shivoo had
been got up in her honor, but illness prevented
her starring. The cheerful Justice did a respon-
sive gush for both. Frankston is a pleasant sea-
side resort, but it has to swing the censer of
incense before the Madden clan to a foolish extent.
Accordingly it is shunned by many who object to a
family, however plump and prosperous, being
treated idolatrously. The sea-side tripper wants
a place where there can be some admiration for
her figure and her clothes, not a spot where the
crowd is always Maddening.
How naive the star mummer is ! Miss Tittell
Brune was down at the George Tallis beach
cottage, the other day, and all Carrum, Aspendale
and Mordialloc hummed with the tidings. (These
places hum at any old thing, from a bottle washed
upon the beach to a new calf in the district.) In the
sunny noon the lady went out for a dip in a fetch-
ing rig. The bathers circled round, and an army
of camera-owners begged respectfully for a snap-
shot. “ Why, by all means, take me, all of you ! ”
said the actress, and the whole salt population of
the sandy vicinity rings with the story. The
worshippers tell it with tears in their eyes. The
graciousness ! The sweetness ! The amazing cor-
diality of the consent! As if it were not the
lady’s business to act and to pose.
Victoriennes are pleased to hear of Colonel
Stanley’s extension of term as R.A.A. com-
mander. They/emember him a few years back as
one of the Collins-street bucks and a reliable polka
partner. He was so spry, young, and generally
attractive, don’t you know, that it came as a sort
of shock to learn that he was over 40, or whatever
the age is, and had to get a time extension.
The bagman has a fetching way with the sex.
What makes him a successful canvasser for orders
makes him also a successful suitor. One of his
sort faced the altar a few weeks back with one of the
handsomest of our dazzlers. Another charmer who
took the cake at the only smart assemblies of the
tripping season for two rosy winters, and had all
the young professionals hustling for her pro-
gramme, turned aside from half-a-dozen present-
able eligibles to mate with a young bagman who
hadn’t more than his last week’s commission to
wed on. No woman seemingly can withstand the
fascination of the man who can use the resources
of his trade to deliberately “canvass” her.
Tremendous trumpet-blasts have sounded over
the Blake-Jerrard matrimonial booking. The
girl was globe-trotting with her mother. They
had quitted their South Yarra eyrie a length of
time when they fell in with a military Irishman,
a Henry Claude Blake, with some powerful letters
after li’is label. He is Pursuivant-at-arms and
has foine Emerald Isle connections and lofty
kindred.
The Austral Salon rises out of its midsummer
damp to nibble a farewell scone and sip the
favorite brew along with the Dowager of Clive-
den, who climbs the gangway a tenth time for the
Cold Country almost immediately. The Salon
has always kissed the hem of the dowager’s dress,
she submitting without expostulation.
Miss Maggie M‘Cann, the one Scotch balladist
to make “Cornin’ thro’ the Rye” pay in Aus-
tralia, is off to Uncle Sam's Land, where she
believes the, Caledonian crowd to flourish like a
green bay tree. Before going, all Scots hereabout
will have to put their enthusiasm over the jovial
balladist into cash form and gather at a great
auld acquaintance concert in her cause.
The stories of Annette Kellermann’s fat salary
at the Hippodrome had solid foundation. Papa,
who has managed for the brown nymph, has
cabled out for the remnant of the family, and it
goes foursome (Mama and the three kids) in
February or March.
An extra splash was made at Her Majesty’s for
the Gr.G.’s party on Saturday. Not only was the
crimson carpet spread up the steps and out to the
entrance, but the centre portion of the circle was
hung in scarlet , and gold. The Northcote dame
drew a great spider-grey train into the gorgeous
pen, and his diminutive Ex. was helped to an
equal tail dignity by a trio of show-glass caddies
at his heel. The spider-grey was continued on
the upper-story of the dame, and honey colored
trimmings were as golden shafts on the web-like
raiment.
At the opening of the A.N.A. Show last Satur-
day the girl-machinists and factory experts, ranged
about plying their tools of trade, captured the eye
of the public. Their spruce dresses and aprons,
be-ribboned tresses, and clear, brisk look of health
astonished those folk who don’t know much about
factory hands. No swagger city shop could show
a gross of better-conditioned, better-dressed girl.
They turned out cigars, boots, and collars while
you waited, bending over their fast machines as if
a very fiend of impatience or haste possessed
them. Fancy any factory hand who puts in eight
hours of the most strenuous toil, with every nerve
and sense concentrated on the despatch of it, find-
ing time to dress the thatch trickily, and to coax
the figure ipto Paris-plate lines ! Doesn’t it seem
as if—to tinker with Tom Moore’s sentiment—
you may rack, you may torture the sex if you will,
but the patssion for “mashing” will cling to it
still!
An odd couple doing the rounds of the A.N.A.
show were Miss Yinia De Loitte and her veteran
wooer, Mr. Howard Vernon. The little mummer
wore fussy white chiffons and an unbecoming hat
that seemed somewhat of an extinguisher. Howard
Vernon towered a couple of feet above his pro-
mised mate. The pair went along enjoying the
gaping of the crowd.
Dr. Evans, dentist to Napoleon 111., in his
memoirs, just published, gives a hint on husband-
seeking :
One day before Napoleon’s affections were announced
the empress’s mother, the Countess of Montijo, pushed
her daughter into the water that the emperor might see
what a beautiful figure she had when she was “ rescued ”
with her light dress dripping and clinging to her.
As a device for figure display it was ingenious.
The Superintendent in charge of the Victorian
Detective Force told the Police Commission last
week that a good detective ought to be able to
join in Conversation with anyone and go anywhere.
He hadn’t many of that class of men in the force,
he admitted. Of the lot there were only about
half a dozen “whom he could send to, say,
Government House.” But surely any policeman
has “culture” enough to go to Government
House. Consider the people who go there !
Mary Ann chose a curious way of leaving
an Auburn (Melb.) home a while back. The
whole family had been for a seaside holiday.
They drove up in a cab, found the front door
open, and entered. Everything was in splendid
order. Preparations had been made for a meal
for the home-comers, and the kettle was just on
the boil, but Mary Ann was not to be found on
the premises. Uneasy feelings as to her where-
abouts were not settled until a week later, when
“the missus” heard from a tradesman that the
girl had become a wife. Too timid to give
notice, she had packed her dress-basket (taking
nothing but her own property), waited till she
saw the cab drive up, and then scooted at top
speed through the back gate.
The latest domestic yarn. A Mary Ann of
excellent qualities and disposition, a paragon in
short, left her Mistress for. matrimonial reasons ;
and on that distressed Marm expostulating and
reproaching her, Mary Ann let off steam. She
said she had taken no “ nights-off ” for six weeks
and demanded no holidays because she was
engaged and saving up. “It takes time and
energy to get a trousseau ” said Mary Ann. After
that the grieving Mistress wept no more. Her
social feelings were outraged by thought of a help
who embroidered pillow-shams and plied a decor-
ative needle in off-hours. So Mary Ann and
her Glory-box departed. A month later came
a small collection of wedding cake, and a paste-
board bearing the information that Mrs. Blankety
Blank (nee Mary Ann Drudge) would be at home
on the 3rd Wednesday. Then. madam took a
small fit.
The Rev. M. Noylan, of Essendon, has been on
a globe trot and extensive tour. Ihe other day
he told a pressman that he had a violent passage
across the Atlantic, when “ two or three unfortu-
nates were washed overboard.” Two or three! Such
naive unconcern on the parson’s part! And yet
he sometimes delivers this Matthew quote to his
congregation: “Are not two sparrows sold for a
farthing ? And one of them shall not fall on the
ground without your Father knowing.” “Two
or three souls washed overboard,” says his reve-
rence, affably.
Captain “ Kettle ” Collins is credited with a
desire to be appointed buying agent in the Big
Smoke for the Defence Department as a stepping-
stone to a better perch later on, when the High
Commissionership is an accomplished fact. The
gentleman generally has his eye on a good thing
for himself. Can there be any connection between
this rumor and Bigjohn Forrest’s trip to the Big
Smoke?- It was the Western Falstaff who installed
Mr, Collins in his secretarial berth. Now it seems
the arrangement is to be Bigjohn Forrest as H.C.,
with Captain Collins as his factotum. A precious
“Johnny ” administration that would be !
The success of Miss Bess Morris as an elected
associate of the Royal Society of Miniature
Painters in London recalls all kinds of im-
pressions of that industrious young painter,
notably that her mysticism embraced a belief in
re-incarnation. Miss Morris was fond of telling
her friends that in a former period of existence
she frequented the earth as an Egyptian. Written
in this way the thing looks like a joke, but the
artiste had a weird face and an intense manner, so
no one used to laugh. Everyone was duly im-
pressed.
Mrs. Langtree and her daughter are off for a
time abroad. The little circle of flutterers that
kept Toorak going strong is slowly breaking up
for matrimonial and touring reasons. Miss Jean
Langtree was one of the principals in all the revels
that enlivened Toorak last year.
After all, the woolly Osborne clan has not raised
an inventive genius. The new, visible-to-all parts
Scratching Board that made a notable debut at
the Terang Races is, I’m told, the invention of a
newspaper proprietor who is in no way connected
with the sheep clan.
Mrs. Tom Smith has hied back to the Big
Smoke with her little daughter Edith in tow.
The ewe-lamb is to be given every opportunity of
travel and, ahem !—the prettiest company. Miss
Edith is one of the tiniest girleens in Toorak, with
a huge capacity for having a good time. Two
elder sisters have married well, and that’s a
cheering consideration for a younger sister.
Miss Maggie Neill and her vocal sister have
sent out prosperous-looking pictures of themselves
from Durban, so that the elocuting r6le and the
tootle as raised in these parts must be employed
with success on the S’Africans. No worried plat-
former would have the patience or the playful
thought to get photographed in a smart frock and
a sweet smile if she wasn’t doing well.
The Oarty-Salmons are the one Federal couple
who return during recess to the electorate the
doctor represents and show joint and concerted
interest in the doings of the rural populace. The
pair do the district thoroughly, helping along
charity affairs and evincing concern in every
sparrow’s chirp throughout the electorate. They
may be smiling up their sleeves all the time, but
none can swear to it. Nobody wants to swear to
it. After all, the laugh is on the side of the voters,
who get so much personal acknowledgment of
their votes.
The value of a genteel appearance is constantly
being manifested. Very often it is the only
weapon available to the gentle fraud, and then
the gulled beat their breasts and sadly mourn
their want of perspicuity. But they are deceived
over a,nd over again. Latest proof of this is
afforded by a story from a certain village, where
some select dwellers pass the summer. These
choicest pebbles on the beach observe closely
the formalities of Toorak. So when a nice widow
occurred in their midst, and sported an infant
child at her cottage, the Cream called, after
soliciting some satisfactory details as to her
personality and domestic effects. The Cream
found the widow charming, and left many cards.
Thou came the denouement. A gossiping male
pointed out the cottage as the residence of a
Melbourne Benedict’s protegee, and told such a
precise story of her identity that all the dwellers
snorted violently, and are now planning a des-
perate programme of action by which the
“person” shall be affronted. The newcomer
said nothing, advertised nothing, pretended
nothing; she merely looked attractive, interesting,
and very guileless. And now the pasteboards of
the choicest lie waiting her consideration as to the
Second Tuesdays and Fourth Mondays of the
month.
Alarming news comes of a romantic and
Quixotic couple from this side, whose doings last
year were a rude shock to their acquaintances.
They “followed the man from Cook’s ” over the
hotel furniture and through the corridors, till even
the lift-boy snorted contempt and the hair of the
housemaid curled over her thatch with horror,
The pair made an extravagant display of wealth
at the start of their wedding trip, but the end
thereof was a pitiful anti-climax. Every penny
has been spent. They now look for assistance
to the bride’s people in Melbourne.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
POvST
FREE
5
uhjty-;
|EUY P
SAHOT^I
i the ideal face cream s. skin food ;Qj
I
Every pot contains Government Analyst’s certificate.
GORDON & NICHOLLS, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
gtocWt
(Dress
shields
Ladies! Don’t Spoil Your Dainty Gown
BY WEARING IT WITHOUT DRESS SHIELDS.
KLEINERT’S FEATHERWEIGHT
Once us d will give you such comfort that you will wonder
how you ever got along without them.
k for the Name KLEIN ERT." IT IS YOUR GUARANTEE.
“ Missing Friends.
F RICHARD HIRON (son Of the late John Hiron of
“ The Oxford Arms ’’ Haliford-street; Islington, Eng-
land) who left England in July 1879 and was last heard of
from Port Jackson in 1887 will apply to Messrs. Horace
W. Davies and Co., Solicitors, of 34 Norfolk-street, London,
England, he will hear of something to his advantage. If
any reading this can give such information as will lead to
proof of death of the said Richard Hiron he is requested
fcp communicate with the said Solicitors*
"INFORM ATI ON desired of ANDREW KEATING
X formerly of Brisbane, Journalist, aged about 50. Last
heard of in Western Australia. Any person knowing of
his whereabouts, please communicate with
E. E. DILLON, Solicitor,
Prell's Buildings, Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
and book on company LEGISLA-
TION IN VICTORIA containing an
Epitome on, and all the Acts, Acts Amendments,
Rules, Regulations and forms relating to Trading
and Mining Co.’s with voluminous Index showing
the Solicitor, Manager, Director, Secretary,
Auditor, or Accountant where to pick up the
Sections of this Complicated Legislation, posted 6s.
Mhney returned if not satisfactory. Cuthbertand
Co., Law Stationers, Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
' and all Booksellers.
Wanted.
w
/ANTED by a poor woman, a HORSE on time-
' navment, to help support an afflicted husband and
children: Mrs. D., c/o Mr. Oakes, Newsagent, Oxford-
street, Waverley, Sydney.
Heels
For easy
on hard
pavements
Dunlop l
Rubber
Heels
Outwear* all
All Sizes & Shapes.
Accept only
DUNLOP BRAND.
Obtainable
Boot
at all
Shops
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an order of the High Court
of Justice Chancery Division made in the
Matter of the Trusts of the Settlement dated the
9th July 1872 made on the marriage of Alfred Jobp
Orme with Fanny Bax and in an action of
Nethersole v, Rouse 1905 O. 1203 the following
Enquiry was directed. Whether Edward Greer)
the Father of the Defendant Winfred Mabel
Green is living or dead and if dead wheq lie died
and who is or are his legal personal representa-
tive or representatives. Edward Green if living
or if dead his legal personal representative or
representatives and any person claiming to he
interested under the said Enquiry are by them-
selves or by their Solicitor to enter their names in
a Book kept for the purpose in Room 286 Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London England and
also on or before the 27th day of March 1906 to
come in and prove their Claims at the Chambers
of Mr. Justice Farwell and Mr. Justice Eady at
the said Royal Courts of Justice or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order. Tuesday the 3rd
day of April 1906 at 12 o’clock noon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the said Claims.
Dated the 15tli dav of December 1905.
SAMUEL A. M. SATOW, Master.
NOTE.—It is believed that the said Edward Green left
England in or about the year 1889 for Australia. He was
last heard of from c/o The Revd. Alfred T. Puddicombe,
Goulburn, New South Wn'es.
WARREN MURTON & MILLER,
45 Bloomsbury Square,
London, England.
Agents fer Richard Wilks, Solicitor, Deal, Kent, England.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Prime Minister Deakin should apply for
the Federal capital area as an improvement lease
through Mr. Willis. Then Mr. Carruthers
wouldn’t dare to make any objections.
Maoriland Premier Seddon now proposes
to move for trade reciprocity with the Common-
wealth.
Q. Premier Kidston still retains the
management of the finances, and announces a
continued policy of economy.
E. G. Jellicoe, the one-time Maoriland
barrister, who lately unloaded a barrowful of
Stinking Fish on the steps of the Commonwealth,
has gone under at the English elections, losing to
Conservative F. E. Smith by 709 votes.
“ Bungo ” : I have a splendid line of guns,
500 (imported), to offer the N.S.W. Secesh party.
The guns are single-barrelled flintlock, and were
last used by Hongi in his raid on the Arawas in
1822. Directions for use: Keep the other end
pointed from you.
The Labor candidate for Egmont (M.L.)
last elections put up a record for that province.
He carried his swag over 250 miles of the worst
track in M.L. ; he rode 120, drove 100, travelled
by steamboat 400, and by train 700 miles ; making
a total of 1570 miles. And he didn’t get in.
ELEVATION.
“The British have been noted for their power of raising inferior races over
whom they have exercised authority.”— Argus.
A BIT OF THE EARTH (interrupting choir-leader): "Say, Mister, you
haven't raised us much.”
There is a frank openness about Yic.
Premier Bent’s cultivation of his Brighton con-
stituency. With the connivance of the “reformed ”
Parliament he is spending tons of State money in
making an electric train from St. Kilda to
Brighton, and a second Suez canal through the
park at Elwood to the sea, to take the East
Brighton drainage.
Premier Kidston was by far the best
choice for Morgan’s mantle. He is firm, shrewd,
and canny withal. The basis of his political reli-
gion is that the State must pay its way. He
takes a deep personal concern in the fact that
in a few years Bananaland has loans amounting
to many millions falling due, and he sees that the
better the State’s credit is made by a process of
honest financing the more easily will the renewals
be obtained. Kidston was first elected as a Labor
representative, and he claims that, if there has
been any straining at the bonds between himself
and the crowd which professes to be striving
after something in the moon, it is none of his
doing.
Premier Price, of S.A., lately telegraphed
Premier Bent, of Vic., offering to distribute
tender forms for the Victorian loan in Adelaide,
and do what he could to make the flotation succes-
ful. The help wasn’t needed ; but fancy Premier
Carruthers, of N.S.W., making an offer of that
sort!
The name of Reuben Keirl, which figured
. prominently in the Melbourne newspapers some
, years ago, has cropped up once again. Premier
. Bent has created a Government billet for Reuben.
The gentleman travels round Victoria with a bio-
grapli, showing tit-bits of the land purchased for
closer settlement.
With all his booming revenue and bloated
surpluses, N.S.W. Premier Carruthers cannot
find funds to properly house the uu rtunate
cancer and consumptive patients in the Liverpool
Asylum. But money has been appropriated to
build a new morgue, properly brought up to date.
Which is a delicate hint to the sick poor.
The most disappointed persons in Quet s-
land at the present time are the Philp party, Who
hoped that the retirement of Morgar trom the
Premiership would lead to internal dissension and
the collapse of the coalition. With his capacity
' Kidston should hold the party together until its
work is completed.
“B.” wants to know: If she must wail,
why does she call herself the “Mother State” ? In
most families I know mother does not bawl for
Johnnie’s share of the lollies, nor does she cry be-
cause Dorothy won’t give her her dolly. Let
N.S. Wales cry for Dorothy’s dollyif she wants to,
but if she does, please ask her to drop the name
of “mother.”
j Tom O'Sullivan, Bananaland’s new Minis-
ter for Works, is, though a lawyer, of broad
,democratic views. Last session he did good ser-
vice in the Fossil House in helping the liberal
.measures introduced by the Morgan Government.
O'Sullivan resigns his seat among- the Fossils and
will stand for the Warwick electorate vacated by
ex-Premier Morgan.
Chanter, M.H.R., has a slight grievance.
•At the request of the anti-Federal mob, his name
has been boo-hooed in public and in print as a
“traitor” because he voted for Dalgety as the
Federal capital. Mr. Chanter doesn’t mind being
hooted by that sort of crowd: he takes it as a
compliment; but he doesn’t like to get unde-
served compliments, and so points out that he
was not in Parliament when the site was chosen,
and that in the first Parliament he voted for
Tumut.
Charles Atkins deserves credit for having
discovered the true meaning of a Vic. Chamber of
Manufactures. Until he came along and shook up
the old concern, the Chamber seemed to exist only
for the purpose of objecting to the Trades Hall, and
snorting at the Factories Act. It talked Capital
y. Labor. Atkins gave it the new character of
a Union for Local Industry and Increasing the
Output of Wages. Some of the manufacturers are
astonished to find that in their Protectionist
capacity they are sworn friends of the working
man.
“Lil”: In the course
of boarding-house peregrina-
tions I have met with several
working-men’s wives who
have been induced, by the
dazzling prospect of becom-
ing acquainted with the wives
of the beknighted, to listen
to fatuous Women’s League
lectures about the threatened
purity of the ’ome and the
attempts to destroy the
sanctity of the hen-roost. I
have observed that these
women, whose vote and in-
fluence is bought by Lady
Hyphen’s smile, invariably
belong to one of two types —
the married, boarding-house
slattern with “no encum-
brance,” or the lady in lodg-
ings whose one or two encum-
brances have to look after
themselves as best they can
while their mother wastes
her time and her husband’s
money in all sorts of foolish
gadding about. It is the
woman who is too lazy to
look after the cleanliness of
a home who gets agitated
by the Tory anxiety for its
“ purity.”
General lan Hamilton
is trenchant, obliquely, on
the English, in his new book
on what he saw as attache
with the Jap. army in the
war. He says surrender men
would never be able to stand
before no-surrenderers. Yet
he th inks no Japanese general
equalled Kuropatkm. It gave him a pang to see
white men, Russians, made prisoners by darkies-
This might be due to his Sepoy experience.
Present Q. Commissioner of Police took
up his duties with a great reputation as a strong
man. Recently the traffic came under his con-
trol, and it was announced, among other changes,
that under the new regulations no persons would
be allowed to stand on tramcars. But Mr.
Badger, the monopoly’s manager, objected, and
the police promptly climbed down.
The Federal Public Service Commissioner
recently promised that he would give some of the
back-block officials a chance in the civilised parts
of this country; but so far the threat is hanging
fire-. Some have been stuck out at the back
of beyond for 15 and 20 years and see no
sign of a change. Unless a man desires it three
years should be the limit of service in the “Num-
ber six district.’ ’
Telegram to Sydney Daily Telegraph
about its pet capital site :
Carcoar, Saturday.—Early potato crops at Lyndhurst
are stated to have turned out a complete failure owing
to the want of rain last mouth. Corn crops are, how-
ever, reported to be. in a healthv condition in the same
locality. Rabbits are stated to be almost as thick as a
plague of grasshoppers ; poisoning is having little or no
effect on their numbers, and many owners have given up
hope of ever conquering them.
Seems rather a nice place.
One of the most hopeful resolutions of the
N.S.W. Labor Conference now sitting was for the
appointment of a committee of five to formulate
a comprehensive land and financial policy. This
emanated from the Executive. Hitherto, it has
always been a weak spot in the Labor party’s
armor that it forced on the reforms and left it to
the other parties to find the money. If the com-
mittee makes a good job of its work, a lot of
voters who have hitherto fought shy of the Labor
party on account of its financial irresponsibility
will be won over.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN HIS WIDOW.
FINNEY : “ Quinn’s widely, is it, ye say? Why , I
asked her myself ten days afore she married
wid Quinn. Be me soul, it’s a narrer e
O’ve had!”
The directors of the Byron Bay (N.S.W.)
Co-operative Butter Factory—far-sighted men—
have put two big heavy boots on colored labor in
the dairying industry. Some of the farmers tried
to increase their big cheques by employing Hindus,
whereupon the directors gave notice that no cream
would be received from farms on which colored
men were employed in the milking yards.
At that sick “secesh” Sydney meeting
there was distributed a strongly anti-Federal
pamphlet (printed by the N.S.W. Government
Printer), “The Position of N.S.W. as a Partner
in the Australian Commonwealth.” Now, who
authorised that, and who paid the cost ? Is it to
be allowed that Premier Carruthers should use the
State’s resources to bolster up his little party
games ?
“ Caber” : The ways of tffie politician are
dark -and devious. Scarcely two months ago,
Bananaland Assembly passed a Monopoly Tax
Bill, and sent it along in due course to the Lethal
Chamber, which promptly booted the Bill down
stairs. Then Premier Morgan balanced himself
on the apex of virtuous indignation, threatened
that the Bill would again be sent up, and, if they
again rejected it, that the Chamber would be cast
forth into outer darkness. Now Morgan has
accepted the Presidency of the Chamber he was
going to destroy; ■. Was his declamation all a
ponderous joke ?
Melbourne Herald bowls out the latest
of the Argus’ Stinking Fish yarn—that the “pre-
ference to Britishers ” clause in the Contract Im-
migrants Act was only inserted through the tire-
less efforts of the wearied Opposition, whose mem-
bers sat up all night and forced the amendment
on the Ministry with early dawn. As a reference
to Hansard shows, Dugald Thomson had no
sooner made the suggestion than the Prime
Minister accepted it, and it was finally carried by
31 votes—2o Ministerialists and 11 Oppositionists
—to six. The whole debate filled only seven
pages of Hansard.
Sydney newspaper headings of last week :
Railway Inqciry.
Resignation of a Commissioner.
But, alas, it wasn’t the resignation of either of the
two railway commissioners, who forced on the
country a disastrous coal contract; but the resigna-
tion from the Royal Commission inquiring into the
scandal of the only one of its members with a
courageous appreciation of his public duty. This
retiring commissioner, Mr. Knox, resigned (so it
was first announced) on account of “pressure of
business ”; but he had very good reason for re-
signing owing to the unpleasantness caused by his
zeal.
An amusing boycott has been going on in
Brisbane for years. Thynne, Leg. Councillor,
offended the proprietors of Brisbane Telegraph,
and the order was given, “the name of Thynne
is never to be printed in this paper.” Thynne
looms largely in the local eye, and is fond of
airing his eloquence, but he is reported as “an
M.L.C.,” “a visitor,” or “another person pre-
sent.” Even when others refer to Thynne in
speaking, the embargo is still enforced.
When Mr. R. H. Cowles, assistant general
manager in Australia for the International Har-
vester Company, was asked by Mr. Wamsley at
the Tariff Commission if “the Standard Oil Com-
liany ” had any interest in the ships which brings
lis company’s goods to Australia, he replied: “I
am perfectly certain it has not.” And Mr. Cowles
was right. There is no such corporation as The
Standard Oil Company ; therefore, it could have
no interest in anything. There are 32 Standard
Oil Companies, such as the S.T.O. Co., of Ohio,
of Illinois, of New York, and other States. And
these 32 companies and a number of others, such
as the General Transport Co., are merged into
the Standard Oil Trust. And, legally, there is
lib such thing as the Standard Oil Trust. It is
not a corporate or legal body. It is only an
illegal combination of firms which have handed
control of their business over to a secret board.
In dealing with the agents and representatives of
the American combine this fact must always be
kept in mind. Tlie foreign Harvester companies
are.mixed up in the same manner, and the Inter-
national Harvester Company of America and the
International Harvester Company (of the world)
are in a sort of a way distinct. But there is no
doubt about their common aim to destroy Austra-
lian industry.
“Janor”:
He is one of
Bent’s old-
age pen-
sioners, and
lives the life
luxurious on
6s. weekly,
and is noted
for keeping
his poor hut
honest cloth-
ing in good
repair and
c 1 e a n 1 y.
Hence m y
surprise at
meeting him
the other day
hobbling up
to the town-
ship clothed
in filthy rags,
u n vv ash e cl
and un-
kempt. I[e
looked sue)i
a forlorn
scarecrow
that I in-
quired.
With strict
injunctions
to secrecy,
he explained
that he had
applied for
another si id-
ling a week
to his pen-
sion, and
that he had
donned the
L a /, a r u s
make-up to
soften the ex-
amining official’s
heart. He perorated
fervently : “I hope to
God it conies olf, for the six
bob don’t run to a smoke.” Subsequently I learnt
it did come off.
The value of closer settlement is strikingly
illustrated at Willaura, the centre of a new wheat
growing area in Southern Vic. The cartage of
the wheat sacks required for this year’s, grain
brought in more revenue than the cartage of the
whole wool clip in the squatters’ best days.
Melbourne railway offices are suffering
from a plague of pigeons, a wild family having
settled among the statuary over the door. Now
and then they lay eggs, and, as some of the nirds
are bad shots, these roll over the cornice and
smash on the footpath below. The other day, an
egg came down just as Premier Bent was entering
the building and exploded with considerable sound
at his feet. “What ho ! ” cried Tommy, “ what’s
the blooming matter ? This ain’t election time.”
When it was explained where the egg had come
from, Thomas looked up with admiration. “My
oath,” he said, “they’re intelligent birds an’ no
error.”
Lord Rosebery lately made a strong ap-
peal to the town council of Ayr to save Burns’s
Auld Brig, which for some time has been giving
way to old age. He wrote :
There is a terrible rumor current that the Auld Brig of
Ayr is condemned, and is to be demolished, and I cannot
help writing to you, as an Ayrshire man, to ask if such a
calamity cannot be averted. I would urge you, in the
name of Burns and his traditions, not to contemplate re-
construction until preservation is proved to be impos-
sible.
Which is a lot of fuss to make over one of the
inanimate subjects of Burns’ song. But where is
Rosebery’s solicitude for the Scotch crofters and
lassies—of whom also Burns sang —driven out of
Scotland by Freetrade and Landlordism ?
Opposition leader Joseph Cook will never
lead anything but an Opposition. He has some
ability, much industry, but his manner is against
him. Cook shows his teeth at the slighest provo-
cation. One of the “border-line” members of
the Reps, is Tom Brown, who beat B. R. Wise
for the Canoblas, and has been Canoblas’ choice
since ; he fluctuates between tbe Freetrade party
and the Labor party, and confesses a divided
allegiance. The other day Mr. Brown wandered
into the newspapers with some harmless remarks
on the political situation. Promptly next day
Mr. Cook snarled fiercely at him. As a matter of
tactics, Mr. Brown should be nicely buttered;
then he might slide softly into the Reid camp.
But Mr. Cook spreads thorns around his citadel
and warns off recruits.
Prime Minister Deakin speedily pricked
the bubble of anti-Socialism when Chambers of
Manufacturers’ delegates presented their resolu-
tions, the other day. They were all quite sure
that Socialism was inimical to the best interests
of the Commonwealth, but not a solitary delegate
could say what Socialism was. Also, though
they “opposed all proposals for the nationalisa-
tion of the producing and manufacturing indus-
tries,” they entered no protest against any State
Government making its own engines (as Victoria
does), against State Agricultural Departments
regulating and supervising certain branches of the
export trade, or against the same departments
experimenting in the growing of cereal and root
crops, and afterwards teaching the producers how
to produce with profit. Also, they assured
Deakin of their cordial support to his anti-Trust
Bill—to come on next session—calmly ignoring
the fact that this same Bill is a “ gross interference
with the liberty of the subject ” and an “undue
restriction of private enterprise.”
OUR INDEPENDENCE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Japan does not wish to dominate Australia ; that is
an alarmist cry. Such a powerful ally will enable us to
maintain our prestig'e and independence.”—Mr. John See
at the A.N.A. Exhibition on Anniversary Day.
With naval aid,
Which isn’t dear,
Although it’s paid
For every year,
Why feel afraid
And quake with fear
Preposterous !
Our Noak’s Arks
We need not arm !
As See remarks:
Why feel alarm ?
Some well-fed sharks
Do little harm.
Why certainly I
The Jap is kind
As well as smart.
Ilis noble mind
And gentle heart
Might surely find
Their counterpart
In Fairyland !
Let’s praise the Japs,
In sackcloth girt!
Take off our caps ;
Crawl in the dirt !
And then perhaps
They’ll never hurt
Australia.
W. T. GOODGE.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“ What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
This Elastic Truss
mn
Elastic |
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is theacmeofeomfort.madeof
tlie best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne


Callaghan
Great
Reduction \Sale
(The First in G 3 Years)
IS NOW GOING ON!
Prices Reduced, in many instances, from 6s. to Bs.
in the £•
Mind ! It is NOW or NEVER for You !
f
r
Fine French Calf Lace
Boot, whole goloslxed,
Kangaroo Kid Legs,
wide welts
Ustial Price - 23/6
SALE PRICE- 21/-
Per Post - - - 22/-
Prime Black Russia Calf
Lace Boot, easy fitting,
oak-tanned soles, Good-
year welted, made in
America
Usual Price -
SALE PRICE -
Per Post - - -
18/6
12/11
13/11
Plump Black Vici Kid Button.
Boot, whole g'oloshed, wide
welt, oak-tanned soles
Usual Price
£AL£ PRICE
Per Post
25-
23/6
24/6
State Size of boot worn, being' particular to specify if
narrow, medium, or wide fitting, and whether Pointed
or Medium Shape Toe is required.
&, §on,
395 George Street, Sydney,
I3T" SPECIAL, NOTE.'—“Post Free” means duty paid
in West Australia. - - - ’
t/LwZ^Tn^ißipius
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS
THE MERIT
of an article lies in the materials of
which it is made, and the manner in
which they are put together. The
manufacture
OF MALTHOII)
is our first care. It is made of a high-
grade wool felt, thoroughly saturated
and coated with a pure mineral.
Absolutely weatherproof.
“**‘t is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”—Marcos Aorei.ius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & CO.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Yic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & 00., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., L'l D., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILL'AM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
GIVEN AWAY
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY
2000 OSTRICH TIPS, nine inches
long, will be given away absolutely
free during the month of February,
to advertise our Feathers,
Write for Coupons and Particulars.
m
W*
S&avSi!
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt Street, SYDNEY*
Mention
Tire Bulletin
HOT!
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
II
E nil
ilfli
Queens GateTer race
London. S.W
L
PATRONAGE
OF
THE
.FASHIONABLE;
HOTELS IN
LONDON
NOTED FOR
'IS COM FORT &\
CONVENIENCE
C. STR ATM ANN’S *
Made on the
Premises
FINE....
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETfIEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
”WE
m
I
Tho Wise Professor says : “ Oh, yes ! The D.C.L. degree is a,i right! But
for helping one to success in life give me D.C.L. WHISKY.”


SPORTING NOTIONS.
On Sunday last, in Sydney Harbor, a motor-
launch was cut down by the steamer Manly. The owner
and his wife were injured in the impact, and died from
shock and the effects of the immersion. Four children
were rescued in an almost miraculous manner. A little
ten-year-old girl was kept afloat on a cushion. The six-
year-old boy was held up by his brother for the 15 minutes
that it took the steamer to get back and lower a boat.
The other girl was kept up by a life-buoy. Probably the
parents would have been rescued also but for the fact
that they had been smashed in the collision. It seems
that the steamer and launch were both travelling to the
same point at different angles. One witness said the
captain told him he thought they were quite clear, till
they disappeared from his line of vision, but by
that time they were close to the apex of the tri-
angle—and then the disaster. This is one of the
accidents that always accompany new conditions.
When most of the ferry steamers were built the only
craft they had to dodge were sailing boats and other
steamers. Rowing boats never troubled them, except in
close proximity to the wharves, where speed was
necessarily slow. The sailing craft was easily noticeable
with its spread of canvas and reasonably high mast.
Steamers and steam launches had their whistles to draw
attention to their presence, and, for the conditions of the
time of their building, the steering boxes were quite suit-
able. But the conditions changed with a bang. In a few
months a big mosquito fleet of motor boats sprang into
existence, and they are übiquitous from Ryde to the Heads.
These motor launches lie low in the water, low as a
rowing boat many of them. The most any of them carry
is a flagpole, and scores of them have not even that.
Neither have they any whistle or other appliance to at-
tract attention, and to see this class of craft it is neces-
sary that the wheel-house of the ferry steamers should be
right in the bow, located so that the captain can see the
foam curling away from under the forefoot. The motor-
boat may be a nuisance, but it carries human lives, and it
has to get its dues. It is necessary that regulations should
be framed to compel ferry companies to place their steer-
ing-boxes where the officer in charge can have an abso-
uninterrupted view of the water in front of him.
This is necessary in the interests of the ferry-steamers as
well as those of the motor-boats, for if a 40ft. oil-launch
ran full tilt into a crowded ferry-boat, she would pierce it
like a torpedo, and bring about the harbor holocaust that
Sydney dreads. Some of the ferry-boats have their steering-
boxes well arranged, and until the rest get them similarly
placed, their steamers will be at the mercy of any drunken
or incompetent boat-motorist who happens to be in a
launch large and heavy enough to do mischief, and will
be slaughterous to little launches.
• * » *
Dr. _ Piers Hatton is going to have trouble to
maintain his speed supremacy of Port Jackson. An
80-h.p. flier is being built at Berry Bay, and late owner
Gorrick of the Standard 111., which the doctor bought, has
announc'd his intention of adding to the money obtained
for the Standard 111. to produce a boat that will carry a
broom at the top of her flagpole.
* * * *
Neither the wind nor the water favored the
rowing events at the Sj'dney Anniversary Regatta, but
for motors it was ideal. To everybody’s disappointment
Dr. Piers Hatton’s Lady Marjorie did not start in the
handicap for boats with from 7 to 11 miles an hour speed,
and the event was won by the Hercules by seconds. In
the event for boats over 11 miles an hour no one cared to
take on Dr. Hatton’s Lady Eileen (late Standard III.),
which ran over the 13-mile course in 53 minutes.
* * • *
W. J. Duncan’s 18-footer, Mona, had an after-
noon out on Friday at the Anniversary regatta, where
the sailing events are always the more interesting. In
the All Boats Handicap, with 4£min. start, she
romped away from the fleet easily. Chris Webb’s crack
crew were in the Sydney Australian on scratch, and
running' past the whole fleet, came gamely at the Mona,
but had no hope of overtaking her, and were finally
beaten by 25sec. In the General Handicap, the Mona
was again on the same mark, and Chris Webb once more
on scratch. Passing the four boats in front, Mona went
first round the flag-boat, with Sydney Australian right at
the tail. But Webb came on in great style, and at the
line was only a second behind Duncan’s streaker.
* * * *
A dingy contest between boats representing
Sydney and Botany resulted in the Ma city getting an
unholy doing from its smellful suburb. They were
cynical dogs, the Botany sportsmen. They bought the
best boats Sydney had, hired some of the best skippers
to navigate them, and scooped the pool. It was the
story of Narses and the Goths over again.
* * * *
A stiffish breeze from east-nor’-east and floods
of sunshine were the conditions under which the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club raced over a course from the historic
Fort Denison in Sydney harbor, round a mark steamer
live miles to windward of South Reef, back to Farm Cove
in Sydney Botanic Gardens. It was one of the “ legs ”of
the club championship, and, in addition to money prizes
of ten, four and two guineas for place boats, Coleman
Burke gave a trophy. Of the six starters Magic was on
scratch, and the limit boat (Scotia) had 7min. 6sec. start.
They swept away on a flying start, and by the time
Bradley’s Head was looming close had worked into two
lines of three each. Passing Watson’s Bay, Petrel had
worked far in front of the fleet, and was the first to dip
through the frowning harbor gates. Outside the sea was
smooth as a billiard-table, and the wind falling. As they
thrashed away towards South Reef, Petrel led round the
steamer, with Culwitlla and Magic (53sec. and smin. Issec.)
behind, and as they turned the spinnakers swelled out
and drove the yachts with bird-like motion for the Heads.
Petrel still rushed ahead, with Culwulla right on her
tiller, but passing Parsley Bay she went in front, and
shortly afterwards jibed across the Petrel’s bows, cut
down in front, and led over the line. When the rating
allowances had been adjusted it was found that Petrel
had won, with Culwulla and Magic second and third.
This victory placed the Petrel so far in front of the other
competitors that, no matter what happens in the last
race of the series, it will not deprive her of the champion-
ship.
• * * »
The Maoriland built yacht Rawhiti did not
set the harbor on fire in the All Yachts Handicap at the
Sydney Anniversary regatta, finishing second last in a
fleet of eight. She is an ocean boat, pure and simple,
and likes the wind with plenty of weight in it. On
Saturday she was a thing of beauty and an object of
desire outside the Heads, when her vast area of white
canvas made her look like a silver etching on a sheet of
cobalt.
• * * *
Why, after winning the toss in the jubilee
match against Victoria, N.S.W. skipper Noble chose to
bat on a soft wicket is a mystery. Perhaps he thought
more rain would fall and make the thing worse, or per-
haps he wanted to give Victor Trumper a chance to
bolster up his toppling greatness, for that erratic
batsman adores a soft wicket. The batsmen were
in trouble at the start, and the great Noble retired
hastily for none. Then Trumper came to save the
situation, and never did batsman have a narrower squeak
than he. A fast one from Saunders curled across the
wicket and just shaved the off stump, but the bails held.
Then Trumper broke loose, getting off the chain with 19
off Collins in one over. Cuts, drives and back-cuts all
came the same to him. He was a dancing dervish, a bats-
man possessed, playing strokes no other batsman ever
dreamed of before, and landing the ball in all
manner of unexpected places, including the roof of the
northern pavilion. He smacked up 101 in an hour, in-
cluding a six and 16 fours. Later on it looked as though
Cotter was iroing to repeat Trumper’s performance. He
started with a terrific burst, scoring 21 off his first over,
landing the leather over the fence in a manner that made
his batting as dangerous to the general public as his
bowling is to the batsmen. In 18 minutes he bashed 35
off the Victorian bowlers, and then a fast one from Collins
broke through his guard and Cotter was out.
* * * •
The match ended in the defeat of Victoria.
With a wet wicket N.S.W. notched 263 in the first
innings, and Victoria responded with 215. N.S.W. then
knocked up 394, and the Victorians started their second
effort 442 behind. Notwithstanding a game effort by
M’Alister, who made 128, the side only managed to notch
297, leaving N.S.W. victorious by 145 runs.
* * * *
The dry rot that has fallen on Victorian cricket
is beginning to alarm the authorities, and it is proposed
to try the electorate system as a remedy. At present the
best players are mopped up by the crack clubs, and when
all the good players are in two clubs it means that most
of them are shelved indefinitely. The advantage of the
electorate system is that each district must just do the
best it can with the material it has got, and the result is
a lot more earnest endeavor and bigger scope for good
players.
* * -* *
By virtue of a recent re-arrangement, a hit over
the paling fence at the Sydney Cricket Ground now
brings six, instead of five.
* * * *
Saunders bowled remarkably well on Friday,
and late in the day even, when the wicket had recovered
from the rain, he was turning the ball. He secured the -
first seven wickets at a cost of 84 runs, the “ bag ” in-
cluding Mackay, Trumper, Noble, Duff, Diamond, and
Waddy. His delivery, too, was fair enough for anything ;
and it looks as if the selectors were unnecessarily nervous
on that account when they left him out of the recent
syndicate that visited England.
* • * -
J. R. Maclcay’s total of 902 runs for N.S.W. in
first-class matches this season knocks all previous indivi-
dual efforts for the State into a heap, and spreads itself
out at the splendid average of 112-75 per innings. Mackay
came from Uralla (N.S.W.), where he made mammoth
scores in years gone by.
* • * •
Charlie M‘Leod, another member of the last
Australian XI., has announced his retirement from
cricket. He is the sixth player to leave before being de-
cisively though gently deposited on his ear on the mat,
the others being Howell, Kelly, Sid Gregory, Hopkins and
Newland. The next Australian XI. will be quite a new
combination.
* * * *
Evidently the crack cricketers are born and not
made, and there is apparently something in the Sydney
air that breeds ’em. The country districts never have any
show against the metropolis, and when the Sydneysider
travels he quickly rises to a position of importance in
local cricket wherever he may settle. An instance is
that of K. H. Quist, an ex-Sydney cricketer, who captained
Westralia against South Australia, on Saturday last, and
p>ad@ top score for his side (47) in the face of fielding
described as “ very brilliant."
* • * •
Jqijior cricket in Victoria, in which the clubs
jreally represent the districts, gets to he as strenuous as
football, As a result of a recent discussion between
•“ supporters ” of the JljLephpim and Pembroke clubs, one
barracker was somp weeks ifl hospital, while his antago-
nist was sent for 9ft & charge « £ inflicting grievous
bodily harm.
* » « »
“ Jack” Lyons, prior to taking the S.A. team
to Westrabfy practised sufficiently to imagine that he
was a® go« 4 ,as ever; and ultimately he figured in the
touring S.A. team. The veteran scored 13 in his first
innings, but the effort sent him to bed with the old leg
and spine trouble.
* * * •
Horse-racing may still be the sport of kings, but
that of millionaires and the worst people generally is
motor-racing. Alfred Vanderbilt’s latest bid for the
fastest car in the world is a 50 h.p. whizzer which is being
built to a special design in New York, and will bear the
name of the “ Herald.” The stipulated speed is 152 miles
an hour. Remarkable as it may seem, quite a number of
drivers applied for the position of chauffeur, and a peppery,
absinthe-drinking Frenchman named Paul Sartorio
secured the job. Nobody in this office, at any rate,
desires to deprive him of it. The new car will make its
first appearance on the Florida Beach track, where the
cars race over the sand so swiftly that they haven’t time to
sink into it.
* * • *
That long-looked-for motor meeting really did
transpire at Aspendale Park (Vic.) last Monday, before a
4000 audience. The motor-bike handicap saw some fast
travelling, but nothing of a record-breaking nature,
O. De Fraga, of Sydney, winning the five miles in
6min. 3 2-ssec., or at the rate of 49-5321 miles
per hour. The heavy car Five Mile contest,
for cars over 14 h.p., brought out seven starters,
including G. Hobbs in the Mercedes which cut such a
speed in the Dunlop Reliability. The starts he had to
concede were frightful to see, the limit being 1060 yards.
R. Edols in a 16-h.p. Talbot was on the 950 mark, and
contrary to all expectations the Mercedes was slow
getting away, while the English car started with a
bound, and shrieked round the track in 7min.
16 4-ssec. Kellow’s Beeston-Humber was on the 850
line, and the Talbot just managed to maintain the 100 yd.
start, while the Mercedes roared up to within 50yd. and
secured third place. But for his inability to get through,
it is just possible that Hobbs would have given the winner
a great tussle at the finish, in spite of the slow start. The
handicapping was very faulty, but it was all guess-work,
owing to lack of previous performances.
♦ * * #
The world’s record made by the Italian, Anzani,
on his 4£-h.p. Buchet motor-bike has been broken at last.
Giuppone, another Italian, mounted on a 6-h.p. twin-
cylinder Peugeol -machine, flashed over 63£ miles in the
hour on the track at the Princes’ Park, Paris.
* - ' * * - *•
Victorian League of Wheelmen is using the
mailed fist on the unregistered riders. Fifteen
have been disqualified for life, and, to cut deep, the
League has included the trainers who prepared the men.
Fae victis!' Which being translated into the vulgar
tongue, means: Rub his nose thoroughly in the gutter.
* * * *
Already 500 racing licenses have been issued by
the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen for 1906. How the
scorcher increases in the land 1
* * # •
Ivor Lawson is again announced to leave for
’Murka or other foreign parts, present week. Contrary to
expectations he did not appear at the A.N.A. meeting in
Melbourne, and his absence did not wreck the meeting, as
Henri Mayer. Walter Rutt and Floyd MacFarland were
there. Rutt won the first heat of the Gold Stakes, a £lOO
event, to be decided over half, one and five miles with a
grand three mile final, but Floyd MacFarland won com-
pensation in Five Miles scratch race, which he captured
easily. Writer has an idea that the long rider will
waive the appearance money and have a try for the
Sydney Thousand.
* * * •
That ardent Sydney motorist, W. J. O. Elliot,
has now struck a mode of life that must be congenial.
He runs tourists and business men who want to be inde-
pendent of the railways and coaches, through the
Northern Rivers wilderness. The tourist, or debt-
collector, or whatever he may be, sends along a list of the
places he wants to visit, and Mr. Elliot works out a time-
table, and generally manages to adhere to it. Altogether,
Elliot has proved that as long as one does not want to
break records, the motor-car, in the hands of a careful
driver who knows his business, is as reliable as an ordinary
passenger train, and has the added advantage of mobility.
Evidently in the near future the motor-car, when the
cost falls somewhat, is going to be a big rival to the
State railway system.
* • * *
Now decided that, provided the money is forth-
coming, Nigel Barker shall represent N.S.W. at the
Olympic games at Athens in April and May. There is not
much doubt that the money will be forthcoming.
* • * *
Provided sufficient cash is contributed, Vic-
torian athlete G. A. Wheatley will accompany Nigel
Barker to the Olympic gathering at Athens. This will
be a boon to Nigel, for although Leonidas Phriedphish
may be a very decent fellow, he is apt to pall as a
companion.
* * * *
Golden Gate Athletic Club is still waging mer-
ciless war against the cronk runners, and some more have
been passed out for terms, which ought to have a salutary
effect.
» * * *
Young Hector Burk, Maoriland’s long-distance
runner, who defeated Shrubb, is disinclined to go to the
Olympic games, and objects to the appeal made at
Dunedin for £l5O to send him to Athens.
* * « *
From France news comes that the champion
sausage eater has died after winning a wager to demolish
10 yards of mystery in five minutes. Ten yards of
sausages ! Ugh !
» • * *
A horrible Sydney holiday fatality was the
death of a man bathing: in George’s River. A shark
attacked him, tore one hand off, and practically stripped
his back of flesh. The man straggled to the shore and
died almost immediately. Many years ago a party of
surf bathers at Oamaru, Maoriland, were astounded to
find a shark suddenly among them. As a rule the shark
is a clumsy, cowardly brute, which a fair amount of
shouting and splashing will scare off. This brute was
different, and when the bathers started splashing he
attacked them. They streaked for the shore, and, when
in comparatively shallow water, one man was gripped by
the leg. His mates held on to him, and the shark tore
the limb off at the knee, and then caught another man by
the arm. The tide was running out, and next moment
the shark was aground. Both his victims were rescued,
although the one who had lost his leg died almost imme-
diately, and the other went mad. The shark remained
high and dry, and the vengeful humans brought firewood,
and, piling it round him, roasted him alive on the sand.
They say that the sharks abandoned the Oamaru beach
for years afterwards. But that idea probably arose from
the fact that no one dreamed of bathing in such a
dangerous surf,
* • • *
Kieran Memorial Fund will benefit to the
extent of about £5O by a smoke concert given by the
National Sporting Club of Sydney, Director Brennan
gave the free use of the hall and shouldered whatever
expense was necessary, while pugs bled at the nose cheer-
fully in the good cause, and singers and funny dogs
worked as hard as if it were their own benefit they were
grafting for,
* * * *
It seems that pushball has got a footing in
Victoria, and is threatening to supplant bowls among the
old chaps. At Daylesford recently an ex-M.P. competed,
and the combined ages of himself and the nag he rode
totalled 80 years. The man was 58 and the steed 22.
* * * *
One of the attractions of Sydney National Park
is retired world’s champion sculler, Bill Beach, who does
duty as ranger and takes to the new billet as if born
for it.
* « # *
When a stallion fails to prove a top-notcher at
the stud, his value depreciates woefully. Two years ago
when the Sylvia Park (Auckland) stud was dispersed, the
Melton sire, Seaton Delaval at 1700g5., was considered
cheap. T’other day he went for 500 gs.
» * * •
It is difficult to see how the A.J.C. Committee
could have done otherwise than uphold the decision
whereby the owner of the racehorse Dalgety loses the
chance of racing the colt for a twelvemonth. The horse
had been leased to a Randwick trainer, and the trainer,
jockey, and horse were disqualified. The owner of the horse
was miles away, and had no difficulty in proving his entire
innocence. But, as his horse was disqualified, he was
directly punished by the verdict. Hence his appeal,
which was unanimously dismissed ; the A.J.C. committee
held that if an owner was absolved from all conse-
quences of the actions of a trainer, a wide door
would be opened to the unscrupulous; and there are
trap-doors enough already for the punter to fall through.
In this instance the verdict is a heavy one for the colt’s
owner, and as horses are leased under similar circum-
stances by the score, the decision has caused a flutter
among sports.
* • , * *
One-time much-followed Ike Earnshaw, who,
during Mr. Hordern’s turf time, was his private trainer,
threatens to again become the power he was on the race-
course. A. J.O.’s two-days Anniversary meeting saw five
from Earnshaw’s stable win. Five stables gathered the
12 events of the programme thus: Earnshaw 5, L.
Wootton 3, R. O’Connor 2, and S. Fielder and T. Payten
one each.
• * • *
Trainer-owner Wootton’s phenomenal luck.
Apart from vvhat the bookies had to pay him during last
V.R.C. Spring meeting he has scored remarkably since, in
Sydney, with other people’s hot-wanted nags. Victorian
Jimmy Wilson’s Fabric had only been bought from that
astute turfite a few weeks before appropriating Sydney
Tattersall’s Cup and a huge sum in bets. Then came
Hollander’s win, also those of Sinimeran, The Pet and
Dromedary at A.J.O. meeting: last week, all at the first
time of asking- since Wootton acquired them. Simmeran
cost 250g5., The Pet 200g5., and Dromedary 75gs.
* * * •»
Recent shutting up of famous Wellington Park
(M.L.) stud reminds that in 16 years 427 yearlings bred
there brought 76,158g5. Best year was 1892, when 17
youngsters realised 7315g5.
* *. tr *
Newcastle’s ancient Ryde was bought by trainer
E. Donovan early this month for 11 guineas, and last
week won the Oamden race meeting double—Flying
and Oamden Handicaps.
* * * *
Wholesale prosecutions for keeping common
gaming houses have caused much lamentation among
Maoriland bookies, and already a strong exodus has set in
for Australia.
* * * *
As Skuthorpe would not agree to Martini’s
terms re the saddle, Martini has now accepted Skuthorpe’s
challenge to find a man who will ride Skuthorpe’s buck-
jumper, for £lOO a-side. Martini’s money has been de-
posited at this office. His man will ride in an ordinary
hunting saddle, without pads of any kind, provided Sku-
thorpe’s men will do as Martini’s do, hold the horse till he
is properly saddled and the man properly mounted. The
match is to take place in the presence of press representa-
tives in Sydney;
* * * #
Reported from England that Russian wrestler
George Hackenschmidt is suffering from miner’s elbow,
brought about by using that part as a fulcrum with which
to lever opponents on the floor on to their shoulders. Con-
sequently, his return match with Terrible Turk Madralli
for £2OO aside is off. Although the Russian won easily
last time they met, the Turk is said to have improved a
lot under scientific training and dieting, while the Rus-
sian has gone off, and the damaged arm is likely to fail
him at any time.
* * * ■»
They take their football seriously in Wales.
All Cardiff went to see the big match with the Maori
team ; and, after 45,000 were admitted, the gates had to
be closed. Wales won, by the merest margin, and then
all Wales went mad. The South Wales Daily News
(Cardiff) came out on the Monday with 14J columns of
small print, three lots of pictures, and a bit of verse, con-
cerning the match. Altogether, it was a great day for
Wales ; and one is inclined to overlook the fact—as care-
fully chronicled by the same paper—that “ a ver3' large
percentage of the people became decidedly tipsy.” By
the way, wasn’t it at Cardiff that Evan Roberts, the
evangelist, got half the people to swear off football and
burn the unholy leathern affair altogether?
* * * *
For a long while the French have strenuously
objected to the provision that made it necessary to
change the venue of the Gordon Bennett race every year,
and that fixture has, it is now announced, been aban-
doned for good. Its place will be taken by a classic race
run over French roads yearly, and controlled exclusively ,
by the French governing body.
* » * *
The bookmaker is becoming a plague at the
Sydney National Sporting Club. 'His continual “ Five to
four ! five to four! ” is wearisome. What influence he
has on the fights is not, so far, apparent, but if he has
any it is a certainty that it is for the bad. Anyhow, in
the interests of the club, which is a good one and worth
upholding, the bookmaker should be vigorously sup-
pressed. The fact that during the last few months there
have been rather more fiascoes than usual would seem to
indicate that he is beginning to get some fine work in.
LIKE A SOLID LUMP
HOW FOOD CAUSED PAIN
AND DISTRESS IN
THE STOMACH.
SEVERE INDIGESTION
CURED BY
MOTHER SEIDEL’S
SYRUP.
Mr. Thomas Brown, a carpenter,
pf Grote St,, West Adelaide, writes
under date, March 9, 1905 : —“ For
several years I suffered frequently
from severe attacks of indigestion.
My food seemed to settle in a hard
solid lump in my stomach ; causing
much pain and distress in my
stomach and right side, It Became
extremely difficult for mg t© Stick to
my daily work. I tried several doc-
tors, but their treatment did not help
me, At last on the advice of my
friend, Mr, W. James, the well-known
blacksmith @f Currie Street, I used
MotherSeigel'g Syrup. Three bottles
of it completely cured me. That was
a year ago and I have been well ever j
since.” '
*** Your food will become nourish- !
ing and pleasant and you will have j
no pain or distress in your stomach f
if you will use Mother Seigel's
Syrup , either as a cure or as a pre-
ventative. You can get it at all
up-to-date Chemists' shops .
A Fine Old Pioneer Preacher.
The dwellers of the bush and small townships of
Australia have often been regarded as a Godless
race and of recent years greater efforts have been
made for the propaganda of the Gospel through
the agency of associations. The increased facilities
of travelling by the extention of railways and
better means of communication, have vastly
assisted in reaching those parts which 50 years ago
were almost without religious teaching. Among
the poineers of over half a century ago is one who
still remains an energetic worker and ministers to
six congregations extending over a radius of 42
miles in a scattered district of Victoria. He is the
veteran Rev. Thomas Beecher Swift, of Alexandra
(Vic.), who for over 55 years has labored in the
vineyard of his Master. It is to such men as this,
that the Scots Church owe their proud position in
Australia at the present day. On October 13th,
1905, he celebrated his 84th birthday and received
congratulations from all parts of the Common-
wealth. At this green old age he still retains his
strength and vitality and enjoys splendid health
which he attributes to total abstinence from
alcohol and tobacco, and to the occasional use of a
well-known household remedy. “I have been a
Preacher of the Gospel for 52 years,” he writes on
May 19th, 1902, “and am now in my 81st year. I
suffered for a long time from costiveness and
consequent indigestion. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills were brought under my notice some two
years ago. I took one pill every evening, and soon
under that method my costiveness and indiges-
tion were relieved and my bowels became as
regular as the morning. They assist nature in
the discharge of all her functions—increase the
appetite, produce sound sleep, and give elasticity
of spirits. I always preach three times on
Sundays, and drive long distances to my appoint-
ments. I enjoy life and the Lord’s work to which
He called me more than 50 years ago.’’
Three years later he writes to us again as
follows : —“Referring to my previous letter, I can
still endorse the merits of your remedy. I was
suffering from constipation and indigestion for
many years. I tried many remedies but they all
lost their effect. But with Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills they are as efficacious now in assisting
nature as they were four years ago. I cannot do
without them, and one pill every night assures me
to be right for the next morning. Although lam
in my 84th year every fourth Sunday I drive 38.
miles, and on other Sundays 25 miles to fulfil my
appointments and conduct three services every
Sunday. My health was never better, thanks to
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills; my life never
brighter, my days never happier, and God’s work
under my care never more prosperous than at
present. lam sending you my photograph, and
am indeed glad to be able to state that Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills still maintain their standard of
excellence and efficiency.”
Mr. Swift has received many inquiries regarding
the above letters and he assures us that he is only
too happy to reply to anyone who may write
him.*
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produce*.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. Ho Preservatives.
Bkkyvehy and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


AGGRUSONWERK
h
ter
9
: l
PATENT DIE
(Protected in Commonwealth.)
Great Saving
Crushing
No farther
die used
after
installing
Patent Die.
FIC I
Section of Die.
FIG, 2,
Effected in
Costs.
Worn out
Shoe used
as
Die-liner.
Elevation of stamper Shoe#
MANUFACTURED BY
FRIED. KRUPP, A. Q. GRUSONWERK.
So&
NOYES m
Melbourne Sydnek
Brisbane Perth,
rife
m
Dunedin NZ
SPECIAL OFFER.
High= Class JC (
Suits = = f V/
EXPERT CUTTING. BEST WORKMANSHIP.
Samples and Measure Forms Sent to Any Address.
To maKe room for
NEW SHIPMENTS.
THE LARGEST HIGH-CLASS ESTABLISHMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
E. T. WALSH
Merchant Tailor,
<B^
359 6EOR6E STREET, SYPNEY.
THERE’S SAFETY
IN THE
ANCHOR FENCE
IF YOU ARE . .
FENCING, WRITE
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
Sydney and
Brisbane.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hanis it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, <xtra large 3/6.
Manufacturer —P. KLEESATTKL,
I raralgon. Yietoria.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
OR, THE FAIRY OF THE DIAMOND VALLEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3rd,
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company.
First production in Sydney of an Entirely New
and Original Comedy in 4 Acts, by J. M. Barrie,
QUALITY-STREET.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Man air er .. Mr. .1. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Dainty, Tuneful Comic Opera,
VERONIQUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of J. C. Williamson.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10,
. R. G. KNOWLES,
PRINCE OF HUMORIBTP,
in his . .
WORLD FAMOUS ENTERTAINMENT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEXT MATINEEE, WEDNESDAY, at 2.30.
A GREAT SUCCESS. A CERTAIN BOOM.
URBANORA BIOSCOPE COMPANY,
Including all the Latest Films, together with a Full and
Efficient Company of High-Class Vocalists and
Polite Entertainers.
Plan at Paling’s, 10-5 ; White Rose Confectionery, 5-7.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and (id.
I~v o iTi th eat r E, SYDN'Y.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Highland Comedy Quartette
and Comedy Glee Singers.
HARRY RlCKARDS—better than ever.
JACKSON FAMILY, Premier Musical Team.
MR ALF LAWTON, the Popular Comedian & End Man.
*MR. POST MASON, Operatic, Descriptive and
Character Vocalist.
OLIVE LENTON, BABY WATSON, MAY DAGMAR,
FLORRIE LORRIMER, CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS.
/■\P ERA HO USE, MELBOURNE.
W Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MARIONETTES.
PERCY DENTON, Character Comedian.
ALICE RAYMOND, Cornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor.
BERT DAWSON, Descriptive Vocalist,
at Allan’s. it-tV PRICES 3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
■THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
,*•; \V V . BLAND HOLT.
ejA'EysuccEss every evening,
, BLANP HOLT and his Popular
HombinatiOTi orCommonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Popular Adelphi Melodrama,
THE LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
ootriws AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s,
iffl- PRICES AS giness Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE
—in—
L’AIGLON.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
RLMCsTsS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY
—in —
UTOPIA (LIMITED).
(For tub First Time in Australia.)
An Exceptionally Strong Cast. Additional Attractions.
"PRINCES COUR T,” uTeLBO URN E.
■ General Manager .. .. A. L. BAIRD.
pP“ ADMISSION 6d. ; CHILDREN 3d.—2.30 to 11 p.m.
A Good Resolution —
... TO “PRINCES COURT” ONLY . . .
Attractions Katzenjammer Castle Fun Factory—
HelterSkelter -Maze—Chute—Toboggan-Rifle Range
—Dragon—Diving Exhibitions —Naval-Military Exhi-
bitions—Cafe Chantat Entertainments, &e.
Japanese Tea House. Wine Kiosk.
Popular Price Refreshment Kiosk.
“ Oh ! Woodman, Spare that Tree.”
Great Axemen’s Carnival and Sporting
Demonstrati on, Dayiesford (Vic.)
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 16, 1906.
Some of the Plums .'—Handicap Underhand Chop, 50
sovs. ; Handicap Standing Chop, lOsovs. ; Maiden Chop,
5 sovs. ; Sawing Match, 5 sovs. ; and “ The Invitation
Championship Underhand Chop,” 20 sovs. ; and Cham-
pionship Medal, 5 sovs., net value. Tug-of-War, 20
sovs. ; Sheffield, 20 sovs. ; 220yds., 10 sovs., etc., etc.
Write or send at once for all information. Entries close,
March 28, to P. F. MEERE, Secretary.
THE
((
erits
of the
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
m
“JVUSfA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well-s asoned.
To be had in three
qualities fr<"»m all tobac-
conists throughout Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole*
?ale only from FELDBEIM,
GOTTH EL & CO., Sydney. .
Public Notice.
MkIEW SOUTH WALES IVIOMT D~ PIETE
#V D. AND /- COMPANY, Limited,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders in the
above Company will be held on THURSDAY, the Bth
FEBRUARY, 1906, upon the Company’s Premises, as
above, at 12 noon.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
Business :
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet; end
to transact any other business that ma.v be brought
before the meeting in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
Dated January 25,19 CC.
m,EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
#V D. AND i. COMPANY, Limited,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company will be
CLOSED from January 26 to February 8, 1906, both days
inclusive.
Bv order,
* EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
Dated January 25,1906.


A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-Mounted
Crystal Glass Stamp
DAMPER, 4s 6d.
-iVjy
MW.
Kts
wisavi?
-iViX
w ttf
OKS
KSEfiS-di
dV
A. SAUNDERS.
8-Bottle Luncheon CRUET,
Bure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Others, 10s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d. 20s.
Latest Fashion
Leather. 6s
A. SAUNDERS.
WAIST BELT, Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Crocodile or Russian
6d. Wider, 7s 6d. Other Styles, Open Straps, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
C.E. or R.O. Hymn and Prayer
BOOK, Morocco Leather, Pure
Silver-mounted, 10s 6d.
Extra Heavy, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Toilet Pomade
JAR. Solid Silver
Mounts, Hobnail Out
Glass, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cherub Design Toilet MIRROR, Solid Silver, Bevelled
Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin Tobacco POUCH,
Best Rubber Lining-,
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Collar Button BON, Pure Silver-
Plated, 7s 6d.
Similar Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ IIAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Extra
Long White Hand-drawn Bristles, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value 4 o’clock Cake
FORKS. Pure Silver-Plated,
in Silk-lined Case, Cs 6d.
Otiler Styles. 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
Our fine Illustrated
Catalogue of
Xmas Gifts
and Novelties.
Sent to any
address, Post Free.
A post card
will bring you
a copy.
We prepay
express charges
on all goods.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, Fitted with Every
Convenience, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s Od, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
No matter where
you live,
you have the
same opportunity
in choice and price
that you would
have if personally
selecting in our
extensive showroom.
mik:
i W i
fMm niSfl
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Concave Military HAIR BRUSHES,
Solid Silver, Extra Long AVliite Bristles,
in Solid Leather Case, £3.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Seal Leather Purse and Card CASE,
Sterling Silver Mounts and Lock, 21s. ’
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 2Cs.
*5
"S'
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Butterfly Design, Gilt
Lined, comprising Four Pieces, A 1 Quality, Sheffield Manufacture, £4 4s.
Other Styles, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, t<j £75.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar CASE, Seal Leather, Sterling
Silver Mounts and Shield, 16s 6d.
Other Styles, Ks «*L 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.|
A. SAUNDERS.
Specimen' VASES, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, in 3 sizes: sin, 5s 6d;
~6Jin, 7s 6d* 7-Jin, 16s 6d.
Solid- Silver, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s.
a. Saunders.
Sugar’.SCUTTLE, Pure Silver -
plated, .ll'andsm'nejy- Ku- ■
graved, 2%, .
Others, 10s 6d, 20s, ads, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Amber-tinted Glass,
Pure Silver-Plated, J,-2s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INK STAND, 2.Crystal Cut-glass Bottles,
Pure Silver plated, £2 ss.
, Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving STROP, Automatic,
Self-rolling, Pure Silver-plated,;
Handsomely Embossed, 13s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Porcelain
China Shaving MUG, 5s 6d.
Pure Silver-plated, 13s\6d,
15s 6d, 2Qs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butter Dish, Knife and Toast, Rack Com-
bination, Pure Silver-plated, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handkerchief BOX, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Chased and Embossed, Silk Lined, Size 8 x 7, £3.
Glove Box to Match, £3, or £5 lCs pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSH, Fine White Bristles, 20s.
Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Gd, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS, Pure Silver Mounted,
Hobnail Cut-glaSs, 8s 6d. Larger Size :
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
Crystal
, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Spirit Flask and Cup,
Morocco Covered, Pure
Silver-plated, Patent
Ton, 20s.
Others, 10s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving TIDY and Mirror, Pure Silver-
mounted, Morocco Leather, 255.
Other .Styles, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fern POT, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed.
4in high, 15s 6d.
Others, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Manicure and Toilet SET,
Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, £3 10s.
Other Styles, £2 ss, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
( SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
809, 81 1 , 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


3
.
xXi '
.
;v •;^- Vi
-
- .... f ’
. ■ ■'■•? X
#■ 'Wjf
m®
«v
;
n
''X,
£
&
-J?
*>•<«*?
r
}
■
rii
§a
m
\
■
S'
fi
>
J
\
[la r rv J. We sXo r%
££
Wm^
... r-^
Spare me days, they ain’t no bloomin’ flour!”
Well, we got plenty 4 HAVELOCK ’ ’Dacca!
Whot yer growlin’ about ? ”
.rii-* ... ■ . > > ■ - * '■


The German mail steamer, lying at Circular
Quay, was the only important merchantman in
port which failed to decorate on Anniversary Day
-“Australia’s national holiday.
Richard Butters writes ;
In your issue, 28/12/’O5, there is a paragraph dealing
with the Bathurst libel case, Webb v. Wilton, about 35
years ago, which states that “T. T. Wiltoh Was im-
prisoned in default, but after a few days Mr. Webb drove
up in his carriage and ordered his release.” It is quite
true the Wilton Bros,, owners of the Batiiurst Times, by-
reason of a harsh and intolerant Act, now abolished, were
adjudged guilty and imprisoned in default, at the
Instance of Edmond Webb, a wealthy Bathurst store-
keeper, remaining in prison six weeks. Webb sent them
an offer of release, if they would apologise. This they
refused to do. Their numerous friends made a move to
subscribe the requisite amount to ensure their release.
The Wiltons objected to this procedure. At the end of
42 day-s, one evening at 8 o’clock, Alex. Forbes, the
gaoler, came to Wilton with the intimation that if he
would accept release he could have it. “ Yes,” he
answered; “if there are no conditions attached.” The
prisoners were at once released.
W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S __
ANI/VIATOSRAPH.
.0‘ l u I. ‘ ‘
. “ 1 OWN.
'7'} ‘ IL? ("
“*1”: l. \1,’
”~ “v" n,
‘ 5 / :_, ' 9”“ \
‘64 {Eek “(mi I“??? .
7m“; "13$- ‘I"~T§:‘;—~‘3 (:7: “I". 0)}
1* L113 233fo
‘sklitw ‘ ' 3’ 4 WW» I‘T'VMN
‘ J “*‘r*"[_‘_——'\‘Lhr{ 3‘s
Wﬂct‘ Q“
~ ‘ ' , H‘s.) UR}
Fey x,
The
Best
Living
Picture
Machine
Extant.
*?*
Large
Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanstojn Street,
- MELBOURNE.
M108
Superior to
COPAIBA
ICUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the ramo
diseases in 4g
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name t&~ IfMO] ]
✓
s
-ir\cuc->r>r-ir—inrv=?s^>nar^/ir\c
Waltham
Watches
Better than ever—
the best watches in
the world. Behind
them are half a
century of high
reputation and a
strong guarantee,
good for all time.
L* I. FLEQELTAUB
ROYAL JEWELLER- - - -
HOROLOQIST,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT.
Exceptional Value |
Gun Metal Watch i
Post Free Everywhere.
With our Guarantee of Accuracy for years.
96 King St, Sydney, n.s.w,
* “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.” <d
The Lancet writes “Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar moie wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
■
UICE
£
L
CORDIAL
J
" Montserrat ” is obtained solely lrom the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ M NT ERRAT."
OP ALL STORES AND CHEM STS.
n
TIMKEN
'Silas
AXLE
REDUCE THE DRAFT OF VEHICLES BY HALF.
With Timken Axles TWO HORSES CAN DO
THE WORK FORMERLY DONE BY FOUR.
Every Axle guaranteed 2 years (will last 10).
Obtainable from all Coachbuilders.
Wholesale Agents—W. S. FRIEND & CO., York Street, Sydney.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to'clear the whole
-L of their stock
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading- Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to .. .. ..£5OO
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to .. .. .. .. £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to .. .. .. ■. • ■ .. £1 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards ; best steel locks and
barrels; reduced to.. .. .. .. .. £1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap £0 6 9
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb. ; CAPS, 2d. box'; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand,
MELBA ACGORDEONS
'
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They at*e
easily learnt
N o know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become it
Skilled
{jerfdrrrier.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1, 2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight oh ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal behind
corners, and all lat?3t improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
f
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276=278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Wide Push “Sunshine” Harvester.
"'y r .
sons
A
I
-/I
, r ji
<
'M£££o(//?M£
I
■ >
COMB 11ft. 6/n. TWO MEN, SIX HORSES. NO SIDE STRAIN. 40 ACRES A DAY.
MANUFACTURED BY
HUGH V. Me RAY,
at Ballarat and BraybrooK.
FULL INFORMATION AND CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
Melbourne, Sydney (£L Adelaide.
Farmers! Don’t Forg'et I Manufacture —
THE “SUNBEAM” DISC AND MOULD-BOARD PLOUGHS
THE “SUNRISE” STUMP-JUMP DISC AND MOULD-BOARD
PLOUGHS
THE “SUNDIAL” DISC HARROWS
THE “FIELD-MARSHAL” GRAIN DRILLS
“MAXIM” CHAFFCUTTER and “HERCULES” HORSE WORKS.
They give as much satisfaction as the “SUNSHINE.”


m<r
m
mm®
m
m
SStfSS
sss
mm
m
m
WM
’^sssK’Twmimiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
m
m
m
3s*i
H
9HS| ',
mmmmmm
wmm
HKHH
n
SFS
Mfißfi
II
P3l
*■
yil
@SS® 1
stpspswr
&m.
:-■■ ft
ft
l
; y$ '-'%itK f *Ks
;,,:,v
QkV. -J
• , ~■ *f» 2* W ‘***
>■-. *
:•;:
1«§ <*
—"~ < ' v rr a^“
*w
>s*" ; ? '
AM
iii
zm^Mm
m
m
n
m
m
mm
■
AX-m
s^.
■ : »■ ft ; :ft■ ■■*■■
IM
Hii
•>•••:•'
V
ppp
By Royal Letters Patent.
Made in Australia.
BEALE PIANOS.
TONE QUALITY in a Piano depends upon many things, of which the first and most important are the SCALE and the SOUNDING-BOARD.
HE SCALE of a piano is the scientific plan of its sound-producing parts, the length, thickness, and radiation of the strings, and the striking-line of
the hammers. The calculation of the scale is by far the most difficult part of pih'no manufacture, and can only be accomplished after many years’
experience. Most of the makers of foreign pianos simply. buy. their frames (or “plates”) from foundry people who are in most cases quite ignorant
of the mathematical requirements, and devoid of all scientific knowledge. One piano “manufacturer,” in writing a “Handbook of Piano-Manu-
facture,” recommends that a frame should be taken, out of some well-known piano, and a casting be ' made from that, thus saving the trouble of
calculating a scale ! But this cannot be done successfully, for there is an exact allowance to be made for shrinkage in casting. The only correct and
scientific way is to first calculate the scale, making allowance for two shrinkages, then cast a pattern, and from that cast the frame to be used. This is the
method followed in the production of the BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS. . '
The SOUNDING-BOARD is the second important feature. No ordinary care is required in its manufacture; the highest skill and the most
perfect knowledge only will assure satisfactory results. The timber must be carefully selected, of the very best quality, and the grain must be graded from
fine in the treble to coarse in the bass. The strips of timber, never, more than five inches in width, must-also be tapered in thickness from treble to bass.
The amount of camber, or convexity (like a violin-belly), of the complete sounding-board must be arrived at to a hair s-breadth, so as to assure the best
quality of sound when the strings are vibrated.
In the Beale Australian Pianos all these details are most carefully watched; by specialists of many years’ training, in their turn guided by a man whose knowledge
of the whole result to be obtained—and the method of obtaining it—is unsurpassed im any'part of the world. The materials are the very best that money can buy. Our
great aim is always “ How much better can we make it ? ” And to this end we spare no pains, giving our every thought to the perfecting of an Australian product that is
already far ahead of its old-world competitors. That this is so you can verify for yourself by comparison. 1 Call and inspect our pianos, and then examine the goods of our
competitors. Our faith in our product is shown by the fact that we guarantee every Beale Australian Piano for Twenty-five years, whereas no importer will guarantee his
goods for more than Ten. Try, and see.
BEALE & COMPANY, LTD.
474 George St., Sydney
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
101 Brisbane St., Launceston
207 King St., Newtown
127 Rundle St., Adelaide
615 Hay St., Perth
Branches and Travellers Everywhere.
Catalogues and Circulars FREE for the Asking.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON'& CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
11 ill nn 1 Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out. Mutual Liability.
Offices • > 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461 - assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eauitably distributed.
Head Office;
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specialty protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Offioe: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROYVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited*
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,100,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
DIRECTORS;
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humpiiery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY. Manager.
O P A |\| Accident and Guarantee
UV/CMIN Co. Ltd Qf Ilolldon
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns)
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssoi’, Esq!
Managers: Melbourne, J). Ci.vne ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M'Farlane; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Sbipplng.
nxr. id. Ha.
(NORD-DHUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Ttfin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 17th FEBRUARY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tpns .. .. 14th APRIL.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
“I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
s,
The Result.
CRAIG 4. AITKEIM, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
‘ m
3.“ WW,
§T ‘ .
t- 1‘: ‘ -’/
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
23rd FEBRUARY,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalf/ety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LINtT
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and.
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
<3 CEA-WIO S.S. Co. A.. and. A. LIKT S.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
JW CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
I, £6}:
§-- 1‘» .
w ,
; , :3
”kw .
CRUISES
Do yt'u know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
costpf about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would bo on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS
WE
mn
asxjxaoosia
sins
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
fflont de pete DJ«I.Co M [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTIEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Jankof Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. !. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
» Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
lOtal Capital
... £2,000.000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
February 19, March 19,
April 16.
The Magnificent New Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
This vessel has a Large Number of
Cabins of Greater Size than on any
other vessel trading to Australia. Many
of her cabins are fitted with Wardrobes
and Chests of Drawers.
£2T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free,
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shoe; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO.-11. MOOKE, Manager. .a,
CHAS.' T. Assistant Manager.
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
POET PIRIE
And GULP PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Premantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Gran tala, February 3.
S.S. Marloo, February 9.
BRISBANE, t
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Oairns. |
S.S. Wollowra, February 3.
S.S. Buninyong, Feb. 10.
Best anil Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE.
LAIDE FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
r-AssJiJN ujtus booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines. *
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Leave Sydney.
February
March
April
May
10
9
~ ■ “t v * yy’•i: ,:jl 'v vn, a muriuAij vu y aGE.
r,.. f t,. l A OOn oablns containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large" cool* and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
, . „ „ 37 Pitt-street, Sydney :
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
NEWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Alanager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
jMSITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every coinror and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
T«E Largest and Lest-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach-
Charges much lower tbanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
M*»y
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
lA/1M POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
* ” Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passene-er Tiff
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day or from
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST^hTsiX
Price 6d. Post Fkek.


ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTEENTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT OF
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House, George Street,
Sydney, on Friday, 19th January, 1906.
TpHE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
* 31st December, 1905, and present the following report: —
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, providing for land and income taxes and bad and
doubtful debts, as well as granting to the Officers a bonus on their salaries, amounts to .. .. .. £86,856 9 2
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To Payment of a Dividend foi the half-year at the rate of 10 percept. peraritttlm..£so,ooo 0 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 15,000 0 0
„ Balance being Undivided Profit 21,856 9 2
£86.856 9 2
During the half-year a Branch has been established at Gladstone In this State, while the Branch at Emerald in
the State of Queensland has been closed.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
GEORGE J. OOHEN, Chairman.
Db.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS
(Including London Branch to 31st December by Cable.)
Ob.
To Capital..
~ Reserve Fund
~ Reserve Capital
To Capital Paid-up
~ Reserve Fund
..£1,000,000 0 0
.. 1,085,000 0 0
.. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,085,000 0 0
..£1,000,000 0 0
.. 1,085,000 0 0
~ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
„ Deposits and other liabilities ..
~ Profit and Loss Account
-£2,085,000 0 0
.. 488,627 0 0
.. 821,883 5 6
..13,165,594 13 0
93,889 2 0
£16,654,994 0 6
By coin and bullion in
hand £3,280,468 4 10
„ Cash at Bankers .. 108,990 3 9
~ Money at short call
in London .. .. 1,087,850 0 0
„ British Consols and
Government Securities 1,400,600 0 0
~ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. .. 36,015 0 0
~ Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 1,906,634 19 9
„ Notes arid bills of
other banks .. .. 56,859 9 10
-£7,877,417 18 2
Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank 8,318,151 2 4
Bank premises, furniture, &c 459,425 0 0
£16,654,984 0 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
RESERVE FUND.
1905 —December 31st
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
£1,0:5,000 0 0
15,000 0 0
-£1,100,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, 10th January, 1906.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the Head
Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and
have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
A. H. K. MAXWELL,!.
W. L. DOCKER, j-auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously :
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among
the Proprietors.”
“ That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager and Officers of the Bank
for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
The Chairman (Mr. G. J. COHEN), in moving the adoption of the report, said: “ I have again the pleasure to
congratulate the shareholders on the very strong balance-sheet now presented to them. Comparing it, as usual, with
that of 12 months ago, you will notice that progression is shown in every line, with the exception of one, that is, bills
discounted and all debts due to the bank, which has decreased from £8,708,000 to £8,318,000. Having anticipated
this decline, the directors transferred £1,375,000 to London, where these moneys can be more profitably employed,
and have increased the investments under the heading of British Consols and Other Governnient securities by £202,000.
Going into detail, you will find that the reserve fund has been augmented by £30,000, and now stands at £1,100,000,
or £lOO,OOO in excess of the paid-up capital of the bank. The notes in circulation show an increase of £54,000, which
indicates a greater expenditure in connection with the productive interests of the State. Bills in circulation also
show an increase of £220,000, due in a large measure to the quantity and the enhanced value of our wool arid wheat
harvest. The increase of the deposits by £1,563,000 is also effected by the same causes, they having risen from
£11,602,000 to £13,165,000. Turning to the credit side, we show a total of coin and cash balances of £7,877,000, equal
to 10s. lOd. in the £on our total liabilities to the public. The volume of our business is shown by the totals of the
balance-sheet, now amounting to £16,654,000, an increase for the past year of £1,869,000. This is a record amount, so
far as this bank is concerned. I only trust that wise legislation in the future may create a greater demand for money
in these States, by inducing the investing public to embark in enteprises which will find more employment for the
people.”
NEW ZEALAND
GOVERNMENT LOAN
o, 1500,000
In 4 Per Cent. Debentures Due 1921.
THE Loan is issued, being balance of Loan of £1,000,000 authorised under The Aid to Public
Works and Land Settlement Act, 1905, for Land Settlement, .Railway Construction, and
various Public Works.
The Debentures will bear interest at 4 per cent, per annum, payable half-yearly on Ist January
and Ist July.
Principal and Interest will be payable in London, Melbourne, Sydney, and Wellington, to be
declared in tender.
The first coupon for six months’ interest is payable on Ist January, 1907. The Bank’s receipt
showing payment prior to Ist July, 1906, will entitle’the holders to interest on their payments at the
rate of 4 per cent, per annum from the date of such payment to Ist July, 1906.
Upon all payments made on or subsequently to the Ist July, 1906, accepted tenders must rebate
the proportional accrued interest represented in the coupon.
Tenders will be received by the Bank of New Zealand in Melbourne and Sydney up to 15tli
February, 1906, accompanied by a deposit in cash or by a bank cheque equal to 10 per cent, of the
face value of the Debentures applied for, and if the tender be accepted balance must be paid on or
before 31st August, 1906.
Holders of principal and interest payable in London, have the option at any time
during the currency of the Debentures of converting into 3-i per cent. Inscribed Stock, pari passu with
that quoted on the London Stock Exchange and due 1940 in London, at the rate of £lO3 of 3| per cent.
Inscribed Stock for every £lOO Debenture, and Government have option of converting in J uly, 1911,
those payable in London on giving 6 months’ notice.
The Debentures will be issued in denominations of .£lOO, £5OO, and £lOOO, and applicants
must state in their tenders the number and value of the Debentures they desire to receive.
No tender below £lollss. per £lOO will be entertained.
Tenders of the highest premium have preference, and to tenders of even rates Debentures will he
allotted proportionately to the applications. Tenders at a price including a fraction of a shilling other
than sixpence will not be preferentially accepted in respect of such fraction.
Failure to pay the balance on the final date will cause the deposit of 10 per cent, to be forfeited.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australasia will be allowed brokerage of per cent,
upon their accepted tenders.
For further information or particulars apply to Fred. Thonemann and Co., or Bank of New
Zealand.
TbcSe TEA POTS njak? a
SPLENDID CUP OF TEA!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now.
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value —every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s 6d
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 15s
'• *• V. t*.>-~,v;v. V v.; *•*
m
No. E 3763. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
■
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. E 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s.
No. F 6136. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot, Full size,
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £2 10s.
No. F 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
Richly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6d
No. E 7134. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
32s 6d
No. 367.
Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£2 5s
iggajfiiEa
JM)
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
kISSSf
mmh.
No. 368. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £3 3s.
.
:
No. E 7690. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£4 10s.
No. P 6137. “Louis Quatorze” Tea Pot, Very
Massive Solid Silver, £22 iOs.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
'awscviz
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.


Glass windows are rare in the interior of
Japan, and, according to N.S.W. Railway
Record, the windows of railway oars are streaked
with paint to restrain the way-back Jap from
shoving Ins head through the glass, under the
mistaken idea that there is nothing but air in the
aperture.
“ J-” : During a dispute on an “ all-night
train m Sydney recently a man drew a revolver,
and announced that he was only going to use it if
attacked by a bigger and stronger man than him-
ri' the other party to the dispute
slid on the seat onto the floor and tried to tear the
bottom out of the car to hide under. Everyone
swore, and of the nine remaining occupants of the
compartment three drew revolvers, and threatened
to start bombarding immediately unless the first
weapon was put away. The man who had roused
the demonstration took one glance at the massed
battery, and dropped into the street. The
peace-makers looked at one another, and then the
weapons disappeared. The chief interest of the
incident is the light that it throws on the increase
in the number of men who ha ve taken to going
about armed. Writer interviewed a man in the
trade and was assured that the demand in Sydney
tor cheap and not too reliable revolvers was a
steadily increasing one. Why ? Anyone who takes
■1'r tr £r ,, to Wrtlk from King-street, through
either VVoo loomooloo, Paddington, Darlinghurstor
Surrey Hills and to count the policemen he meets
will understand at once. Sydney seems the most
under-policed city in the world. In addition to the
paucity of their numbers the members of the force
are employed m a thousand and one other occupa-
tions and are not fully available for patrol purposes.
I lie consequence is that the people whose
business keeps them out late take steps to protect
themselves, and the sale of the cheap revolver
goes up by leaps and bounds. AVriter was walk-
ing home recently, and, owing to an attack of
rheumatism, was limping. A clean-limbed ruffian
snatched his time-payment Panama hat and fled
down Liverpool-street into the wilds of Woolloo-
niooloo. To lose a hat under any circumstances is
irritating, but to have one snatched before the
thing is paid for is an outrage that made the
victim forget all about the rheumatism and get up
.speed that astonished himself. He caught the
ihug a quarter of a mile away, and for some 30
minutes fought a running fight over another half
mile of streets and lanes and dark recesses. Then
the hat was recovered. No policeman was seen
the while. Next morning writer too bought a
cheap revolver.
m
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
. , COCOA
J-9 non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment, than 10 cupa of
any ordinary cocoa.
m
r
Ltd
FINNEY, ISLES & GO.
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE
COMMONWEALTH 0 U R
‘BIG BLOCK' Sac Coat and Trousers
Made to Measure.
In WHITE, BROWN, or KHARKI DRILL, and in
WHITE, BROWN, or DARK-GREY CRASH—
In ASSAM SILK, 37s 6d.
Send for PATTERNS and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
THE BIG BLOCK, s7s.
BRISBANE.
And at MARYBOROUGH, Q.; MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W. ;
and 27 Milton Btreet, LONDON, E,C.
17/6
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
CEND 2s. P.O. Order for our Big 4s. Book, “Modern Homes,” containing 170 Designs of Modern Dwellings,
built in wood, stone, brick, half wood and half stone and cement stone—showing views and floor plans and
estimated cost of each house. The largest Architectural Publication in the world. It is our business to make
plans and specifications for dwellings, business and public buildings of all kinds. Our 23 years of experience in
planning houses enables us to make plans accurately for building in any part of the world. The house shown
below has been built over 800 times for 11240. Wefwill mail you, post paid, Full Blue Print! Working
Plans and Specifications, complete for £2.
E
f
IJ5* 14 I
OS!
if* *
»5 A 1^
rii°oß pzuzzi
f«W c
j4M rooms open into hall
with gr ille arch es between
dining room, 'parlor and
hall.
rm
rrn
rra
mum™
m
F I
m
SfcAii-lte
This Plan can bz Reversed to Suit Any Location.
§>ED ssooAl
j|)ED
U
l>eDt? o .*r
<@eo?/(D
LPoR
Three comfortable cham-
bers, 2nd floor.
All you have to do is to send 2s. for the book, “Modern Homes,” which contains all information about
building-a home. Write for our new book, “ Phblic Buildings,” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
Churches, Stores, Gaols, Office and Public Buildings of all kinds and descriptions. It also contains a series cf
designs in high-priced dwellings, costing above £2OOO. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
and most practical designs in business buildings arid fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s.
Established J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Architects, Porter* Block.
Subscribe for ART IN ARCHITECTURE, a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artbtic homes and
home furnishings. ,J.v H. DAVERMAN & SON, Publishers.
WILL ANDRADE ROOKS..
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is Cd’ each
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series 2s.’
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each’
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kin Us, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
W>‘‘
7/
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring'Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for. Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel , Snow, jok.es, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
The most
training, s
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
complete work ever published. 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking
helterrng, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 10/e.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HOLLOWAY’S pm
<9 Q'
«bo, V .
“@696?
\§@@
QVQ9<$
<b
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down " cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT .
is known througnout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo=* welcome relief
in a very short time.
c# c#
♦ < # v
Id OINTMENT
in mnrtmii
BEST
RAZOR GUARD
; HijEN WHO SHAVE with a “ BEST ” RAZOR GUARD
attached to their own blade experience the
delightful sensation of h< ing quickly, safely and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary razor blade, no
matter what size or shape. Instantly converts your
blade into a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe
to use under any conditions—travelling on a train, or
even in the dark—without fear of cutting yourself.
Makes your razor shave as smooth as velvet, just as I
close as desired, in half the time you ordinarily take. |
Absolutely prevents scrapes, even to the most,
tender skin. Just as useful to the “good” shaver as to
the novice. To try it is to appreciate it. Thousands
now in use. Every one sold makes a friend for life.
Send 2/-, Postal Notes or Stamps, and a Guard will
be mailed you to any address in Australasia. Agents
Wanted.
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
opp. G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Melbourne
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from q.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and. Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640. .
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, P/imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Biood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co,,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, USA.
EARS
THAT
r*r
WILL
HEAE
SCIENTIFIC INVENTIONS
FOR THE DEAF.
D 1
kEAFNESS, total or partial, is no longer a hope-
less affliction. The MASSACON treatment
for the cure of Deafness has won the approval of
scientists and physicians in all parts of the world ;
and the ACOUSTIOON, as an artificial aid to
hearing, will give “ EARS THAT WILE HEAR ”
to even the most stubborn case of deafness. We
want an opportunity of PROVING and DEMON-
STRATING to you the great value of these instru-
ments. As a preliminary step we invite you to
write for FREE BOOKLET A. TO-DAY.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
a
SPIRO Powder SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER.
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING.
EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Fails Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY. Ltd., 177
Liverpool l Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley '&
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland — Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
PHBTHS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List, with 100 Minia-
tures and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
po or- 1


“ Tommy Ruff ” : Being a constant reader
of The Bulletin when I ought to be doing other
things, and having had various inward rows with
it on the question of the Jap-man and other
matters too numerous to mention, and having also
noted its attitude in regard to the Australian
birth-rate, and the damnation in store for those
employers who advertise for married couples
“ without encumbrance,” and, being anxious to
avoid the aforesaid punishment, I acted accord-
ingly. I wanted a man, and was not long in find-
ing an applicant who seemed suitable, but he had
six children. I felt a bit staggered, but. being at
the time strongly under the influence of The Bul-
letin, I gave him the iob and thought no more
about the family. Seven years later kids seemed
a bit thick about the house. Made a count, and
tallied 12, but of course this may not be accurate,
as I may have missed some. Then I had a farm
and wanted a tenant, but did not want too many
scratcliers of furniture, &c. But, being still under
Bulletin influence, I let the farm to a man with
five kids. Latest returns are not to hand, but
counted 13 there a year ago. I have another
family in a cottage. Took a walk one Sunday
afternoon to help to digest my dinner and some
strong Bulletin statements, and visited the cot-
tage. An infant, aged one year, was at the door-
step. Then the mother, aged 25, appeared. Then
her mother, aged 49. Then her mother, aged 70.
Then HER mother, aged 91. These had assem-
bled to have their photos taken. The great bulk
of the family was having a picnic in the adjoin-
ing paddock, but some samples had crawled back
through the wire. I went away from there in a
reflective mood, wondering what The Bulletin’s
influence would lead me into next.
“F.H.” tells about a horrid jest
Wilcannia in the eighties. The river a banker. A
Chinaman had a garden about 20 miles down the river,
and he boarded an upward-bound steamer to come t
Wilcannia to bank his savings—nearly £10 ,
explained to the skipper. The steamer men wanted a
joke, so they asked the Chow to draw up a bucket, of
water. Now it takes an experienced river man to diav
water, when the boat is travelling up stream and a switt
current is running’ down.
The bucket is attached to about 10ft. of rope, and a man
that knows throws it up stream, and before the rope as
time to get taut, hauls it up again. Else he gets the full
force of the current in the bucket, plus the speed of the
boat, and he has either to let go the rope, or be jerked
overboard. ,, , ., . „
John threw the bucket overboard, and followed it a few
seconds later. The boat pulled into the bapk, and all
bands pottered about for an hour or two without lesult ,
then they went up to Wilcannia and reported the accident
t0 The news spread round the town m . 'IviMi' ''except'ional
bush telegraph must have been worked with ex0e P r ; lo th
vigor, for the day following, and for many days the
swaggies from up the river continued to hurry tmou B i
th TheTnhabitants suddenly developed a mania for Ashing,
and citizens could be seen at all hours making down
stream, ostentatiously carrying Ashing rods.
The parson organised a Sunday-school picnic anu
offered a reward to the child that fo “ n d^ k d ® £ f Ur t he’pore
as he said, “It was a sad thing to think of the pore
heathen lying out there lacking decent burial.
When the river went down the police found
remains. The mud around bore the imprint of many feet,
but the £100 had vanished.
m
Sekclia !
from all
GranpWbras
Includiiyiy' tf
Record^
S[<jnor(2\KLobANl
FIT,
NICOLE,—
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of tbe World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL g The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS The New Standaid.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING, AGENT, 316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
HEALTH not HONEY
t /
m
45
m
OF
a o o
SOME QUESTIONS ASKED.— For the benefit of some patients who
keep asking questions, there is no Cutting or Blood Poisoning , absolutely no
The operation for Stricture or Varicocele never inures; tlieiirpower; that
power is improved, wasting* of parts stopped, blood csyculated;through healthy
channels, no confinement in house or bed, and patients.ca<n return. home, even
if distant one thousand miles, on the following dgjjCv,
We treat thousands of cases annually. We understand’ such; cases better
than those who treat only a feW hundred. Practice makes perfect in the
treatment of disease- Do not despair. Order your treatment at once ; let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
is the greatest blessing. What does a man gain if he
wins a MELBOURNE CUP SWEEP, and is not healthy or
curable of a disease. “ A man who is truly healthy is
rich beyond aii dreams of riches.”- INGERSOLL -
Thus wrote America’s -reat prose poet, the man whose beautiful writings and exquisite similes
ss “ s 40
end early. who appreciates health, and when told he is incurable would give all lie
possesses to be cured. . f
Whnt a tragedy is life to the man who is told by bis Specialist that no cure exists on earth t
YV hat a trageay is me lu unc u* A- . hj pr hans bv Early Indiscretions,
him, and, like a man doomed to death, lie must suiely die . And peihap , y • , Aid
Disobedience of Nature’s Laws, Neglect, Privation, Exposure, Delay m seeking
before it was too late, he has aided the generation and progress of a deadly disease
system, and has unknowingly written and signed his own death warrant.
*
There are many classes of Medical Men. Some of tS Some are eminent
other. There are doctors for the, brain, nose, thro , a P comp i e te study of Diseases of Gemto-Drinary
treat disease in preference to miy other. To this class belong these Expert Specialists
of the Medical Staff of
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical institute
who are known far and wide bv reason of their gmtsMll,
S 3 <KetS£ »»d Melbourne.
We w.H bo p.eased to *i»e a., par.leu.are add ADVICE rREE «e VhOUSAn£I O^Vo'urTi
—assets
-.rre e,rdd°:
Men whose eyes are dulled, whose brams e^e^to'Natu^e’s'TawZ^ thc^rijhtly
exhausted from dissipation, overwork, or d.sobed.ence to Manures jaws, w^ t whQ have lost
enjoyment of life. who so evident in perfect manhood ; men who have BLOOD
courage, ambition, and the grit w _ have failed to derive any benefit from other
and SKIN TROUBLES, and other l fyou have to cowpLETE and PERMANENT
treatments, and have wasted bo * h *'"?® f CORRECT DIAGNOSIS. If you suffer do not put this
CURE, which will NOT COST YOU A «*. r JL®* takl aitSntage of our system of Home Treat-
aside and say I will see to it ,ate '' interw iew Our Consulting Rooms are open, MONDAY,
ru\"s , DA“ <, WED£ErMv!' THURSDAY, FRIDAY, Add SATURDAY, From ,0 A.n, t. . P , *»« **»9 P - >
SUNDAY, by special appointment only.
If you are living too far away to visit, write at once, in strict confidence, givmg full particulars of your trouble, and
w j'n receive a plain and distinct statement of what we can do for you.
never supply our Remedies for indyvsibie^Wedbnot'claim'to 3 perfom^mira^esTbupwhat^we 5, d0
other means fail.
The Strictest Confidence may be Relied upon.
WTa linvp Inferences from every district in the Colonies.
Im«t every post bring, us fresh evidence of eur success ; but, remember, under no c.rcumstance do we make use
of letters unless we have distinct permission to do so.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
(Opposite
Hyde Park)
DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.T)., Physician-in-Chief \ g OW ARD FREEMAN', Director.
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE,, M.D., Dept, of Women /
AND AT MELBOURNE
Correspondence.— All letters addressed Ph y Bkkn-m-
LiSlor Sew South Wales and Victoria will show
Hathe A registeredin those States, also in Queensland, South
for Weak Men. Post Free to any Address. Write for it to-day.


Do for Baby?
6^*l
EVERYTHING that is cleansing
purifying, and beautifying for the
Skin, Scalp, Hair, and Hands oi
Infants and Children Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment, the great Skin Cure, will
surely do. No person need gc
forth into the world tortured and
disfigured by inherited humours of
the Skin, Scalp, and Blood if Cuti-
cura Remedies have been used in
childhood. Cures made in infancy
are speedy and permanent.
f V! ap ’ oillt ment, and Pills are sold throughout
Hepots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.: Paris.
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Svdney;
Borton, U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. (’orp., Sole" Props.
• ft ilea free, ** How to Preserve, Purify, and Reautify
the okm, Scalp, Hair, and Hands of Infants and Children.
GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
Good
bleach
on
linen.
Good soap
ought to give
linen a good
bleach. Sun-
light Soap will
give a good
bleach for
Sunlight Soap
is good soap.
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand for scouring metal and woodwork.
( . .
{1.5. J
' :4“: ciga-
. r ‘ —.<.-: xii
1"" :1“ I’
‘ ,‘Lb’JU- -
. "rm 7
. ‘7r'1—VI.‘
. “2“},- 'L'
J: z’EF-Hl" L
7. u 5.x
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Oorrespond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM kor Evkuytiiixo.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in vour olliee BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
One of Melbourne’s “ captains of industry ”
complained piteously a little while ago through the
local dailies about the conduct of the local Savings
Bank in not keeping him posted as to the state
of the account of an embezzling clerk. The said
clerk was in the habit of taking the captain’s
cheques and paying’ them into his own account at
the Savings Bank, and the victim contends that the
authorities of that institution should have known that
these were stolen, an l given him the information. For
sheer cheek, this demand would be hard to beat.
There is no reason why the Savings Bank should violate its
implied pledge of secrecy any more than any other bank.
To demand that the institution should run a detective
bureau to ascertain what every depositor does in his
working and leisure hours would be an incursion into
Socialistic legislation that the victim’s fellow captains of
industry would view with grave alarm.
* * * *
A Sydney grocer has struck a new idea in cash
coupons—he gives each ss. or 10s. a week customer a
“free” insurance policy in the A.M.P. An insurance
policy is a better thing to have about the premises than a
blue and yellow vase ; but whether it will do insurance
much good to be given away with a pound of tea is an-
other matter. As to being “free”—well, storekeepers
don’t sell sugar for the good of their health, and
they can no more supply free insurance policies than
they can supply free groceries. The storekeeper has
to pay for the insurance, and the customer has to
pay the storekeeper ; and why the customer shouldn’t
buy from the insurance society straight-out, instead
of buying insurance from the grocer, and incidentally
getting in a quantity of groceries, is a matter that may
be left to the customer to think over.
» * * •
The Stinking Fish party, as seen through the
eye of a Yankee capitalist now in Australia:—“Your
business men ought to get a move on before they catch
cold. They’ve gotten to holts with the Labor men, and
their only idea of fighting is to tumble down themselves
in the hope that some of the mud’ll get on him too. Nine
out of ten of them ought to be peddling hairpins for all
they know’ about business. They talk about the Labor man
grafting for Government interference, and instead of
putting up a fight against him they go about whining to
the Government to interfere for them. Of course, the
Labor man wants Government interference. It’s his
game. But it’s the game of the capitalist to let the
Government alone and fight other way*. We know
better than that over in Amurrioa. You don't find
our boards of trade hustling round deputationising
and yawping in public about measures that affect their
interests. The public never swallows gup like that when
it knows the man who’s talking. Our capitalists put up
the dough and let it do the talking. If I was settled in
Australia, the Labor party could have all the legislation.
I’d have the administration. When you’ve got a good
fighting fund of a hundred thousand dollars you can get
heads of public departments to listen to a lot of reason.
Your capitalists here want the Government to do every-
thing for them. They’re so silly, they howl out a lot of
stuff that spoils their own markets, and they’re so darned
mean they won’t cough up for their own interests. They
want the whole body of the people to do their fighting
for them, and they forget that nine-tenths of the same
people are on the other side and are their market. It’s a
sweet proposition for a few shrewd business-men to
come over here and put your great business people out
of a job.’*
• * * *
It is hard to believe that the result of the
N.S. W. Wines Adulteration Act—one prosecution in three
years—shows effective administration. Some very vile
wine is sold in Sydney and suburbs —wine which ought to
be liable to prosecution if it isn’t. Certainly the unfor-
tunates who drink it run a very good chance of prosecu-
tion for disorderly behavior, for there are seven separate
individual devils in each bottle. What system of search
and analysis is followed by the inspector under the Act ?
* * * <
Said that the recent rise in the price of boots
will be a permanent one. Many causes conspire to make
leather dearer. The area of the world devoted to grazing
oxen and sheep gradually dwindles, and the use of leather
is extending through the new demand from Asia, which
kicks off its grass shoes and dons leather ones. Perhaps
the rise in leather values will at last make Australian
cattle-owners consider the branding question. A vast
proportion of Australian hides are seriously deteriorated
by foolish branding.
* * * *
Quotations in Sydney live snake market now
run from 6d. to Is. a head. The Zoo, the Museum, and
general dealers are buyers, and for anything very special
spring- an extra coin or two. Dead snakes are “off.”
Away in the past there was a Government reward, but
the dead snake now fetches nothing.
* * *' *
For the purpose of supplying London, Paris,
and Berlin with Hungarian beef, mutton, and pork a
company has been formed at Presburg, on the Danube,
with the unassuming title of “ Lebensmittelexportes-
presszugsgesellseliaft. ”
* * » *
“ Viator ” : One of the most curious employ-
ments in America is that of the railway detective, known
as a tracer. He is never after people. His business is to
hunt up a piece of rolling stock, usually a truck, which
has been lost in the ramifications, and it may trickle all
over the country. It is a point of honor with railroad
managers never to lose a bit of stock. The
tracer would be kept all his lifetime after one
truck if he couldn’t find it sooner. Some years
ago an infuriated Victorian M.L.A. came back from
a trip in S. Australia to report that he had discovered
some of Victoria’s lost rolling-stock running quite com-
fortably on one of the Crow-eater’s local trains, from
which it would seem that Victoria didn’t keep a tracer in
these days and that it wanted one badly. When the new
invention for altering the gauge of rolling-stock comes into
general use, so that a Vic. or N.S. W. carriage can escape on
to the narrow-gauge lines of North Queensland, or take to
itself wings and flee to Oodnadatta, a tracer, or an attack
of honesty, will be much wanted.
• * * *
“The union label,” said the furniture broker
with derision, “ won’t make my world weep. All we’ll
do, if unlabelled stuff becomes a drug on the market, is
send it to be auctioned out among the magnificent
household fittings of J. Smith, Esq., who has been
suddenly called to England. Its newness is explained by
the fact'that it only recently arrived to his order fiom
European art furnishers. At present I regularly put
through sales of Chinese-made furniture in our breaking-
up auctions, and get far better prices than in the open
market. Ricketty things, catalogued as the well-pre-
served furniture of the Hon. J. Smith, go better than the
best made things at open sale."
Out-back bank managers are often driven to
their wits’ end dodging questions put by big clients con-
cerning the little fellow’s account. But the average bank
official, l.kc the medico, wraps as much dignity and silence
abmt Little Fellow’s 2Jd. as about Big Head’s £lO,OOO
balance. A N. Queensland man told writer once that the
late James Tyson asked the bank to acquaint him with the
exact standing of a certain small squatter. The manager
wrapped himself in gloom and declined to oblige even
Tyson. Writer heard the following dialogue while stand-
ing near a banker’s den one day:
“ Has he £3OO in your bank ?”
“ Really, Mr. Largehead— er—really ”
Silence.
“ If I present his cheque for £3OO will it be met ?
“ Wouldn’t it be better to present it ? ”
More silence.
* * * «
A recent Gazette gives the koala nine months’
protection throughout N.S.W. A needed regulation and
one that will, if strictly enforced, enable the little tribe
to fill up family blanks. Native bear fur is growing in
demand, and unless the little creature with the foolish,
friendly countenance is protected by law it will wholly
disappear in a few years. The regulation must therefore
be strictly enforced, and a good way to do that is to keep
an official eye on metropolitan fur shops, and on auction
sales and exports. “ What price for 300 native bear skins
in good order and condition is the substance of a letter
a city firm received from a pair of rabbiters within the
last month.
* * * *
Dr. Ercole, one of the little group of Italian
medical men that have come this way, has written a
pamphlet in which he wants to know what Australia
means by not growing its own castor-oil. Ercole has only
been a very few years in Australia, and most of them were *
spent out in White Cliffs; but'even out in White Cliffs
the shock of Australia’s importing disease reaches the
intelligent foreigner. The castor-oil plant is alleged to be
one of the few things that flourish on drought; and Aus-
tralia’s supply of drought ought to satisfy even the
castor-oil plant. The viscid stuff that the howling small
boy has to swallow after the birthday party is only a
fraction of what can be got out of the tree, Dr. Ercole
says ; Australia might feed flocks of silkworms on the
leaves, and, after getting half-a-dozen sorts of oil out of
the seeds, might fatten flights of pigs on the residue
cake. Some patient Australian with a foreign name will
probably try it some day ; meantime Australia buys the
foreigner’s castor-oil—just as for years it foolishly bought
the foreigner’s alleged olive-oil until it found out that it
could make purer olive-oil itself.
* • * *
“ Tim ” : Findin’ dorgs and gettin’ the rewards
ain’t part of me profession now. It happened this way. I
snavelled a lovely collie out Toorak way. T reckoned that
Jigger would ’ave give me three bloomin’ quid for ’im. It
is very risky with ’igh-bred animals though, so I decided,
if the reward wur near a quid, to do the ’onerable. Well,
a couple of days later ’e wur advertised, and £5 reward
offered. My ! this wur orlright. I got ’is nibs orl nice
and clean and took ’im over to Toorak in the afternoon.
I wur disappointed with the ’ouse though ; it wur only a
cottage. A big, red-’eaded cove comes out to see me.
“ Evenin’, gov’nor,” sez I, takin’ orf me ’at, “ I’ve brought
yer dorg. ’E strayed into my place at Richmond, and
I’ve looked after ’im like a baby.” The red-’eaded bloke
stared coldly at me and the dorg for arf a mo. “Sorry
for yer trouble, old man, but that ain’t my dorg,”
sez ’e. “ Wot ? ” sez I, growin’ excited, “ ain’t this house
Boggs Yale, and ain’t this dorg a collie, and ain’t it
got a ring round its neck and a blotch on its
nose. It must be yourn.” ’Owever, ’e wur positive it
wurn’t. Lor’, but I wur disappointed over them five
quids, an’ goin’ ’ome I could ’ave kicked the tail orf the
flamin’ tyke. Well, early next mornin’ there comes a
’orrible rattety-bang-bang to the door. I ’adn’t been
doin’ nuffin lately, so I opens the door. Strewth ! I did
get a shock. It wur the big red-’eaded cove from Toorak,
f only ’e wur in policeman’s clothes now; an’ to make
matters worse, the blarsted collie rushes out an’ starts
climbin’ orl over a fat chap ’e ’ad with ’im. The fat bloke
took the dorg away, an’ orl I got wur a lecture from the
red-’eaded John, an’ ’is solemn promise to look back in a
week to see if I wur workin’. An’ I ’ad spent Is. 3d. on
dorg’s meat, an’ sunk arf a dollar in beer on the strength
of that £5 reward. The cove that puts in a false adver-
tisement an’ gets yer to take ’is dorg to a red-’eaded cop’s
’ouse, so as ’e can foller yer an’ get yer address an’ drop
on yer, is only fit ter be in the Upper ’Ouse.
FORTY MILLION POUNDS’ WORTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Forty million pounds’ worth—
Made in foreign slums
And in Merrie England’s slave dens—
Through the Customs comes.
Australian workmen rushing
To other lands away ;
And forty million pounds’ worth
Coming in to-day.
Forty million pounds’ worth—
Pleasant little div.—
Fattens the importers
(Parasites must live).
Splendid is the harvest,
The Foreign-traders glean ;
Yet we vote for Robinson
And for Thomas Skene.
Forty million pounds’ worth—
Think of it, ye chumps
Who sit and smoke cigar butts
And bawl “ What ho ! she bumps !
Australian workmen idle,
Nought to do but pray—
And forty million pounds’ worth
Coming in to-day.
VIC.
GEORGE BRYANT.
NO TAX
on the dig'estive
org'ans when
Grape-Nuts
IS THE FOOD.
“THERE’S A Selected field grains are put through a
REASON”- scientific process (that is really mechanical
digestion), and Grape-Nuts come from the
package already digested and ready for
immediate assimilation with all the nutri-
ment LEFT IN.
Body and Brain get Nature’s full quota of
nutriment in such form the weakest stomach is
. not taxed to handle and assimilate it. Increased
energy and brain power follows its use.
Heard that before ?
Ever try the famous food to see if
it’s true ?
A 10 days’ trial
works wonders.
“ There’s a Reason.”
Look in each package for the “ meaty ” little
book—“ THE ROAD TO WELL VJLLE.”
[4
OSBORN & JERDAN’S
ELECTRIC
r .mm* i iiiiiiiiiiiii «mi hhwi i'ii ih'tpi—sggsgg
TORCH
ES \1 52%? ' 2:7,» ’ , ,1 f;
1:: ~/ IQI§§§§IWK
3:20
Gives a surpassingly brilliant and continuous light by pressing a button. It can be
used with absolute safety where any other light would be a source of danger—to
examine gas leaks, in mines, etc. Splendid for night watchmen, travellers, police-
men, doctors, motorists, etc. It will give thousands of flashes before requiring
re-charging, which is easily, quickly and cheaply effected.
Price, £1- ss.
POST FREE.
Refill Battery, 28.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., '' MY ZTnf!)) Elecn
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.


'• The English nation is the, first in the world in matters of personal
oleanliness, and it is. therefore, all the more astonishing that so little
serious attention is paid to the proper oare of the mouth and teeth. The
consequence is—and this is fully proved by statistics—that the English
have more defective teeth, and endure more suffering from diseases of
the digestive organs than any other people in the wor.d.”
SSiSi
|»
II
§gi
m
*4B
m
wsim
ii
m
p*As
tt
■ '
mm
M&
'■ - -.I
iH
tV
: - : ■'
■
K ■
wMBbIB
B ■
fH
V ; :
'•i'
ti
I
w
: i
,v.
?: i
.. Jk . i
fnL \ I
. J
-tt
H
! .
mm
.
■:§§
....
V'<- v -;'
Vt'-'i- V
gey
St
r*
n
Price per Va boffl e
1
I >
H
~*Jw.
mm
Ff; i
1
~ -~~~
FMSCAI
SJL**. f w I: l«i«. :• •■ V ■ v
~ ==:
-t ~• 3
o /-** 3
* I
IS 1 v - ill y
m
m
>. t f •
I
It is to be hoped that,
with the invention of"
Odol,the proper care
of the mouth may be-
come as general as
the universal habit
of washing the face
and hands.
Everyone who daily c'eanses the
mouth and teeth with Odol will soon
discover from a general sense of fresh-
ness and stimulated energy how bene-
ficial is the purification of the mouth
with this preparation.
Odol
is used
by Dentists
themselves.


During December, Westralia actually sup-
plied tomatoes to S.A., where the backward
season had prevented their ripening’.
“Paul Cupid” : A fairly accurate idea of
the general disposition of a horseman can be
formed by observing the paces of the quadruped
he rides. If you see a moke jogging along half
asleep with a piece of his tongue hanging out, it
is safe to bet that his rider is a man who wouldn’t
care to rise before his usual time even if the house
were on fire. Also he is a man who takes a long
time to decide to do a thing, and another long
time to do it. If a horse shows nervousness at
imaginary things and shies badly at an ant on the
road, and at other times jogs along in a methodical
way, his rider is bound to be a high-strung indi-
vidual. easily startled, though at other times of a
desirable disposition. Then there is the horse
that strides along at a fast, swinging walk with
his head up. The man on him has plenty of con-
fidence in himself, dislikes dulness, and is fond of
good appearance and applause. When a horse
throws his head about, prances and runs sideways,
his rider is generally a brainless, conceited ass.
The reason why the horse is a guide in the matter
is because a, man, when free to select, takes that
nearest to his taste. For instance, if the first man
got on the last horse you would see him with his
hat turned, under at the sides or tied down with a
handkerchief, and he’d rather walk than ride that
horse again.
V ‘14277377 ‘
:."u"1“17;'x‘."£3354;’ " ;_ «:57 , ' * l
q»; ‘.T{'i‘1‘:.1‘h_1'; 37-7%: -27 ‘ “ ,- ""9219" '
“[7 UAW”? ‘——‘ .‘y k - , r . gA‘ «W F :3: 7 7 V ’ W
7 Mn gggmgqy -
WELL?\fxilgiil‘K if; P" "‘9 {kmﬁ' @xFLﬁ ' '
IMjimmwg; 2M3 a» (2“ ‘ ’
_ unrawlffﬁ‘ ‘ Egéigffv4‘ r" 1‘." , ‘ “n:- ' LL—:-
27 115%: WWW ”Dy/«15? 3 3" L7 7‘"L
%: 74 Wu" 1731.7; \
'j A. . .
Graphophone
rOE 50/-
including Nickeled Horn,
Bent Wood Cabinet, new
large Reproducer an
R CBFDER for TAKM3
RECORDS AT HOME.
AN IDEAL GIFT.
Prick CJ A -8 ft©
Complete— h
Record 15s. per Dozen.
PHONOGRAPH USERS!
What are you paying for Records ?
Latest Columbia Gold-Moulded . ~
Records for all Phonographs are §J O OCICII
FOR LISTS, and Name of Nearest Auent, send to
Columbia Phonograph Co., 25 Ash St., Sydney
E
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 3G Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds < >l' .young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior g-uide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good ‘Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date-Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength,* 3s-posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do ft,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements op Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of ‘Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §W Established HO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/T THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my •
gig Illustrate! Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s ,6d.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love-and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Tokology, 7s (id post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s (id. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine;
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Od each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is Cd.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
_gj
,<<: E
;>:5;.-__: :3: {3:53 resigi‘ is: ‘Q <3 $3? § $1 § é‘" S $‘ $2 SQ % ‘x k
\ G {'6' S a {3“ ‘ ‘ > ' ' A \\, .- A :\ _ .
1‘ T: :i:§::'*::::.~. rig EV § §¢~‘- t§z ‘E. % =§s$¥$ 3; § 5:25 -:\:§-..
‘77:;- 5‘ :“\&\§' ‘33? 51“ r >3 wr a $5 \ \ ,. =\\\: k SN;- . \\v §:§ ‘~:\\‘\=..
”:5‘; ﬁf~:‘:‘:\ ':§\:-> ’1‘ 5%? T;\\. , g; »\\‘< :>\ . . $4 3‘ {\\:V '5;\\\§ \\:\ \§S ﬁx \V\\‘
~ \ V\‘ “1“ § \‘T‘ \ng $5:
\ /' 153:“ 5"3‘3 8 ' $\\ $~ \~.§\\\:\.\T
51%;} ‘f i§i§i 9,. ii“ Sq ‘ w
iii: “a \\§§;\\\:\M 'u‘ ' I V‘ n‘ ‘ ‘ ' V v ,-,. . ‘3 - :,."-~‘~ h». .
Kg ‘:\c\\\\:‘§> ‘ ' " I 'I ' \ , y ; .
3§\\\\::\\1‘\§\§\‘1\®\I ‘ 4 A a... . . g P M a»
\\;‘\‘\\‘:\3““$\‘\§‘§‘\\\{> % . - 1 a‘ j .' ~ a , . . v ‘ 3?.
i— 5:“““r"€:,t:‘<,,:’§‘\f‘\\:§1‘~ Vi) _ ‘ . V , l r 'I - .
03E ‘~=\:.?\._\«;T.\\» I XFEZ ' t“ 2', ‘_ f ‘ W .’L“ 1‘ . ....p :H; ‘ é -. -' ‘ ‘_ &
iii: I” ‘\\\T ‘ ' 5, .- .0 ‘. ‘. - v ,2 . .-‘ I;
’ ‘vs J V ., . w g,-_ \
:35; , , : -?“%‘5§2;g _ ‘_ . '1 . I .. r ..., g,”
:‘ZIEEEE-igkﬂgi ‘ .» §§$§§f\: - “1 .'l:,'wm .x' , . m,‘ p,- » y “34"}. I. it. . ’ '
:\\‘\ 73' “‘.s:;:i:2:§s§§§s:~ A {- ,. .. 7,1 v . wig- .“ .
"_:5’< A' T‘»*: ,_ ; l' ___ ¥ , ‘ '
,7 /' /
,
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva,-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Alienburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
WHAT A LOT THERE IS IN LUCK !
IN ALL AGES _ SEVEN HAS BEEN
THE LUCKY NUMBER. NAPOLEON
WOVE HIS MOST SKILFUL COM-
BINATIONS ABOUT THE MYSTIC
SEVEN. 777 IS THE NUMBER OF
TATTERSALL’S GOLDEN PEN.
TRY YOUR LUCK WITH ONE FOR
YOUR SWEEP TICKET. BOX OF
EIGHTEEN FOR SIXPENCE Any-
where, or send Eightpence in stamps
to 777, BOX 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DO YOU WANT
Your children
to g'row up
healthy and
strong', -with
good teeth and
a fine digestion.
Cut out sweets
and give them
all they want
of
PETER’S
The Original
Swiss Milk
CHOCOLATE
147
X
N
V
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
\ POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
sold
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - « 2/6
This
Trade
Mark
o&£L°mA}
AERTEX
kPNDQ^
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sow: Agents in N.S. W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
n
“ Is superior even to meat and 01
inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet ri ch in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL k
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangeroui,”
FRANZ 308E!=I LAGER
Superior
to
Alt Others .
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says:—“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
. Jjshed a reputation of its
own.”
m
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENfiER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &e., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


Look for
the namb
WOOI
moulded on the fd.cS of youi
rubber heels.
These splendid rubbbf heels re-
duce fatigub and jab in walk-
ing, pret'ent worii-dowh heels,
and make a. pair of bobts last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOT>-MILNE SHOESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Star s.
Sole Wholesale Agents .for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Ka’gcoidie. Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, Kew
South Wales.
WOOD-
MI L/NE
RUBBER
H EE.’l.5
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph
%
BELBOUtMI-
V:
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly,back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO /Os.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerme fits'cease. It has oared
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. En-lish Prices, 4/0 and U
Thousands of Testimonials. Of alt Chemists, btores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYEKS, ALLPOIIT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast. Ireland.
Clean White
mean sound teeth, fit for their
M C 'CLII W ork, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder.
It is made for cleaning .the Teeth,, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
it
& DIGESTIVE
TABLE SALT
gptjflpEnßs«aqwiM'
WHICH jS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES HOT BLACKEH SILVER.
Boes hot take.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale flgent«-
WEST AUSTRALIA— _
WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
V, ROBPRT~NELSON &. CO., MelbournS.
NEW W S0 H T ARIELL E l“c6., Sydney.
OUE^ENSLAND^-y & Co-> Bris bane.
wn-ELLIS & WANTON. Wellington
♦SlJOito-V):
St <5 it
Elites
!&§.§
Pll
Lb S > Sy
iSMs
I Sfc :< ; K't
l;|§||
ittfe
Ja*S%/
USati o nal Amalgamated llan k .
BOARD OF TRADE BU/LDING
-toO
“Co CU/TO QCnrV»V U
GJjyeMASAxfc
WE TO CURE
JNQ. 9. ROCKEFELLER,
and Dr. ricLaughlin’s Electric Belt
Will Cure You!
STOMACH TROUBLE was the complaint that made the Oil-King miserable. What
is yours ? Chronic Sufferers are the patients we desire. Men and women who have
failed to get relief from other remedies offer us the best opportunity to demonstrate
the Wonderful Curative Power of Electricity applied as it is by our truly marvellous
El Jri° Bdt. ... IF OUR BEIT IS USED AS A FIBST REMEDY ANY OTHER
IS UNNECESSARY.
Worn while you sleep, the revitalising energy is pumped into your nerves for hours at a
time, causing you-when you awake-to feel a sense of New Vigor, stimulated Nerve Li e,
and you have a Clear and Active Mind.
If you suffer from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, or Neuralgia, the invigorating
current will soothe the parts, drive out the foreign accumulations that affect the blood, and
cure you absolutely If you feel your back weak, nerves to be unstrung, brain fagged,
and that the vigor of youth that should be yours is missing, the All-Healing Current of Elec-
tricity entering your system at your nerve centre will brace you up, will renew your worn-
out tissues, will create healthy and vital circulation to the weak parts, and restore them to
their Natural Strength.
When we tell you this remedy is a grand one, it is because we have been using it for
years, have tried and experimented with it, and because we are honest in our convictions,
and fully appreciate its great value as a remedy.
What it has done for others , it Can and Will do for You !
WEAK BACK, NERVOUSNESS-
TENTERFIELD, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—lt is now over six months since I
received your Belt, ar.d I have been wearing il
ever sinse. For the past two years ! have
been a great sufferer from Weak Back and
Nervous Disorders, but can safely say that
your Beit has now cured me, and 1 can high;y
recommend it to anyone in need of medical
_ if i Yours very truly,
C. BOSTON.
RHEUMATIC TROUBLES.
CANBELEGQ, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l have now been using your Belt
for three months, and consider that I am
quite cured of Rheumatism. I still use the
Belt, and can recommend it to anyone who
suffers with Rheumatism. I wi.l give fill
particulars of my case to anyone who writes
to me. Than! ing you again for the way you
have treated me, I remain,
Yours respectfully, H. BOWLER.
READ OUR FREE BOOK!
n „ of a Post-Card or Letter we will immediately forward you one of our Grand 96-
ON receipt ot a rostoaruo should be in every home, contains much valuable
page and allinformation about our wonderfult Belt It tells of
adV1 W 25 'vears spent in the ’enthusiastic study of Vital Nerve Force, finding what it comes
nearly 25 years spent in r t . interesting illustrations contained
from, and Cun-ent is conducted to all parts of the body and limbs
m it, showing how the *4 ' Disease and showing exactly how our Belt is used
t Vh6r r eaUN ™rvo us 6 and Functional Disorders; it also describes many of the ailments that
to cure all JNervous ana ru FOR IT pO-DAY, and we will send it by return mail—
Electricity cures. . . Wium cw u
Postage Prepaid.
CALL, IF POSSIBLE , AND HAVE A FREE TEST.
the or. McLaughlin co.,' oo^^
„ n,nee-St Willis St., Wellington. W.A. OHice-90 William St., Perth.
DR,
’S
ELECTRIC
SE UNDERTAKEN
THE CURE IS ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN! *
IS GUARANTEED IN EVERY
©
.*
%
o
%
s*>
V
#
&
\
V 4?
9
\> v
*
Himself Cured*
will be pleased to send the means of cure to
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no cnarg
whatever. Send addressed enve ' o P°
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
~BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUKE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOP*
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS
Debility, and their serious consejunericeso-
CURE pure and simple for all who need it.
PARISIAN ACENCY, Castlereagh St.,
sydhey.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR
Catarrh is inflammation of g
the lining membrane of the |
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
ihe sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
not a penny down
drop ns a post card with yiur name
*7we wnf a r.nse to forward one of our
fatest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREB.
THE dr. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever
It will cure al 1 cases of Rhe ''™^' s ™; Rid ‘.
cele, Indigestion. Lumbago. Weak Back Kia
nev Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous
ness, and ah Weakness of Men and Women.
Uk will alo« fm
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical 800 l which should be read by all
S and women. If you are weak in any way
delav no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. VIC. N
Please mention this paper.
_ thousands of
ruptured
! PEOPLE have been and are being
AIIBEn byLr Langston s Perfect
CURED Combined Treatment.
Sts»*r»ag
<sssssi?«!vr •*«-»“*
FREE.
Posted 2 StarnpS'
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
1 imcoiliksst., MELBOURNE. 1


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW fIPFN HOBART CUP, Elwick, HoMrt, February 7 -
" UrCil NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flelhington, Vie,, March 3
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S,W., March 31
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
TJW&OFLrrA.jsrrr Notice,
On all Sweeps oh Races fun after JANUARY 1905, the TttSmCUliah Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket ; f and 4c/. on each IQs, Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the' TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business hnde'r saMe Management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, Or money may be’ remitted thtottgh any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
drunkards
CURED SECRETLY.
EUCRASY.
I ,ﬁ‘rf/{g «K .‘
"ﬂ'f/ ‘be_:v’./gx'@ .
1|” . "1”» /. .~ VY‘
“lg/ﬂit, //.'. ‘ 1. .1' 7+
...1‘ 1,. «X J / /11( “’4,“ .'
(11.5.1534 5/ AK W1”) ..
(-14)?" II/' I? .«/ .K
. 1. 1 “NV! 1.3 £2 '. ./
'Y ‘ ‘7 ‘: ' xgy
©§§=§§uvﬁﬁ§g 1- 1: =23! ,
\\ ’ " I ‘ at ". 2‘34! '
3:77:1’7‘? 1.435"
\‘ 1* : 37;;
I ‘.v ' ‘1 hm), ,
'1 >512 % — 3;!
R5 'I.~/ r...1 ‘5 37‘ “1.1-
. ' ' ,‘1‘ /
‘9. :A_.-1.""% . [11:41?“
"7%“: ...1 ' 1:5in
"at ‘..
I; f’l“/, ‘
_ u .
- ,/ I’ 1
f /|
151%;- , 1
,ag‘Ith‘ _r ’ \
" 2-7.3-3— _ ,_:‘ 2?, .
~' ’/“‘* Kwtl ;‘ v
This harmless and
tasteless remedy is
given in Tea,' Coffee,
Food, etc., to cure
Drunkards. Any
wife, sister, daughter,
or mother can cure
her loved one of this
fearful and degrading
habit by this new
simple remedy, as did
Mrs. Scott, who
writes: “Oh! how
happy I am that my
husband has lost all
hi s appetite for
whisky; he now hates
the sight of it, and
refuses to drink, even
When others offer it
to him. Your remedy
is surely a blessing-
for drunkards.”
Mrs. Scott’s word of gratitude is only one of hundreds
In possession of this company. Anyone who will send
tneir name and address to
THE EUCRASY COMPANY,
receive by mail, sealed, a
Tree book about this wonderful remedy, and full instruc-
tions how to cure the drink habit.
mn
m
n
I
I
Me
WQWJHIIW «(3 (W? mam
ALCOCK'STA BLISS
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
pnilT IS OUB heritage, and what
MWw I THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS lIOW TO CURE IT
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during 1 their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attackiag- any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. Hd. and 2s. 9d! per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THCE FA.MIOT7S REMEDY FOR
FA.]VIOTjS FIEMEDY
COUOHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
_ * HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF AWT CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD
Those rfrho have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence.
ot
MEDICINE IN THE
OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RUT V
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN MCKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ T suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried loos of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No.' la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I aih cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
T! nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
.bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. Bhe found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
Bhe is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
sa 3 r that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”'
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
;; Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronohitis Cure is the best Ihedicine I have ever
taken." D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having-
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever-" T. LEWIS,
Kirnbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results ”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDEItSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ u P° n looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses
P. F. MULLINS. Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkev via
Quirindi, N.S.W. ’ y ’ vla
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine
LnV 1^ J ‘ P " 7 Renny - st " Addington,
lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W. ’
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
fw l -ir l ? e J'- ed * rom Asthma for about fifteen years : was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
T?,°imi r ° ften had to sit up in bed part of the-night,
fried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
flVj" a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
owl di stressing_ cough have all disappeared. I cannot
too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both."
„ R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broaclford, Victoria.
o-.w ° b £ ttle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me. (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Gleninaggie, Victoria.
I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
1 can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
l 1 su^ ered severely from Bronchitis, and the
- ’ w W r T 1 F al ? Seven guineas, did not do me any
- bu . fc , 1 beard °f Your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.**'
D . . . . , IT. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
TV," Pleas . e ? end me , half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
, . ? bid ly toward another bottle of vour famous Bron-
chiHs Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
R ev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s< 6d.; Large
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
Size, 4s. @d.
w. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
BRANCH DEPOT-
EORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3582.


The Tory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN “ the early eocene,” when the mammoth
strode, serene.
O’er the tertiary green, monopolising most
o’ things ;
Rose a creature called a man, with a system and a
plan,
Claiming rights, and straight began to organise a
host o’ things.
Said the creature, queer of shape—once an anthro-
poidal ape—
“ Things are in a shocking scrape; I’m bent upon
improving them.
lam going to expand. There are troubles in
the land;
I intend to take a hand reforming or removing
them.”
Then a Tory mastodon, fat and fierce to gaze
upon,
In whose rheumy eye there shone a light of
, shocked propriety,
Cried, with indignation vast: “Socialist! Icono-
clast !
He’ll disorganise and blast respectable society! ”
But the resolute ex-ape moulded matters into
shape ;
Seeking ever to escape a state of things frus-
traneous;
And the dear old mastodon—Tory of the ages
gone—
Rests his ancient bones upon the strata subter-
raneous. /
In the days when godly men thought their wives
—say nine or ten—
Wholly insufficient when they could afford a score
or so;
When Solomon (who owned the mines) couldn’t
count his concubines;
And all moneyed masculines could boast at least
of four or so
Rose there then, within the land, one who made a
strange demand :
This no less that they should hand all surplus
femininity—
Concubine and paramour—round to the deserving
poor,
Holding to themselves secu.b each one a lone
affinity.
Then polygamists, with fat quaking, asked, by
this and that,
What the Devil was he at ? This was stark in-
sanity !
“Fool!” they cried, in shocked surprise, “Are
you seeking—dash your eyes !
To ruin private enterprise to satisfy your vanity ?”
And the old monopolists ramped about and shook
their fists,
Shouted, hooted, cursed, and hissed. Men of
proven piety
Swore at him with language bad. “ Socialist ! ”
they yelled, “You’re mad !
Visionary ! Why your fad’s an insult to society /”
But those dear old Tory chaps have departed ;
' and, perhaps,
Modern marriage—bar mishaps—now satisfies
democracy.
flius, at last—at least they say— that reformer
got his way;
And polygamy to-day revolts the aristocracy.
In the feudal days of yore, a baron—Tory to the
core—
Owned a thousand serfs or more ; and land ?—he
had the run of it
For many leagues about. But lo ! a foolish, low-
born lout
Bewailed his lot, and blurted out he “couldn’t
see the fun of it.”
Roared the good old baron then, calling on his
serving men;
Clapped the caitiff in a den ; and swore with loud
impiety..
“Zounds! Gad zooks ! ” the baron cried, when
the rack had been applied.
“A Socialist! ’Tis well he died! A menace to
society 1 ”
jSo on, down throughout the ages, that old Tory
* person rages.
Note the cry, in all its stages, heird in every
latitude.
Though the primal type has gone, hear the same
old mastodon
Rave, and snort, and trumpet on the same old
Tory platitude.
“ Stop the Socialistic fraud ! Private Enterprise !
Good Lord !
(Let the news not get abroad.) It’s Blasphemy !!
Impiety !!!
It seeks my ‘ sacred rights ’ to wrest ; land, gold—
all that is best.
Arrest it! It is menacing respectable society ! ”
Same old, tough polygamist; same old, fat mono-
polist ;
Greedy eye and grasping fist; air of smug pro-
priety.
Mastodon or merchant robber; feudal lord or
Crown-lands jobber—
It’s the same old Tory slobber, same old whine
about “society.”
S.A.
C. J. DENNIS.
Clodd’s Factotum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ rpiNG-A-LING-LING.”
I Clodd and Co.’s accountant, cashier, and
bookkeeper dashed down a line of
figures, scrawled a signature, threw down the pen
and swung off the stool.
“ Are you there?.”
“Yes.”
“ Ticket's spoakin’. Take down an order, will
v’ ?”
“All right. Goon.”
“Forty-eight men’s, sample 145, reg’lar sizes—
-12 pairs 207, 6 four, 6 five, 24 pairs 208, reg’lar
size. Want ’em got through at once, tell Mr.
Clodd.”
“All right, Mr. Tickel.”
“ And a pair children’s 2-bar shoes, by 11
o’clock.”
“Got none in stock, I’m afraid.”
“Well, must have ’em by 11.”
“ It’s 10 to 11 now.”
“Don’t matter — must have ’em.”
I’ll send them out by 4 o’clock.”
“ All right, but mind it is four to-day, and not
four this day next century.”
“ All right,” weariedly, putting up the receiver.
The accountant climbed back on her high stool,
and directed and stamped some envelopes at top
speed.
Upstairs the engine was working, the clanking
machinery sending a thrill through the whole
factory. Annette Crane did not hear it. she
only noticed it when it stopped and a ghastly
silence seized the building. She got out the
ledger and began posting up. A man came in
and left an order. Another came, gave a mes-
sage, and took away a parcel. The Boss stalked
in from the clicker's room.
“Say, Miss Crane, posted up the ledger yet?”
“ No” (morosely). It was 96 in the office, and
she had been consistently interrupted in her regu-
lar work since entering it at nine that morning.
“Well, why the damn ain’t y’? Anyone been
in ? ”
Miss Crane gave the message and orders, written
and verbal.
“ Oh, well, write out all the country orders and
let me have ’em by three, will y’ ?' And finish
that postin’. And say, I’m goin’ out to Mackville
and I want you to call round for Daley’s cheque
durin’ your dinner-hour. It ’ll do y’ good and y’
c’n look at the shops, millingry and that.”
He winked and went out.
“ Ting-a-ling-ling!”
“Ye-e-es.”
‘ ‘ Beale and Day speaking. Have you got size
9 in 917 Bal. in stock ?. ”
“ Wait on, and I’ll see.”
Annette put up the receiver and went into the
next room, where hundreds of white cardboard
boxes were, ranged round it on the shelves.
Glancing rapidly over a row at one end she re-
turned to the office.
“No, Mr. Venn.”
“ Well, get us a pair by 4 o’clock, will you, Miss
Crane ? ”
“ All right, Mr. Venn, I’ll try.”
She rang otf, and climbed the stool once more.
Before her pen reached the ink the telephone
went again.
“ 0 d—ash ! ”
“Well, what do you want?” she demanded,
ill-temperedly. “o—-ah, that you, Mr. Hazell?”
her tone changing miraculously as she recognised
the voice of their biggest customer.
“Yes, it is; and I’d like to know what the
devil you mean by not sending along that pair of
boots for Mr. Wills? You said we should have
them by half-past nine this morning ? He’s wait-
ing here now for them.”
“Well, I’m sure I don’t know, Mr. Hazell.
The ord.er was sent up all right, and I thought the
boots had gone.”
“ Well, they haven’t; and ” -
“ If you’ll wait, I’ll inquire about them. ”
“Look smart then. I can’t wait all day.”
“ Old beast,” remarked Miss Crane to herself as
she scratched off a few lines to the foreman and
sent it upstairs by a small boy. In answer to her
query as to what she should tell Mr. Hazell, the
foreman wrote back :
“ Tell him any infernal lie you like. The boots
aren’t done, and not likely to be before to-morrow.”
After a great deal of trouble and a subtle
evasion of the infernal lie, she got rid of the
obstreperous Hazell, and returned to her desk.
At half-past 12 a bell rang, and the machinery
overhead stopped. A roaring buzz of voices took
its place, and a crowd of girls and men poured
down the cranky stairs to their dinner.
Annette Crane ate hers hurriedly, put on her
hat and gloves, took her parasol, and walked down
Rundle-street to Micky Daley’s. It was plea-
santer than the stuffy office, but she did not follow
Mr. Clodd’s advice and examine the “ millingry ”
behind the plate-glass windows. She had no
intention of making comparisons between the
dainty confections— “straight from Paris”—and
the bargain-sale last-year Leghorn pinned firmly
on to her fair curly locks.
Mr. Daley, in leathern apron and much-grimed
hands, received her with fatherly pleasantries.
Annette liked Micky—the supply of his good
temper and sympathy was equal to an endless
demand, and she found his rich brogue soothing
after the brazen tones of Mr. Clodd, which
twanged in her ears from morning till night.
Putting his cheque for £5O in her purse, she
sauntered plowly back to the factory—sauntered
because she was doing Clodd and Co.’s business
in her own private time, and cared nothing for
the extra ten minutes occupied in transacting it.
For the same reason Mr. Clodd did not remark
on her absence from her post during those ten
minutes.
As she prepared _to enter Daley’s cheque in the
cash-book she noticed it was an open one, and
resolved to, cross it. Before the entry was made,
however, a customer entered and asked for Mr.
Clodd. Annette hastily thrust the cheque into an
empty pigeon-hole above the desk, and went in
search of the Boss.
It was about an hour later that she suddenly
recollected the cheque. With a slight thrill of
alarm she went to get it from the pigeon-hole.
It was nqt there !
The compartment stared blankly at her. With
a feeling that the pains of Hell had got hold of her,
she put a small, ink-stained hand into the pigeon-
hole and fingered unresponsive sides, then took it
out, dirtier by the addition of much dust. With
feverish energy she dragged every scrap of paper,
together with bits of string, rubber bands, pen-
holders, boxes of boot-buttons, and stars,
from the several compartments, and put each back
separately after a careful examination. All the
time she knew the search was hopeless—knew
which particular hole had betrayed its trust, and
that these others were innocent.
Fifty pounds and an open cheque ! The thing
was so sudden that she could not accurately place
her position.
She sat down suddenly and heavily upon a
chair, and stared hard at the dirty floor, with its
litter of brown paper and boot boxes. Thoughts,
foolish and sane, raced like an express train
through her mind. Her home, with the hard-
working mother ; the sister who was a lady-help
and had a Savings Bank account of £3 ; the clerk
brother, who spent too much on cigarettes, and
“shouts,” and cricket and lacrosse clubs, and
place-totes, and bicycles to ever have a penny in
hand —they all stood out like a flashlight picture
before her. She imagined herself flinging the
bombshell of her news into their midst that even-
ing, and an icy hand grasped her heart.
A brazen voice, sounding above the roar of the
machinery in the next room, sent a stab of fear
through the girl. She pictured—at least she tried
to picture—herself telling Mr. Clodd. But here
her imagination fainted. The bank on which the
cheque was drawn ought to be warned of the loss,
but she shrank from this final acknowledgment of
her desperation, and besides by this it would be
too late if her worst surmise were correct.
Annette sprang to her feet, and a wild hunt
round the room, under the desk, and on a parcel-
strewn table, ensued. But no miracle had oc-
curred, and Micky Daley’s cheque did not come
to light.
Then it must have been stolen.
Annette endeavored to recall the numerous
visitors she had had that afternoon, and the cus-
tomer who had been the cause of her not crossing
the cheque flashed across her mind. He must
have seen her put it in the pigeon-hole. He could
easily have abstracted it during her absence while
going for Mr. Clodd. She had not witnessed his
subsequent demeanor, because she had remained
in the stock-room attending to the vagaries of an
appallingly stupid stock-girl, taken on the pre-
vious day, until he left.
Yet she had always thought Mr. Brownson
honest. If he frequently kept them waiting for
their money he always paid it eventually, and no
one had ever breathed a word against his fair
fame. Perhaps the sudden temptation—Miss
Crane sat down and groaned. She was ruined,
There would be an awful row, and she would lose
her handsome weekly remuneration of 15s. and
the privilege of getting her footwear at wholesale
prices. She would probably be a grey-haired old
hag before another billet came her way.
She would tell Mr. Clodd when he came in
next. She heard his step moving about in the
adjoining room. She would tell him. But what
should she say ? How would she put it ? Her
dry lips moved, expressing the opening phrase in
an infinitude of ways Tears were in her eyes—
despair in her heart.
She heard Mr. Clodd come towards the door
and rose to her feet, clenching her teeth.
He came in with an armful of boots and shoes
and dropped them on the untidy table.
“ Them’s got to be fellowed up soon’s y’ can do
it,” he said, and turned to go out again.
“ Mr. Clodd !”
“Eh ?” He stopped and looked round.
Annette Crane’s feet touched bottom in the
gulf of dark despair.
“ Mr. Clodd —what —what did you do with that
cheque of Mr. Daley’s I put in the pigeon-hole ? ”
she burst out.
“That? 0, I put it in the safe—for safety
like. Y’ shouldn’t leave them things lyin’ round
like that.’’
He went upstairs to the finisher’s room to
denounce one of the men for putting a fiddle waist
on a common pair of boots just sent down.
S.P.
The Voice of Nature.
By “Maes.”
Whenever anyone suffers from rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, backache, blood
disorders, anaamia, indigestion, jaundice, biliousness, sick headache, general debility, gravel, stone,
bladder disease, or Bright’s Disease, it is but Nature crying aloud for help and saying, “Your liver is
out of order ! Your kidneys are not doing their work! Restore them to health, or your suffering
cannot cease.” Nature will not be outraged. So long as the urinary and biliary poisons, which cause
the disorders mentioned, remain in the system you must puffer. When the kidneys and liver are
fulfilling actively their appointed functions the poisons which cause the disorders are expelled in a
natural manner, and suffering ceases.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the" whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning, such as
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone,
and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some
urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning.
If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their
vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes
sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it
to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Genera
Debility, and Blood Disorders. I
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of these vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s Safe
Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be
found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in com-
pounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure
exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and
liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it of necessity cures all complaints
due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys
and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease.
Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent, simply because they are natural. [l2
| SEVEN YEARS a Sufferer • i
*Vi (
IT
0^
7a,
/I/
4( K <7
“ T T affords me pleasure to testify to
I the wonderful curative properties
of Zam-Buk,” says Mr. A. Gr.
Bourbaud, residing at “ Kiel,”
Hawthorn Boad, Caulfield, Vie.
“ For seven years my little girl
suffered with Eczema
behindtheears. During
that extended period
she was treated by
several doctors, but
without material im-
provement. 1 received a small sample
pot of Zam-Buk at the house which
induced me to try it. An improve-
ment was at once noticeable. I pro-
cured another pot of the balm, and
before this was consumed the Eczema yielded to Zain-Buk, and all traces
of it disappeared.”
ZAM-BUK, the GREAT HEALER, is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES, ECZEMA,
BOILS RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOO, etc. As an
EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed
well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for
CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, PRICKLY HEAT,
FRECKLES. SUNBURN, RASH, and BITES of INSECTS, ZAM-BUK is
INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at 1/0, or
3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times the quan-
tity). '
from
THE Z A M-
BUK CO., 39
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
IN
IT
RUB


To the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A DAY and a night I’ve harkened
Across the parching plain,
To the ringing of the metals,
To the roaring of the train ;
The smoky distance held the miles,
And ever, as we drew near,
The pounding engine caught them
And flung them to the rear.
The heat haze dimmed the sunlight,
And wrapt the pallid day,
The bush-fire swept before us
To bar our shining way ;
The west wind roared pursuit of us,
And ever, as we won through,
The white dust rose and followed
The way the west wind blew.
The night glowed to the dawning,
The dawning burned to noon,
And still the pounding engine
Beat out its ruthless tune.
The red sun sinks, the afterglow
Lives still in the east, and we,
Leaving the grey bush twilight,
Curve down beside the sea.
A sea all naked and hurried
Beneath the fading sky,
Coppery hills and hollows,
Foam-crests that hiss and fly.
Forgot be fierce and parching heats,
Forgot be dust and drouth,
For a chill wind, a wet wind,
Is blowing from the south.
The sandhills lift a bulwark
Against the raging seas,
The sword-grass and the bent-grass
Thresh to an eager breeze,
The tide hums past the shuddering piles
And laps below the ships,
For the south wind, the sea wind,
Blows salt upon my lips.
The lightship at her moorings
Dips like a shooting star,
Far o.ut the restless breakers
Leap to the whitened bar.
Thin as a web the spindrift flies
Above the churning race
As the salt wind, the sea wind,
Blows full upon my face.
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
Evolution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE w:as born in a shanty at the Back o’
Beyond. She existed. She slept, she
woke, she wept, she fed, she slept again.
Later she lay for hours on her back on an old
shawl, gnawing at a tiny fist, her vague, blue
eyes wandering dully from corner to corner of the
sloping ceiling. She slept in odd corners, and
woke and wailed j for what she did not know.
Ther6 were certain things that ministered to her
senses—warmth, freedom from swathing of
clothes, her mother’s breasts; but she did not
realise these things. She was only conscious
unreasoningly, when they came her way, of a
sense of comfort, in the same way that she felt
vaguely the physical discomfort of a misplaced
pin, without knowing the source of either, or the
remedy. She was a little animal, less developed
than a puppy of the same age.
There were on her horizon of life at this time
three figures that she began dimly to distinguish
from the inanimate objects around her, without
distinguishing between the functions of the three.
One, on something of her level, was rough, hairy,
sniffing, and touched her face and hands with
something smooth and thin and wet. Another
towered above her, but occasionally bore her aloft,
sometimes fed her, sometimes caressed, and some-
times slapped. The third figure came and went
with strange burning odors and uncouth sounds,
sometimes stumbling over her, sometimes rolling
her aside with the toe of a hob-nailed boot.
This little world of hers was bounded by the four
walls of the living room she knew. But herself in
relation to herself did not exist as yet. These
others all had places, no matter how ill-defined, in
the scheme of existence, but she was no more
than a cypher and had no knowledge of identity.
But one day her Ego came to her. She woke
and howled. She wanted something. The dog
came and thrust a cold nose into her hand. She
beat at him impatiently. She did not want him
and she knew it. Her father dandled her, shook
her, tried to feed her. She repelled his well-
meant efforts with louder howls. She wanted
none of these things. Then her mother dawned
upon her tears and an arrested sob became a
strangled chuckle. She knew what she wanted.
A tiny embryo of a human soul put out a doubtful
feeler to the light.
Later, as she brawled about the room, she
learned several things. She came to know that,
if one put a curious finger on that fascinating red
thing that smoked and blazed in a corner of the
room, pain, swift, sure, inevitable, followed. And
she learned the hopelessness of grasping at the
elusive quicksilver of the sunlight that danced on
the wall. She grew into a little wild thing,
uncouth, greedy—fighting with her sisters and
brothers for scraps of food. Her only pastime
was to swing on a,.wire fence and speed a passing
train with wild yells. She had no sense or
questioning.as to what a train might be or do, but
the noise and speed Wakened a sort of ferocity of
exultation in her, and she was impelled to hoot
and shriek in sympathy. Her only love was her
m’other and fat bacon. Her mother came first ;
she could rtot reason why. " The bacon was grate-
ful to her palate and her stomach, and never took
violent revenges on her, whereas her mother fre-
quently cuffed and beat her. But the spark of
humanity, burning feebly, never quite quenched
within her, triumphed over the senses, and her
mother came first in her love.
The longest step upward she took, between the
ages of two years and ton, was when her sense of
humor woke up. There is no humor in the brute ;
it is a quality essentially human. She had often
shrieked with senseless laughter in her rough-and-
tumble games with her companions, but one day
she came across a comic cut in a paper, and she
laughed out in the sudden surprised enjoyment of
it. It gave her such an unexpected elation that
she was always looking for the humorous side of
things afterwards.
Her mother died. It was her first sense of
grief, and it was a shock and a horror to her. On
the death-bed, the mother, smitten with com-
punction, spoke of God, and, sitting beside the
grave, she offered her first prayer: “God, take
my mother out o’ that hole.” Death meant no
more to her then, but later it brought an uneasy
sense of mystery and the unseen. Even in the
sunlight she shivered. She howled and moaned
like a bereaved animal, with no hope or know-
ledge of the Hereafter. Her father first brought
her the rough comfort of his philosophy ; then he
coaxed her with fat bacon, and finally he beat her.
She took no notice of his comfort, she let the dogs
eat the bacon, and she scarcely felt the strokes of
his leathern belt on her bare legs. But when she
realised that God was heedless and the grave fast-
sealed, she ceased her lamentations without any
resentment. She was only an animal still, and
she accepted, with the dull patience of the animal,
the strokes of Fate.
But she looked on life with a difference. She
was afraid of the dark now and of the utter silence
of any open space. There was something above,
or beyond, or around her, and she knew if that
grave were opened she would not find her mother
there. Sometimes she was terrified. It was the
birth-pangs of her imagination.
The years went on. Coming back from the
township she met —a man. He was only a meagre
boy, with an unshaven chin and a slouching gait,
but their eyes met. Her heart suddenly beat
thick and fast, but she kept on her way. She
knew instinctively that he followed, and looking
back found she had not been mistaken. He spoke
to her, and they walked together a short distance,
saying little. He looked at her furtively from
time to time, and she shuffled the dust with her
bare toes, and occasionally giggled. When they
parted she hardly knew why she felt so exultant;
but it was the mysterious call. The next few
days she was restless and unsettled. It was the
crude, unformed soul of her —big with awakening
instincts, striving to deliver itself.
They met again, and he made her a present of
a tiny pocket mirror. The moment that she
looked into it her woman’s soul was born in her.
She gazed leng. and sighed and smiled, and knew
herself to be beautiful.
She laughed out at the discovery ; at the clear
reds and whites of her skin, the tender curves of
neck and bosom. She gloated, almost drunken
with the delight of it. Gazing in her own eyes,
she thought that some magic had changed her —
wild, elfish, unkempt —into something beautiful
and gracious. But it was her woman’s soul being
born there —immature, before its time, but never
to sleep again. That night she curled her hair.
God knows where she got that instinct, but in its
vanity it was a distinct step in the scheme of her
development; and the next day she met the boy
with a bush of yellow frizzes round her head. She
walked with him to the township. But she was
restless, dissatisfied, loathing her bare legs and
scanty skirts. She clothed herself in the best of
her mother’s clothes, and the next time they met
her lover praised hhr, and she tossed her head ;
and when he asked her for a kiss she said, “ Like
your cheek ! ”
“Like your cheek!” This wild child of the
bush had never hgsrd of the modesty or the
- coquetry of women,'but she was following out her
primaeval instincts as surely as the most accom-
plished flirt of the cities. When he attempted to
put a hand on her she fled, half hysterical with
fear lest he should catch her, half sick with disap-
pointment when he gave up the chase. Sex was
awake at last. She earned money in the town-
ship, and clothed herself in gay dresses, tawdry
jewels and feathered head-gear, and paraded arm-
in-arm with other girls of like tastes. Now she
was a type. The clean, primitive animalism in
her nature had deteriorated into a phase of the
human, less loveable. But Love raised her. She
gasped and shook for the ecstasy of it—and the
agony. She thrilled, and dreamed, and laughed,
and wept over it. She wove a marvellous fabric,
dyed in Love’s alcliemies, and threw it over the
shoulders of her lover, glorifying the under-sized
boy with the scrubby chin.
There was a wedding, and motherhood came to
her. The Divine-in-the-Human woke in her.
She had loved her mother, she had loved her
lover, she supposed she loved God as an abstract
good, far-off, not to be approached in the affairs
of every-day life. This was different. This fierce,
sweet ache at her heart was bliss and pain
unspeakable. Divine —yes; but after all a thread
divided here the animal and the Divine, for the
love with which she gazed on the tiny creature,
and fingered its limbs, and gloated over its minia-
ture perfections was divinely animal. It was
hers —had she not been stricken through and
through with mortal pangs that it might lie
against her breast, warm, living, breathing ? And
stricken, gladly—gladly !
It was then she reached the height of her de-
velopment—then that her dwarfed soul, with a last
effort, rose out ot its narrowness. Then she slipped
bade, down, down the links of the chain of
evolution she had forged. Other children came
to iler, money was scarce, cares multiplied. She
toiled for husband and children. Her husband
neglected her, her sons grew up worthless. She
wept until she had no tears left, and her sensi-
bilities dried up. With those she toiled for it was
. sometimes a blow for her, sometimes a caress. It
was uncertain and equally unmeaning, and she
neither resented nor welcomed one nor the other.
She grew withered, silent, a little vacant.
Then she was dying. She had lived long and
had had all that Life had to give her. She had
not asked for more, or expected more, nor con-
sciously had she wanted more. Her only protest,
now and then, had been her tears, and they had
been neither supplicating nor resentful, but spon-
taneous. They, too, had dried at the fountain
head. So she lay dying. Her little world was
closing in upon her in the four walls of the room
where she lay. Again there were three figures
upon her horizon—one, a hairy creature that
licked her feeble hand ; and one, a woman who
fed and tended her; and another, a figure that
came with burning odors and uncouth noises to
her bedside. And sometimes she turned and
murmured—for what she did not know. One day
she moaned and muttered sorely. They brought
her food—she pushed it from her. They brought
her husband and her dissolute youngest son, but
she looked beyond them and moaned. Then her
God dawned upon her tears and her moans were
changed to a last faint, tremulous laughter.
M.t.
MAUD PEACOCKE.
“WHY AM I ILL?”
Have you
Suspected
Your Kidneys?
“ Every Picture Tells a Story.
A
Y/.
The Symptoms are often mistaken for other
Disorders. Backache. Rheumatism, Dizziness,
and Sleeplessness are Serious Signs,
But whatever your symptoms are, Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills should be persevered with until not a trace of
kidney disease remains. Eor if you neglect to give your kid-
neys help they will lose their power of throwing off the
liquid poisons; they will break down, cell by cell, and allow
the life-giving albumen to pass out. This is how the fatal
Bright’s Disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills (of
which your neighbor speaks so highly) are the one reliable
kidney medicine, because they are especially for the kidneys
and bladder, and do not interfere w r ith any other organ.
But —be careful to get Doan’s.
What Your Neighbor says:
Mr. James Higgins, Epsom-road, North Botany, this city, says “ Sometime ago
I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I don’t know how to account for it, unless
several accidents were to blame. I consulted three doctors, and underwent treatment,
and each one failing to do me good advised me to go into the hospital for an operation ;
they said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as
one of my kidneys was in a diseased condition. I took medicines of all sorts, the empty
bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was in
such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in the
back, giddiness, headaches, and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and scarcely
able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the operation, when a friend asked me
if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew a man who was
as bad as I was, and had been cured completely and for good by these pills. I post-
poned the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight
later I returned to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in
me would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. I was not quite
cured then, but was as fit for work as a man could be. I continued taking the pills, and
have been quite well ever since.”
Mr. Higgins makes a short statement in ’ ebruary, 1905, eighteen months after the
above statement was made Doan’s Pills cured me, and I am still free of kidney
trouble. I am eighteen months right now, and not one symptom of the ailment ever
having returned. I have advised many men in the railway and tramway service to use
these pills. They have done me a splendid good.”
Eor sale by all Clio mists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per Box
(six boxes, L5 l s. 3d.), dr will be posted on receipt of price by
Eoster-MeOlellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
\
\
V
\


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
K
‘‘l used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miser able woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S Sansaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite —a good digestion a healthy liver
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DB. J. O. AVER & CO., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
There are many imitation “Sarsaparilla*.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glass bottles.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st. , South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10!$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confld.ence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and for Banquets and
Private Balls xlrms aablo ainner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
III!
HERE’S A NEW HELP
lor the ears—a greater’help thaa
a has been before invented
i THE ELECTRICON.
' It does what all other deviceshave
( been trying to do. It does more. It
’ actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERSION COY.,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney,
DRUG HABIT
IvIQTJOR HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNKS
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for fond will
.return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
mm SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Raventthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free
The Dr. Langston Institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
IyrHLBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
r ' , _.',A’- ‘ o.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAXNES3 & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 30s ; freight Is. &
ls6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry &.Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
on theTiopT
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
• Caution- —Genuine Chlorodvne.
Every bottle of this welhknown
Remedy for OOtJGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLUS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says':
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with nie, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
M6
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
Loured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOE YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss o
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousand,
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth
street, Sydney.
:THF
DEAF
MAIL
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
• Completely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
fhow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
F
OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind a -" < Lf a*n d ’ D ro vvsfness &
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness a 'Rintehes on the Skin, Dis-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos iveness, P>lo ' FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF 5n TWENW laN?®5S "S'is no -fiction. sufferer to
ISly inTifed te E S one Box of these Pills, and ctey will he acknowledged to he vSOR.H A
GU BEECHtM’S I PILLS, taken as directed, w c uickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system, fc oi a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses willl work wonders .upon and
Muscular System ; restoring the tong-lost Comp exion , „g - t)ie i mm an frame. These
arousing with the Rosebud or Health the Whole Physical ,, uai . nnt ees to the
have Largest Sate of any Patent Mediae m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and Us 9d each.
I
Sri
v Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. j
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
C There’s SECURi iy m
\RTERS
VITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMfIULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difflenlty in expectoration. A»thma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’a INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREEH
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and att'ectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse*
nfent by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free (I charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Hemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other .valuable,, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lire.. ">*.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, b 9 Pitt St., Sydney*
Q2. .3332!
“‘(MIV, w.-
/ '1 m ‘
m
A
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpora
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for -
EVERY MAN. The following- subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Boss‘of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. ’ It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
my Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is tire result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SUBGEON LANGSTON, M fe R „J: B
129 COLLIMS STREET»
MELBOURNE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-dav.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. MARTIN
M.D.,
M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P., E., L.R.0.5., E.,
L.F.P.S.G.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting- Surgeon to Four of Australasia’s
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops* South
African War.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief? After so many failures,
whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia?
The above qualifications, gained from the World’s
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainly, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “Diseases of Men and
Women,” 700 pages, 500 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. FREE :
A 50-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like
SENT FREE TO ALL
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
your friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications—
Dr. Martin,
ELM LEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
(Please mention this paper token tenting.)


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
That is, if it Hasn’t got one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You’ll get it at . .
PerdHau Rubber Go.“
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
:
A Solid Silver Watch.
T .
O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME&CO.,
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
THE
‘PLUM’
{If 'Hii‘l‘V/‘H' "n‘v, ‘ ’
w , w,
/ M' r ‘ m ‘. .
‘ n ,0/,..§l,///,’Z/ l/’ ”" ": aw?”
-' ..7‘.‘ ~ - 7 ‘ ‘ . 0 O/
(‘19 . . ., . . . 1
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN,—This razor is superior to any otherlt is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testifv to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s 6(1.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. oake.
Pawn
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15a. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
ReoistbPwEo and Sent Post Free to Akt Part of the World.
E®~ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and ltu on Intercolonial Cheques.
SOLE AGENTS! CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
ti
re is no Better Pump
than
9 99
‘KNOWLES
Every Pump Guaranteed
v :■ ?
'''■ . ■ ■ ■
-vpl
V ' '*#?*
I A i Xi
v *
I
rasaa
’ J
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting
Plunger Pumps, Tank or Light Service Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc ,
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
r
NOTICE
Toauiferers from Gout, Rheum attain, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
i The Old Reliable Cnollah Remedy .
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestku & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Read, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonial's from all
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'B NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. <
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinqdkstre Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SiSSS
P4as?s»i
'SS&SMI
.
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
«»- STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
——, •
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES.
CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
PM EVER RAIL.S.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ANreceiptof P. 0.0.
” forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WiRE
or M.O. for 5/- we
address in-Australia
Set. GOLD-FILL
BROOCHES, with
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same qualitj- as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire,
S/6; without Pendant, 6/6, Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. Ail letters carefully addressed to R. Si MS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
n
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
g allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grads
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2aSO to dS6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Fasked and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee sate
delivery.
(inn Second-Hand Oycles
to £2.fO
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
* “ ' “ m#pi C taking orders from sample
. 3 . - - UfULE. machine. Active Agents
warned m each district. Large profits easily made; Write at once for
ires catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., half prices.
MEAD
Gre
EAR
GYGLE GO. Dept, bss
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
Cockle’s Rntibilious Pills.
I do Ml hesitate to sa, it is the best made Pill to the tm e dom."-D«. G. F. Coixtaa, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
“'1 '.
“fl' 1, “
w; J '
‘j-fW .’ A .
AW“. , -
W?" "in -
5 “21:”: g" "ﬁﬁh; _ ..’ a .
l,’l"£:;“‘ 1'” - (.'.!
«Ex
. M l :' .>
'JEJII‘ ﬁgw
‘ .- _ _.'.y) _
gap-x
‘T'-..:-'»>‘?l 15 A;_\
“3&5“?
FEW PEOPLE
know what a wonderfully
simple and efficient pimp
PULSOMETER
is, if
correctly
designed.
It will pump anything liquid. Can be slung anywhere.
Only a steam pipe required.
THE PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND,
Makers of CENTRIFUG AL, DEANE SINKING, PNEUMATIC and OTWT’T?. T>TTTvri>« §
CRITOU WATER SOFTEN R, TORREHT FItTSB. EEFBIOESATraG SS^Ebl.'
N. OUTHRIDGE, Ltd., Agents,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY;
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
