

McEWAN’S ALE
“GAELIC” WHISKY
107 Kent
Sydney,
Mining
Street,
—TOR—
and Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS am® GENERAL IRONMONGERY
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS
AND PARTICULARS.
— •gifts.— — ”
Ijadleg’s Orient fiotei.
F I
m
ONEER
LEATHER
beltTnc
BELT GUARANTEED.
EVERY
J.C. Ludowlci & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
aiBSON, BATTLE &, GO., *7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
FIXED ENCINEB
4 b/h.P. ... £lOO
6 B.H.P. ... £125
8 8.35. P. ... £155
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
The Most Convenient Power Tor FARM PURPOSES, DRIVING SHEEP
SHEARING MACHINES, GRINDING FEED, CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING
WATER, DRIVING SEPARATORS, SAWING WOOD, Etc., Etc., Etc.
PORTABLE ENGINES
4BH P. ... £l4O
8 B.H.P. ... £165
8 B.H.P. ... £2OO
IN STOCK.
back
it
y“*
have
must
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000,
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wa'ew Branch:
*l4 Spiing St., Sydney
(Opposite Herd Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society) - W. A. GIBB, Manager,
Aotlve Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
WW
00
iWW
ASK YOUR GROOEFz FOR
31
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
Sr
TEA!
is the Queen of all Cocoas
■ fof^
lArom^StreMth^PurifK
ASK
FOR
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY.
PALE ALE
PT XHXT BOTTLE.
HARDY’S
*
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, Melbourne, arid Adelaide*
New Zealand Loan Agency Co.
■ gsj "X" T~l> ■UKr “FT* ~ t y .
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignment* of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage, Acoount Sales rendered
promptly.
E'iceptional facilities art offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars wilL be furnished on application.
HELIDON SPA.
GoLLiyr & Co.. Agents.
The Bulletin
Tel, 27.—N0. 1351, j
[Thursday, January 4, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Addison, Art of the National Gallery; 7s 6d, post 6d.
Merejkowski, Peter and Alexis, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post (3d.
Baring-Gould, Book of the Riviera, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Princess Priscilla’s Fortnight, by author of Elizabeth and
Her German Garden, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s (id, p. sd.
Saleeby, Sociology and Psychology, “ Scientific Series,”
each Is 3d, post 3d.
Shuckburgh, Greece, “ Story of the Nations," ss, post Sd.
Day, Holman F., Squire Phin, a Novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Thompson, Dynamo Electric Machinery, vol. 2, 365,
post Is 3d.
Paul’s Life of James Anthony Froude, X9s, post Bd.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Life and Matter, 3s, post 4d.
Flainmarion, Thunder and Lightning, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Ralph, Health Building, Is 3d, post 3d.
Burgin, The Devil’s Due, cloth, 3s Cd, post 6d.
Atherton, Gertrude, The Travelling Thirds, paper 2s 6d,
cloth 3s 6d, post 6<L
71 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London.
O' CX CX cy y,cy cy ey cy
srr*
if
am
m
mm%m.
k«.
£ss
AuTiv
<Z3
U^SnSToS
1?
ec&
the Great
JMmb /htiseptic Remedy-
Keg r? rtf’*
for. Influenza,, Bronchitis,Asthma,sail affections,or
fhe tlr.o&t & lunqs.s, for preventionof Consumphooj^
iaOawwi
Bfege
THE RED PAGE.
SPORT AND A SPECTACLE
A N exhibition of rough riding, an
Australian spectacle, an exhibition
of physical prowess and athletic art,
the spectacle we love. “ Muscle
and pluck for ever ! ” says Whitman. “ For
ever ! ” echoes Australia—a land devoted
to many aims and pursuits, but pre-
eminently to the pursuit of the Horse.
Little you know in the coastal cities,
little you know how hearts leap to horse-
flesh throughout N.S. Wales and Queens-
land at least, and through many a district
in the-other States. Can he ride? How
can he ride ? Can I outride him ? These
are the questions that decide many a man’s
fate on the stations and stock-routes where
still a substantial part of our country’s
wealth is won.
The horse can be used and raced in Sydney
and Melbourne ; but before he is ridden he
must be broken, and the breaker shines like a
star. Every station has its champion ; happy
the man accredited champion of a district,
able to tackle every outlaw that can be
drafted from the ropeable, rideable mobs.
At holiday gatherings, at pountry shows,
rough-riding is still “the sport of kings” of
the Bush. As you go into the Gulf country,
where wilder spirits and wilder horses abide,
breaking and riding become the regular Sun-
day pleasure ; and at every opportunity
horsemen will muster for scores of miles to
see a champion sit a champion.
Did you never hear of Jack Pendergast, a
Windsor native, thirty-nine years old, who
has done nothing fpr twenty-two years but
handle horses, breaking and bubkriduig < Yet
Pendergast is acclaimed champion buck-
rider of coastal N.S. Wales, and from
the Hawkesbury to the Tweed his
fame is greater than Napoleon’s Or have
you never heard of Willy Waite, of the Pro-
serpine, Q., exhibition rider with Martini, and
enthusiastically declared “the best
buckjump rider on the earth ! ”
“ That’s my opinion,” says Martini ; “ and
here’s my money to back it.” Have you
Beard of Harry Williams, •of Cloncurry ?
Jack Collins, of Harvest Home station, N.Q.?
Ralph Elliot, of Winton ? Have you never
heard of Jack MacGuire, of Cunnamulla ?
or Ken. McPherson, of the Richmond ?
or Ted Holery, of Toowoomba ? of Joe
Thomas or Jack Phipps ? It is these and
a thousand others who are the heroes of the
Bush, by virtue of “ muscle and pluck.”
J*
The spectacle is Martini’s buckjumping
show, which started from Sydney three years
ago with one small tent and one small waggon,
and, after touring N.S.W. ami Queensland,
has returned to Sydney with forty horses,
ponies, donkeys, mules, jennets, and asses,
and impedimenta to load a
of the appreciative Bush. In Sydney the
show has found, bounded by brick and
mortar, an arena which suits it admirably.
The spectacle is open to the sky. It is a
true Australian theatre, after the model of
Greece. When Summer’s with Australia,
to sit in stench in a suffocating
what folly in the name of pleasure ! Surely
in clean air under the stars, on a fine Aus-
tralian night, the dramatic and spectacular
entertainments of our civilised future will
be given.
To-night there is a crowded, eager audi-
ence ; for the city lads are sportsmen too,
and many a good horseman lias been bred in
a Sydney suburb'. The evening’s pro-
gramme, diversified with gymnastics and
circus acting, has reached its climax,
and under eight electric lamps is led forward
the heroic Bobs—with the exception of
Dargin’s Grey most celebrated of buck-
jumpers. To Dargin’s Grey belongs the
glory of the past, to Bobs the acclamations of
the future ; for youth will be served. Both
are natural buckers, and these prodigies of
the Australian animal creation grow every
year scarcer. All the outlaws went to
astonish British Yeomanry in the African
war; and even the brumbies are civilised
nowadays.
But Dargin's Grey ! The blood of a
bush generation tingles to his name.
He was bred nearly twenty years ago
by W. Tindall, of Capertee, near Lith-
gow, N.S.W.—a grey gelding branded TJon
near shoulder ; „and lie has been bucking
ever since. Hundreds of crack Australian
horsemen have bestridden him ; and though
some have tamed, none has ever broken his
rebellious spirit. His early history, like that
of all heroes, is shrouded in legend. The
Hawkesbury Herald of 3rd November last, in a
loving account of his exploits, brings him into
the dry light of journalism as the property
of W. Gardiner, of Wallerawang, in the early
nineties. Transferred to Arthur Dargin,' he
gained a master and a name. Exhibited at
Litligow show, he bucked across a carriage
and pair. In The Herald's account, the
names of riders thrown by the grey horse
are thick as thistles. Peter Molloy, of
.Wellington, is credited with sticking to his
seat; so is Jack Pendergast; so, too, is
Harry Morant, “The Eieaker ” par Emi-
nence ; and doubtless there were others.
“For,” says Martini, “Australian riders
will put any horse down ; I don’t care what
it is. If there's a mob of them and they
determine to get his scalp, they’ll come at
him one after the other. He may down
thirty of them, but the thirty-first will down
him. They ’re bound to have his scalp. ” The
old horse was slightly hurt at Toowoomba,
and is having a spoil. He twisted himself,
came down, and smashed his near hind
fetlock ; you could hear the crack. But still
he bucked away on three legs—a very Wid-
drington of horseflesh—bucked until he threw
Ted Hunt, who was riding him. “Why,”
says Pendergast, “I believe that if the grey
was lying down at his last gasp and anybody
got on him, he’d get up and buck himself to
death ! ”
&
Bobs was bred at Byrimine station, N.Q.
—a light bay geldi.tg nearly 17 hands high,
branded ST4 on off shoulder. Sawtell of
Byrimine sent him in 75 miles to Cloncurry
to see if anyone in Martini’s show.could ride
him. “I didn’t know r what we’d struck,”
says Mart. ; “so I said Yes.” But Willy
Waite talks of Bobs with serious respect.
“ He is n’t like any other horse I ever rode.
It is n’t the come-back or the rolling buck,
or the way he jerks one way with his
forequarters and another way with
his hindquarters, but everything together.
And he has such a lift—he rises like
a jumper; it’s like riding a spring-
board. And "he comes down with his
legs solid like bars of steel.” Waite adds :
“ It’s heart a rider wants: —and head as
well. If I ride it’s because I’m not fright-
ened. of a horse. I ’ll get on anything ; and
if it throws me I don’t care. Because I ’ve
been riding all my life.” Willy is a half-
blood, a tall, jolly-faced chap with a 44-inch
chest, splendid thigh and calf muscles, and
good jaw and chin. “ I like to know my
horse and keep a little ahead of him—like
to know what he’s going to do before he
does it. But Bobs is different from other
horses. There’s only one Bobs. People
sing out to you, ‘ Watch his head ! ’ —but
that’s no use at all.” And if you want a
testimonial to Willy Waite as a rider, ask
those A 1 judges, the Misses Armstrong of
Disputed Plains, N.S.W.
Martini makes his challenge to the crowd
under the stars. “ £lOO to anyone who will
sit Bobs for five minutes ; £2 to sit him for
two minutes ; same conditions as our own
men.” That means a hunting saddle and a
thin cord tied round the loins. “ The loin-
cord doesn’t hurt him,” says Martini. “ It’s
just to make sure we ’ll have a go for our
money. Because a rider for money will
mount without whip or spurs and sit as quiet
as the horse will let him.” And Jack Pen-
dergast, to whom Bobs has brought strong
conviction of his merits, adds: “I’ll bet
£5O to £1 that nobody can ride him—and
put down the sugar ! ” Up springs O’Neill,
a light-weight jockey from Maoriland : “I ’ll
take that! ” There is a slight difficulty about
“the sugar.” Pendergast explains that a
man does n’t carry £5O in his pockets, and
the crowd retorts that a man should n’t talk
without acting.
Presently a bet is arranged—£3o to 10s.
“Who’ll hold the stakes?” says Martini.
The crowd offers various persons fit for the
responsibility, and is silenced by a decided
voice: “ Here’s Paddy Crick ! ” Then that
jovial, hard-faced citizen, out on bail on
certain grave charges, comes forward to the
ropes and takes charge of the money. .Every-
body is content. Everybody feels that what-
ever becomes of the grave charges Paddy
Crick would die at the ropes in defence of
£3O 10s. entrusted to him in the way of
sport. ,
Presently Bobs, rearing away gaily, is re-
duced to submission by a twitch on his ear.
Saddle and cord are adjusted, and O’Neill
mounts with gay Bush gallantry : ‘ 1 Let him
go ! he’s mine for ever ! ” Bobs bucks twice,
wriggles once, and O’Neill comes o£F—quite
satisfied, thank you. Jack Pendergast is
also quite satisfied. Bobs threw Jack
Pendergast at Lismore, and at once won
Jack’s whole-souled admiration of his talent.
“ I held him for two forward bucks,” says
Jack; “then he bucked back, jerked his
shoulders—and threw me up and away 1
Something like a horse ! While I stuck on
him he landed so hard that it felt as if a
flock of scrub turkeys was running up my
backbone—right up my fleck ! ’’
Then Willy Waite mounts, and Bobs per-
forms. Willy sits him for half a minute and
is thrown heavily. But Willy has been
thrown so many times that he has acquired
the art of falling like an acrobat. “ Ladies
and gentlemen,” says Martini, “that con-
cludes this evening’s entertainment.”
J* J*
Martini says: “My name is Martin
Breheny. I was bom at Araluen, N.S.W.,
in 1868. Had a bit of gymnastic practice as
a nipper in Sydney; then picked up with
Harmston’s Circus and Wild West Show;
and was with them for years as an all-round
athlete. I struck Melbourne with Harms-
ton’s in Martini-Henry’s year, and the boys
thought I was so smart on the bars (my
speciality is bar-work) that they said, “Why,
he’s a regular Martini! ” And the name
has stuck to me ever since.
“ Look here, I’ll tell you a funny thing.
I could always get more money from an
American show than- from an Australian.
The Australian man would say “Oh, you
were born here. You can’t be much good.”
The American would say, I guess that act
is worth so much to me ; and I don’t care
where you come from,” —and pay on the
merits. When I left Sydney three years ago
with a small side show, we just struggled
along. At Parramatta the van-man thought
I was going to balance him—swindle him out
of his money; and when I paid up he said,
“ Look here I I didn’t expect this I’ll tell
you where there ’sa horse you ought to get-
up at Lithgow, owned by Jones, of the Zigzag
Brewery—that’s Dargin’s Grey.” Well, we
went up to Lithgow, and I arranged to get
the horse for one night for £5. If the chap
had asked for the money in advance
we were done, because I hadn’t got
it; but we took £lO, and after the show I
gave him his £5, and he was so pleased that
he said, “ Look here, you can have the horse
on Monday night for nothing.” A few days
after that I bought him for £B. Since then
I’ve walked him overland right up to Port
Douglas, then across to Normanton. Then
by sea to Thursday Island, and down again to
Sydney here—picking up buckers all the
way.
“ Look here, this last three years I’ve seen
the best bucking horses and the best riders
in the world, and I ’ll tell you. It’s prac-
tice makes perfect. A little man can
ride as . well as a big man : you watch
George Hoskins to-night. He isn’t a
little man, but he’s not long-legged,
and that’s what' you mean. A balance
rider does n’t use his legs to grip his
horse all the time: he’s just moving to
meet him—playing him as you might play a
fish; and gripping him with all his power
for the moment that the grip is needed. A
man ought to be able to ride a buck jumper
quite well at fifty if he’s a balance rider : it
doesn’t do him a bit of harm, because he’s
always going with the horse. Riding loose,
you ’re all over the horse, onetime on his neck,
another on his rump ; but you ’re always on
him. If you've got a stiff seat, once he
shifts you he shifts you for good. It’s just
like me handling my gymnastic bars : at one
time you hang on with all your power, at
others you ’re just touching lightly.
“ Make no mistake, Bobs iB a wonder.
That’s not my opinion only ; it’s the opinion
of real good judges—men like Dan O’Leary,
Of Hughenden ; and J. S. Love, of Towns-
ville, the Indian horse-buyer; and Mr.
Carter, of Richmond, W.Q. And he goes so
high that he pitches most riders a somer-
sault—throws them clean over. My chal-
lenge is open to anybody to try. But
the horse must have a fair show. Once I
made my challenge and a voice sang out,
‘ Fetch him up here, boss, and I ’ll ride
him ! ’ I could n’t make out where it came
from. Then I looked, and there was a black-
fellow perched right up a big tree. Well,
we didn’t take that on.”
- ■
Some Blake stories get themselves reprinted
It was at Felpham Blake once asked a lady if she had
ever seen a fairy’s funeral. The lady replied that she had
not. “ I have, but not before last night,” Blake con-
tinued. “ I was walking alone in my garden ; there was
a great stillness among the branches and flowers, and
more than common sweetness in the air; I heard a low
and pleasant sound, and I knew not whence it came. At
last I saw the broad leaf of a flower move, and underneath
I saw a procession of creatures, of the size and colour of
green and grey grasshoppers, bearing a body laid out on
a roseleaf, which they buried with songs and then dis-
appeared. It was a fairy funeral I ”
One day a drunken soldier, a muscular brute, broke
into the tiny slip of garden in front of Blake’s house.
The poet, although short in stature, was full of a frenzied
courage. Exasperated at the intrusion, he laid hands on
the King’s uniform and unceremoniously ejected the sur-
prised and frightened soldier, such was his passionate
wrath ! “ I do not know how I did it, but I did it,” he re-
marked afterwards, appearing to ascribe his feat tq
spiritual determination, which he firmly believed over-
came muscular limitations. In the course of the en-
counter the red-coat blustered about being the King’s
soldier. ‘ ‘ Damn the King and you too ! ” was the forcible,
if disloyal, rejoinder.
Perhaps the best-known story of the author of Songs
of Innocence and Experience is the alleged Return to
Nature. Mr. Butts, one of his best friends and a constant
patron, found Blake and his wife sitting in the summer
house “untramn fled by those troublesome devices”
which were the subjects of Carlyle’s satire. “ Come in,”
cried Blake, “it is only Adam and Eve, you know.” On
entering he found husband and wife reciting passages
from “Paradise Lost” in character—“l had almost
written ‘in costume,’” says Herbert Ives, who tells the
story anew.
RECENT BOOKS
A former friend of Oscar Wilde’s, J. M.
Stuart-Young, meditating the Muse (not, it
appeals, the ; UfAniari) ih West Africa, publishes
Osrac , the Self-Sufficient (Lond., Greening; 10s. 6d.)
—a handsomely printed book of verses and
recollections that twine round Wilde and Stuart-
Young, whose portraits have equal illustrative
prominence. The original verses are clever boy’s
rhymes and little more, though the eye .lights
upon one quatrain : '
God, for this world bright and gay,
I in Thy Mansion of Time
Lovingly, reverently pay
Eent with the run of a rhyme.
There are a few new fragments of Wilde:
I greatly admire Arthur Symons’s work. He feels what
he writes. But he is occasionally too sickly. He pants
uporl the breasts of his loves in a laboured effort to feel.
He urges his passion, instead of permitting his passion to
surge within him.
No marriage has been contracted yet where the man
was n’t the loser ; and if he be gifted, the heavier must
be the toll be pays to Eros. . . . And I love children too.
After all' the common drab necessity of propagation... .
To George Moore Wilde was sympathetic; but
to Moore’s realistic method he was antipathetio :
George Moore’s novels are unbearable to a sensitive
spirit. I always think of a grocer temporarily installed
in the place of an artist. . . . The grocer sits et the desk
of the artist and pens modern stories of modernjftve : all
impregnated with the suburban outlook and smeared with
the grease of “ our best shilling per pound."
This is rather hard on the denunciator of the
Brixton Empire.
Between Henry James and Edith Wharton
there is only sex to choose. James’s work is
just a trifle tenser and intenser, his phrasing just
a trifle brighter, his sense of the shades of an idea
just a little more acute. Mrs. Wharton is now in
her maturity of womanhood and literary power,
and The House of Mirth, her new book (Lond.,
Macmillan; 2s. 6d.) is a solid performance in
fiction that mirrors truth. The personages move
in to-day’s New York society. The story relates
the tragedy of a “society girl” whose hard polish
has*a fatal flaw of sentiment. Her duty to make
a “good,” unpalatable marriage is thwarted by
the romantic imp that now and again besets her ;
and presently her life becomes so difficult that
an accidental overdose of. chloral, cutting the
knot, is merciful maybe. The characters are
closely studied and well displayed, and the
book repays reading and suggests meditation.
The author is not without illuminating passages
that are almost epigrammatic. Some fragments:
The spot was charming, and Lily was not insensible to
the charm,,or to the fact that her presence enhanced it;
hut she was not accustomed to taste the joys of solitude
except in company, and the combination of a handsome
girl and a romantic scene struck her as too good to be
wasted. No one, however, appeared to profit by the
opportunity ; and after a half-hour of fruitless waiting
she rose and wandered on.
... the Stoic’s carelessness of material things, combined
with the Epicurean’s pleasure in them. Life shorn of
either feeling appeared to him a diminished thing ; and
nowhere was the blending of the two ingredients so
essential as in the character of a pretty woman.
It is surprising how little narrow walls and a low ceil-
ing matter, when the roof of the soul has suddenly been
raised.
Now that women have taken to tobacco, we live in a
bath of nicotine. It would be a curious thing to study
the effect of cigarettes on the relation of the sexes.
Smoke is almost as great a solvent as divorce : both tend
to obscure the moral issue.
Jt
One’s inability to read Ayesha, by H. R. Hag-
gard (Lond., Ward Lock ; 3s. 6<£.), snows that the
away of fashion in novels is no imaginary thing.
To be sure* Haggard writes in an elder manner :
be has lost elasticity, and wastes too many words
on his incidents ; yet this is not all.
The little light that always shone upon Ayesha’s brow ;
the wide-set, maddening eyes which were filled sometimes
with the fire of the stars, and sometimes with the dark-
ness of the heavens wherein they float ; the curved lips ‘
so wistful yet so bright; the tresses fine as glossy silk
that still spread and rippled as though with a separate
life...
These things might have interested us in She.
That they excite only mild distaste in Ayesha musfc,
be set down to the fact that crinolines and
mystic adventures have lost seduction. Doubt-
less new life will again breathe in the old
forms, but the years of oblivion are not yet
passed. If it be hinted ' that the reason
is subjective...but no ! last week the critic-
burned midnight gas in—guess l—The Arabian
Nights. Somehow one thinks that the publishers
have realised a shortcoming, or they would not
have given the book so many brilliant illustrations
by such an expensive man as Maurice Greiffen-
hagen. Now here is ah illustrator! a master!
whose work is a delight. If Ward, Lock & Co.
will employ him to visit Australia and illustrate
Ethel Turner’s books and others, we may forgive
some of their curious commercial idiosyncrasies.
♦
E. J. Forbes, Sydney, publishes The Art Reader
(4s. 6d.), “a series of readings on art, illustrated
by eighty reproductions of famous masterpieces
in painting, sculpture, and architecture, specially
prepared for use in schools as a supplementary
reading book.” This well-printed little book is
written and compiled by P. E. Quinn, who explains
that it is in no sense a text-book, and the technical
treatment of art and architecture has not been
attempted. The lessons are explanatory and histo-
rical, rather than critical. The object of the book is
to stimulate elder children’s interest in art; and the
plan takes Egyptian monuments, Greek buildings
and sculptures, Roman architecture, pictures by
the old masters, and a selection of famous works
by modern artists, sketching their history and
character, and giving some admirable illustrations
to point the lesson. Within its limitations the
work has been very carefully done, and Mr.
Quinn deserves credit for the manner in which be
has accomplished a difficult task.
A.G.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
■Billi SYDNEY.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. -«
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
ct
Sure
Catch ”
FISHING TACKLE.
MICK SIMMONS
Hay market, Sydney.
We have the best assortment of Rods, Reels,
Lines, Flies, Minnows, Spinners, and Tackle
in the States.
Split Cane Rods.
No.
1 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Cork Grip
and Handle, 50s each
1 Fitted with Lock Joints, 60s ea.
2 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Handle,
40s each
3 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
22s 6d each
4 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
12s 6d each
Greenheart Rods.
No.
5 13ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea
6 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea.
7 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 21s ea.
8 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 15s ea.
9 13ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 14s 6d ea.
LO 12ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 9s (id ea.
The Standard Waterproof Plaited Silk
Trout Lines.
0
>v» »»>»-•»>»>»>
20yd?.
No.
2 l/10ea.
3 2/- ea.
4 2/2 ea. |
5 2/6 ea.
6 3/- ea.
7 3/6 ea.
40yds.
No.
2 3/8 ea.
3 4/- ea.
4 4/4 ea,
5 5/- ea.
6 6/- ea.
7 7/- ea.
00£oN
0
Split Cane,
The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Trout Lines.
Nos. 1 2 3 4 5 Nos. 1 2 3 4 6
40 yards .. Is 9d 2s 3d 2s 9d 3s 3s 6d each | 80 yaids .. 3s 6d 4s fid 5s 6d 6s 7s each
NOTTINGHAM WOOD REELS, with Moveable Check.
11 111
No. 2
No. 2—3 in., 5s 6d ; 3Jin.,
6s 6d ; 4in., 7s ;
4Jin., 8s ; sin., 9s
each
No. 2a—3in., 6s 6d ; 3Jin.,
7s 6d ; 4in., 8s 6d
each
No. 3—Brass Plates and
Inside Lining, 3in.,
8s 6d ; 3Jin., 9s 6d ;
4in., 10s 6d ; sin.,
16s each
OUN'METAL CHECK
reels;
Screwed Fittings.
No. 4—2jin., 3s 6d ; 2|'n.,
6s 6d ; better 2in.,
14s; 3in., 16s 9d
each. Aluminium,
3Jin., 30s each
IMr,
4
Mounted on Gut.
Best Trout and
Herring Flies.
Trout Flies, Mounted on
Gut-
Nos. 6,7, 8,9, 10, Best
Hooks, Is 9d dozen
i Nos. 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12
Hooks, Is 3d dozen
Herring Flies on Gut, No.
7 to 12 Hooks, Is dozen
i %
Looped
Eyed.
Best Trout Flies, on Turn-Down Eyed
Sneck Hooks, Nos. 3,6, 8,9, 10,
Is 9d dozen.
Best Perch Flies—Nos. 1/0, 2/0 Hooks on
Gut, 6d,9deach ; No. 1/0, 2/0 Looped
Eyed, Is, Is 3d each
Special Grasshopper Flies on Gut, Nos.
1,2, 3, 4 Hooks, 6d each.
Special Gut Casts for Trout, 2 yards,
2d, 3d, 4d, 6d, 9d, Is each.
Mick Simmons
for Fishing Tackle.
Turn-
Down
Eyec 1 .
Tackle Boxes and Bait Cans.
No. 8b —Japanned Tin Boxes for Tackle, 6d each.
No. 68, better, Is 6d each
No. 67—Japanned Double-sided Tackle Box. 6d each
No. 69 —6in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, Is 6d each
No. 70 —6in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, 2s each
No. 71—Patent Bait Can (for carrying- live fish), 6s each
No. 72—Patent Bait Can, enamelled (for carrying live fish), 8s 6d, 10s 6d each
No. 67
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports and
Tobacco Lists Post Free.
Patent
Collapsible
Trout Net,
EACH.
No. 86 —4Jin. Leatlii r, Parchment, Is 6d each
No. 87—4 in. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 3s 6d each.
No. 88 —sin. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 4s 6d each.
No. 89—5 n. Oanvas, Parchment Pockets, (is 6d each.
No. 91 —6in. Patent Fly Clips, Pocke's, 7s each.
Best Books for Holding
Flies and Tackle.
Artificial Baits for Trout, Perch and God,
No. 112.
S.Allcock&C°j
Patent
Ring-mounted
No. I)2—Silk Minnows, ljin., 2in., 2£in, 2Jin., 2s each
No. 114—Pearl Minnows, 2s 6d each.
No. 115—Devon Jlinnows, assorted colors, lin., ljin.,
ljin., Is each ; ljin., 2in., Is 3d each.
No. 122—Halcyon Spinners, lin., Is each; l£in.,
Is 3d each ; 2in., Is 6d each.
No. 131—Special Rubber Grasshoppers,
Small, 6d each ; Large, 9d each.
No. 130 —Pure Rubber Crickets, Locusts,
6d each ; Beetles, 4d each.
No. 123 —Archer Spinners, Is (id each.
No. 124—Fly Minnow, 6d each.
No. 125—Soleskin Minnow, 6d each.
No. 126—Sydney Spinners, small, 9d.
each ; large, Is each.
No. 127—Sydney Spinner, Single Hook,
3d each
No. 128—Fly Spoon, with 1 Hook, 6d ea.
No. 127 —Perch Fly Spinner, small,
medium, large, Is each.
Heavy Metal, Silvered Spoon Baits,
Mounted on Gimp,
lin., ljin., ljin., 6d each
lfin., 7d each ; 2in., 8d each
2Jin., 9d ea. ; 2£in., lOd ea. ; 2Jin., Is ea.
Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks Gratis.
Patent fting-Mounted
Devons.
lin., ljin., ljin., Is 6d each
ljin., 2in., Is 9d each
No. 122.
Spoon Bait.
Heavy Metal, Scaled Back,
Spoon Baits, red inside, on Gimp,
lin. .. 9d each
l jin. .. lOd each
2in. .. Is each
2Jin. .. Is 3d each
WILLOW TROUT BASKETS—
i9in fis. each : 14in.. 7s. 3d. each:
THE GROWN
WATERPROOF SILK LINES.
40 yards on Cork No. 3,
Is (d each
ENGLISH PURE SILK LINES.
60 yards, Green, on Cork,
No. 24—6 d each.
No. 20—8 d each.
No. 16—9 d each.
No. 12—Is each.
No. 10—Is 3d each
i CATCH
CANT-B-BEAT
Line on Cork.
so
28
26
29
■ 22
t? 0
IS
/6
/*•
- 12
' >0
-8
WATERPROOF BILK TWIST LINES, on CorK.
33 yards.
Nos. EACH,
14—33 yards.. 7d.
12—33 „ .. Bd.
10—33 „ .. 9d.
8—33 „ .. lod.
6—33 „ .. is.
ENGLISH FLAX WATERPROOF LINES
on Cork.
No. 60—Bream, 25yds., 6d. each; EOyds. 9d.
each; 100yds., Is. 3d. each.
No. 80—Flathead, 25yds., Bd. each? 60yds..
Is. ejgfe; }QOy4O., Is. o<j.
English Hemp Fishing Lines.
No. 8C —Bream, 25yds., 6d each ; 50yds., 9d each ; 100yds., Is each
No. 3C—Flathead, 25yc’s., 8d each ; 50yds., Is each ; 100yds., 1/9 each-
Our Special Schnapper or Cod Lines
ROLLED ON CORK OR REEL.
200 „ 4s 6d „
Stout
Shark or
Cod
Shark or
Cod
\
rr/Y/s/syj7ZZ77
18 Cord—Shark or Cod-
-25 yard?, 9d each ; SO .yards, Is 6d each ;
100 yards, 2s 9d each ; 200 yards, 5s each.
27 Cord—Shark or Cod —
25 yards, Is each ; 50 yards, Is 9d each ;
100 yards, 3s each ; 200 yards, 5s 6d each.
Remittance and Freight
Must Accompany Order.
SBUD POK. LISTS.*W
THE TRADE SXJr*F*LIED.*^i
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Annual Distribution of the Surplus.
Next Division of the Profits will be
made as at 31st December, 1905.
CASH BONUS D/SS lort S/JliSr to be ’ the ” allotfced -
EXrFFnilvr Ahic ni... * Z618 ’486, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
EXCEEDING ONE MILLION POUNDS STERLING.
EEMEMBm-£rS b b y e S to h the
HEAD s 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
c«n, ra l Manager and A<,t„,i T , Richard Te.ce, F.1.A., F.rl A igjj. “'“"rOmSt
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
p-*-
-■sss
i
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
The “New Rival” is a grand good cartridge ;
good in construction, good because it is
primed with a quick and sure primer, and
good because carefully and accurately
loaded with the best brands of powder
and shot. It is a favorite among hunters
and other users of black powder cartridges
on account of its uniform shooting, evenness
of pattern and strength to withstand
reloading. A trial will prove its excellence.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
oMnefordS]
MAGNESIA,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked END’S 'FRUIT SALT;' Without It you buy a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Proparad only by J. Q. ENO, Ltd.. * FRUIT SALT ' WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
Consult HERB RASSMUSSEN,
fn fi.ll Pnlirnt.A XT . ... .
,n ?r 7 vous * S^ n and Bl ° od Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Wf)<ik Mon treatment by p ° st a specialty.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
WiHCure the , N Jf ves ' debility, best Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen tlxe Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DesnaiF
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles and all Rinnr)
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Doiibl’e Course
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses 23/6
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d. ’ *
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; IS PULTENEV ST„ ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE t
1)1 lAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Weak Women
Indigestion & Rheumatism.
A THOROUGH CURE.
The Case of
Mr. J. TYE.
(By a Special .Reporter.)
The public will be interested to
learn how it came about that Mr.
Jacob Tye threw off a serious illness
that had overtaken him, and full de
tails of the fortunate event will be
found in the following - conversation,
which took place at his residence, Wo.
19 Victoria-street, Alexandria :
Mr. Tye : “Two years last month 1
was laid up with rheumatism and in-
digestion, and if over a man felt that
his term on this planet was just about
ended it was I. Such acute pains as
those which had entered my shoulders
and arms you could not imagine, and
1 felt so stiff and sore that it took
me all my time to get out of bed in
the morning, let alone work.”
Reporter: “Had you been suffering
from those complaints for any length
of time ?”
Mr. Tye : “Yes ; far too long for my
liking, and I earnestly hope that 1
shall never have such experiences
again. In one way I would rather be
dead than go through the same
agony, for it was really too dreadful
for words. I tried all" sorts of lini-
ments for the rheumatism, but even
temporary relief did not come from
them ; and as for taking medicine in-
ternally —well, it was not my fault
that 1 did not get better, for 1 took
plenty of it. lor months my diges-
tive organs wore on strike—wouldn’t
do their work at all, in fact—and
there is no doubt that the nossibilitv
of getting well again seemed very re-
mote. It was an extraordinary thing
if for half a day my head was not
aching and I do not think anybody
could be more troubled with giddiness
than I was. It was a peculiar feeling,
as if I was on the point of fainting,
and what also assisted in adding to
my physical troubles was a sensation
in my chest as if the breathing tubes
were clogged up. Of a morning the
taste I had in my mouth was enough
to turn one sick, but I had enough of
that as it was, for after every meal I
vomited the food up again almost di-
rectly, and getting as thin as 1 did
was only a natural consequonco.”
Reporter : “Perhaps you ate too
heartily, and took more food than the
weakened condition of your stomach
could withstand ?”
Mr. Tye : “There was no fear of that
for my appetite was too poor. hJo ; if
1 only took a couple of biscuits I
would vomit them up again, so you
can see what a critical state 1 was in.
One day I was seized with cramps all
over me, and I had to come home and
lie up for a couple of weeks. Oh, 1
thought I was done for then, and the
way my loins used to ache was some-
thing fearful. 1 was so restless that- I
could not get half as - much sleep as I
wanted—just dozing off in fits and
starts like—and I never slept but what
1 had dreams of a most repulsive char-
acter ; that my nerves were all broken
down was quite evident from the way
in which 1 tised to tremble if anything
out of the way occurred, and I became
the victim of an uncontrollable cranki-
ness that used to arise on the least
provocation. Truly, I got excited and
bad tempered sometimes for nothing,
although I tried hard enough not to,
and the longer I suffered the more dis-
mal in mind I became. I felt that 1
had no desire for anything—no amuse-
ment, no work, no company—nothing
at all, in fact, except to lie down and
remain as quiet as possiblo. Many a
day 1 came home, with a sinking feel-
ing, which induced me to say tliat I
wanted some nourishment, but directly
it was _ placed before me I’d turn
against it. But there was something
elsie that worried me a great deal.”
Reporter: “Yes; what was that’”
Mr. Tyo : “My heart, for the way it
palpitated, especially if I had been ex-
erting myself in the least, was some-
thing- terrible, and when I retired at
night, after lying down a little while
it would start fluttering in a most dis-
tressing manner. Naturally enough L
thought l had some form of heart dis-
ease. but soon after accepting a
friend's- advice, and starting on- a
course of Clements Tonic, all doubts
on that question were settled, for the
heart’s action became as regular as it
could be. That was a great, relief to
my mind, 1 can tell you, and didn t 1
feel delighted to know that at last I
had got a remedy that was really able
to do me some good ? Don't for a mo-
ment think that 1 am overdrawing my
story, as 1 have no reason lor doing
so, and it is nothing but the plain
truth when 1 tell you that Clements
ionic actually saved my life, for when
l started on it 1 was almost too weak
to move, and I bad certainly nothing
to expect from any other medicine.
Nothing I had hitherto tried could
lessen in the slightest degree my rheu-
matic pains, but. I can honestly say
that Clements Tonic gave me relief in
a few weeks, and by continuing with
the same remedy 1 was freed from
those torments altogether. Oh, how
thankful 1 was for all that, yet other
benctits still awaited me."
Reporter : ‘‘ln respect to your di-
1 suppose V"
Mr. Tye : "In every possible way l
benefited by the use of Clements Tonic,
and I reckon there is nothing in. crea-
tion to equal it for giving an appetite
to a sick person. Why, Clements Tonic
made me eat so that 1 never felt satis-
fied, and it was a healthy appetite,
too, for J. never felt uncomfortable af-
ter eating. And weren’t my people sur-
prised at the way i was coming round
again—right back from the grave. I
might say—and what a treat it was
tp feel some vigour and strength run-
ning through my frame once more. My
nerves were settled and invigorated to
a remarkable degree, and it was not
long before 1 ceased turning about at.
nights instead of sleeping soundly, and
my sleep was not marked by frightful
dreams as was previously tho case. No;
in every way 1 had improved beyond’
recognition, my sunken cheeks having
filled out., and there was an air of ac-
tivity about mo that had been lacking
for months past. Constipation had
troubled me considerably, but by tak-
ing Di\ Fletcher’s pills with the Cle-
ments Tonic I soon got over that dif-
ficulty permanently, and from the day
1 was cured over two years ago my
health has been as sound' as a boll. J.
ought to make special mention of tho
promptitude with which Clements To-
nic stopped the vomiting after meals,
and when that was done 1 made
wholesale progress, and soon lost
every pain and ache.”
Reporter: "Well, if you are agree-
able your narrative will appear in the
papers
. Mr. Tye : "And I trust every sufferer
in the land may read it. Certainly,
publish tho facts I’ve given you how
and when you please.”
STATUTORY - DECLARATION - .
tl’ .TYE. of 19 Victoria-
s-treet. Alexandria, in the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that .1 have
carefully read the annexed dooument, consist-
ing: of four folios and consecutively numbered
from oue to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of mv ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
wav my statements—which I give voluntarily
without receiving any payment. ; and X make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
'*• the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
C^-<-
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo this
tenth day of November, one thousand nine
nundred and four, before me,
JOHN DUNNING, J.P.
V »*•»//.
A Beautiful (9 cf. Gold-eased) Bracelet, a Solid Gold
Shell Ring, and a Handsome Nickel Silver Watch, FREE
Simply send us your Name and Address, plainly written on a postcard’
and we will send you 20 Packages of our unexcelled Violet Per-
fume, in a Box, FREE of all expense to you. You then sell the
Perfume among your friends and neighbours, at 6d, per packet and
when gold, you remit us the money you have collected, and we will’send
you, absolutely FREE for your trouble, the above-described WATCH
or the BRACELET, and the RING. Both the Perfume and the
Premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges. It is an entirely
new perfume and will sell easily, and each „ust.omer who buys a
package receives a prise ticket which entitles them to a beautiful
Brooch, absolutely Free. Our object in making this marvellous offer
and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior Per-
fume into the hands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that
everyone will be so well pleased with it that they will gladly recommend
it to their friends. We have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. 'SSti
simply send your Name and Address, plainly written on a post-card, and
we will send the Perfume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods
returnable if not sold. Remember, we pay all shipping expenses.
Address,
“VIOLET PERFUME CO,”
& — Ag PITT STRt-FT, SYDNEY, NS W.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
fIIHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
WfTOmi Om
CORO AROUMO
SIZE
::
i
I


Not every
woman
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many
would
want one
around, any-
way. But you
certainly can
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor;
and most women would
be greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much
to have long, rich, heavy
Ni
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
Mair Vigor
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
If you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use
MOIR’S
“Mayfair”
Jelly Crystals.
NEW SEASON’S SHIPMENTS Just Landed.
EXCELLENT FLAVORS.
TRY . . .
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
It is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIK. AND SON, Limited
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner oi LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
THE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to clear the whole
of their stock
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to - • ■ ■ .- £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to .. .. ..£5OO
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to .. .. ... • • •; • • 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels; reduced to.. .. .. .. ..£llO 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap £0 6 9
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb.; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
ROTHWELL’S J#
ONLY ADDRESS—
Edward St., Brisbane.
Send for Samples of our
SPECIAL STATION SHIRTS
27/6 the half-dozen,
to order, post paid. [1
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of " BONNINGTON S
XB.ISH MOSS.” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds. Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
BoNNiNfiTON’s Irish Moss
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
Sr -3
WALTHAM
WATCHES
The best watches
that can be con-
structed.
All guaranteed.
For sale all over
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A.
L. I* FLEGELTAUB
ROYAL JEWELLER- - - -
HOROLOOIST,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT.
Exceptional Value | -
,Gun Metal Watch *
Post Free Everywhere.
With our Guarantee of Accuracy for years.
96 King SW Sydney, n.s.w.
9
t/’/fajAmk) rtf'
• m •
A
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreamland.
A golden river’s flowing to the realms of sleep and
dreams,
A myriad stars are showing in its tributary
streams;
Through all the night unwaking, light fairy spells
unbreaking,
Are holding me in triumph, and a blissful essence
seems
To be lifting and upholding, and my burning
brain enfolding.
In a calm embrace and soothing, whilst soft fairy
hands are smoothing
From out my wearied forehead all the wrinkles
that are there.
In enchanted woods around floats a melody of
sound,
And the echoing air is ringing with a sweet and
subtle singing,
Till the waves of song are bringing quiv’ring
leaflets to the ground.
From branch to treetop fluttering, chirping birds
are ever uttering
Notes that swell the harmony ;
Singing birds all golden-breasted, golden-winged
and golden-crested ;
Flowers blooming flood the air with a perfume
sweet as rare.
Here I wander in my dreams, through this land of
limpid streams,
Mystic land where peace holds sway, where is
neither night nor day,
Disappointment nor distress, care nor other
bitterness;
Passion has no dwelling here, love nor hatred,
hope nor fear;
Jar of contest is not heard, strife of deed nor war
of word,
But—as round the senseless dead —all-pervading
peace is spread.
Joy were mine could I remain, free from turmoil,
fret, and strain.
Here, where only visions reign. Woe is me ! I
may not stay.
In the east the dawn is breaking, and the stars
the sky forsaking,
Fly before the face of day.
N.s.w.
EDGAR HEANE HARRIS.
The Artist.
I do not care how slowly I proceed,
Or even whether I proceed at all,
So long as youth gains not the veteran’s mead,
Nor dreams of brilliant pasts hold age in thrall.
What hell ’twould be to spur a flagging brain
Whence old ideas trickle faint and slow!
What hell to sweat like stokers to attain
The height we soared to, birdlike, years ago!
I dread that moment when my magic flies,
And when —my work grown placid, frail as air—•
I see contemptuous thoughts in people’s eyes,
That cursed compassion bids them not declare.
Be triumph my reward, I hope it waits
Till my last years ; I dread that brilliant past 1
Joyance will light the rudimentary states
If God will let me do my best things last.
VIO.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Along the Huon.
All along the Huon River fields lie fair and wide,
Sweeping curves of orchard lands spread white on
either side,
Dreamy blue of distant hills, plain and valley
fair,
And the red-gold wattle blossom haunts the air.
Roses by the gateways and poplars by the wall,
Grey lights merging into green ’mid shimmering
gum-trees tall.
Sure, the seed is on the grass where the reed-beds
bow
Down along the Huon River now.
Flashing sunlight on the stream, and glamor of
old ways,
Fringed dogwoods by the road, and tangled,
musky maze,
Where, in gullies deep with fern, magpies carol
iong
Vesper hymn and joyous matin song.
Paddocks cream with clover bloom are fresh from
flying rain,
Best balm for a wounded heart, heal for hurt and
pain,
Breezes cool for aching head, breath of Heaven
sweet,
Soft green ways for weary, aching feet.
All along the Huon River dandelions blaze,
Painting all the earth with gold in sweet Sep-
tember days;
Where the grasses flutter, for the bees are droning
low
Fragments of lost day-dreams long ago.
All along the Huon when the purple shadows
fall
Spreads the moonlight’s silver veil faintly over
all,
Glitters back the drowsy stream, drifting white
and wide,
A million flashing jewels on its tide.
All the world wore tints of rose, Time swept
swiftly past,
In those merry, merry days, far too sweet to last.
We, the exiled weary ones, fain their joy would
know
Down along the Huon, long ago.
vio.
KATHLEEN WALKER.


PASTORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month-keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sate.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head Office:
13 Phillip St., SYDNEY.
Manager: T. C. BOYD.
LET’S TALK OF LAXATINE.
LAX A TINE is the leading Laxative*
LAXATINE is & very mild aperient,
LAX ATINE is made up in lollie-like lozenges,
LAXATINE is as pleasant to take as it is easy to buy.
LAXATINE is liked alike by the ladies and the little ones.
LAXATINE thoroughly cleanses the system without causing any personal dis-
comfort,
LAXATINE is not a violent purgative; it is gentle, but unfailing. Good for adults
and children,
LAXATINE arrests disease and gives renewed vigor to the weak and weary.
LAXATINE is sold by all Chemists. One Shilling per box. Cheap at a Pound.
Try Laxatine,
ARE
YOU
A
BARRACKER
For
Australia
9
HERE ARE A FEW FROM 1001 REASONS
WHY YOU SHOULD PURCHASE A PRIZE
A.N.A. Sewing 1 Machine.
THE A.N.A., although much the
1 best Machine, is half the cost
of Any Other—because we save
selling expenses by not keeping a
staff of expensive travellers.
Your money is kept in Australia
instead of being sent out of the
country.
A.N.A. MACHINES are the most
simply constructed of all machines,
are most durable, reliable, and the
perfection of strength and accu-
racy, with ease of operation and
superior finish.
THE A.N.A. is The Marvel of the
20th Century. Whilst pos-
sessing the best merits of the best
Machines it has the following
special features and valuable im-
provements possessed by no other
machine :
Sews Backwards or Forwards
with great speed, the backward
sewing being invaluable for finish-
ing and strengthening the end of
a seam.
Patent Knee Lever to turn or
withdraw the work, so that both
hands are always free.
Securely Paoked
and Sent ....
Price from £3 lOs. to £9 15s .
To any part of the
Commonwealth.
GUARANTEED FOR 25 YEARS. TERMS TO SUIT All.
For Full Description of this Great Aust. Prize A.N.A. Machine send for Catalogue A. to following address—
WARD BROS.
Established 1888. Sole Proprietors.
224 Chapel St., PRAHRAN, Melb., Vic.
House [leaning
Carpets, Furniture,
Curtains, &c., cleaned
without removal.
CONVENIENCE, CLEANLINESS,
DISINFECTION, ECONOMY.
BY THE
Simpson & Burton
SUCTION DUST
EXTRACTOR,
Offices: 14 O'CONNELL ST*
SYDNEY;
34 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Telephone 2377.
157“'Write or Telephone us and our
representative will call.
For The CHILD, The INVALID and The AGED.
NESTLES MILK
Nestle’s * Milk • Food
BOTH HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
123
Warehouse
with
RUBEROID
u
.. '
jBSBBE
1
3B . - ■
SWISS
sS*Ssj:
. ' ■ •
• •- —A- ■ .. - ... . ; , - -
V. j: ■ ■ ■
*.-£ so®
■, .
r—*&:
.-, " n
■
y*«<;
*?**** .-,^x.-
Ml
The ever-increasing popularity of RUBEROID ROOPIimc
wiany warehouses being roofed with it. These illustrations - +u* d ** S °
Tobacco Company’s Building at the corner of Park and ifi h^ W *^ he D,xson
prob»b.» the ,er e eet fetor, bunding l„
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
Sydney and Brisbane.
IN OTHER
BTATES
A| l ’ A E r^ ooks ' Robinson & Co. Ltd.
FRFmlm4'S A ' t VV - ® an dford & Co.
M ‘ F «'BU3on, Ltd.
“PR^RT—Wm. Crosby & Co.
LAUNCESTON— The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’
Agency Co., Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1361.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 11)06.
Pkiob 6d.
THE N.S.W. MOVEMENT; FANNING THE FLAMES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the Australians."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SZTRSCR TBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiib Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 ow to A ddress Betters.
Correspondents to Tiib Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should, in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing. with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neiospaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. ,
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will,be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood, that the copy is to be
destroyed f not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for toe preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. Tllacjc an ft White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of’ sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and.
Gotch, Ludgate Circus. .
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson A Co., 28 Jlifi/ebk 'fStreet, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver..— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
llonq Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Hoad, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Breiver and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x llfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“Posters ” will be attached to agents’ parcels if live,
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 1906.
THE GAINS OF N.S.W. UNDER
FEDERATION.
A noisy section of the old anti-Federal party has
lately raised its objectionable head in and around
Sydney?’and is talking feeble, bumptious nonsense
about the alleged calamitous position of N.S.W.
under Fedferation. Not daring to label itself the
anti-Federal party—the old, roaring Cabbage
Tree Mob —this gathering professes to be strongly
Federal at heart but driven to desperation and
righteous anger by the “ wrongs ” heaped on the
stomach of its prostrate State. Then, as a matter
of course, it has to invent the wrongs, and in this
respect, though it reveals very moderate in-
genuity, it shows an amazing power of lying and
a vast 'unscrupulousness which almost calls for
admiration, and which certainly calls for six
months* hard labor. Among the various per-
versions which it has published at various
times are • the statements that N.S.W. re-
venue goes to support the other States;
that the N.S.W. patent records have been
taken to Melbourne ; that N.S.W. has been robbed
of its postal revenue, its defences, and its property
generally ; that N.S.W. was a very rich State
before it became part of the Federation in 1901,
and that it is now a very poor one ; and the rest
is mainly vague whirling charges of highway
robbery, burglary, house-breaking, arson, bigamy,
infidelity, and piracy on the high seas. One wild
Sydney Telegraph correspondent actually put
his name, the other day, to a letter in which he
accused the Commonwealth of robbing N.S.W. of
its water ; but his case can only, in charity for an
afflicted brother, be set down to madness. Still,
in view of the fact that even the most hopeless
and incredible lie may find believers if repeated
often enough, and that Dowieism, Mormonism,
the Tichborne claimant, and the “ wrongs of
N.S.W.” all have their believers, it is not amiss to
consider exactly what has happened in the way of
gain or loss to N.S.W. during the first years of
Federation.
• • « •
In the last years of the separate State system
N.S.W. was a desperately poor country. All
through the last ten years of provincialism immi-
gration was so utterly dead, and N.S.W. was so
good a place to get away from, that, according to
the latest published figures of its own State Statis-
tician, the departures exceeded the arrivals by
7904—an average loss of 790 people per annum.
That was up to the end of 1901, when the Federal
tariff came into effect. In 1902-3-4 (again accord-
ing to its own Statistician’s figures) N.S.W. under
Federation gained 18,037 people by excess of arri-
vals over departures—a gain of over 6000 immi-
grants a year. The State’s total increase of popu-
lation (by immigration and by excess of births over
deaths) varied in the last years of the old separate
tariffs from 23,020 in 1895 to 14,941 in 1901—the last
year of the old tariff. In 1902 the increase rose to
28,090; in 1903 it was 24,008 ;in 1904 it was 29,904.
Roughly speaking the growth of population Was
at once accelerated by about 40 per cent. But
while N.S.W. boomed, some of the other States
struck disaster. The Federal tariff was an in-
creased tariff as regards N.S.W., and N.S.W.’s
population began to expand by leaps and bounds.
It was a diminished tariff as regards the other
States and they suffered. Here are a few in-
stances :
Increases of Population.
1901. 1904.
N.S. Wales 14,941 29,904
Victoria 13,763 1,445
Queensland .. .. 12,830 6,125
Tasmania 1,400 716
New South Wales profited, while most of the
other States lost—though anyone who listens to
the wails of the Cabbage Tree Mob of Sydney
might think the facts were the other way about.
* * * »
The Federal tariff brought to Victoria, South
Australia, Tasmania and Queensland a grievous
diminution of revenue and great temporary
financial embarrassment, in add.tion to checking
the growth of population in three of those States.
To N.S.W., however, the tariff brought a glorious
increase of revenue which N.S.W. has spent
royally—on itself. It was Federation, with its
tariff, its increase of revenue and its boom, which
made the payment of old age pensions possible in
N.S.W. That State passed its Old Age Pension
law a few days before the Commonwealth started
business, and trusted wholly to the Federal tariff
which was to come to provide the money (about
£500,000 a year). It made not the slightest
effort to find the money itself, and it only
began to pay the old age pensions when the
new Federal tariff revenue commenced to
roll in. The N.S.W. State Government took
vast credit to itself for paying these pensions,
while the courage of the Federal Parliament in
finding the money was denounced by the Cabbage-
Tree Mob of Sydney as tyranny, extortion, and a
callous “ heaping of burdens on the backs of the
people.” Yet the N.S.W. State Parliament
plainly reckoned and expected and hoped for this
same extortion, and this same heaping of burdens
on the people, for it had arranged to spend
the proceeds of the alleged “iniquity” even
before the “iniquity” arrived. The mob that
demands secession and a return to the old State
tariff proposes, of course, to abolish the Old Age
Pension system as well as to abolish the system
which finds the money for the pensions.
* * * *
Under Federation and the Federal tariff and
the Federal policy the population of N.S.W. has
increased in the last four years, by 96,943,
though these years included the bitterest
period of the drought. The six years before
that showed just about the same increase. Under
Federation the shipping going into and out of
N.S.W. ports has grown by a little over 1,000,000
tons, which does not seem wholly like ruin. The
total trade of N.S.W. has grown in the same
brief period by rather over £4,500,000—in other
words, there was as great an increase in the last four
years under Federation as there was in the pre-
vious 10 under Separatism, and 1904 was the best
year for commerce that N.S.W. has ever seen.
The N.S.W. postal and telegraph department,
which hardly paid for its own axle-grease until
1897, and which, in the very best year under
Separatism,. only yielded £07,i13 over and above
bare working expenses (£67,113, that is, towards
interest on the money borrowed to build post-
offices and telegraph lines) has improved steadily
under Federal management until in 1904 it paid
N.S.W. £85,546 —this despite the fact that
the department now pays everything out of
revenue instead of charging many of its expenses
to loans as it did under State control. N.S.W.
manufactures have not grown as they should have
done, and as they would have done under a better
tariff ; but inefficient as the tariff is, it is better
than anything N.S.W. ever had before, and
under it N.S.W. had, at the end of 1904, 68,036
“hands” employed in its factories —an increase
of 7251 employees since the last year of Separatism.
This may not be much of an increase, but at least
it represents the high water mark of N.S.W.
manufactures up till now.
*■* '**
The value of property in N.S.W. municipalities
lias increased by almost exactly £16,000,000 during
the brief period of Federation; the last few
years of Separatism had seen it decrease
by something like £30,000,000. There is more
coin in the N.S.W. banks now than there ever
was before; the increase since the beginning of
Federation has been not far short of £2,000,000.
Almost every kind and variety of stocks and
shares have gone up during the Federal period,
as they had never previously done since the begin-
ning of the ’9o’s, and there has been a memorable
expansion in banking and company profits. Even
the long unsaleable Sydney suburban allotment,
after being dead for a dozen years or so, has come
into demand again, and the boss of the Sydney
Labor Bureau had the joyous effrontery to issue a
Christmas report whose tenor was that the work-
less class had been, for the moment, practically
provided for. Of course, despite all these things
and many other things, progress has been lament-
ably slow. The increase of population and the
growth of industries should be three times as
rapid as they are, and with the tariff and the
land laws that Australia should have, the growth
in both lines would be three times—or six times—
as rapid. But still N.S.W., under Federation,
has moved ahead as it hadn’t done previously for
half a generation or so, and the great bulk of the
good fortune which has attended on Federation
has fallen to N.S.W.’s share.
* * * •
The little Sydney crowd of importers, and the
remnant of the old anti-Bill push, reply, of course,
that these blessings and advantages are not owing
to Federation. They are things that would have
happened in any case. To that it can only be
said that at least they never happened previous to
Federation, and they had much more time to
happen in before the founding of the Common-
wealth than they have had since; that some of
them—the growth of manufactures and the
Old Age Pensions, for example—were plainly
the direct results of Federation; and that the
fact that Federation at least didn’t prevent
the other things happening— the increase of trade
and shipping, the sudden growth of population,
the rise in the values of stocks, shares and 1 .nd,
the increase in banking and company profits and
all the rest —gives the lie direct to the whole
pathetic tale of the anti-Federalists about the ruin
which Commonwealth legislation has brought on
the State. They brazenly assert that there is
actual visible disaster and decadence, and every
line in the share lists and the State statistics and
the balance-sheets of public institutions calls them
Ananias, individually and collectively. N.S.W.
is not prospering as it should do, but it is prosper-
ing as the old incapable purelv-State management
never made it prosper. It is at the top of the
pinnacle of its prosperity, and if the pinnacle isn’t
so high as it should be, the responsibility lies with
the Sydney contingent in the Federal Parliament,
which succeeded in getting Kingston’s draft
tariff cut down so heavily. If George P.kid and
about ten other N.S.W. members had been
temporarily or permanently dead in 1901 and 1902
N.S.W. might easily have gained 80,000 im-
migrants in the past three years instead of 18,000,
and have now 120,000 people employed in
its factories instead of 68,000. Unfortunately
in addition to its Foreign-traders and im-
porters, N.S.W.—or rather Sydney and a small
district attached thereto—is cursed with the
bumptious “Mother State ”, push—the old vci-
Billites, who are more inflated over the fact chat
N.S.W. has a slightly larger population than its
next neighbor, and that it is the State that was
lagged first, than Napoleon was when he had
conquered most of Europe. The pomp and pride
and circumstance and bursting dignity of this
mob make it impossible for the Commonwealth
to do anything that isn’t a “wrong” or an
“ insult ”or an “ injury.” A few members of this
crowd of deafening boss roosters are now talking
secession, and seeking to persuade the people of
N.S.W. that it is almost worth treason and
civil war to get away from the union
which has lifted the State out of the mud-
hole of poverty and depression to an affluence it
never knew before, and that it is almost worth
insurrection and bloodshed to get back to the old
rut, the old poverty, the old chronic departure of
the State’s best manhood to other countries, the
old lack of work, and the old dead days when
there were no old age pensions, because there was
no money to pay them with, and when the chief pro-
vision for the aged poor was what they could find
in the garbage box after dark. If N.S.W. is in
its senses it isn’t “ taking any more ” of its vener-
able Cabbage Tree Mob and its old Anti-Bill
acquaintances. They are to-day a humorless
assemblage of very unconvincing frauds, just asthey
were in the Federal referendum days and on
many previous occasions.
N.S.W. LABOR IDEAS.
The Political Labor League of N.S.W. opens its
annual conference in Sydney on January 26, and
it will have then to consider 144 suggestions for
the alteration and repair of the party’s political
platform. A number of the proposals are trivial
or merely formal; a few are foolish or crude or
unfinished-looking; a considerable number show
an amount of plain horse sense which is a missing
quantity at the gatherings of the “National”
Ass, and the “Liberal” League, and the people
who weep bitterly about the “wrongs” of N.S.W.
The Executive of the League proposes the
appointment of a committee to draft a compre-
hensive land and financial policy, and the need
for a definite financial policy is so obvious that the
proposal should be carried without any difficulty.
It also proposes that the Labor party should at
last go the Whole Hog—or something fairly near
to the Entire Animal—by declaring against all
borrowing except for the renewal of existing loans.
This is the noblest proposition in the list of 144 ideas,
and if the Executive would only add that every
time an old loan is renewed it should be renewed
with a sinking fund attached, the idea would be
complete, and the party would at last have gone
the Total Financial Swine in a most creditable
fashion. Nothing is definitely stated in the pro-
posal about setting aside a' certain amount of
revenue annually for new public works, but as
new public works are essential that is presumably
understood. It is at least a great step gained
when the Executive realises that the old idea of
permitting borrowing for new works, which will
pay interest on cost and something towards
sinking fund, is utterly impracticable. And it is
utterly and pathetically and obviously imprac-
ticable. Almost every new work, before it is
built, is going to pay full interest and something
over, but hardly any work does anything like that
after it is built, so only a party of prophets,
whose gift of prophecy was always in working
order, could make the present principle manageable.
The Leichhardt Labor League also submits a
proposal for the absolute cessation of borrowing
and the supply of money for public works
by means of a graduated land-tax. If any
proposal of this kind is carried, and if the men in
Parliament live up to it a good deal more con-
scientiously than they have lived up to the anti-
borrowing plank, in the present platform, the
N.S.W. Labor Party will become, distinctly and
pre-eminently, the Honest Party in finance, and
no body of members could ask for a better adver-
tisement than that.
* * * *
There are three separate proposals on the busi-
ness paper of the Labor Conference for a graduated
land-tax, one for an absentee-tax, one for the
compulsory cultivation of at least 10 per cent, of
each holding in agricultural districts, and several
dealing with the compulsory purchase of large
estates for closer settlement; but there is no
proposal—and there certainly should be one—
giving every tenant the right to purchase from his
private landlord, at an independent valuation,
the property he occupies. Three propositions
are made for the nationalisation of the
banking industry and one for the establish-
ment of a Commonwealth Bank, and two
propositions for replacing the present hopeless
and unworkable system of Party Government by
elective Ministries. Then there are proposals for
the restriction of usury, and the abolition of State
Governors; a State Life Assurance suggestion ;
proposals for the nationalisation of the liquor and
tobacco industries; for the taking over of “con-
sultations” by the Australian Government
per cent, of the profits—which isn’t much—to go
to a sinking fund and the balance towards old age
pensions); and a demand for the establishment of
an Australian navy. Also two country leagues
demand that the Labor party, in its Federal
capacity, should give up the foolishness of sinking
the unsinkable fiscal issue, and go solidly for
Protection to Australian industry. If these
and a few other valuable suggestions are
adopted into the Labor programme, and if
the party in Parliament doesn’t go to sleep
as it sometimes does, and if it doesn’t forget what
its principles are as it often does, Labor in poli-
tics should have a better outlook ahead of it than
it has ever yet had.
• • • •
There arc also, unfortunately, one or two loony
and reckless ideas to be submitted to the Confer-
ence, and it can only be hoped that they will be
treated with the disrespect they deserve. One
that strikes the eye conspicuously is a bold sug-
gestion that the accident pay from the Govern-
ment Accident Relief Fund should be raised to £1
a week—nothing being said as to whether the
Fund is expected to be thereby made bankruptor
to keep on its feet. It isn’t suggested that the
allowance should be increased if the fund can
stand it ; just that it should be increased.
Then there is an amazing proposal from
some bush league for cutting down the pay
of every public servant who receives £3OO a year
or more, whether he is worth his money or not
or even if he is worth twice his money. The scheme
is built on a sliding scale which works out so
amazingly that the man with £3OO is to be reduced
to £292 10s. ; the man with £3OOO to £2100; the
one with £3500 to £2275 ; the one with £4OOO to
£2190; and the one who now receives £4lOO is to
be cut down —heaven only knows why—to £2050,
which would put him below the £3OOO man.
Likewise there is a proposition from Broken Hill
that the Labor party in Parliament shall enter
into no alliance or coalition with any other bcdy—
a theory which seems designed to incite all other
parties to coalesce against it in self-defence. And
there is a scheme, which looks blankly illegal, pro-
viding that “ no candidate shall be eligible to run
for Parliament who has not been in a league
or Union for five years and a financial member of
one or the other.’’ The Constitution says exactly
who is and who is not eligible to run for Parlia-
ment, and any body which starts over-ruling the
Constitution in this fashion is liable to collide
disastrously and expensively with the law. More-
over, the idea suggests a desire to keep the Par-
liamentary billets for the battered old veterans of
the party, and however estimable the veteran may
be, he is apt to be stiff in the joints, and slow in
the mind, and gradual in the proceedings. But
despite the utterly foolish amendments, which are
not very many, and the trivial amendments,
which are pretty numerous, there are enough
bright ideas in the 144 subjects that the Confer-
ence will have to tackle to furnish material for
the best political programme in Australia. It is
all a question of selecting the really bright ideas.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Capital.
The failure of the Australian Parliament to come
to a vote on the Bill appropriating territory for
the Federal capital at Dalgety serves to emphasise
again the fact that the choice is between Mel-
bourne and Dalgety. The capital is at present—
more or less legally—located at Melbourne and it
will not be moved to any other spot than Dalgety.
The N.S. Walers who profess to see such dire
results flowing from the Melbourne location
should recognise this fact and accept the
inevitable. There was at the close of the 1905
session a clear majority in both Houses to ap-
propriate land at Dalgety for the capital. But
the opponents of that site (mostly N S.W. mem-
bers) “stonewalled” the measure (G. H. Reid
and J. 0. Watson for once finding themselves in
the same boat), and so it was postponed. The
same tactics may succeed again next session, and
again next Parliament, if the Administration is not
firmer; but still not a step will be taken towards
the Sydney ideal of having the capital at Balmain,
or to J. O. Watson s wild notion of building by
the site of a lake, which isn’t a lake, but a mud
flat, and appropriating one of Joseph Oarruthers’
rivers—as if Joseph Oarruthers looked like the
man to give away a river! —to make the mud liquid
enough to float a punt or two. The question as to
thesitehas been fixed, and fixed rightly, and—unless
the next elections bring a very material change to
the pers uiuel of the Parliament—fixed irrevocably.
The capital question now resolves itself into a
question of area ; and on that point a valuable and
timely report comes from Surveyor Scrivener.
He illustrates with maps proposed areas of 100,
200, 630, 900, and 1550 square miles, and the con-
viction forced home is that the largest area is the
only one at all satisfactory. The 100 miles
area is a mere suburban block, making no
provision for water supply, for power, or even for
proper parks and drainage. Within five miles of
the centre of the city, and within ultimately a few
yards of its outskirts, Federal territory would
cease, and there, in the State territory, might
cluster (and be encouraged to cluster by some
characteristic Oarruthers sort of person) noxious
trades, piggeries and such, making the city a den
of typhoid, and unendurable as a habitation.
Its water supply would be always at the
mercy of either State hostility or State care-
lessness—the hostility or carelessness of a State
which keeps in office a Premier who is a bitter
and unscrupulous enemy of the Commonwealth,
and loses no chance to throw an insult at it
or do it an injury. The possibility of the city
embracing Federal arsenals and other manufac-
tures would be nil. Even a reasonable growth of
suburbs would be out of the question. A 200-
miles area could be dosigned to embrace the
catchment of the Mowamba River and give a
decent water supply as far as quantity is con-
cerned, or to take in a stretch of the Snowy River
for electric power generation. Of course the
water supply in both these cases would still be
liable to be diverted above the Federal territory
by the State authority, and the Federal city’s
supply cut off; and the risk of pollution arising
out of carelessness, or out of the direct desire to
do the Federal city the worst kind of injury,
would still remain. But a 630 square miles area
is described by Mr. Scrivener as the irreducible
minimum
if a territory is to be acquired that has within it an
ample water supply from uncontaminated streams, and
sources of power sufficient for the needs of an important
city where coal cannot be obtained.
But in his opinion
it still leaves much to be desired because extensive
mining operations on the Snowy River and its tributaries
outside the area (where the country has been proved to
be auriferous and is now being worked) would con-
taminate the waters of the river, while the inclusion of
only a relatively small part of the Mowamba catchment
area involves the risk of pollution of the water from that
stream.
Surveyor Scrivener comes ultimately to the con-
clusion that the most desirable area is 1550 square
miles, giving the whole of the catchment area of
the Snowy and its tributaries. That area, as
shown on the map, is composed of 600 square
miles of Grown lands, valued at £224,000, and 950
square miles of alienated lands, valued at
£1,520,000. The latter the Australian Govern-
ment would, of course, pay for, and it might,
without grave wrong, pay also for the Crown lands,
as a concession to the spoilt brat attitude of New
South Wales. Making concessions to a spoilt
brat is not often good policy. " But The Bulletin
lives in Sydney, and feels selfishly inclined to
suggest something to soothe the brat a little. The
brat’s squeals are near to its«own ear.
♦
The Fall of Mr. Fell.
David Fell, M.L.A., of Sydney, commonly
supposed to be a fair and sober-minded politician
and something above the average in intelligence,
has also lent himself to the purposes of the anti-
Federal push. In an interview to the Sydney Tele-
graph Mr. Fell helped to give a little extra oircula-


tion to the tired old lie that "the nearest com-
mercial centre” of the proposed h ederal capital at
Dalgety “would be Melbourn . Any reliable
map would burst up this story ; is some
miles nearer to Sydney than to Melbourne m a
straight line, and by the only practicable railway
route it is so many miles nearer Sydney t a o
Melbourne is quite out of the case ; but apparently
hone of the anti-Federal push ever looks at a map.
The feat about Dalgety in a commercial sense is,
hot lest the ttade Of the capital should go to Mel-
bourne, but lest it should find a new outlet from a
jjort ill southern BT;S;W. and thus do some damage
to the importers’ policy which seeks to bloat out
Sydney to absutd dimensions by dragging to it the
tvlidle commerce of the State. It ■vvouldn t look
ttell td say this, however ; so the old Melbourne
prejudice is dragged ih to disguise the situation.
Evhh now sonle df the trade of the ridrtherri P ar t
of Oroajingolortg, ih Victoria, which is much
further away frdhi Sydney thart Dalgety, comes
tb Sydney, and it did SO also m the days of the
Statfe system ana tlie border tariff ; irt fact, oii the
v ictbrian border SOuth of Dalgety add Delegate
the tariff was aljowfed to be almiost a dead letter
so that the people could get their supplies from
N.S.W.—the shpplies which came down froih
Sydney instead of from inaccessible Melbourne.
This fact is rough on the Dalgety-MelbOurnh
lie, but the lie keeps up a healthy, hus-
tling existence none the less. In some of his
other aspects Mr. Fell also showed a curious
conception of his duties. He says he has a definite
recollection that Premier Carrutheks brought
forth a proposal offering the Commonwealth four
sites—one of them being Dalgety. Nevertheless,
he reckons it the duty of every one “to fall in
line as citizens of New South Wales” and back
up Oarrothers in repudiating his own offer,
simply because a majority of the State Parliament
has endorsed Carruthers’ action. The idea that
he has any duty to the Commonwealth as a citizen
of Australia has apparently not occurred to Mr.
Fell ; there is no sign in his remarks that he ever
heard of Australia. Nor is there any sign of
an idea that his first duty as a citizen of
N.S.W. is to try to make N.S.W. an honest
State, which keeps faith with its neighbors.
David Fell was elected on the no-borrowing
ticket, but when he holds that it is his duty to
fall in line with the majority of the Assembly in
repudiating the offer, or the tacit offer, of Dalgety
as a Federal capital site, he will presumably also
feel it his duty to fall in with the majority in its
borrowing tendencies. With his curious notions
of his duty as a citizen of N.S.W., it is hard to
see what else Mr. Fell can do—in fact if the
majority went in for forgery or house-breaking he
would apparently feel called upon to “fall into
line.”
L for Leather—and Lunacy.
The tanning business is one of the tragedies of
N.S.W. industry. Ten years ago, it employed
1130 hands. Then, with diminished flocks and
herds and a keener foreign demand for the fewer
skins available, and with nothing in the shape of
an export duty on raw skins or an import duty on
leather, employment slackened, until, a few
months ago, the whole of the seven pelt tanneries
at Botany were practically closed so far as their
tanning departments were concerned. As late as
1902 there were 521 hands employed ; according
to figures just issued by the acting-Government
Statistician, the total at the end of 1904 was only
452—little more than a third of the number re-
corded ten years ago. Meantime, as N.S. W. has
grown more feet to shoe and produced less
leather to shoe them with, the imports of
foreign leather have increased enormously.
In 1900, Australia received from Britain
alone £77,690 worth ; last year, the Australian
tanneries having been almost knocked out by
foreign competition, it received £172,052 worth —
an increase of nearly 125 per cent, in four years.
Even larger imports come from the United States,
a total of £604,969 in the past five years. But the
U.S. imports are erratic, and there is a reason for
that. U.S. buyers mop up enormous quantities
of skins and pelts both in the Australian and
English markets, ship them at low freights, pass
them in free of duty, tan them, supply the pro-
tected American leather market, and dump the
surplus wherever the chance offers. If they can
make a profit out of the surplus, well and good ;
if they can’t use all up, and it seems good business
to knock out a foreign factory, they have their
surplus to do it with, and until Lyne’s Anti-
Dumping Bill passes there is nothing to stop them
doing it —they have already made their profit
from supplying their home market. Now it is
alleged that the Jap is also scenting out the Aus-
tralian hide and skin market. Six months ago a
Botany tanner, J. W. Birdsall, wrote to the
S.M. Herald that—
The Japanese are in our market for the raw hide ; and
the conditions they work under, and low wages they pay,
will be sure to stop our leather trade with them alto-
gether. They will have the latest machinery, no doubt,
and very likely at some future time will supply us with
leather. I have already seen samples of leather tanned in
Japan, and they are very good.
The same writer declared that there were enough
tanneries (nearly all idle) in the State to tan every
hide and skin produced here; yet the value of
exported sheep-skins alone runs—even in these
days of reduced flocks —to an average for all
Australia of about £1,000,000 a year (£2,991,535
for the . past three years). The summit
of absurdity is about reached when Australia,
not satisfied with exporting raw skins and
hides, and importing leather, and shutting
up its tanneries and turning its tanners idle,
last year actually also exported 251,986 cwt.
of bark for the foreigner to use in his tan-
neries. Australia has the crude, ill-paid job of
skinning its beasts and its trees; it gives the
foreigner the well-paid and more elaborate job of
using the two products to make its shoe-leather ;
and "its Railway Commissioners even send to the
foreigner for the leather to cover their carriage-
seats. And when the people who have been
thrown out of a job haven’t the money to pay a
fare to use the seats when they are covered with
foreign leather made out of Australian skins tanned
with Australian bark—well, there is always Cohen
to fall back upon for a loan. A worm can turn to
Cohen ; it takes some pluck, it seems, to turn to
an export duty on these raw products and a suf-
ficient import duty on leather.
«.
. The Difference.
When the news of the Maoriland General Elec-
tion came to hand almost every Tory paper in the
Commonwealth had an article about the remark-
able prosperity of the country, and added that, of
course, Seddon's Democratic policy and his Pro-
tectionist tariff had nothing at all to do with it.
It was wholly owing to the soil and the rainfall.
In almost every case it could be seen that the
artiole was written for the purpose of dragging in
the assurance that it was all owing to the soil and
the rainfall; even the wooden old Launceston
(Tas.) Examiner made the same remark as the'
rest. And this was the worst mistake of all, for
Tasmania is all the time a horrible evidence that
it is legislation, and that is is not soil or rainfall
which makes all the difference. Tasmania has a
better rainfall than Maoriland ; two-thirds of
Seddon’ s State get less than 30in. of rain per
annum, while only one-fourth of Tasmania does.
Tasmania is the more fertile State of the two ; in
1904 the value of the output on its cultivated area
--the little bit it wasn't too tired to cultivate—was
£4 17s. sd. per acre, while Maoriland, on its more
barren soil, could only show a value of £4 3s. lOd. per
acre. Tasmania is the less crowded State of the
two ; it has less than seven persons to the square
mi!\ while Maoriland has over eight. And
Tasmania had 40 years start. But the blight of
Toryism and stagnation is on the island, and it
never raised a Ballance or a Seddon. While
Maoriland cut up its large estates to make room
for settlers, and broke up its bloated properties
by a graduated land-tax with the same object in
View, and helped its farmers through its State
Land Bank. Tasmania sat still and admired and
encouraged its big landlords, and these are the
results : J n IBfil Tasmania had 180 acres under crop
for every 100 inhabitants ; in 1903 only 150 acres.
Maoriland, in 1861, had only 70 acres under crop
for every iou inhabitants, but in 1903 it had
210. Maoriland had grown threefold while Tas-
mania sagged back. Tasmania in P raised
crops equal irt value to £7 Is. 9d. per
inhabitant—it is the most fertile part of the Com-
monwealth, yet the yalue of the crop it raises per
head is less even than that of barren South Aus-
tralia. Maoriland, with a less fertile soil, drags
out crops worth £8 17s. 2d. per inhabitant. The
area under cultivation in Tasmania is decreasing*
and its population is just about stationary ;
Maoriland, although already more crowded
than Tasmania, not only keeps its natural increase,
but attracts more immigrants than all the Com-
monwealth put together. Maoriland is only four
times the size of Tasmania, but it has ten times
as many sheep and cattle. Maoriland has 44 times
Tasmania’s population, but, under a live tariff, it
has seven times as many persons employed ir
manufactures. Maoriland, when it had a Govern-
ment and a tariff like Tasmania’s, was just about
as dead. The rain and the soil and the climate
were there just as they are now, but the rain fell
On a corpse, just as it does in Tasmania to-day.
But Maoriland awoke, while Tasmania, with
greater advantages, remained a corpse. _ The
difference between the two States now is all
Seddon, or, rather, the policy which Seddon
stands for—High Protection, the breaking up of
large estates, vigorous land settlement, the dis-
couragement of the absentee, and the fostering < t
a local manufacturing population to provide the
farmer with a market. And the painful anxiety
of the Australian Tory press to explain that the
difference isn’t Seddon is the best proof that it is
Seddon.
Let Us Have the Freehold.
When the Maoriland Parliament meets, the great
Freehold v. Leasehold question will come up for
settlement, and then anything may happen.
Neither the Freehold party nor the Leasehold
party, so far as is known, has a majority ; the rest
of the House is doubtful, and Premier Seddon
himself is doubtful. A few years ago Maoriland
decided that, so far as at least the bulk of its
public lands was concerned, it would only grant
leaseholds, and the sale of land was almost
entirely suspended. The State gave the first
leaseholders an absurdly easy bargain in the shape
of the 999 years tenure, but, all the same, the
loudest part of the present clamor arises out of
the demand of the 999-years lease people for the
right to actually purchase their lands. They claim
that Providence has implanted in man an incur-
able instinct that makes him desire to have for
his very own the bit of dirt on which he
lives and toils, and that no matter how
easy lus landlord may be the instinct is always
there. If this is so, it is, of course, no use at all
for Seddon, big as he is, to struggle with Provi-
dence. An ineradicable instinct is a hard thing
for any politician to argue with, while that and
Providence combined would make a majority at
any election. The Bulletin’s advice to Richard
Seddon under these trying conditions is, if he finds
the present situation untenable, to climb down
and cave in—to climb down thoroughly and to
cave in completely, lie ought to give even more
than is demanded. The argument against him
is that the leasehold system is bad, and if it is bad
for a man to be a tenant of the State, it is quite as
bad for him to be anybody’s tenant. The theory
of the Freehold party is that man naturally and
instinctively wants to own the bit of land he
occupies, and he must feel that way just as
instinctively whether his landlord is the State
or some affluent Tory person in the Upper
House. Providence, according to the Free-
hold push, has made every man long to be
the absolute possessor of his own home, and
if that is so Providence must have given him
that feeling no matter whether he rents the home
from the Government or from old Captain
Russell, one-time leader of the stupid party in
Maoriland politics. The present leaseholders
propose to break their bargain with the State by
means of a legal enactment, and to acquire the
power, contrary to the terms of their agreement, to
compulsorily buy their landlords put at a very
moderate price. If one bargain can be set aside
by legal enactment another can, and if it is right
for the State to be compulsorily bought out by
its tenant at a fixed price the same thing is cer-
tainly right for the private landlord. The
simplest way out of a very great difficulty is for
Premier Seddon to fully recognise the alleged
yearning—said to be implanted by Provi-
dence under every human waistcoat—to
have a home of one’s very own, and to
give every tenant, or every group of joint tenants,
the right to compulsorily buy out the proprietor
at the tax-valuation of the property. That will
be a generous recognition of all the arguments of
the people who demand the freehold; it will
carry their theories to their logical conclusion ;
and it will give them not only all they ask, but a
great deal more. And very many of the Lease-
hold crowd would accept such a compromise. So
long as landlordism is rigidly restricted, and the
land is divided with reasonable fairness among
the people, and the aggregation of great estates
is rendered impossible, it doesn’t matter so very
much whether the State collects rent or land-tax,
or whether the people it collects from are called
tenants or tax-payers. As regards the personal
aspect of the case, if Premier Seddon remains
with the Leasehold crowd he may easily
go down, for that crowd seems to be
weakening. If he goes with the present Free-
hold crowd—the baldly s fifish combination
which holds that the State tenant who gets his
land for very little a year should have a right of
compulsory purchase, while he should give no
right of compulsory purchase to his own sub-
tenant—he will almost certainly go down. The
glaring, insolent selfishness of that gang would
wreck any Minister who lent himself to its
schemes of plunder. And Seddon can’t sit on a
rail for ever ; even the strongest rail gets worn
out in lime with lGst. or ISst. of undecided
Premier upon it. It is a time for compromise—
judicious compromise. And this compromise
would rally up many old friends, and put many
old and new enemies in a most interesting
dilemma, and start a third issue which would
draw a lot of public attention away from the
other two.
B. Smith Again.
That gigantic political fraud, Bruce Smith, after
staying away from the late lamented session of
Parliament all the while there was any work to be
done, and especially while there were chances of
all-night sittings, put in an appearance during the
last week of the session. As usual, he got rid of
a lot of twaddlesome pro-Jap talk. Such talk in
the House is harmless. Even the Foreign-trade
press doesn’t think it worth reporting, and no one
who hears it considers it seriously. There would
be no cause of complaint and no reason for con-
tradiction if B. Smith made his remarks only to
those who meet him on equal or better intellectual
terms, for the man with a narrower intellect than
B. Smith hasn’t got a vote as a rule. But the
craving to be listened to, and to, be believed, has
taken such a hold of B. Smith that he has fallen a
victim to the talking-to-women habit. In almost
every town that he visits he addresses
the Women’s National Ass, or some such
body, on politics. He did this in Mel-
bourne, the other day, and Janet Mrs.
Clarke supplied the hall and the afternoon tea
and got together an audience. Then Bruce Mr.
Smith was in his glory. He talked for nearly two
hours. One hour and fifty minutes of it was silly
drawing-room “guff” that meant nothing and
sounded like brass falling on wood. But for two
minutes B. Smith said things that deserve to be
flatly contradicted. He told his women listeners
that the United States was at the zenith among
the nations, and the people of the United States
are an amalgam of races. Consequently he argued
“all the clatter we hear about the danger of
mixing races—-abuut shutting out Italians, Gcr"
mans, Spaniards, and other races—was nonsense.’
Consequently, also, it was humiliating to him and
to us as British people that the Japanese should
be shut out. B. Smith’s surface-skimming mind
has found that the United States are on top of
the heap. It has also found that Americans
are a mixed race. It at once connects the two as
cause and effect. The big Protc ctive tariff counts
for nothing to Smith. The highly developed
trades-unionism, the stringent State labor legisla-
tion, are all things that don t matter to Smiih.
The restrictions put on immigration are unknown
to Smith. No colored immigrant is admitted.
No white immigrant, no matter of what race, is
admitted unless he can table 200 dollars in cash,
unless he satisfies the authorities that he has never
been in gaol, unless he is free from disease, and
of good character, and not too old, and seems to
have a prospect of making a livelihood. A
strange passenger to the United States is turned
inside out, so that the authorities may see if he
has any germs concealed about him. Then take
the American regime in the Philippines. The
same restrictions as to entrance apply there, and
when once the immigrant has got through and
lands in Manila, he finds that he is not wanted.
The “amalgam of races” has no use for him.
Every application for a job is met with the same
question. “Yes, sir, an Australian. Are you a.
naturalised citizen of the Yew-nited States?” If
you are not, you don’t get the job no matter how
well qualified you may be. And naturalisation can
be obtained only by six months’ domicile in one
of the States of the Union. America says
that she fought for Manila and won it, and now'
means to use it for the benefit of her own people.
And the wonderful Smith contrives to be ignorant
of all these things—of the U.S. tariff, of the fact
that U.S. manufactures only began with the
beginning of Protection, of the U.S. anti-Chinese,
and anti-nigger laws, and of many other things.
The Smith capacity for ignorance is so vast that
an Alp could be dropped into it and not be
noticed.
»
The Gentle Chinese Butcher.
The following extracts from a letter received from
South Africa may prove of interest to those
individuals who think on “ Imperial ” lines, and
to colored labor advocates; also to the many
Australians who lost their heads during the war
fever, and helped to make a fair and well-governed
land the black hole of brutality and horror it now
is :
Murder and outrage by Chinese deserters is of daily
occurrence. As much as possible of their doings is kept
out of the papers, but some of it they cannot keep
quiet. The South African constabulary are con-
stantly being called out, and it simply means
shooting them down. A Dutch farmer was murdered!
the other night, and his wife and children nearly
done to death; there was another house within
. 00 yards, and yet these wretched Chinese broke into the
place in search of food, and when the farmer, hearing
l Pern, came out of his room, they attacked him with
knives and a pick. The farmer received 50 stabs before
they finally finished him. A little boy of 10 years of age,
win fought manfully by his father’s side, was badly
stabbed, but managed to make a dart for the door, and
ran to his grandfather’s house, pursued by a Chinaman.
The child reached the house and gave the alarm. Two
little girls, 13 and 15 years old, who were in the room,
escaped through a window. Meanwhile, the farmer had
dropped, and his wife, a strong, powerful woman, came
from the bedroom with a baby in her arms, snatched a
knife from a Chinamen, and kept the brutes at bay ; but
by the time help arrived she had received a ghastly cut
through the skull and a stab in the groin. Her baby was
also badly injured. m __ , .
Everybody is arming now. The Dutch are terror-
stricken and afraid to leave their families and homes. It
is all very well for people like Lord Selrorne and others,
who sit safely at home, to say there is no danger—they
would be the first to cry out, were they in the same
position that some of these people are in. Only those who
hear and see as much as we do can realise the horror of
lfc At the mines the Chinese are constantly declining
to work, and then charging the officials, driving them
before them. The S.A. constabulary are then called
in, and after some shooting the mob is cowed.
The trouble with the Chinese is getting very serious, and
letters in the papers are fast and furious. If this murder-
ing and outrage continues, I believe the people will rise
in a body and demand that the Chinese be sent back. On
Monday night a white storekeeper was murdered ; another
seriously injured, and others hurt. The Chinese attacked
them with “ jumpers,” which are easily procured, as they
are thrown all about the mines. This murder was prac-
tically on the mine at Klipfontein. A woman and ber
baby have come here to stay with friends. Her husband
works on one of the mines, and when her husband was on
night shift she walked about all night with the baby,
watching, and slept during the day. Twenty deserters
were brought to the gaol yesterday. There are about 600
at large. “ God Save the King ! ” Whaft'or?
+
Food Advertisements.
One material failing in all the Health Acts of
Australia is the absence of a provision to regulate
public advertisements dealing with food stuffs.
With the exception of the embargo on obscenity
there is practically no check on advertisements.
That class of notification which tells mankind that
to be healed of anything from scurvy to loco-
motor ataxia it is Only necessary to take some-
body’s pills or draughts, or to wear some
weird mechanical device, is harmful enough, but
it is at least humorous. It is so wildly humorous
that the only people who are gulled by it are those
who have, in all ages, been the natural prey of the
man with a cure-all, a gold brick, or a Fiji uncle.
Even these deserve to be protected in a con-
temptuous sort of way, though an Act for the
Complete Protection of Fools is a large order.
But something serious and definite should be
done to safeguard the public against a class of
advertisement which is put forward reasonably,
which claims to have sound authority for its
statements, and yet which, by its mis-
representations, may cause serious loss ot
life. This is not a humorous matter. In re-
gard to infants’ foods and preparations, it is
especially desirable to prevent the wastage of
population. There, may be noticed, in all the
Australian papers, advertisements of infants
foods and biscuits and medicinal preparations
which, if the instructions are followed
to the letter, must cause many thousands
of deaths yearly. Such and such ,an article
is advertised as a “perfect food ’ for in-
fants, though competent analysis would show
that only an exceptional child could, live on it as
a diet. Such and such a preparation is advertised
as the best to tide an infant over “the troubles
of childhood.” It is used and tides the unfortunate
over the Styx. The recent N.S. W. Birth-rate Com-
mission is understood to have made certain recom-
mendations on this point. It certainly went to the
trouble of analysing various foods, biscuits and
preparations for the young, and found its con-
clusions promptly suppressed by the ‘ ‘ business
interests ” which were set to work. The Public
Health Act in each State should provide that any
article advertised as a healthy food for children
should be subjected to analysis, and, failing proof
of its claims, the owners should be prohibited
from advertising it. Having effected that as a
start, another good move would be analytical
supervision of all medical preparations and any
liquors advertised as medicinal, whether intended
for infant or adult use.
<s ■
A Much-Suspended Act.
Parliament seldom' acts wisely in leaving the
enforcement of a law to the will of a Minister or
a Government; it never acts wisely if the law be
one passed in the interests of the working classes.
The N.S.W. Shearers’ Accommodation Act was
demanded for years. Those who knew the back
country, and the conditions of station life when
large bodies of men were brought together, pressed
on Government after Government the duty of
seeing that proper provision was made for health,
The Curse of the Council.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The anti-Australian cant cry, which represents every-
thing- “ colonial ” as being necessarily inferior, has not for
many years been louder or more audacious than it is at
present. At a time when members of an influential
ladies’ association take pride in announcing that they
never wear anything made in Australia, it is not sur-
prising that, in other directions, a vigorous attempt
should be made to discount the value of Australian talent.
—Melbourne Age.
Once, when the gods in Council,
Wary and old and wise,
Fixed the fate of the Nations
In their council hall of the skies —
From the hour of our first forefathers
Till the day when the dead shall rise.—
They made a compact among them
To lay on one land a curse !
And gave to the men of the Northland
The spell of the gods to nurse;
That they might hide it, and hold it,
As a miser holdeth his purse.
Until, ir. a timely season
(Thus ran the gods’ decree),
They laid the curse of the Council
On a young land, fearlev-, and free
From schism and Cld World sorrow—
And they answered : “ So it shall be ! ”
And the restless men of the Northl.nd,
Hardy and strong of limb,
Looked from their wave-worn bulwarks
■ Over the seaways grim,
And dreamed of new lands to conquer
O’er the verge of the far sea-rim.
And the train of the white years found them,
Steadfast of heart and hand,
Threading the sea-paths lonely
To hasten the gods’ command —
Bearing the Curse of the Council
Forth as a burning brand.
' a young land sprang from the distance,
A::d gathered them to her breast,
Weary of toil and tempest,
Hungered for land and rest;
And they laid the Curse of the Council
On her—at the gods’ behest.
And straightway her dusky people
I dwindled, as some strong light
Flickers in gusty spasms
And dies in the windy night—
And the curse clave to the young land
As a plant grows to the light !
They crowned her a free white nation,
But the Curse of the Council grew ;
Strength of her strength and purpose,
Breath of the breath she drew—
Ever its blight was on her
As a malignant dew.
And lo ! in the world of nations,
In the council halls of Time,
’Mong the sculptors and the artists,
’Mong the singers of song sublime,
She is a naked bankrupt
Whose nakedness is a crime !
Strangers sit in her councils,
Strangers possess her fame,
Strangers divide her treasure,
Strangers belie her name ;
Pulpit and Crown have witnessed
The document of her shame.
Thus ! for the gods in Council—
Wary and old and wise—
Fixed the fate of the nations
In their council hall of the skies,
From the hour of our first forefathers
Till the hour when the dead shall rise.
VIC.
M. E. J. PITT.


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
lf you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the /mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch of the Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment.
I was born
Name
Address
m
i
m
V
[Havestoodtke;
TEST of TIME
'<? ARE GOING STRONG
withouttke aid
OFTkIISTorCPMBINE
The Quality alone
assuring it* success
k.
~ *
%)
6 H
a/
c* ro >
25 fife'll-
oO.
*«#
O
$
j=
Tobacco
decency, and moderate comfort during the period
of employment. “Congested abominations ” was
a term that fitly described many of the
places designated as shearers’ quarters.
But it was hard to find a Government willing to
give the necessary attention. At last, after in-
cessant hammering, the Accommodation Bill was
brought in and passed, but passed with a condition
which enables the Government to hang it up out
of the reach of operation when and where so dis-
posed, It can be hung up because of a drought
and because of a flood ; because of a bad season,
and because of a very busy one. It was hung up
in various districts in 1902, 1903 and 1904. It was
hung up in 1905, and will continue to be hung up
wherever vested interests seem to be too powerful
to be attacked, l’he result is that the shearing
area of the country is a motley ; a Joseph’s coat
of patches varying in color, texture and quality.
Upright pastoralists give their men good quarters
and would do so without any compulsion; the
other kind for whom the law of compulsion was
devised, escape under the condition that allows
the Minister to use his own indiscretion. In
some parts men are worse off than before the Act
was passed, and in most as badly off. Reports
from one district show that the section of
the Act which separates the sleeping-room
from the dining-room is disregarded. In
another district, where shearing begins in
July or August, the huts are built of gal-
vanised iron, and are described as, at that time
of the year, refrigerating chambers. Bronchitis
and lung trouble are consequently always on hand.
Ihe floors being boarded, oil-drums or other im-
provised fireplaces are prohibited by the manage-
ment. Huts in other districts consist of iron bark
slab walls, with plenty of openings all round, but
with no proper doors or windows and no flooring.
Here and there, all over, sanitary arrangements
are primitive. Of course, many pastoralists provide
reasonable accommodation, and some go farther. On
i me station the squatter provides books and papers,
char png the men a few pence per week—just as
much as clears the expenses. At another a regular
reading-room has been erected, with draughts,
cards, and other amusements. Instead of the old
sheet-iron structure, with bunks in tiers for
50 or 100 men, the sleeping apartments are
fitted up with four or six bunks in each, and
proper protection from wind and rain is pro-
vided. There always were employers like
these, with whom legal compulsion is not needed.
But men of the other class not only need
law to compel them to give employees decent
conditions, but a law which they cannot get round
by climbing up a back stair and breathing surrep-
titiously on the back of the Ministerial head.
They may not (or again they may) bribe or
corrupt a Minister, but they are pertinacious
enough to weary-him into compliance, or clever
enough to bamboozle him. If the Shearers’
Accommodtition Act had imposed duties on
employees instead of on employers, it would not
have been practically hung up from 1902 to 1906.
And there is only a Ministerial say-so that
employers will be made to comply with the Act
in 1907.
♦
The Sydney “Telegraph’s” New Year Lie.
Sydney Telegraph opened the New Year
by lying m a crude, shameless, brazen fashion,
‘ in a way calculated to sow dissension among
the people of Australia and undermine the
spirit of friendship and brotherhood. This is an
extract from the paper’s misleading article of
January 1
Australia begins the new year under conditions that
cannot be regarded as entirely satisfactory, though it
may be said that none of the difficulties in the path are
of a kind that will not yield to ordinarv common seme
and good feeling. In the first place, it cannot be ignored
that unpleasant friction has been created between the
Government of this State and the Government of the
Commonwealth, owing mainly to the manner in which
the plain meaning of the Constitution has been miscon-
strued in respect to the Federal capital. The interpre-
tation that places the capital, which w'as to be “not less
than 100 miles from Sydney”, at a distance of 296
miles from that city, and as near to the Victorian
border as possible, with a seaport which, as far as
access is concerned, makes it independent of this
btate altogether, may be very creditable to the
ingenuity of a lawyer, but it doesn’t represent what was
confessedly in the minds of the framers of the clause.
Ihe people of this State have ample justification for the r
irritation. To be manoeuvred, by means of ingenious
word-twisting, out of the very concession which induced
them to enter the Federation is surely sufficient reason
!u r ? T etermine(l Protest. It is earnestly to be hoped
that the Commonwealth Government will yet see the
absolute necessity of preserving good faith in this matter,
and that the Federal Parliament will divest itself of petty
provincialism and carry out the spirit, not the contorted
letter, of the Constitution.
N.S.W. wasn t “induced to enter the Federa-
tion 5 it invited the other States to enter it,
though that, perhaps, is an issue that is hardly
definite enough to allow falsehood to be legally
proved, therefore the point may pass. Nobody
proposes to “ manoeuvre ” N.S.W. by “ingenious
word-twisting ” or otherwise, out of one iota of its
bargain ; the bargain was that the capital was to
be in N.S.W. (and the Dalgety site is in N.S.W.),
not less than 100 miles from Sydney (the Dalgety
site is not less than 100 miles from Sydney), and
OI ) a federal territory of not less than 100 square
miles (the proposed area is not less than 100 square
miles). But this also may pass; it may be
possible, by the Telegraph’s amazing power of
word-twisting, to set up some apparent defence
here against a charge of direct lying. But a
third statement of the anti-Federal paper is that it
was only the “concession” of the capital which
led the people of N.S.W. to decide to enter the
Federation, and this is unvarnished lying. The
people of N.S.W. gave the first Constitution Bill
(in which the locality of the capital was left an
open question) a majority of over 5000 votes, and
the majority contained 21,000 more votes than the
minimum which N.S.W., in the original arrange-
ment with the other States, agreed should be suffi-
®nsm'° acceptance. The fact that the
iN.S. Y\. State Parliament, like any other Judas
or spieler, broke its agreement, raised the mini-
mum to 80,000, and thus nullified the people’s
acceptance of the original Bill, makes no difference
m the fact that the majority was there and that the
stipulated 50,000 votes were more than there.
Ihe people of N.S.W. didn’t require the
concession’ of the capital to “induce”
them to enter the Commonwealth. The
l elegraph s case against the Australian
Government is almost wholly based on
lies. Partly out of this special lie and partly out
of other lies the Telegraph has built up a long
and bitter agitation against the Commonwealth
Administration. It has been a slanderer and a
bearer of false witness, and if it cared to
swear to its statements it would be a perjurer.
It has pandered with its lie to the worst
and meanest grudges of provincialism, and
it has told its lie so often that the lie
has gained wide credence, and has done a
great deal to promote ill-feeling and to retard
n^ e BT° w th of a national Australian spirit.
Ihe New Year finds the Sydney Telegraph’s
liar writing up the paper’s old lie with all the old
energy and the old effrontery, yet when the lying
paper states that conditions “cannot be regarded
as entirely satisfactory” it certainly records
a fact. While the Sydney Telegraph is
zealously promoting an anti - Federal feel-
ing by the circulation of its malicious and
circumstantial lie, conditions are not satisfac-
tory. The mayor of Sydney and sundry dreary
and respectable gentlemen who are to hold forth
at Sydney Town. Hall some time this month on
the alleged “grievances” of N.S.W. are cordially
backed up by the Telegraph. The Telegraph is a
living evidence of the fact that the most outrageous
lies, if told often enough, can get a hearing and a
following, and that there is no lie so remarkable
that some highly-respectable-looking person
belonging to an allegedly honorable profession
won’t tell it for a consideration. The Telegraph
has possibly very few other uses, but in that
matter it fills the bill magnificently.
♦
John Wonders lately wrote to Sydney Tele-
graph, signing his name, and affixing thereto the
legend “Miners’ Secretary, Helensburgh,” and
stating that the time had arrived for the workers
of N.S.W. to emulate those of Russia. Possibly,
as John’s foolish letter bore the date, December
24, it was only a Santa Claus joke, but the
Telegraph wrote a leader about it, and pointed
out to the community in general what dangerous
scoundrels these unionists are. In a pale, shocked
tone it expressed the pious hope that the views of
John Wonders were not those of unionists gener-
ally, but it carefully explained that John wrote
as the representative of the Helensburgh miners,
so his views were presumably, &c., &c., &c. When
the dreary Trickett, of the N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Council, advocated rebellion and secession
in order that N.S. Wales might dictate to the rest
of Australia in defiance of the Constitution Act,
the Telegraph wasn’t seized by this injured frame
of mind. It did not write in a pained tone of
pen, so to speak, to express a hope that the rest of
the M’s.L.O. were not possessed with the wild,
unreasonable, and dangerous spirit of Trickett.
Rather it proceeded, by downright lies, half-truths
and general misrepresentation, to fan the passions
of a misled populace in order that just the very
sort of thing that is happening in Russia to-day
might be brought about in the streets of Sydney,
and Trickett and the Gaud Mayor, and old
tottery Dr. M‘Laurin, and other antiquated poli-
tical humbugs make their last stand behind a
barricade of plug hats in front of the Telegraph.
office.
Amongst the needs of the Australian citizen army
when the several State forces came under Common-
wealth control was a cheap, serviceable, distinctive
uniform—a dress to be fought in as well as to be
worn in time of peace. Major-General Hutton
recognised this to some extent, and went as far
as an English officer was likely to. The Common-
wealth uniform approved by him was serviceable
in color and fit to fight in. The general pattern
was universal. Small gorget patches of different
colors distinguished each of the several arms,
while different regiments had their own badges
and other marks. So far so good. The fact that
uniforms are largely required in Australia for
Government House wear, and the British
gold-lace tradition generally, was recognised
by the allowance of certain gold fal-lals for officers
and colored shoulder-cords and breast-lines for
men. But apparently the all-British full-
plumage variety of the tinsel and feather tradition
has been only scotched, and not killed. The Aus-
tralian Defence Department is about to issue new
dress regulations for the forces, and lately it cir-
cularised commanding officers of regiments to
ask whether they desire to adopt the Common-
wealth uniform for full dress, or retain the old
uniform of their corps for this purpose. Such as
desire the latter may have their full dress
prescribed in, and authorised by, the new regula-
tions. There will probably be many corps which
will stick to the old order of things. The result
will be that such corps will have to adopt the
Commonwealth uniform for work, but will have
their special Joseph’s coats, after the style of the
British army, for Government House wear and
for purposes of celebration and pomp. These
extra clothes will serve no purposes except'
those of pomp. The cost of the special rig
varies according to gorgeousness, but a typical
variety would probably run to £5 per man, and
£3O per officer. Has the Australian Council of
Defence nothing to do but evolve such absurdities ?
In Europe, perhaps, the army which does not wear
a red, blue, green, or yellow coat would be outside
the comity of nations, and no self-respecting officer
would be expected to be seen in public without
either a rooster’s tail or some gold lace. But Aus-
tralia is just starting, in the Federal military
sense, and no long-standing and ineradicable
rooster-tail has been handed down to it by a long
series of Commonwealth traditions. Why go
looking for rooster-tail ?
Vkjtoma. now possesses, in its Amended Factories
and Shops Act, what most of the other States
already boast, an effective Early Closing Law.
Practically all shops in the city and suburbs will
henceforth close at 6 p.m. and at 1 p.m. on
Wednesdays or Saturdays, with a late night on
1 rid ay if Saturday be the half-holiday chosen.
Restaurants, pie-shops, fruit-shops, etc., may keep
open later, but must not work their employees
more than 00 hours a week ; while bicycle boot-
repairers’, dairy produce, flower, hairdressers’ and
pawnbrokers’ shops need not put up the shutters
till 8 p.m. on week-nights. The morning after the
.ill passed the House of -Rich Landlords, a deputa-
tion of grocers and their assistants called and
thanked . Chief Sec. Gillott, and asked him
to do his best to get both Houses to pass
a resolution constituting a Minimum Wage Board
tor the trade, “on which both employers and
employees were agreed,” excepting a few sweating
cutters who paid their managers 255. a week or
Jess if they could get them for less. Gillott was
sympathetic, but admitted plainly that, owing to
the provision requiring the consent of both Houses
to the establishment of any new Wages Board, the
clauses bearing thereon were practically dead
letters. In fact, the only board now in existence
is the Dressmakers’ Board, the others having
lapsed, though their wage-decisions still stand
good.
♦
'J- D. Campbell, M.L.A., of Bananaland, came
back from England, the other day, much wiser in
his Tory generation
I was greatly impressed with the intense culture prac-
tised on the Continent. It is evident on every hand.
How different in England and Scotland! There, vast
areas are locked up under grass or as sport-grounds for
the aristocracy. On the Continent, rapid strides are
being made in soil-tillage, forest conservation, and
in the constructive industries. England seems stag-
nant. The people are not on the land, but huddled in
the cities. The Conservative classes are too self-satisfied,
or too selfish, to bother with the problem of race-dete-
rioration which is going on as a result of the unequal
distribution of wealth. I had a striking- example one
Sunday of thedisparit.v which exists between theconditions
surrounding the two classes—the wealthy and the poor.
I went down Petticoat Lane first, and saw the cheap rub-
bish sold there to the poor—stuff one would not offer to a
dog—and then I went to a tony church.parade, where the
darlings of society and fashion gathered up their skirts.
And what a contrast, ! It must be seen to be understood.
In the Petticoat Lane throng there were hundreds of
thousands steeped in the direst poverty ; and, on the
other hand, the moneyed classes, at whose mercy these
hordes of poor wretches are. This cannot, surely, last
always? It is a question to some extent bound up with
the idle lands of the country'.
♦ ’
Westrajja’s new Minister of Lands is making
enough discoveries to drive a stiff land-tax
through a stone-wall. Out of 11,000.000 acres of
allegedly good agricultural land, practically given
away by the. State, only 350,000 acres have been
brought under cultivation. Less than 200,000
acres have been sown with wheat this year, and
Westralia will have to import half-a-million
bushels. And yet more than ten years ago
Bigjohn said Westralia would overtake its own
requirements within a couple of seasons, and
would soon beat 8. Australia as an exporter of
grain. There is plenty of good land—millions of
acres of it; but it is mostly locked up in big estates
—many owned by Bigjohn’s friends and other
ancient ’Gropers, Government land agents and in-
spectors. Westralia has waited 10 years, instead of
Bigjohn’s two years, to see if the people who own
the country would use it without being driven by
a land-tax. As they evidently won’t use it, it’s
clearly only a fair thing to give the land-tax a
chance.
The Victor Daley Memorial.
A movement which should appeal to all lovers of
good poetry was inaugurated in Sydney during
the week, the object being to raise funds to place
a suitable memorial upon the grave of the great
poet, Victor J. Daley. Those desirous of contri-
buting can forward donations to this office. Any
sums which come to hand will be duly acknow-
ledged and forwarded to the treasurers.
“0.K.” : Postal Department, ever anxious
to study the inconvenience of the public, suspended
the business of letter-carrying for more than two
consecutive days this Christmas. Nobody could
receive a letter between the afternoon of Saturday,
23rd, and the morning of Tuesday, 26th, and on
Tuesday one delivery had to serve for the day.
For two days and a-half all the letters posted in
Melbourne for Sydney, or vice versa, lay untouched
in the boxes. The mail closed at, say. Melbourne
G.P.0., at 2.45 p.m. on Saturday, and the next
mail was despatched at 6 a.m. or thereabouts on
Tuesday. And this for the inconvenience of the
public rather than for the benefit of the Postal
employees ! This long period of closure happens
only when Christmas Day falls on a Monday, or
is gazetted for Monday (as in last year’s case)
when it falls on the Sunday. There is no logical
reason why the public should thus be victimised
on account of a certain date over which the
P.M.-G. has no control. The mailmen would be
glad to forego the occasional Monday off at Christ-
mas if they were compensated, in batches, at
other times of the year. And there is nothing,
save a little thoughtful management, needed for
the achievement of the desired alteration. But
the official brains of the Post-office have
no liking for any new effort in managennnt. As
long as the community suffers itself to be ill-
served the Postal service will stick to its present
you-be-damned policy.
Stanley Austin, an Australian, son of a
one-time Geelong (Vic.) mayor, is now owner of
the historic Glastonbury Abbey (England), several
of whose monks Henry VIII. ha god n the good
old times.
V. J. Daley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reclining in the long dry grass at Waitara, he
reminded me of a lion with a hurt lung ; from his
eyes came a nimbus that seemed to radiate from
an internal crater.
The cottage stood in the shadow of giant gums.
Hills of blue stretched in front and behind. I
saw him the day after he arrived at Waitara. He
was wrapped in an overcoat and muffler. He
told me solemnly that he was training for a fight.
He was to meet his opponent about Christmas, he
said.
“ What’s his weight ? ” I asked.
Tie looked at me steadily. “If you put him in
one scale and the Himalayas in the other, he’d
tip the beam. He has a terrible left.’’
“All very well,” I said, sorrowfully; “but
what about”-
“Eileen ! ’’ he roared, “bring the gentleman a
hymn-book ! ”
Eileen brought me a glass of wine.
“ Apart from the man with the dirty left,” he
said, “ I have been dreaming about the Corridor
of Volcanoes. I lay last night with the weight of
the Atlantic pressing on my chest. I had ceased
to breathe, and out of the black Chaos there
appeared a small live cinder. It was in the centre
of the earth, and I moved towards it leisurely
through a country of sandstone and lava.. Then I
began to descend in strides of a thousand feet
until the cinder grew wonderfully large and
luminous. I came upon an endless lane flanked
with burning metal shields. I was sorry to see the
word Hell printed in Hebrew letters over the rock-
bound entrance.
Australia’s sweet singer , VICTOR DALEY.
Died in the evening of 1205.
“Then I saw the volcanoes—endless vistas of
burning mountains stretching like mole hills
through the earth's interior. A black smoke-
tortured face gaped at me suddenly from the
entrance. ‘James,’ it said, ‘your volcano isn t
quite ready.”’
On Dec. 18th he passed a bad night. It was the
beginning of the end.
“I had one or two good moments, though,” he
said, genially. “I was driving a chariot and a
team of black horses that stretched for leagues
across the desert. My body was in Thebes while
my leaders were galloping into Borne. I rolled in
my glory across the Tiber, and swung into the
Coliseum without a break. Then I heard the
voice of a multitude and the clashing of iron
gates. Csesar stood up. and turned down his
thumb.
“‘James,’ he shouted, ‘who is paying your
vast horse-feed bill ? ’ ”
Throughout his long illness Daley preserved a
cynical good humor ; his philosophy tuned his
patience. Nights of sharp agony burned him
white; his face, usually alive with ferocious
geniality and warmth, became soft as a little
child’s. To be sure, he sometimes revoltedagainst
the inevitable, and it is a p.oof that the gods are
dead since they heeded not his prayer.
On Dec. 29th I walked through the still bush ;
I had cut a track from iny bungalow to his cot-
tage. The hills were shrouded with rain, the big
red gums stood like dripping giants at the head
of the gully. From the swaying tip of a red-
leafed sapling a tiny, green-throated bird was
singing madly ; its joy seemed strangely out of
tune, its shrill delight pierced the nerves.
At Daley’s cottage I paused a moment before
walking up the path. Then the shadow of a
woman’s hand fell before me.
Eileen said, “ This morning at seven.”
I turned, coward-like, to escape the little pitiful
sobbing and the cry of a woman that hurts. And
. . . There had been no violent assault-at-arms—
only peace, white and ineffable, where. Death had
kissed him between the eyes.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girl from Kay s.
Theatre Royal “ Sinbad the Sailor.
Criterion “ Two Little Vagabonds.
Tivoli.. Rickftras Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Princess Ida. n
Her Majesty’s “ Merely Mary Ann.
Theatre Royal “ The Path of Thorns.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Go.
fßostock & Womb wells Circus
St. Kilda Road 0 f Varieties.
Princes Court , T . . ,
Athenajum Hall Best & Baker’s Living Pictures.
♦
Florence Young is the brightest feature of
“ The Girl from Kay’s,” who began to snare her
Hoggenheimer for the second time in Sydney at
Her Majesty’s on Boxing Night. Twelve months
or so back Geo. Edwardes’ imported Gaiety Go.
introduced the Girl, Madge Crichton being the
Girl. J.O.W. now presents the Girl surrounded
by a co. wtiich can sing better, but generally acts
worse. In particular, so far as the acting goes,
Hoggenheimer is a failure. Besides pervading the
piece, “ Piggy ” is the one distinctly novel note in
it; with some reservations in favor of The Girl
herself, the people of the opera consist of the
garden variety of musical comedy maiden, crusty
bachelor, and sniggering dude. Hoggenheimer, as
Huntley did him, was quite a possible modern
freak ; Lauri’s creation is quite impossible. He is
impossible even before he opens his mouth. His
walk—when did man walk like that? It is not
the strut of one who is beastly rich and knows it,
and thinks that all the world is looking on in
admiration ; and that is the sort of man “Piggy
is. So what ought to be a clever and acute
character study is turned into a mere travesty and
nothing-in-particular. Of course Lauri knocks
some fun out of it, though no great amount;
but, in any case, “Piggy” is capable of
raising more than the occasional laugh—he
is too good a character to be used merely for
that purpose. Florence Young, however, makes
amends for that. She is a rather more sober Girl
than Sydney has seen before, yet a convincing
one ; and her songs—differing widely in character
—are conspicuous successes even in a performance
in which the singing all through is excellent.
Miss Margaret Thomas lias made no marked pro-
gress as an actress; but in “ Love was Meant to
Make us Glad” she has, and takes, a fine oppor-
tunity to show how well she can use her voice.
Miss Rose Musgrove seemed to be spurred
on to extra vivacity on the first night
by the warmth of the welcome she got (it was her
first appearance in Sydney since her illness).
Haigh Jackson is most successful in a duet
with Miss Young, though his “ I don’t Care ” solo
is a very clever piece of difficult work; Ban took
turns out a poor crusty bachelor uncle, and so
much repetition of the “ Maxixe ” dance was
called for on the opening night that Fred Leslie
and Miss Tilly Woodlock have a good case against
the audience for cruelty to animals.
1 * * * *
It is-a characteristic of the British race and
its descendants that they like to be harrowed at
an alleged time of whole-souled and universal joy,
and judging by the fact that he presented “Two
Little vagabonds” for a Christmas treat, Edwin
Geach knows his public to a nicety. This story
of how a boy named Dick lived a vagabond life for
seven years, and stole a purse in the interval, was
put on at Sydney Criterion the night The Bul-
letin went to press, and by the time the public
holds this issue in its trembling hand, and gazes
at it with its dissipated Christmas eye, the
great bulk of the people will have seen
Beatrice Holloway in the part of Dick, and have
been much gratified thereby. As a delineator of
small boys who have struck a hard world old man
Holloway’s gifted daughter is hard to beat; her
only drawback is that she never looks starved,
emaciated, and utterly crushed. Her cheeks have
a roundness that all the arts of the stage cannot
destroy, and in her voice there is a robustness that
breathes of the good times that always come at
the end of melodrama, no matter how high-class
it may be. To those who like a smattering of
human feeling in their stage woe “ Two Little
Vagabonds” should appeal, as it contains rather
more of that much desired quality than is usual.
* * *- *
“ Sinbad the Sailor ” proved a good holi-
day attraction at Sydney Royal, and on nights
when the atmosphere was like that of Hades
with the safety valve tied down the theatre was
crowded with folk who perspired cheerfully and
had everything damp about them but their spirits.
The gay irresponsibility of “Sinbad” is its chief
claim to consideration. You can turn in to see it
at any time and pick up the thread of the argu-
ment, and follow it in the sure hope of striking
a joke, and a ballet, and a bit of tumbling,
and a bright chorus, and a bevy of bright legs.
And if the dog that one goes out to see between
the acts proves to be a sort of dog that Strays far,
and so you stretch out the interval to half an hour,
it doesn’t matter. You’ve missed some good
things; but there are many other good things.
This hot weather dogs have a habit of straying.
* * * *
The last days of the Great Thurston at
Sydney Palace were brightened by the near
proximity of another magician, who with Asiatic
magnificence of effect concealed his identity.
Thurston used to cause fowls, pigeons, and a pig
or two to appear suddenly from next to nowhere.
The new magician caused them just as suddenly
to disappear and vanish right off the premises.
Thurston’s audience knew that the creatures were
always in existence, but no one can say the same
since the other fellow has caused them to dis-
appear. Australia is a wonderful country, and a
place where a Napoleon in any line is liable to
meet his Waterloo.
* * * »
Eight English Primroses continue to lie on
their shoulders and wave their sixteen stems
towards the ceiling of Sydney Tivoli amid great
applause. Australia hasn’t hitherto seen eight
sprightly girls upended in this way ; the most it
has seen at a time is one, and she has generally
been letting out with her toes at a large person in
blue named O’Kelly and defying him to take her
to the station. The Bulletin doesn’t know
whether “Dansedesjambesenl’air” wassuggested
by the rush which always follows when even one
Primrose throws herself into this attitude ; but it
has been a powerful attraction, anyhow. The
rest of the Tivoli bill remains the same bill that it
was last week, with A. G. Spry, the two Bells,
and Boy Glen in the largest type.
* # * *
Mary Ann, who polished up Lancelot’s
boots so c irefully in Sydney, a while ago, is just
now putting the same shine on them at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne. Mary Ann, as was stated
aforetime, is the incredibly guileless maid of all
work at Mrs. Leadbatter’s boarding-house, and
Lancelot is her best boarder. From the landlady 8
point of view he is the worst boarder, because he
doesn’t pay up. Lancelot. is a musical genius
with a future before him, but his soul shrinks
from the composition of popular songs and sale-
able waltzes. His friend Peter, a musical tea-
dealer, has been guilty of a song which yielded a
profit of £4OOO, but Lancelot’s talent is cast in a
Wagnerian mould, and every time he hears the
tawdry strains of “Kiss Me Good Night, Dear
Love,” proceeding from the bowels of a barrel
organ, he rolls his eyes in fine frenzy, and feels
his position keenly. For he is in the position of
not being able to give the organist a penny to go
away. Genius, as everybody knows, must get
inspiration from somewhere, and Lancelot finds it
in Mary Ann, his humble idolatress. He acquires
the habit of kissing her on account of her inno-
cence, and a sort of pastoral symphonic affection
grows up between them. The greenest fields are
not more verdant than the boarding-house slavey.
Lancelot, having consented to take £4oon account
for a promise to write a barrel-organ tune, is about
to retire into the country with Mary Ann (which
would entail the loss of her simplicity), when she
is suddenly converted into a millionairess, where-
upon Lancelot runs away and leaves the young
woman without a stain upon her character.
* * * •
The last act reveals Mary Ann as a mil-
lionairess of six years’ standing, bright and
polished, like the boots brushed in happier years.
She spends her time seemingly in watching from
afar the brilliant career of her long-lost Lancelot,
who has shaken the musical world with a grand
opera. He knows nothing of her career, neither
does Peter, his friend. The two men happen to be
invited to a manor hall where Marion (once Mary
Ann) is staying, and as the result of a hasty offer
of marriage from the amazed Lancelot she quits
the drawing-room in her stylish Marion costume,
and returns five minutes later disguised as the
original Mary Ann. The story doesn’t, state
whether she always carried the housemaid’s cos-
tume with her luggage or borrowed it on the
premises for the special occasion. Anyhow, this
quick change gives a distinctly vaudeville character
to the romantic farcical comedy of “ Merely Mary
Ann.”
* » * *
The present commentator finds it im-
possible to take Miss Tittell Brune seriously in
the name-part. She seems to be acting it under
natural disadvantages. Her attempts at simple
pathos in speech and manner are intelligent but
unconvincing, and the most unconvincing thing
about her was Lancelot, as played by Douglas
Gerrard. The Peter in the present production is
Boy Redgrave. In all other important respects
the cast is the same as it was in Sydney, and with
the valuable assistance of Miss Vaughan, Miss
Irby Marshall, Oily Deering, Atholwood and
others the comedy goes very well.
*X * X
At the Princess’s the Gilbert and Sullivan
Opera Co. was to revive its cheerful perform-
ance of “The Gondoliers” on Wednesday for a
season of three nights only. Up to time of
writing “Pinafore” has been thankfully received
by fairly large audiences. Miss Dolly Castles last
week took her place as Josephine, but that winsome
little woman is not singing so well as she did, and
her voice seems in need of a rest from active
service. “ Princess Ida ” is billed for Saturday
next. There are eight more of the G. and S.
operas to be produced this month, including
“ Utopia Limited ”.
X #- * *
At the Bijou a respectable amateur pro-
duction of “A Gaiety Girl” passed quietly away
last Saturday, and was to be followed on Monday
by a revival of “In Town,” the best thing The
Players have put upon the market thus far. But
the market for amateur musical comedy is not
brisk, and the corridors of the Bijou are stained
with managerial tear-drops.
*X X X
Bland Holt’s latest and loosest melodrama
is proceeding until further notice at Melbourne
Royal. It strikes one as being an awful reflection
on the moral character of Sydney, and it is actu-
ally deplorable for the reason that one of the
murderers is named “Jim.” Up to now the Aus-
tralian Jim has worn a halo of honesty. The bap-
tismal name of James is always open to suspicion,
like Matthew, Mark and Luke, but the hand of
Jim was never raised against a fellow 7 creature ex-
cept on behalf of a heroine, until Bland Holt
broke the rule. It is comforting to remember that
the other murderer in this case is known as Jonas
about the deadliest name in the annals of melo-
drama. Jim should be changed to Jabez. Jonas
and Jabez would be two splendid villains.
*X * X
Best and Baker’s Living Pictures are
accountable for a good deal of business at the
Athenaeum Hall. A conjuror is thrown in with
the Biograph, and the quickness of the wizard’s
hand easily deceives the eye that has been study-
ing the question as to whether Best and Baker’s
pictures are free from all suspicion of flicker.
*X * *
The only trouble with Bostock and
Wombwell’s Circus of Varieties is to make Mel-
bourne fully aware of the fact that the circus
doesn’t cirque. There are no piebald steeds or
feats in the arena at B. and W.’s canvas establish-
ment. The show 7 is of the Rickards order, and it
transpires on a weather-beaten “fit-up” which
looks old enough to have been the theatre of the
original Wombwell, or the first Bostock, at the be-
ginning of last century. A well-stocked menagerie
diffuses powerful odors in another tent, and a
vast elephant assists the management by pushing
things into position with his nose. The entertain-
ment has the extraordinary virtue of modesty.
It puts no frills on its merits. A troupe of
Japanese performers, who change their programme
twice a week, are advertised as the “star” turn,
but some of the others are more amusing, and
none of them stay too long in evidence. On the
whole a very likeable little show, presented in an
unfamiliar way.
XX X X
A strong, level programme at the Opera
House was strengthened on Saturday by two
more “turns.” Barnard’s Piccaninny Marionettes
came to hand, also a pair of song and dance
sisters whose dancing is quaintly acrobatic. The
Jackson Family is a popular success as usual, and
the large assortment of other people is so gener-
ally satisfactory that the cyclists are confronted
by a full house when they take the floor at
10.45 p.m. or later.
X * *
“The Sunny South” (recklessly an-
nounced as “the play of the century”) has
made way for “ Thunderbolt ” at Adelaide Royal.
George Darrell’s breezy style is much admired,
and the local small boy is making a new shanghai
in anticipation of taking to a life of crime. The
“ Urbanora ” bioscope at the Tivoli is ending up
its filmy course, and at the old Exhibition Wirth’s
circus is j ust at the close of its local career. The
loop-looper, who is advertised as shaking dice
with Death nightly, must know all about hazard,
for Death has never won so far ; also the brigand
who throws bowie-knives at the girl hasn’t grazdd
her once.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The chairman of Melbourne Board of Health mentioned
lately that the Board had at last come to ah “agree-
ment ” with the proprietor of the Bijou Theatre concern-
ing the alterations necessary for putting it on fair terms
with other Melbourne theatres as regards the risk of fire.
The alterations are already overdue, it seems, but lessee
Wilson is to have another month’s grace, and in the
meantime the house is open for business. Presumably
the Board arranged with Providence that no fire should
take place during the Xmas season.
“Lil” : The advertisements wrongly stated that Ken-
ningham played Ralph Rackstraw, in the latest produc-
tion of “ Pinafore,” for the first time in Melbourne. He
was Rackstraw to Carrie Moore’s Josephine, when the
old Alexandra re-opened as Her Majesty’s, in May, 1900,
just about the time the verb “to maffick” came into
existence. The occasion is impressed upon my memory
by the fact that mafficking hooligans ran the Bourke-street
tram-car, on which 1 was proceeding’ to Her Majesty’s,
off the rails, and when I reached the theatre I was
regarded as a pro-Boer because I laughed, instead of yell-
ing earnest approval, every time Rackstraw uttered one
of the “patriotic” sentiments that Gilbert wrote with
his tongue in his cheek. The humorless theatre-goer,
ready to sing “ Gor’ Save ” on every occasion or none, did
his best to make all plays a weariness of the flesh at that
trying period.
Just before sailing for Australia, one English vocalist,
now touring these parts, afforded a fairly cheeky instance
of the professional spleen that exists in England against
the imported voice. The lady was introduced to a newly-
arrived singer, and informed that she was from Sydney.
“ Oh, indeed,” she snorted, “then you’re another Aus-
tralian, come over to take the bread out of our mouths. ’
And this English chanteuse had already signed a contract
to go to Australia and take as much bread as possible out
of the mouths of the hungry congregation to be seen
daily outside Sydney and Melbourne music emporiums.
“Kodak” at a literary society One night I found
four men gathered round a bottle of water. They were
talking about Literature, and on the other side of the
bottle 50 women sat on hard chairs and glared at the
men and one another’s back hair. They also whispered
like a conference of serpents. One of the men rose to
address the 50 women. He leant on the bottle of water,
and spoke in hollow tones that suggested the clatter of a
tom-tom in a jungle of dead subjects. He assured the
50 women on the hard chairs that he couldn’t make up
his mind about Hamlet. All the women rustled sym-
pathetically. Evidently they too had tried to make
up their minds. Then he told them he had been
worrying about Hamlet for forty years—and the
women were so silent I could hear Shakspeare s
ghost trying to prevent the shade of Hamlet from hurling
Yorick’s skull at him. None of the women wanted to
appear too enthusiastic over anything that dated back
over 40 years, so the speaker sat down in the midst of a
silence so chill that it made him sneeze twice. Then,
after a young person had read a long paper entitled
“ Thoughts on Thoreau,” the secretary put one hand on
the bottle of water and told us that he never felt lonely
in a forest. He also told us that all animals were glad in
the spring, and called our attention to the fact that
the branches of the gum were arranged like umbrellas
—several umbrellas, arranged in a sort of tier
that was to sav, one above the other, and so forth.
He said that if we looked at the next gum-tree we came
to we would see for ourselves. Then he suddenly and
unaccountably subsided, and the four drew closer
together round the sacred bottle of water, and told each
other secrets in hoarse whispers that could be heard by
all. The fifty women tittered and whispered, until one
of the four rose wearing an expression of fearful gloom.
He said he was sorry to inform the meeting that several
members who had promised papers on various subjects
had disappointed the bottle of water, and that he would be
compelled to close the meeting—unless some of the ladies
present cared to discuss what had been said. The 50
women all tittered in chorus, collected their gamps, and
got up from the hard chairs. I fell down stairs with the
dreadful conviction that I’d dropped yet another precious
night into the abyss of Lost Time.
Citizens Samuel Williams and Charles Hartmann, of
America, the hypnotised and hypnotiser in the living burial
at Princes Court, Melbourne, are two cheery youths who
make no claim to scientific knowledge. Doctors on the
committee for the show say that the hypnotic cohdition in
which Williams apparently lay was genuine. Williams’
awakening took place six days after his plantation, and
he could not be stirred until offers of beer were yelled at
him. Then he sat up all at once.
“Melb.”: Best and Baker’s Christmas Day Biograph
whipped all for piety. A real live Christian was crucified
—back to audience—before a real Nero. With a sudden
flash a joint of meat was substituted for the Christian.
A real lion came and tore it in pieces, running away
with a large fragment. Horrid!
“ 0.K.” : An amusingly audacious item in the Bostock
and Wombwell’s Circus show is “The Human Ostrich.”
This downy old bird is of the British breed, and you find
him, or many another like him, giving his gastronomical
performance on the sands at popular sea-side resorts. He
makes a frugal meal of tallow candles and coal, washes it
down with draughts of kerosene (?), and then goes through
a form of setting himself on fire, internally. Having
produced some whiffs of flame by blowing through a tube
the “ Ostrich ” goes around the tent selling the story of
his life for a penny. It is a brief but humorous narrative,
stating that his father—“ a surgeon in the French Army ”
—trained him in his childhood to eat small quantities of
“coal nails, glass, sawdust, paraffin oil, poison, &c.”
There is sadness in the thought that the genial-looking
showman will probably cause a revival of this ancient
“ show ” industry in Australia, but on his personal merits,
as a relic of English barbarism, the “ Ostrich ” is an
interesting creature.
“D.”: As a playgoer who pays his " way, I have a
substantial grievance against the Melbourne papers which,
by saying kind things about the performance of “The
Gaiety Girl,” led me into buying two circle seats in
the belief that I would be somewhat entertained for three
hours or so. I am as much the victim of false pretences
as the man who buys sanded sugar or ham made of
hickorv. This pretence of dealing generously with
amateurs is all very well, but surely audiences have some
rights 1 The amateurs—many of them more or less pro-
fessionals, by the way—charge professional fees, and are
out on the make as well as to minister to a diseased
vanity, and it seems to me that if the newspapers won’t
warn amusement-seekers of the terrors that await them,
they might at least abstain from giving countenance and
assistance to a conspiracy of deceit. At a time when
legislation is being devised with great care and caution to
protect the public from turnips and tomatoes in its jam,
why should an entrepreneur be permitted to impose a
banal show upon the people with the assistance of
inaccurate advertisements and a gaudy label that is a mis-
representation in a dozen colors ?
“TD.”: London’s a ticklish place to be in if you’re
running for public favor. At the Green Room Club, the
other day, I heard the reason for George Anson’s failure
to secure the firm hold in London to which his excellence
as a comedian would certainly entitle him. “ Nobody could
play Eccles half as well,” affirmed a manager with whom I
was talkino- “ but he once did the unpardonable thing for
an actor who seeks the suffrages of the public here. Some
trouble was on in one of the theatres one night, and
Anson got annoyed with the audience and rebuked them
from the stage. Even after his years, of absence in Aus-
tralia this was remembered against him by the majority
of managers, and it was lucky for him that he got any
show in London at all.”
“Alba”: Wombwell’s menagerie, at present in Aus-
tralia, was noted throughout England for its man-eating
variety of lions. It was common enough in the old days
to see three or four keepers with arms and heads bandaged
poking about the cages. As a travelling menagerie it was
only equalled by Myers’ and Sanger’s. Thirty years ago
the entry of Wombwell’s into one of the big provincial
towns was a kind of Roman triumph not permitted in
later times. Old Dick Wombwell, the father of the show,
met his end in a manner worthy of a gladiator. One night
he was awakened by a series of roars coming from
a cage occupied by “Wallace,” a big forest-bred
lion, "slipping from bed, he discovered that a full-grown
Bengal tiger had effected an entrance into the lion s
quarters, and in two seconds India and Scotland were at
death-grips. The old man had no sporting interest in
such contests ; he only saw about £3OO worth of stripes
and mane rending itself to pieces. Releasing an elephant
he put his trust in a forlorn hope, and swung back the
gate of the lion house. In a flash the two
monsters rolled out to the ground. Seizing a red-hot bar
from the fire-cage, old Dick planted himself between
the elephant’s forelegs and rammed his bar between
the tiger’s jaws. Freed from the Bengal s gnp, hon
Wallace sprang at the elephant, and was promptly
slogged to the ground by a lump of trunk. me
elephant is more in dread of a tiger than of a lion, ana as
it swung round to avoid the disengaged Bengal, Dick
Wombw'ell received about seven inches of tusk througn
his spine. It was a night of disaster. Wombwell died
instantly. The camels and zebras enclosed within tne
menagerie stampeded round and round trampling to
death the Hainan gibbons and other sundries chained in
the centre. A family of monkeys came to a baa ena
under the feet of the vicious oonts. A brawny ourang-
outang raced up the bars of a panther house and got ms
forearm torn away. The keepers had to shoot the tiger
to prevent it mauling the horses and camels. All tins
happened 40 years ago. The proprietors could never
induce the elephants to camp on the old site again.
“T.D.”: More will be heard of Amy Castles this
winter season in the Great Fog than of any other singer,
“arrived” or to arrive. Usually, London is regarded as
a very fine place in which to get an occasional neap ot
press notices with which to sustain a reputation, but tne
big singers get their fees in the provinces, and are con-
tent to accept smaller terms when they sing in the
hub.” But the Australienne was so besieged for London
concerts at full fees immediately after her initial success
that she should have very little time to spare for P ro y in :
cial engagements for months to come. She has booked
10 dates in the next two months for the Queen s Hall
alone, whereas the usual artist is mighty glad to get an
appearance there once or twice in the year.
The costume of the Modern Milo grows less, and
audiences roll up in inverse ratio to the drapery, mere
will doubtless be an addition to the chiffons when she
shows in the country where the Lord Chamberlain looks
after these things, but when Gay Paree is reached it. will
probably be gladdened by the sight of the fair Milo,
almost entirely without what old Parkes used to term
Hadventitious Haids. Milo, by the way, is said to spend
three hours after each show scraping the white paint
from her fair form, but this doesn’t seem a probable lie.
“ T.D.” : When Amy Castles appeared in London three
or four years ago, she was advertised to a prodigious
extent, and many spiteful things were said about her in
consequence. This time Amy appeared merely as the
support of another artist, and Van Dyck, the great
tenor, had been brought over from the Continent to make
his only London appearance for the winter season. Amy
was only advertised in the small, ordinary way of the
average concert artist. There cannot be any doubt now
as to the genuine kind of success she has achieved, the
most authoritative writer at the concert was Baughan,
of the Daily News, and his signed notice, which
shelved the unfortunate recital-giver, devoted itself
almost entirely to Australia’s Amy. It was Baughan who
said that the Castles’voice “reminds one in timbre of
Melba’s, but has more power of expression, and its quality
is more varied.” He also called her “ the soprano of the
future.” The evening dailies hail Amy as “ the new
Jenny Lind.” In fact, in all the years which have passed
since Melba first came to town, no reputable critic has
ventured to acclaim any newcoming singer as Amy
Castles has been acclaimed.
Melbourne Age doesn’t seem to be able to make up its
mind about Little Buttercup. Some time ago it objected
savagely to Dorothy Vane’s presentment (afterwards
changed) of an old woman lavishly adorned with wrinkles,
and now it slates Celia Ghiloni for leaving the wrinkles
out. Studying the plot of the play, it is hard to see how
Little Buttercup could be much less than 60, but a com-
promise of views as to her appearance might easily be
arranged. In the first act, Buttercup would appear with
all her wrinkles on ; and, after removing them in the in-
terval, she could soliloquise, on a cash basis, thus : “ Such
is the effect of using Madame ’s marvellous slan-
food ; small boxes, 2s. 9d. ; reductions on taking a quan-
tity.”
After so favorably impressing London audiences and
critics by her fine voice and engaging platform manner,
Sydney contralto Maud Dairyrnple struck a patch of bad
luck, in the form of an attack of bronchitis, just when
engagements were at their thickest and the guineas were
beginning to roll in with great fury. Miss Dalrymple
was to have appeared at one ot the Chappell ballad
concerts, but this had to go by the board, together with
several other excellent engagements. At latest, however,
she had pulled round again, and was getting ready to
conquer fresh audiences in the Heavy Fog.
Some jewellery that formerly belonged to Wagner’s
patron, Louis ll.’ of Bavaria, recently found its way into
a London auction room. The lot included bracelets
adorned with scenes from Wagner’s music-dramas. Louis
frequently ordered performances of these plays, at which
he was the sole auditor, and even he was curtained off
from the view of the actors. Eventually, he went mad,
allowing anti-Wagnerites to draw cruel inferences. Louis
had a fancy for acting the swan-drawn Lohengrin on a
lake in the palace grounds, and in the same, lake he
drowned himself and his medical attendant. His foolish
grandfather, Louis 1., let the country get into a lovely
muddle while he was engaged in making love to Lola
Montez, who for a time was practically ruler of Bavaria.
The present King, Otho (Louis ll.’s brother), is also mad.
In fact, this particular group of royalties may be described
as “The Whole Mad Familv.”
“ O’Fipp ”: I fancy that either the Anglo-Jap alliance
or recent piebald musical comedies must have something
to do with a phenomenon to be seen lately in various Aus-
tralian theatres—to wit, a craze that has seized on some
female playgoers for raising themselves by sitting with one
leg tucked under them. First the big-hat nuisance spoilt
a man’s view, then padding and puffing of hair replaced it,
and now there is this added infliction. I tremble at tbe
thought of a full audience of white Australian women
going the whole Japanese monkey, and taking their
dramatic nourishment while seated geisha-wise.
“ T.D.”: Have lately, at London concerts, had many
encounters with the compositions of one Richard Strauss,
and have seen stars and come away afflicted with much
headache. Strauss is an incomprehensible person with
more discord to the square inch than a battalion of Irish
Tommies on a Patrick’s night jamboree, but when he likes
he can coo as gently as any sucking dove. His “ Death
and Transfiguration ” has already been performed once
or twice Australianwards. But anyone who wants to
escape lunacy had better hold off his “Domestic Sym-
phony.” The opening and the close are both rather grace-
ful music, but the attempts to describe the bathing of an
infant and other domestic crudities are the wildest farrago
of arrantly unmusical bosh. But I suppose some 10 years
hence would be about time enough to give advice to Aus-
tralian musical societies about how to avoid the produc-
tion of the “Domestic Symphony” with its struggles to
set the soap to music, and its wild outbreaks significant
of clothes hanging on the back fence.
« Lii ” • How fond the mummer is of posing as a painter
of pictures ! Hardly a month goes by without some
imported magazine reproducing a photograph of an
eminent actor devoting a few leisure moments to the
production of a painting that the magazine-writer deems
fit to place beside one of Rossetti’s. The work of painting
seems to take place in a neat drawing-room, where every-
thing is beautifully arranged, and the actor thinks too
much of his palette to soil it. As far as one can judge,
the photographer supplies room, material, and picture,
and the actor is responsible only for the prettily-parted
hair and the supposedly artistic necktie, which any real
painter would shudder at. Even if the mummer does
paint anything more than his face there is no necessity
for proclaiming the fact per camera. As his masterpiece
usually appears to be of the variety that the time-
payment shops vainly try to sell at 12s. 6d., he ought
rather to hide his guilty secret.
“ T.D.” : For the first time in my life I have heard Patti,
who nowadays keeps her end up with just one burst of
song in the vear. Her voice is sufficiently sound in
quality yet to enable her to sing things of the big
“ Ernani Involami” order; it is when she gets down to
trifles like “Home, Sweet Home,” and the old order of
British ballad, that she fails to carry matters through
quite smoothly ; also she tires so easily that four songs
are really as good as a feast. But the quality is still to be
heard in the voice ; not fluty like Melba’s, but with the
mao-ical sweetness of a nightingale and the something
more that arises from the fact that she is a human being
rather chan an animated vocal machine. Crowds still
flock to hear the Patti ; but for that matter the super-
fluous Albani is still making good fees at big concerts,
although everybody admits that it is long since anything
like ecstacy could be derived from listening to her.
Albani nowadays benefits from the fact that she was
always hail-fellow-well-met with “-professionals,” and
willing to help in time of need. So when a soprano
happens to be wanted. somebody is sure to suggest
“ What about Albani V She’s a good sort And she books
the job forthwith.


0
Those HfHicted with Sore Eves
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.
HAVE YOU TRIED
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
The great Australian Re medy. This marvellous preparation is an absolute specific
for Sandy Blight, ana is now in general use throughout Australasia as
TIU NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note for 1/9 to the
Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO.. 531 George St., Sydney.
BEWARE OF THE MAN WHO HAS SOMETHING JUST AS GOOD.
s ,1
EXQUISITE MODELS, j* PERFECT FIT.
•* GUARANTEED WEAR. # S
THE NRW
P. D.
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONB.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
The -303 service rifle is a splendid example
of Australia’s military effectiveness. The am
has, during the last few months, earned something
of the reputation of the old trade guns with which
the nigger has been helped to destroy himself.
The constant recurrence of bursting rifles still
continues, the latest case being reported from
Castlemaine (Vic.), where several competitors in
a rifle match had hairbreadth escapes. In spite
of enthusiastic official declarations to the effect
that there are two bullets in some of the car-
tridges, and that this strange misadventure causes
the trouble, the general impression among experts
is that cordite corrosion sets up inside the barrels,
reducing the rifling to such an extent that the
bullet strips, leaving the hard nickel case behind.
The next shot causes the damage. Anyhow Aus-
tralia knows that it is facing its possible enemies
with a very excitable gun, and that it may yet
have to defend its hearth and home with the butt
end.
WATER ON A DUCK'S BACK.
HIS NIBS (fiercely, to acquaintance who has re-
fused him the loan of five shillings): “You’re
a bloomin’ tight-fisted, lop-eared, blear-eyed
bounder, that's what you are!”
THE OTHER BLOKE : “ The idea of talking to me
like that; can't you see I’m in a bad humor? ”
The petty vanity that impels second-rate
public persons to label everything within sight by
their names is in evidence in Melbourne again,
where Saclise, the stop-gap Minister of Education,
is endeavoring to have the old Friendly Societies’
Gardens, recently resumed by the State as a State
schools reserve, called “ Sachse Park.” Just
alongside this area is that portion of the Yarra
which appears on Government maps as “ Taverner
Reach.” People never call it “ Taverner Reach,”
and whenever they learn the proper designation of
the strip of moisture they express surprise.
Some of the suburban councils round Melbourne
carry this ridiculous practice to the length of
changing the names of their streets every elec-
tion, so that people who live in Maginnis-street
know that their friends won’t be able to find them
if Smith defeats Maginnis, because the place will
become Smith-street ; while Bridget-lane, off
Maginnis-street (named, after Mrs. Maginnis), will
become Sarah Jane-street after Mrs. Smith, or
Polly Ann Alley after the little Smithess of the
family.
Poor old Cole, of Melbourne Book Arcade,
is again buzzing greatly, like a huge blue fly in a
bottle, about the necessity of admitting plenty of
niggers to Australia. His latest publication sets
forth that “ everywhere throughout the world the
black people occupy the hot countries.” Which—
when one considers that the Persian is nearly
white, and so is his descendant, the Parsee of
Bombay, while a coal-black race of aborigines
used to plod among the snow and bitter winter
slush of Tasmania—is hard to swallow. Then
Cole goes on to say that “brown, olive, or red
people occupy the warm countries ” —though
anyone might doubt the fact when he meets the
brown Indian on snow-shoes on the road to Klon-
dyke, and the dark red Thibetan with ten
pairs of trousers on in the bitter cold
14,000 feet above sea-level. Cole quotes a
lot of unlucky evidences that the white
man becomes black in the tropics—the most
unlucky being the alleged black Portuguese
of Ceylon. Evidently he didn’t drop to the fact
that these particular Portuguese were always
black. The early Portuguese colonist of Ceylon
was a devout person, and every one of him strove
to capture at least one little black nigger and save
his soul by dragging him into the church by the
wool. When he was dragged in he was mostly
baptised by the name of his benefactor, conse-
fluently the oldest and most heroic names in
Portuguese history now hang out in the native
quarter of Colombo over shops that look like hen-
coops struck by lightning, and inside there is a
nigger who always was a nigger, like his fathers
before him.
. Cole also quotes the alleged black Jews of
Malabar, who, like the alleged black Jew r s of
Cochin China, were probably only nigger converts,
but about the almost white Jews of the blazing
Sahara he doesn't appear to say anything. But,
after all, even if all his nigger instances were
proved up to the hilt, they don’t seem to make
any difference. If the nigger became black and
woolly through living in Africa, let him remain
black and woolly in Africa. We don’t object. If
we are going to become black and woolly through
living in Sydney and Brisbane—well, it will be an
interesting process, and only a fool would spoil such
an experiment by introducing ready-made niggers
who, by mixing with the white population, would
make if impossible a few centuries hence to decide
whether it vyas the climate that made us black
and woolly or not. A man who firmly believes
that the world has a chance to witness the
phenomenon of a white race turning black without
mixing with black races—turning black simply on
its own and who would deliberately spoil the
show, as Cole apparently wants to do, must be a
descendant of the person who burned the library
of Alexandria.
* * * *
‘‘San Remo”: “Drifter” (B. 16/11/’O5)
writes re tram-car mortality, and rightly includes
Chows among the most casual of accidentals. We
killed a Chow here in Brisbane, a while back.
We were doing Stanley-street, South Brisbane, at
lb miles per hour when John’s hat blew off. John
merely remarked “ Whaffor ” and stepped straight
out on his head. He had a quie funeral.
* • * *
Suss : A particularly foolish piece of
grovel is to be seen any day in the streets of
Melbourne. In the middle of the heaviest traffic
in Flinders or Collins or Swanston streets,
a gaudily caparisoned man on a prancing
horse suddenly appears and blows shrilly
on a whistle. Instantly all the bobbies
within hearing turn into lunatic sema-
phores, and stop all the traffic. That
part of the world stands still for a
w minutes because the Governor or
the Governor-General is coming. When
the vice-regal chariot has passed, the
world is permitted to revolve again. This
is done by virtue of an order from the Chief
Commissioner of Police, who directs all
constables to give the sole right of the road
to the vice-regal equipages. On the other
hand, the Fire Brigade has to take pot
luck. -there is no right of way for it.
I ire-engines, hose-carts, and all the other
paraphernalia of fire-fighting are driven at
break-neck speed through the streets and no
nobby stops the traffic. It is only the
hideous screams and shouts of the drivers
and firemen that prevent serious accident.
.Some day a fire-engine will go bolting
a trara - car full of people, and then
all Melbourne will get up and ask “ Why ?”
1 n the meantime even the fire-engines have
to stop to let the Govern >r go past.
Hiphen : To study human nature in
the raw travel on a Melbourne workman’s tram
I hese run from the city at intervals, are half-
price, and the workman is conspicuous by his
absence. There is no room for him. The lady
who has been shopping, the said lady’s parcels,
the highly-dressed, lowly-paid city youth and the
fat gentleman and his beetling waistcoat take up
the available space. Then when the conductor
collects the fares ! The outward calm but inward
l°y Wlt “ which the city youth grabs his three
ha pence change, the lofty nonchalance with
which lat pockets the coppers, the fierce gleam
u j ? y , l / 1 r t ie shopping lady’s eye as she hands up
her half fare, and the suppressed groan of anguish
or the man who, taken by surprise, has handed up
a thieepenny ticket, and so loses all pecuniarv
advantage; form a pleasing study. Personally I
am never taken by surprise by a workman’s tram.
1 wait for one.
* * * *
The French mademoiselle who goes into
foreign lands to teach the uncouth foreign kid to
s f ‘‘ OU1 ’’ ,s a pathetic little figure in the midst
of the .Russian revolution. According to the
cable, no less, than 300 of her are at Riga, asking
for protection or the means of getting away, and
in great alarm, meanwhile, lest her chiffons should
be bombarded. Revolution is a great coarse
animal with large, muddy, trampling feet, and
poor little mademoiselle is being bumped this wav
and that in the rush.
SOUGHT AFTER.
“ Well, Well! So your old manager's gone away since I was here last. Where's he gone to?"
“ There's no clue yet, sir."
Justice Real, a jury, large quantities of
barrister, about half-a- ton of solicitor, and enough
witnesses to make ten casks of tallow if boiled
down, lately perspired for 14 days at Brisbane,
debating whether Francis Joseph Gavegan was or
was not wrongfully dismissed from the Federal
public service. Then four puzzled, weary laymen
went out of Court with a list of 25 questions to
answer. After about seven hours they came back
with some blanks, some questions answered
“No,” and many answered “Yes.” To the
damage query they said, briefly, “£500.” Inci-
dentally they said that Gavegan was sent to
Bauhinia Downs as a punishment; that it was an
unfit place to which to send a married man ; that
the defendant wilfully disobeyed orders; was
absent without leave ; and was guilty of wilful
neglect of duty; but that at the time of his
enforced resignation he was willing to discharge
his duties. Plaintiff’s barrister then moved for
judgment, but someone else suggested that, for
the purpose of any appeal, it should be deemed
that the jury’s findings were delivered on the Day
of Judgment. The tired Court sniggered at this,
and someone suggested that what was meant was
“ the day on which the Judge delivers judgment.”
Then the Bar agreed that the judgment applica-
tion should be argued after the vacation. But
there is so much appeal ahead that it might be
better for both parties to agree that that joke
about the Day of Judgment was a very good joke,
and then for the Federal authority to take Francis
Joseph out for a drink and ask him if he will
accept £lOO and call it square.
The Dreadful Respectability of Melbourne
has shrieked greatly at the prospect of seaside
camps during the belated summer, and “Pater-
familias ” and other well-worn letter writers have
been “viewing with alarm” a repetition of last
year’s holiday-making, when Melbourne first took
its fine beaches seriously. The prevalence of
camps has been denounced as un-British, the in-
sidious approach of the “Continental Sabbath”
was heralded, and frequent references were made
to “our wives and daughters.” One particularly
shocked person wrote to say that on one occasion
last summer he saw men and women actually
bathing together on a Sunday, and implied that
such things will drive capital out of the country.
While there is some truth in the fact that many
of last year’s camps were not all they should have
been, the implication that mixed bathing should
be prohibited is just another phase of the old
doctrine which led the early- Kerristian to pull
down all the baths erected by the clean Pagan.
The gospel of Dirt has already forced a large
proportion of the people living about Melbourne
to forego baths they would delight in. The ass
that is called Law prohibits open-air bathing within
certain hours, no matter how far one may
be from public inspection. It is difficult
for the people of a place like Sydney
to credit that Melbourne possesses such a
perverted sense of decency that it summons and
fines persons who venture into the Bay or the
river in full-size neck-to-knee bathing costumes
during the hours of light. A man who falls into
the water off St. Kilda pier in his frock-coat and
belltopper has to scramble out and conceal himself
before a policeman comes, unless he wants to be
locked up. The law was evidently framed to
apply to nude bathers, but it is directed against all,
so that no cool, pleasant wash takes place in the
open water, except at a distance of at last 10 miles
from the city, and even then it isn’t quite a legal
proceeding.
* * * *
The King of the Belgians—hoary old
profligate!—is said to have lately added a
morganatic wife to his long list of lady intimates,
his new “missis” being the daughter of a care-
taker at one of the royal palaces. A baby brought
this left-handed alliance into print. King
Leopold, a widower since 1902, is the scandalous
person to whom Queen Alexandra—as Princess of
Wales—ref used admission inttf' the circle of family
grievers what time her mother-in-law, Victoria,
lay dying. The moment he sent word from
Brussels that he was coming along to pay
his last respects to his august relative the
ordinarily unassertive Alexandra nipped his
intention in the bud. Royalty allows a wide lati-
tude for morality in reigning sovereigns, but
Leopold of the Belgians has exceeded the limits,
W. T. Stead denounced him years ago as the bo- 3
recipient of Maiden Tribute from New Babylon,
and until quite lately his habits were so notorious
that when he visited a German watering place
with his youngest daughter the passers-oy, not
knowing the lady by sight, audibly referred to her
as “ another of Leopold’s ‘ tarts. ’ ” At the age of
70 His Majesty is possibly a model husband to his
morganatic Maudie. Everything—even virtue—
comes to him who waits.
* * » *
Those unfortunate public servants who
have to make searches in the cellars of the Vic.
Titles Office, where are kept original Acts of
Parliament, powers of attorney, bills of sale,
records of inquests, records of land transactions’
registrations, etc., are just now beseeching Bent
to clean up. They say the dust hasn’t been blown
or flicked off the documents for 28 years.
* * * *
“ H.G.” : The blanky shirt was never
waved so vociferously in Victoria as at present, and
the dailies are filled with matter calculated to
conduce to religious amity. To the person who
takes his religion frivolously, it seems “extry”
that two sections of a creed supposed to be an
example of brotherly love—sections which don’t
vary one iota in essentials and only microscopically
in externals—should have any quarrel at all.
This eternal squabbling seems confined to the
Anglo-Saxon Christian. Throughout Germany,
Austria and Switzerland, where the Reformation
fights were hottest, it is quite common for the
Catholics and Protestants in the country towns to
occupy the same church—building, managing it
conjointly, and holding their services at different
hoyrs. Perhaps Australia will have the same
sense some day.
THE CHEAP SAMARITAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the season of the year
When Xmas gifts in print appear.
This is the chance for you and me
To advertise our eharitee,
And feed our brothers in distress
With small donations through the press,
Whereby we level in the sense
Of personal beneficence.
Spare naught in secret to the poor
Who beg assistance at your door,
But boldly notify the town
That Biggs is giving half-a-crown,
Or sending clothes (an ancient suit)
To help a “ home ” or “ institute” :
A fact which finds no fame unless
It strikes the public through the press.
O, mighty Press ! without thy aid
Good deeds would be but ill displayed
Which now are thrust before men’s eyes,
And draw attention from the skies,
VVhere Peter jots the figures down,
And credits Biggs with half-a-crown.
vie.
F.


JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
'Y
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
V
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
R. C HAGON'S Clothing
IN A CLASS OF ITS OWN/
I have no copyiight on my Clothing; other
houses could duplicate its tit, appearance and
style—lF THEY KNEW HOW. But none
have learned the secrtt.
My Clothing is in a class of its own.
Investigate this statement and I gain you as a
customer.
Smartest and Latest Suits—
£3 3s.
Styles, Patterns, Measurement Forms, Post Free.
R. C. HAGON, Tailor 3 ! 1 !
129 King Street, SYDNEY.
‘ ‘ Homo ” : On scanning the published
prize lists of many seats of learning, it has struck
me as remarkable that the names of all those who
secured prizes for regular attendance were con-
spicuous by their absence otherwise, so I conclude
that the scholar who regularly answers the roll
call is a woodenhead as a rule. And, as I write
this, a picture on the wall facing me furnishes
corroborative testimony. It was won by the
dullard of the family for regular attendance at
school. He was never known to win anything
else in his early days, but he now has the reputa-
tion of being dead lucky at “two up” and at
shaking for drinks. If Poor Richard has been
fully reported, he evidently forgot something. I
don’t remember anything among his sayings that
meets the case. P.S.—I wish it to be distinctly
understood that I never secured any prize for
regular attendance at school.
PROVIDED ALWAYS.
HER : “ When we're married, I suppose I can
have anything I leant?"
HIM: “ Certainly , so lons as you're careful not
to want anything you cant have."
The Bulletin has recently been shown a
sort of circular about a new book. It professes
to be signed by one “E. W. Bathurst,” of Bondi,
Sydney, and reads :
As I am preparing for publication a transcript of an
edition in relation to “Men I Have Met” whilst con-
nected amongst them, will be several of those who were
most prominently united with me, in reference to my
pioneering several mining researches (most of whose
conjunctive categories will be oppugned from personal
affinity With them), hence being the belief that from the
promulgation of cogent impressions there will be some
very interesting scientific and other reading matter for
all who will recall the distinctive points thereinto speci-
fied ; because most people must agree that some civic
ideals of aspiration are now being thought ; truly worthy
of record, especially when they are characterised by
open-minded principles whereby others by such means
,can live and learn.
It should be an interesting book when it comes out.
“Snell”: In
Little Bourke-
street, at the
back of Mel-
bourne Royal,
the other morn-
ing, I came up-
on a small knot
of indolent
Chinese and de-
cayed Euro-
peans surround-
ing a mean-
looking Mongol
who was squat-
ting in the gut-
ter, and using
the kerbstone
as a chopping-
block for cutting
up a couple of
very large fish.
Near his right
hand stood an
unclean basket
with a paper
that had been
previously in
use spread in
it; on the foot-
path was a
piece of pine
about half the
size of the lid
of a candle-
box ; and on
this the Chow
was deftly
slicing the fisn
into large
steaks with a
big chopper.
He was an
artist at the
work, and
scaled and gut-
ted each steak
as he whipped
it off. The
finished slab
was tossed into the basket.
I imagined that the fish was for his own con-
sumption, and passed on with an easy conscience,
but two hours later discovered the same heathen
delivering a plate of the same fish out of the
same basket over a front gate to a woman in
Middle Park.
* * * *
A social function in Melbourne a day or
two before Christmas is what is known as the
Christmas market, at the City Council’s emporium
in Elizabeth-street. The ordinary markets start
about 4.30 a.m., and by seven or eight all the
suppliers have gone home and the wholesale
buyers likewise; but on this one day of the year
(Saturday last year) the dealing commences about
2.30 or 3 a.m., and with the usual crowd of shop-
keeping buyers is interspersed a motley throng of
casual purchasers and sightseers Lizzies,
Flossies, boarding-house keepers, Chows,
spielers, larrikins, hawkers, dudes, and assorted
sundries. The market is too small for the
business, which sprawls all over the adjacent
streets, while sellers of flowers, fruit and
vegetables are mixed up higgledy-piggledy. Feel-
ing the poultry, splitting the peas and tasting the
cherries, one sees an eye-glassed damsel in holland
gown and pith helmet, with her escort in broad
cloth «nd Panama, cheek by jowl with a giddy
little i >ve bird in the remains of last night’s paint,
a billowy, lacy, bedraggled, second-hand dressing-
gown and a picture hat. The love-bird is invari-
ably accompanied by a serious-minded, elderly
female. Flossie is'merely out for fun, and for the
time being is the pink of propriety. A notable cir-
cumstance is the entire absence of small children—
save for an occasional market-gardener’s boy,
asleep on his father’s peas or cabbages. But there
is a superabundance of short-skirted damsels of
from 14 to 18—Heaven knows what they want
there ; they buy nothing save ice-cream, and the
colder the morning the more ice-cream they con-
sume. And an amazing conundrum is where all
the drunks come from. One can get liquor almost
anywhere in Melbourne up to 1 a.m., but even if
a man is drunk at 1 a.m., he should be at least
threatened With sobriety by four o’clock. Yet the
inebriates are more plentiful than Bent’s surplus.
* * * *
There is no saying- what a man will do
when he is really sorry. The other day a country
youth, in an aggravated condition of beer and
remorse, accosted a Melbourne constable and com-
plained of having been waylaid and robbed. He
was escorted to the watch-house and locked up as
a plain drunk. Also his pockets were turned out,
and a lot of pay-in slips and cheques on a country
branch bank were discovered. Next morning,
after paying a small tine,, he was about to
depart, when the arresting constable' wanted to
know the how and the why ,6f so many
cheques, and all about the alleged rbbbery and so
forth. Then the infant broke down and confessed
that he, being clerk in the Nathalia branch of the
“’Asia,” had annexed some £2OO that didn’t
belong to him ; that he had resigned voluntarily a
few days before, and had departed, with his em-
ployer’s best wishes, for parts unknown ; but he
now thought he had better be locked up out of harm’s
way. The constable thought so, too. Probably
the youth is sorry now. The moral is that no
king should abdicate on an empty stomach, and
that no young man should give himself up to the
police before breakfast. When anyone feels him-
self repenting in the early morning he should go
and have a souare meal. If he still repents, the
affair is probably genuine. Otherwise it is only a
hollow void.
* * # *
Christmas is the time when the inexperi-
enced person rushes down to the sea in yachts, and
the fellow who can’t swim takes his family on to the
slippery rocks for some deep-sea fishing ; it is also
the time when the fool handles the gun that gets
itself loaded in miraculous ways, and when the
simple stranger climbs on to the roof of the vicious
horse that he never met in his life before. In
Victoria two whole families were wiped out by
drowning while seeking Christmas joys, and the
list of individual deaths by horse, fire, bike, gun,
and flood during the festal week ran into columns.
Why not represent old Pa Christmas as a skeleton
with a coffin under his arm ?
AFTER THE HIGHLAND GATHERING.
M‘TAGGART: “ M‘Phierson, gie’s a sang.”
M'PHIERSON : “ Ah canna.”
M'TAGGART : “ Weel, gie’s a reecectation.”
M'PHIERSON : “Ah wull.” (Recites.) “Frae
scenes like these Auld Scotia's grandeur
springs (Whereat he missed the post
and fell heavily.)
The Sydney secesli scre'echers intend to
demonstrate in Sydney Town Hall on January 17,
and it is announced that, in the effort to draw an
audience to back up the foolishness,
the Lord Mayor has promised to arrange for an organ
recital between 7 and 8 p.m., before the meeting.
Has he ? So the organ the citizens paid for is to
be played by the organist whom the citizens pay
to draw an audience for a secesh meeting, because
the Gaud Mayor is such an ass as to favor that
agitation! « , *
“Oby”: Fifty years ago Lake George
(N.S.W.), where J. 0. Watson wants to have the
Australian capital, was called by many an inland
sea, and big efforts were made to make it live up
to the title. Political wheels carried fish over to
the waters, and there was talk of turning the
place into a resort for Sydney’s well-to-do in the
hot months. Lake George is a natural curiosity,
inasmuch as no one has been able to satisfactorily
explain where its water goes to. The photo-
graph exhibited in Sydney Works Office, the
other dav, shows the lake as something like
one of the half - filled -in waterholes in the
brickmaking area of Marrickville. But the
water returns to Lake George (that is, other
water gets there) as rapidly as it leaves—-the
trouble is that it doesn’t return often enough. I
was once wrecked on that tempestuous sea,
yet, 24 hours later, it was a pond—a little one,
looking like the haunt of the Tasmanian geese in
Sydney Centennial Park. You can see the water
pouring into Lake George from the surrounding
watersheds, but there’s no visible outlet.
* • * •
At Richmond (Vic.), the other day, the
local Bench fined a man 10s. for beating a woman
into a state of insensibility, he having punched
her until she couldn’t stand and then kicked her
all over the body. The Bench “considered the
season ’’—the season of peace on earth, goodwill
to men (not women)—and did not like to be hard
on the accused. Another way to consider the
season would be to try, by vigorous administration
of the law, to make it a time of year when a
woman would have less chance of being kicked to
death than at other times—to consider the season
for the kicked as well as for the kicker. But the
wooden-headed Bench never thinks of that.
* * • *
Deeply interesting item from an ’Ome
paper, the 16th November last
Prince Louis of Battenberg, who has been suffering
much discomfort from toothache, yesterday paid a visit
to an American dentist, and remained there an hour while
the tooth was being stopped.
He condescended to remain there instead of
leaving his face behind him and calling for it later
on.
Even Victoria’s soft-hearted Judge Eagle- (
sou can be hard when occasion arises. He almost
broke down over the huge railway defaulter,
Walsh, and expressed sorrow that he did not
possess the power to turn that frock-coated
criminal loose upon the public he had robbed ;
but when another railway man was up before the
same Judge, accused of having purloined half-a-
bottle of whisky left lying loose about the sheds
for days, his Honor administered 12 months’ hard
labor without turning a hair. The huge embezzler
got 15 months, with an express in‘unction to the
gaol authorities that he was to be kept apart from
the real bad men who steal bread, and boots, and
whisky. The man who stole the half-crown’s
worth of liquor was just shunted into gaol to herd
with anybody.
• # * •
“F.C.” writes from Melbourne :
I put in Boxing Day inspecting Mordialloc and the
vicinity. It is just seven years since I was there, and I
shan’t go for another seven. In the old days the “ push ”
favored the place on holidays, and things were willing
and joyous. Now all is drab respectability. The dance
pavilion, where 'Arry or Bill was wont to catch Lizzie
round the waist and screw her through the mazy
throng, was absolutely deserted. Serious - minded
families went down by van or train, lunched,
washed the youngsters’ feet and returned full of subdued
joy at a decent hour. But just beyond Mordialloc is a
patch of foreshore where all is joy and revelry. This is
Camptown—where the campers camp, in tents, for a week
or a month, or perhaps two. Father and the grown-up sons
are in Melbourne all the week, so Camptown is mostly
peopled by women and children, and the few who
are there have gaudy times. In a mile and a half
of a narrow strip of ti-tree scrub between the Bay and the
railway are some hundreds of good-sized tents where the
families sleep and feed. The rest of the time they sit on
the sand, or bathe, or just meander round. They wear
any old things—Panamas, sun-hats tied down with veils,
semi-discarded blouses and skirts, and often no stockings.
And they bathe, mixed and otherwise. One sweet
picture was a well-developed damsel of sixteen
or so, in flesh-colored silk combinations. She
could not swim, nor did she go in further than
knee deep, but she had got herself wet somehow
and she looked clingsome and pretty. Another sketch
consisted of two grown-up girls with some smaller rela-
tives, and a couple of men friends. The ladies were
plump, with—or—legs that would have got them into the
front, row of any ballet in the world, and I should say
they had annexed their brothers’ singlets and cut
about a foot off the top. They preserved an
appearance of modesty by getting a small sister to bring
macintoshes wherewith to cover their charms while pass-
ing from the water to their tent in the ti-tree. But I
want to know how Camp town passes its evenings.
There are such limitless opportunities and spaces
for strolling round two and two, and viewing the
moon, and the Bay, and so forth. If I had
the luck to possess the affections of either of those-
two plump girls, we would—on a hot night—go for
another bath early in the evening, and I would see the
moonbeams glistening on her plump, round legs, and,
later on, we would sit in the ti-tree, and I would propose.
In camp life you feel as if you could propose to almost
any plump, wet girl—or to any dozen of them. They are
a happy-looking, careless, brown, friendly people, these
campers, and I love them.
Consider the callous cruelty of the bring-
ing home of the Christmas poultry ! It is the
custom of the thrifty householder to buy the
bird a week or two ahead of the time he is
to batter it down with plum pudding on Christ-
mas day. He takes that bird- home from
the dingy and dirty poultry shop, puts it in his
airy backyard, and feeds it as its mother would.
The bird rejoices. Its faith in human nature is
restored. It learns to sing little anthems of
praise to its new master .; to watch for his step as
he brings the plenteous and fattening food •; and
to chortle with joy at the sound of his beloved
voice. Then at il p.m. on Christmas Eve he pays
it a final visit, and as it smiles up at him, he cuts
off ita smile and its head with a blunt axe.
Australia forgot to import some of the
gaud-mayoral appendages of the dear old Ma
Country. At Newcastle-on-Tyne the Mayor lias
the right, on certain occasions, to kiss the prettiest
girl present—after paying her a sovereign. At
various other places the corporation keeps a mace,
and the Mayor frequently kisses it. Also, the
retiring Mayor of Bournemouth is obliged to kiss
his successor. Australia has mostly kept clear of
this sort of thing, though an Adelaide Mayor did
nrint a burning kiss on the hand of the Duke of
York.
♦
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE BLACKBIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The blackbird sang and sang,
As he would never tire.
Then thro’ my heart there rang
This cry, “ I will aspire ! ”
I’ll sing and sing until
My song shall perfect be,
And all the world be still
In listening ecstasy.
I’ll sing of mirth and joy,
Of peace and swords in sheath,
Of truth without alloy,
Of Love and Life and Death.
Of courage in distress,
Of holy sympathy,
Of self-forgetfulness,
Of Christ upon the Tree.
Of bee and butterfly
(Oh ! sweetly will I sing),
Of May and of July,
Of swallows on the wing.
I’ll sing of flowers, and books
Whose wisdom glads the eyes,
Of girlhood’s radiant looks,
Of Spring and starry skies.
Of Summer and the rose,
Of Autumn and the mist,
Of Winter and her snows,
And skies of amethyst.
Of lover and of friend,
Of mountain, plain and deep,
And, singing to the end,
I’ll sing a song of sleep.
vie.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
NUMBER 9
Took HER SHOE, a.ho,
HwnvuNCj x\ '•/rpk 'rfwe,
Vleoqeo HER, \K WS To^ST.
* The Ho^tDvare"'
* TfvtOU'RT 'DRORK "qyoTtS
*<HE. QyoTHHt/THt
, Vault is
trvne;
And Poised
To The
SHOE,
(JT'wks
NUWHER nine 7
cops V4ERE NEMtR
NWS l *
Tor ORttimma V *''*‘E !
MTOW


SHORTHAND
by Post.
GOOD POSITIONS FOR
GRADUATES.
“ Homh Study” post fiet.
STOTT & HOARD’S
Business College, Sydn> y.
19
■OTt
Joe?,
01*
\®/f
2
Ok
\kg
&bocr/
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
M Pitt St., SYDNEY appl.ances prop. lt q
504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks rljzrj:tipping trucks, tramway material.
le Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
EXPLOSIVES andMINING REQUISITES generally. L,eht ’ S CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR '“
LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
ROBEY
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The profits made by Australasian banks during
the past year (or as near to the past year as their last
published balance-sheets will let us get) show a slight
shrinkage from the figures of the previous 12 months. In
1903-4 the effect of the high rates charged for accommoda-
tion during the one or two bad seasons was still felt. The
banks at that time took heavy risks ; as it happened, two
excellent seasons followed, and their losses were not
large. In the past year their risks were much smaller,
their charges lower, and their profits therefore also
smaller ; but the business has been far sounder. The
profits have in the latter part of the year been helped by
a reduction in deposit rates ; but this has not yet had
much time to show itself. Taking for the first table the
results on a full year’s business—the 12 months covered
by the last published balance-sheets—these things show
up °
To Ee- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves. serves.
New Zealand ..£325,813 £99,596 £19,910 £43,897
N.S. Wales .. 254,774 200,000 54,774 1,443,233
Australasia ~ 252,219 192,000 60,219 1,237,104
Union .. .. 181,204 150,000 31,204 1,082,509
Com. of Aus. .. 133,862 63,520 12,411 210,169
Com. of Syd. .. 130,774 100,000 30,774 1,106,503
National (Melb.) 72,234 60,005 12,229 126 498
Victoria.. .. 68,843 60,635 8,208 173,944
National (MX.) 49,907 30,000 19,907 238,310
E.S &A. .. 48,348 21,578 - 145 709
Adelaide.. .. 47,876 32,000 15,876 268,953
Q. National .. 43,832 45 000
W estralia .. 42,602 23,438 19,164 34(1452
Colonial (Melb.) 37,634 21,944 15,690 85 773
Com. of Tas. .. 24,323 16,342 7,981 136,232
Royal (Q land) .. 19,242 16,890 2,352 65 992
Royal (Melb.) .. 16,573 9,000 7,573 47 876
London .. .. 15,893 18,648 11’562
City of Sydney.. 12,218 10,000 2,218 6871
National (Tas.).. 11,043 9,578 1,465 34’, 333
Ballarat .. .. 8,002 5,950 2,052 67 911
A.D. &Mort(Mel.) 6,352 6,145 207 ’g9l
A-J-S, .. ... 5,108 5,108 7,567
North Q land .. 4,683 2,638 2,045 20,100
The profits for the year total £1,813,364, and they have
been appropriated as follows :
Dividends £1,150,407
Added to reserves .. .. 3io «fi7
Aid to asset trusts— ' ’
Bank of New Zealand .. .. 206 312
Commercial of Australia.. .. 57’931
Written off, old debts—
English, Scottish and Australian 26 770
Queensland National .. .. 43 832
T ~ , £1,816,119
Less div. paid by London Bank of
Australia out of reserves.. .. 2 755
Total profits .. .. £1,813,364
But the list shows the Bank of N.Z., Commercial of Aus-
tralia, and Q.N. in probably too favorable a light. Every
bank has some skeletons in its safe, and it spends part of
its earnings getting rid of them; what it spends it
doesn t mention, but the amount comes out of profits
before profits are disclosed. The B.N.Z. and the Com-
mercial of Australia have simply passed their old skeletons
on to separate co-ncerns, and thus their profits, as shown
in the table, are not charged with an expense which
practically every other bank has to bear. The OK’s
position is much the same. Further, some banks (the
Australasia and Union in particular), in addition to
making the ordinary provision for bad debts, &e., are
specially writing dowm premises and other accounts ; and
it they carry this beyond a certain point, it practically
means building up an internal or hidden reserve.
The next list shows the earnings and dividends
on the basis of the last published balance-sheet whether
for six or twelve months :
Interest earned per
annum on shareholders’ Dividends,
total funds. p.c. p.o.
v „ , , ■ 1904 - 1905. 1904. 1905.'
New Zealand.. .. 935 c
National (M.L.) ..£l3 17 2 10 13 11 12 12
Australasia .. .. 10 19 y 914 0 12 12
Queensland National. 914 4 913 5 Nil Nil
Ifux" •• 11 0 9 94 9 17| 20
Royal (Melb.).. .. 716 6 89 9 6 6
Commercial of Tas... 911 0 8 7 7 10 12
•• 817 9 716 5 10 10
Aew South Wales ..7 3 0 7 8 8 10 10
F d B^ d A e •■••7 8 5 76 6 8 8
L-». 6 7 1 757 4 4
Colonial (Melb.) .. 7 5 0 7 1 6 5
Commercial of Syd... 673 64810 10
National of Tasmania 5181 641 6 6
Commercial of Aus... 511 10 513 2 13 +3
Ballarat .. .. 562 561 7 7
National o£ Australia 412 1 491/ f3£ f 4
t*s *5
Victoria .. .. 44 4 43 1 j | 4
North Queensland .. 316 11 3160 1 24 24
Royal of Queensland 310 7 314 1 34 3+
A. D. &Mort. (Melb.) 012 3 3 8 3 *1 *4
City of Sydney ..4 9 8 219 8 4 2$
London . .. 42 4 216 7 {lf| | 2 f
A-J.S 3 3 8 214 8 Nil Nil
f Pref. * Ord.
The Bank of New Zealand has £1,000,000 of Government
guaranteed 4 per cent, stock, repayable in 1914 ; this is
reckoned as capital, and the dividend includes £51,978
paid upon it. On capital apart from this stock the profit
(less interest on the stock) was at the rate of £2B Is per
cent. The high place of the Q.N. Bank in the list is
largely due to the fact that it has £1,377,563 of Govern-
ment deposits on which only £2 12s. 6d. per cent, interest
is paid and £942,874 old private deposits carrying no in-
terest. The capital of the Australian Mortgage and De-
posit Bank was written down from £909,979 to £193 935
during the year, and £BlO7 of reserves were written off
The worst record of the year, so far as the
worst record is visible, was made by the London Bank of
Australia, which paid away more dividends than it
earned, having to go to its miserable little reserves for
the balance. All the others put by something ; how
much or how little this list shows :
Proportion of Profits put to Reservks.
Royal (Melb.) ..£45 18 p.c. N.S. Wales ..£2l 10 p.c.
Westralia ...45 0 ~ City of Sydney 18 4
North Q’land' .. 43 14 „ Union .. ‘.. 17 4 ”
Colonial (Melb.) 41 15 „ National (Melb.) 16 18 ”
National (M.L.) 39 18 ~ National (Tas.).. 13 6 ”
Adelaide .. 33 4 „ Royal (Q.) .. 12 5 ”
Com. of Tas. .. 32 17 ~ Victoria.. .. 1118 ”
Ballarat.. .. 25 13 ~ Com. of Aus. ~ 8 3 ”
Australasia .. 23 16 „ New Zealand .. 62”
Com. of Sydney 23 11 „ A.D. & Mort. .. 312 ”
The E.S. & A., after paying dividend, had £55 'Bs. per
cent, of its profits available ; but it applied the amount
to writing down assets. The A.J.S. and Q.N. paid no
dividend, and the London put nothing by.
The prices of Australian bank stock at the close
of recent years :
1902. 1903. 1901. 1905.
City „ ..£3 18 6 £4 10 £3 19 0 £3 9 6
„ new .. 311 0 3 15 0 311 0 3 5 0
Com. ofSyd.. 26 12 6 28 5 0 26 7 6 28 0 0
N.S. Wales .. 40 17 6 41 15 0 40 10 0 44 5 0
Colonial ..100 1 10 0 150 1 16 0
„ pref... 850 960 9 5 0 10 8 D
Com. of Aus,. 40 63 39 93
„ prej... 400 600 520 640
National .. 2 10 0 3 3 0 215 0 3 12 .9
„ pref... 10 10 0 10 10 0 10 8 0 11 3 0
Royal (Melb.) 15 6 126 19 6 146
Victoria ..1 19 6 300 2 14 0 3 13 0
„ pref... 10 0 0 10 12 0 10 5 0 11 7 0
Q. National .. 2 0 2 4£ 6 6 5 10
Royal (Q.) ..2 19 0 215 6 340 340
N. Queensland 12 6 11 3 12 9 15 3
Adelaide ..650 6 12 0 690 6 13 6
Australasia .. S 3 0 0 85 0 0 88 0 0 95 0 0
Union .. 37 0 0 42 10 0 46 15 0 51 0 0
Some remarkable movements have occurred during the
year. Thus Commercial of Australia ordinary shares have
sprung- from 3s. 9d. to 9s. 3d., or to very nearly par;
while the 4 p.c. pref. shares of £lO (3 p.c. cumulative) are
quoted at £6 4s. Only 3 p.c. is being paid, and the
amount put to reserve last year was not half enough to
pay the extra 1 p.c. ; so the market is evidently looking
a very long way ahead when it values ordinaries at 9s. 3d.
Returned members of the Stinking Fish party say that
Australia has a shocking name in England ; yet note that
in the past three years Union Bank shares, mostly held
in England where the head office is, have moved up from
£37 to £5l, and Bank of Australasia shares from £B3 to £95.
A table printed above showed the proportion of
profits put to reserves. Obviously the larger the propor-
tion put to reserves the easier would an increase of divi-
dend be, or the further would profits have to fall before
the present div. would be disturbed. It isn’t enough to
know what a present div. will return on present Value of
shares ; the size of the lay-by must also be reckoned. The
list that follows shows the return given by present divs.
on present value of shares ; also the return if the full net
earnings were divided ;
Returnon Return if all
Market Market profits were
Price. Price. divided.
City £3 9 >6 £7 6 p.c. £8 17 p.c.
•> new .. .. 3 5 0 714 „ 9 7,,
Com. of Sydney .. 28 0 0 4 9,, 516
N.S. Wales .. .. 44 5 0 411 „ 516 „
Colonial .. .. 116 0 417 „ 8 6
„ pref. .. 10 8 0 414 ~ 8 1 ”
Com. of Aus. 0 9 3
» ~ pref... 6 4 0 416 „ 5 4,,
National .. .. 312 9 511 „ 613
„ pref. .. 11 3 0 410 „ 5 8 ”
Royal (Melb.) .. 14 6 418 „ 9 1
Victoria .. .. 313 0 510 „ 6 5”
~ pref. .. 11 7 0 4 8 „ 5 0 ”
Royal (Q.) .. .. 340 72 „ 82,
North Queensland.. 015 3 611 ~ 11 12
Adelaide .. .. 613 6 416 „ 74”
Australasia.. .. 95 0 0 5 1 „ 612 ”
Union .. .. 51 0 0 418 „ 518 ’’
Westralia .. .. 30 0 0 613 ~ 12 2 ”
The Bank of New Zealand is not included in the foregoing
list because its circumstances are exceptional. On pre-
sent price of shares (£6 16s. 6d.) the dividend gives a
return of only about £2 6s. per cent. ; but the large sums
which have hitherto been called for to aid the Assets
Trust will shortly be available for division.
* * * *
A.M.P. chairman Littlejohn, defending the
disingenuous ballot-paper issued by the A.M.P. Board
“As only a small minority of members can attend a
meeting, the board has afforded to those who cannot
attend an opportunity to express their opinion, for which
purpose the deputy-chairman and I are willing to act as
proxies and to vote as we are requested. The proxy form
warns voters to indicate their desires by intimating that
if no such desire is expressed the form will be used at
the discretion of the proxy. Can anything be more
transparently candid and straightforward than this’”
Mr. Littlejohn seems to think that a life office can be run
on the same lines as G. H. Reid runs a political contro-
versy. In the interests of candor, what would have been
the matter wi th telling voters that the free proxies they
gave to the directors would be used in favor of the ex-
tension to England, instead of concealing that vital point ?
Chairman Littlejohn says that the objections to
the proposed extension of business to Great Britain
and B’Africa are so numerous that it is impossible for
the directors to answer them. It is a frank confession,
anyway.
* * * *
National Bank op Tasmania (Launceston)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
May, 1899. . £4460 5 per cent. =£3991 £469 £25,364
Nov., 1899.. 4577 5 „ „ „ 3991 586 25 950
May, 1900.. 5523 5 „ „ „ 3991 1537 27,487
N0v.,1900.. 5462 {'k’ttenoff/ gg} - 26,958
May, ,1901.. 5052 5 per cent. = 3991 1061 28,019
Nov., 1901.. 5139 5 3991 1148 29,167
May, 1902.'. 4472 5,, „ „ 3991 481 29,648
Nov., 1902.. 4479 5 „ „ ~ 3991 488 30,136
May, 19Q3.. 4908 5 „ ~ ~ 3991 917 31,053
Nov., 1903.. 4699 5,, „ ~ 3991 708 31,761
May, 1904.. 5247 6 „ ~ ~ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904.. 5438 6 „ ~ ~ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905.. 5291 6 „ ~ ~ 4789 502 33,370
Nov., 1905.. 5752 6,, „ „ 4789 963 34,333
The capital is £152,040 ; the earnings bn that and reserves
combined have recently been at this rate per annum :
May, 1901 .. £5 12 11 p.c. I Nov., 1903 .. £5 2 8 p.c.
Nov., ldOl .. 514 2 ~ I May, 1904 .. 514 2
May, 1902 .. 418 9 ~ |. Nov., 1904 .. 518 1 ”
Nov., 1902 .. 418 7 „ May, 1905 .. 514 5 ”
May, 1903 ..5 7 9,, | Nov., 1905 .. 6 4 1 ”
Business seems to have been a good deal more profitable
lately. The advances, etc., at the end of the half-year
werb only £532,573 as against £547,992 12 months ago;
yet the gross profits were £15,057 as against £14,195 in
the corresponding half of ’O4. Apparently bad debts
have been fewer, or less provision has been made for
them. The present cash balances are £162,753, against
£91,792 at Nov. 30, 1904 ; and the liquid assets represent
34 p.c. of the debts to the public—for this bank, an
unusually heavy proportion. Presuming that the old
average rate of about 28 p.c. was safe (and that depends
very largely upon the sort of people the depositors are),
tne present figures show that, like most other banks, the
National of Tasmania could do with some more business.
And the sort of business it wants is good commercial
paper; and the best way to get that is to promote
Australian industries.
* * * *
The Freehold Assets Realisation Co. (Mel-
bourne) was formed to wind up the affairs of the Freehold
Investment and Banking Co. It began at the end of
1895 with liabilities to depositors and others (apart from
shareholders) of £1,357,437 ; it had paper assets of
£1,289,163 ; and, including capital as a liability, it had a
paper deficit of £326,849. “A” deposit receipts, not
bearing interest, were issued against liabilities to the
public ; “ B” scrip, issued against unpaid interest, is a
contingent liability only. Ten years have now been
devoted to the burial of the old boom concern, and this
shows the progress, so far as it can be made out;—
“A ” receipts “B ” scrip “A” receipts Paid
out- out- paid during for “A”
Oct., standing. standing. year. reeemts
1895 .. £1,357,437 _ _
1896.. 1,274,292 - £83,145 £lO 983
1897 . 1,135,837 £258,593 138,455 29 105
1898.. 1,025,858 109,979 29'914
1899 .. 943,410 250,527 82,448 18838
1900 .. 872.345 247,005 71,065 iv’qm
1901.. 788,159 241,961 84,186 21’703
1902 .. 702,794 232,189, 85,365 22’054
1903 .. 656,974 228,938 45,820 ] 2’034
1904 .. 590,494 226,504 66,480 2o’ei9
1905.. 011,035 214,663 79,459 25,'593
There is, however, not as much certainty about some of
the earlier figures as there might be. Altogether, accord-
ing to this reckoning, the aggregate position is :
Deposits paid off .. .. ... £846,402
Total paid for deposits .. .. 210,356
Depositors’ loss .. .. £636,046
Depositors have got no interest, and have, in round
figures, lost 15s. in the £of their principal. Comparing
the earlier results with the later, deposits have, however,
increased considerably in value. In the first two years of
the liquidation, they were bought back for 3s. 7d. in the
£ ; in the last two years, the average price has been
6s. 4d. But the man who got 3s. 7d. ten years ago may
have been earning interest on the amount since then, and
the man who gets 6s. 4d. now has got no interest in the
ten years. The other side of the matter is shown next
Loss on
Assets Sold during Cash, &c., Property
(Book Value). year. in hand. sold.
1896. .£1,289,163 £27,816'
1897.. 1,116,815 23,225 £64,500
1898.. _ _ 55 592
1899.. 963,368 23,556 55,756
1900.. 902,514 £60,854 25,257 43,964
1901.. 826,678 75,836 24,304 57,351
1902.. 774,454 52,224 25,566 30,551
1903.. 662,842 111,612 44,092 82,360
1904.. 607,534 55,308 44,640 36,702
1905.. 487,967 119,567 49,191 . 88,494
Assets here include balances owing by purchasers, &c., now
amounting to £43,937 (new co.) and £11,813 (old co.). The
properties held in Oct., 1904, had a book value of
£551,030; they now stand at £432,217, showing a reduc-
tion of £118,813 ; and the ascertained loss was £88,494, so
that £118,813 (book value) of property realised £30,319,
or about 4s. 2d. in the £. The cash, balances due, &c. (if
good), would pay “A ” deposits 3s. lOd. in the £. The
properties, if they could ho realised at 4s. 2d. in the £ of
book value, would pay ' A ” deposits a further 3s. sd. in
the £ together 7s. 3d. Meantime the properties are
returning something like £l5OO in rent over and above
all the co.’s expenses ; and that, of course, will add to the
amount available, though the margin between expenses
and receipts will gradually lessen. This amount may,
perhaps, be fairly set against losses on account of the
balances due. Looking at it in that way, on the basis of
recent transactions there is 7s. 3d. in the £ for depositors.
A spurt in land values would increase the available
amount ; but, taking things as they are, an immediate
6s. 4d. in the £ looks a very good price indeed for the
deposits.
* * * *
The National Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co. of Australasia (Melbourne)
. , „ . . To Re- Be-
Oct., I rofits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1896 .. £2986 10 per cent. = £3OOO £23 907
1897 .. 2389 8 ~ ~ 2400 23,’896
1898 .. 2390 8 ~ ~ 2400 23,886
1899 .. 2402 8 „ ~ 2400 £2 23,588
1900 .. 2403 8 „ „ 2400 3 23 891
1901 .. 2406 8 „ „ 2400 6 23,897
1902 .. 2407 8 „ „ 2400 7 23,904
1903 .. 2408 8 ~ ~ 2400 8 23,912
1904 .. 2433 8 ~ „ 2400 33 23,945
1905 .. 2414 8 „ ~ 2400 14 23,959
For practical purposes, this list is mighty little good
The co. apparently every year credits itself with just
enough of the corpus commission on trust estates to pay
dividend ; and what that proportion is it is impossible to
tell. If there were a large surplus at any time it might pos-
sibly be used to write down securities. The profit and loss
account provides the means by which this might be done, for
theone solitary item on the revenue side is—“ Profit includ-
ing interest, commission, rent, &c., after providing for con-
tingencies.” But if there has been any such writing-
down it is remarkably well hidden ; for of the assets the
only item not included at cost (less in one or two cases
some admitted writings-off) is “ Money lent on mortgage
of freehold property. £5190.” Five years ago this item
stood at £21,965. Possibly contingencies have been pro-
vided for here. Again, it is equally possible that profits
have been divided up to the hilt. Every year, nearly
the directors remark that they “cannot too strongly
urge upon shareholders the necessity of continuing and
increasing their efforts to bring business to the co.” But
how can directors expect the public to hand over its
affairs, when it is too dead to look after its own interests
to a co. whose published accounts are apparently little
better than a make-believe ? Once more, there is rio class
of public co. s in Australia whose published accounts are
more unsatisfactory than those of trustee co.’s ; and, from
their very nature, there are no concerns which ought to
be franker with the public. If they want to strengthen
the demand for a public trustee office, the co.’s (with very
few are'going the right way to do it.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dunedin
M.L.): — ’
• _ _ . Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. off. serves. serves
1901 .. £4582 6 p.c.= £4532 - £ 5O £2O 459
Premiums on New Shares 85 20’544
1902.. 8666 7 „ „ 5842 £3BOO 19 5S
1903 .. 7272 7 ~ ~ 5842 1500 19’498
1904.. 667 3J „ „ 2921 _ _ f 7V44
1905.. 3312 3| ~ ~ 2921 328 63 17’307
The plant is in the balance sheet at £60,740, and nothing
has been charged to profit and loss for wear and tear of
this large asset. The sum written off is for alterations
made to the buildings. If only 2£ per cent, were charged
for depreciation of plant and buildings, the net profit
shown above would be reduced to £1309 or lust
about 1J per cent, on capital (£83,458). Considering
that practically every other Maoriland mill is in the
same condition as the Mosgiel, there is obvious need
for a close inquiry into the cause of the trouble. It cer-
tainly' isn’t the quality of the goods—unless it be that
their quality is too good. They are made of wool and
wool can t compete with shoddy for cheapness •’ and
it will be found almost for certain that it is shoddy mas
querading as all-wool which is knocking out the Maori-
land woollen business. Should inquiry prove this to be
so, then tiiree courses are open (1) To compel im-
porters of shoddy to brand their goods as such ; (2) to put
on such an import duty as to make it unprofitable to
bring 111 the fraud ; (3) to do nothing, and let the local
industry slide to ruin, and the co.’s to liquidation, and
the workmen to the inevitable sack. The first is easily
feasible ; the second is hardly practicable, and anyway it
isn’t altogether fair to Protection to use it for this pur-
pose : the third is unthinkable. And yet it is the unthink-
able third alternative that is being practised.
* * * »
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves
1897 .. £452 Nil £452 £40,134
1898 .. 477 Nil 477 40,611
1899 .. 1401 1J per cent. = £lO9O 311 40 990
1900 .. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41’065
1901 .. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41 163
1902 .. 2922 3 ~ „ 2308 614 41,777
1903 .. 2590 3 ~ ~ 2477 113 41.890
1904 .. 3044 3 ~ ~ 2584 460 42 350
1905 .. 3017 3 „ 2592 425 42^775
The amount required to pay the dividend, shown in the
last line above, is an estimate ; probably it will be slightly-
exceeded. The co.’s business has been larger than usual
during the year, apparently due to subdivision sales.
Ibis and some other details are shown hereunder :
„ , 1900. 1904. 1905..
Capital £75,156 ‘ £86,232 £87,018
Deposits 50,689 42,'938 37,460
Other liabilities .. 44,423 39,046 55 204
Advances and balances
owing 42,003 52,675 57,593
City properties.. .. 57,803 35.264 38,372
Other properties .. 106,314 114,461 119 898
Cash balances, &e. .. 7,459 6,776 8,’153
Property sale receipts 13,380 17,737 40’940
Paid for properties .. 7,800 12,198 20 ’ 659
So the co. has been buying extensively as well as selling ;
in spite of its sales it holds in properties £158,270 (book
value) against £152,725 at the close of the previous y 7 ear ;
and its liabilities to the public have gone up from £81,984
to £92 664 Presumably the co. expects the demand
for subdivided lands to increase, or at least to be nia"n
tamed; if it isn’t maintained, the year's transactions
won’t turn out as satisfactory as they look at
Certainly the gross earnings show £4 Bs. per cent on the
total assets, and that doesn’t look as though the estates
intended for subdivision were unproductive ; but on the
other hand, the earnings include profits on subdivision
sales, so the figures don’t much help one to tell what the
assets would earn supposing there were no demand for
properties and no profits coming in from sales And if
that happened, the £92,664 of public liabilities, on most
of which interest would have to be paid, would pinch the
co. The fact is, the business is highly speculative • and
the co.’s figures for the moment are not much of a guide
as to what its future figures will be.
* * * *
Coal co.’s were the one group of stocks that
didn’t budge last year. With one or two exceptions they
closed at a lower price than they opened. The most
notable exception was Vale of Clwydd (Western district
N.S.W.), hawked two or three years ago at under 10s ’
and now at 265., a rise of Bs. in the year. For that the
Lithgow Ooal Association and the railway contracts are
to be thanked most. Coal prices have been low, and
prospects of the export trade are not bright. N.S.W. has
hitherto done most of its coal business with Protectionist
countries, and the Protectionist country gets into the
habit of doing things for itself—including the digging of
its own fuel. The coal-miner has for years past been, on
the whole, a good Protectionist ; he lias recognised that
his best hope lies in increasing the home consumption of
coal ; he knows he can rely upon getting the home mar-
ket, and that that is the only market he can be sure
of. ButtheN.S.W. man whose money is in coal mines
hasn’t been a conspicuous Protectionist; and the fact
that his stocks have sagged during a year in which every
other group of stocks has soared may'do him good.
*** ' *
None of . the bad bargains made by the Vic-
torian Government in pursuance of its closer settlement
scheme points more urgently to the need of a compulsory
purchase and land-tax clause combined, than the negotia’-
tions for the Werribee Park Estate. This consists of
24,000 acres. It is within twenty miles of the Melbourne
Post Office, and yet it has been in the hands of one man for
the last half-century, and has blocked settlement foras long.
It was bought, or cadged, from the State for a nominal
price per acre. It required very little clearing, and tens
of thousands of pounds have been made off it. Yet now
that the State wants it back for closer settlement pur-
poses it is asked to pay £3oo,ooo—£l2los. per acre. And
this land has been paying only a few shillings a year land-
tax ; for tax purposes it was valued at a mere fraction of
what it is valued.at for repurchase. A graduated land-
tax of the right size would have forced the owner to out
it up years ago, and the State would have been saved
over a quarter of a million sovereigns, and been collect-
ing revenue for years from a thousand extra taxpayers.
* * *
The belated annual life assurance report of the
Cape Colony (S’African) Government Actuary for 1903 was
presented to Parliament in the 1905 session. Most
striking feature, so far as concerns Australia, is the re-
markable increase in the business of the National Mutual
(head office, Melbourne). At the end of 1902 this society
had outstanding Cape Colony policies assuring £809,650 ;
at the end of 1903 the total was £1,460,358. By far the
largest of the S’African offices is the South' African
Mutual ; but its year’s increase was only £613,041 as
against the National Mutual’s £650,708. No other office
added more than £135,739 to its previous total. But the
A.M.P. policy-holders, who are being invited to consider
what foreign business the National Mutual is getting,
ought to consider also the Colonial Mutual, another
Australian office which has for many years been
pursuing business in Africa, and is now making no pro-
gress there ; its policies in 1900 assured £1,936,782, and in
1903 they had only been increased to £1,995,847. It is
yet to be seen whether the National Mutual will not tail
off in the same way. Anyway, S’Africans are beginning
to point out that the “foreign offices” have very little
money invested in the country ; and the Government
Actuary urges that they should be compelled to maintain
the full reserve value of all S’African policies in S’African
securities. The American assurance scandals are bound
to strengthen the demand for this change ; and, as Aus-
tralian offices are bracketed with the American, the pro-
posed new law will no doubt apply to them also. Probably
the Australian office won’t feel quite as comfortable when
it has to make very big investments as far away as
S’Africa.
* * » *
“Lead, £l7 17s. 6d.’’ Cabled quotation on
December 28; but next day it was 3s. 9d. lower. Only'
once before since Australia lias been producing lead has
this quotation been reached ; according to the Broken
Hill Prop.’s statistics, £l7 17s. 6d. was touched during
the metal boom at the end of 1900. Then lead fell so fast
that people who were underneath couldn’t get out of the
way ; and before 1901 was very old the price was £ll.
Beckon up the difference in Broken Hill profits between
even £l3 and £l7 ; to the B.H. Prop, it means £130,000
a half-year, to the South and Sulphide Corp. about
£48,000 each, to the North £24,000, and to Block 10
£31,000. Further, if the lead market breaks,
it is pretty certain something will come off
the top of the silver market too. One thing
which might cause one to expect that it won’t be a very
bad collapse in lead this time is that the upward rush has
been very rapid, so that producers haven’t had time to
enormously increase their output, while users of the
metal haven’t had time to look round for a substitute.
By way of a coincidence, note that the highest
price paid for lead in modern times (reliable figures go
back 150 years) was in 1806—just a hundred years ago.
The average then was £35 15s. In the last 50 years the
highest was in 1862, £2O 17s. 6d. ; the lowest' in 1894
£9 11s. 6d.
* * * *
A. D. Carmichael, for eight years past experi-
mental chemist to Broken Hill Prop., and now tripping
in Europe, has been telling a London interviewer, tq
the production of zinc concentrates, that “it is confi-
dently anticipated the Proprietary’s profit from each ton
of tadings treated during the current half-year will be
not less than 17s. 6d. per ton, even from stuff of the
lowest grade.” Carmichael should know as well as any-
body ; for the process which the B.H. Prop, is using, and
over which there has been the law-fight with the Potter
Syndicate, was the outcome of long experiments made
m Carmichael’s laboratory. But the figure cakes some
swallowing, it is so big. The neighboring Block 14
using Potter’s process, only made about 3s. 9d per ton
last half-year ; and the highest price paid by the Zinc Cor-
poration for tailings is 6s. On paper you can easily work
. it out that the profit should be £1 per ton ; but profits on
paper don’t pay divs. in cash.
* * * »
Broken Hill Prop, is having more trouble than
it cares to mention with its plant for production of acid
to be used in zinc extraction ; and that, for one thing
upsets the paper estimates. Wages were at the start
7s. 6d. per shift of eight hours. Men couldn’t stand
the heat and the fumes, so they tried them with six-hour
shifts. Still it was too much, and now the men are beino-
paid 7s. 6d. for four-hour shifts ; and there are so few
rushing the job on even those terms that the co. will let
one man do two shifts in 24 hours if he likes. And as
there are other troubles still, the process of manufacture
will, it seems, have to be somehow modified.
* * * *
The Scottish Australian Co. has at last let its
Cadia (N.S.W.) freeholds on a tribute lease for three
years; at the end of that time, if things turn out all
right, a co. will he formed to go on with the work
Cadia is the oldest copper-mining district in Australia • it
was to smelt ore there that the late Lewis Lloyd was
imported from Wales. Again and again attempt's have
been made to get at the property held by the Scottish
Australian Co. ; but that absentee concern, which also
owns the Lambton and Burwood collieries, wouldn’t deal
and only deals now on the basis of “a substantial
royalty. ” Yet some people are quite sure that nothino- i n
the shape of labor covenants is needed to make people
work mining properties that they may get hold of.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is still the
cause of much talk, and the sport of the market
Management announces that the winze below No. 4 levei
is down 7ft. in ore 4ft. wide, worth 2oz. 13dwt. Yet an
authority which ought to be good asserts that no work is
be.ng done below No. 4 level, and that the reef has cut
out. Anyhow, at the meeting in September it was
announced that this incline winze was to be started
immediately ; and, if it has taken three months to sink
/ft., as now officially announced, they work mighty slow
at the Pole. Directors announce that a div. will be
paid in February. But official forecasts have hitherto
proved so fallacious that little heed is given to them now
The fact that all developments below 300 ft. were suspended
for months looks peculiar.


so to-*
it 'Will
c&me
t-..
Oi.
ry
%
W
a
U
e k,
m i
m
mr
%/,
TttE i
PtRPETIiSij
TRIMf. j|
)li»Z SPRING St,
MbNEY.„
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Co ™P"j£*
Liability, is prepared to —sider offers ® >PP “ «
mining properties under uo .ang option of purchase tor
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, dl
Queen-street, Melbourne.* s
The Review (London) of 2Sth July,
commenting on the last annual report of ,
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, said in tneir
last report the Directors of the Colonial Mutual state t
no fewer than 3804 policies were issued during, the year
1904 for sums amounting in the aggregate to c * oS ® .uP°n
£900,000. This we consider to very good snowing.
Cob ar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.* ' *
**. * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of a)!
description. H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke- ■
street, Melbourne.* * * *
If vou want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de PieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.* m » »
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
u& an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have al ®°. \ ee "
ordered from the same firm This now makes 40 beulus
of tiie Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to tire various
mines and industries at Broken 1 till. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert, Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.* „
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
.. other nine This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, wi th a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephah Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, tluming, refrigerators,
and every discretion oj cast or wrought iron woi .
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
TTormbv “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo i leet
Iron Cov. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a
Messrs R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more alto-
irwiVier"ssooh p The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Tieht Corporation of London, after similar experience,
hafe instated and on order over 20 OOOh p„ while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Aust, -
lasia, besides the 2600h.p. now bemgmstallelfoithe
Mount Morgan Gold Mmmg Co>., Ltd., further oraers
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
na J® fnl . fapforv work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of N.Z.,
ivie. ,inwn “ Hornshv Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
andVoOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
MUler Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* , » *
Send us your address and we will post you »
bourne.* , « *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.* , *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited
Aldershot Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products, laiitf a
particulars obtainable from the manager. #
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work' hi September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
ol hftfng 800 in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
numn raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horse power* motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel Amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2 the
dynamo and motors cost practicMly nothing to mmntam
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a mmimum . W
electric motors require much less attention tnan
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, Pemrtting “te"'
sion or change as mining conditions frequently requir .
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
no-ineerine* Company Limited, corner of Hanna ana
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary. 1
* * * *
Wilflev Ore Concentrating Tables. Important
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators
The Supreme Court of Victoria has decided in the action
brought against N. Gnthridge Limited that the well-
known Wilfley patent is valid, and has been infringed v
N Guthridge Limited by the manufacture and sale
fables which thev call the Card Concentrating Table.
The Court granted a certificate of the validity of the
Wilflev patent and ordered N. Guthridge Limited to pay
damages and costs of this action, and granted an
inlunction restraining N. Guthridge Limited from m-
frinirina’ the Wilfley patent. This is to give notice
that the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited will
enfore its rights against all persons buying or selling or
otherwise dialing in or using
ino- machines. Edward J. Rigby, Attorney for tne vvunej
Ore Concentrator Syndicate care of Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne.
To Cyaniders.—Tenders are invited by the
Directors of the New Minerva Gold Mining Company,
No Liability, for about 4000 tons of sands now lying
alongside the Company’s Cyaniding Plant at Eidsvold
Queensland, the successful tenderer to have the use of
the Company’s Cyaniding Plant, which has a capacity of
about 50 tons. Tenders to be sent to the secretary, Mr.
Gilbert Wilson, Eagle-street, Brisbane, from whom further
particulars may be obtained. The lowest or any tender
not necessarily accepted.*
eKiUßfcbbifs
ere & Evervwtvere
Round.
All taiearßound'.
Write Us. ■ __
ING.SMITfrG
MAN UfACTURER J >
or manures «
~Peak Hill (WTa.), which has come to the end of
its tether, is to be h is practi-
caUy tos^ieeze'sharehoWei^intop^rti^gupi^'bdeveiivdien
endfof'the stick. S Co?is in 300^000
number of new shares of 4s. are to bewsae. fe P
The^OO^O^ 6 on 1?
too the purpose. Holders should cut them loss
and be done with it. # »
Idaho, Kalgoorlie, has cleaned up 65 for
34fioz This brings the total to 433 tons for l/J-> -<•
nrevious return was in June ; and, as four men are at
work, it can easily be seen that the ore rs carefully picked.
Durinethis year 210 tons have been treated toi WOUoz.,
worth S £4ooo. After deducting cost ot ‘ ‘
ment, the four owners have had about £JSO each clear.
Lancefield, Laverton (W.A.), is its
canital bv 100,000 shares of 12s. each, payable is. on allot-
ment 2s on application, and 2s. monthly till fully paid.
Holders of old scrip are entitled to appiy for 50 new for
everv 100 held. A plant similar to the South ivalgurli sis
lobe installed; it is found that the refractory sulphide
ore ca. "t be treated by merely milling and cyamding but
must l)e roasted. This means that the present 00-head
mill is a white elephant, The lode at al! three levels is
from 18ft. to 25ft. wide, and the pay shoot is lJWft. lon .
The new plant will cost £OO,OOO erected, and is expected
to be finished by April. Total costs on mine, excluding
development, are estimated at 10s. per ton which « very
low for roasted ore. Quantity to be treated is 9000 tons
monthly. South Ivalgurli treating 7000 tons monthlj,
makes total costs (including development) 225. Bd.
Certainly Lancefield’s lode is much bigger and nioie
easily milled. On the other hand, it is worth only 38s.
in the sulphide zone at No. 3 level. #
Sons of Gwalia. Leonora (W.A.), is working at
hiah pressure to try and maintain its standard of ptotit.
Ore being treated is only worth about 40S while costs
are about 225. fid., leaving a margin of 17s. bd. per ton
only. Keserves on July 1 were estimated at .14.5,000 tons,
worth 405., or 31 months’ supply; but the extraction
result is barely 90 per cent, of this. Mine s monthly pro-
fit averages about £lO,OOO, and the quarterly div. of Is. 6d.
means £24,375, so that there is not much of a margin
after paying London exes. To produce the 11,000 tons
treated monthly, ore is hauled from nine different levels
and the lode is so patchy that an army of samplers has to
be employed. *
Higgins’ Find, near Widgiemooltha (W.A.), is
turning out well, and there will be some good crushings
as soon as water is secured. At present water has to be
carted 11 miles, but a Government party has struck a flow
in a bore-hole four miles away. Higgins has one shaft
down over 100 ft. and is sinking as fast as possible tp prove
the reef, and also in the hope of striking water. Except
for a short blank, the reef has averaged 18 to 24m., woi
over -2oz. This district, although only a few miles off the
Coolgardie-N orseman road, appears to have been missed
in the early days. There doesn’t seem much to support
the suggestion that it is identical with M Cann s Find of
that time. _
* * *
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W. A.), continues
a steady sink for shareholders’ money, and calls come as
regularly as ever. To keep them “Jigging, 00. had a
crushing of 142 tons for 1590 z. in November. It would
be interesting to know how many pounds each of those
ounces cost. Co. has paid no divs. for six years, and has
been making calls nearly all the time.
Great Ophir, Davyhurst (W.A.), will probably
come on the market before long. Property is traversed
by a big lode—not a quartz reef like the other mines of
the district, and this has been proved down to 180 ft. the
average grade is lOdwt. for a width of 10ft. This lode
faults frequently both in strike and dip, but it it> easilJ
picked up again by those who understand its nature.
Mine is being equipped with a large From roll plant, and
should be producing shortly. As no amalgamating tables
are to be used, it looks very much as if the coarse gold
will be lost, and the treatment will prove a failure 00.
is in 300,000 shares of ss. each of which l-O 000 are fully
paid, while 130,000 are contributing. Of latter 30.000 are
in reserve, and remainder are paid to 2s.
Black Range Syndicate (W.A.). of 6750 shares,
has done well during the year. EcsKlespa.yingdivs. of
£1 a share, co. has built up a reserve of £lO,OOO, w hich is
on fixed deposit. This district looks very promising ,
B M. and Co. have acquired 148 acres on behalf of the
Oroya Brown Hill, and christened it Oroya Junior.
Griffiths G.M., Coolgardie (W.A.), which was
owned by a Newcastle (N.S.W.) syndicate, and was the
cause of much litigation, has been acquired by Silver-
thorne and Adair, a goldfields firm This mine has pro-
duced a fair amount of gold, and is likely to produce a lot
more. The ore is low-grade, like that of its neighbor,
Tindall’s, but still is reckoned payable. Property has
been hung up for a long time past owing to the law 8
delays, but is now in full swing. The Newcastle men will
yet be sorry that the}' parted with-it for £5OOO.
Here and there co-operative parties of miners
are lining their pockets in Westralia. There are hundreds
of shows too small for big companies, but good enough to
give handsome returns to four, six, or eight men. Almost
every distant field has a State battery, and reefs that
would have been spurned a few years ago aregivmg
more than wages. Instead of hanging on month after
month, scarcely making tucker, and wearily waiting for
J. Bull to come and buy their pot-holes, miners
to-day are self-reliant and resourceful. They know to a
pennyweight or so what the stone is worth, and almost
anything near an ounce is considered good enough.
Altogether, thanks to the State battery system, the pros-
pects of miners who work their own shows have never
been brighter. Here are a few mid-December yields.
From the Emu (Menzies), 77 tons 2260 z„ making a total
of nearly ISOOoz. from 400 tons since lease was taken up
two years ago; Harbor Light (Pmgin), 50 tons, 570 z. ,
Last Chance (Kanowna), 14 tons, 90oz. ; kad}Glad}S
(Mulline), 158 tons, 2510 z. ; Shamrock (Kunanaling) 84
tons 101 oz. ; Savage Captain (Burtville), 124 tons, 310 oz. ,
Bond’s Find (Burtville), 107 tons, 289°z.; The Secret
(Menzies), 28 tons, 115 oz. ; Mackay and Richards (Men-
zies), 35 tons, 103*oz. Even at Norseman, where the
stone is mostly low grade, the State batter} got 3isoz.
from 470 tons fbutthe Boogardie battery, Mount Magnet,
tells a tale of misery every month, some ot the crushings
panning- out less than a quarter-ounce.
Bendigo winds up 1905 far less satisfactorily
than 1904, and no excuses will alter the fact. B •
and 1904 were abnormal years, each showing up b<ittei
than anv 12 months since 1876, when divs. were ±-404,69.),
calls £104,007, and profits £300,688. To show the*
that came to Bendigo in five years swing of the
after the nineties, read the yearly financial stateme .
Year. Dividends. Calls. Profits.
1901 .. £183,780 £136,109 £47,671
1909 " 207,990 131,631 76,359
1903 ** 322,415 141*977 180,438
1904 .. 367,896 168,094 !99,802
1905 !. .. 230,009 175,281 54,/28
Therefore 1905 only just about topped 1901, but its profits
fall short of 1904 by £145,000, and of 1903 by over £125,000.
The reason is that the Moon line has been on the wane.
Clarencehas disappeared from the div. list, Great Northern
has only flashed recently, while Virginia ha s huled to
take up an equally commanding position. South New
Moon diva fell from 445. in the first half-year of 1905 to
16s. in the second six months, and the New Moon, though
maintaining a better average, has shown up less pi -
minently. The Hustler’s line also played a very poor part
until No. 1 jumped out in the last quarter with some
raffling returns. Nearly 90 co.’s were on the call list,
and 19 were dividend-earners. Of the profit-makers, the
following co.’s led the way :
Stone, tons. Gold, oz. Diva
South New Moon .. g,l» g.«g
Newiegu, .. .. gSJ
Catherine Beef .. 6,762 6,850 12,30 b
Analysing the position a little further Bendigo has to
look to Catherine Reef, New Argus, Hustlers Rett • >
and New Chum Railway to fill up the gap caused by the
shortages in the big producers of 1904. Yet, what
ever may he the outlook, what a splendid record is that
of the field—over 18,000,0000 z. of gold produced since
1851, of the value of £72,000,000 1
* . * *
What can be said of Ballarat ? Not much ; for
there mining is at its lowest. The output is sure to be
less than that of 1904, when over 52,0000 z. were won.
Cause, the further failure of the Sebastopol Plateau to
prove the existence of gold at depth, and the
poorer returns from North Woah Hawp, Nev\ No -
nianbv Britannia United, and Victoria United. Bal-
larat people, to hide the shortcomings of their own
centre drag in Creswiek, Clunes, Smythesdale, and half-
a dozen other districts. Even then the figures are
dispiriting, and show a loss of prestige. Ballarat proper
was responsible for £14,850 in divs. m 1905 against £lB,lOO
in 1904. The general falling-off in the whole of the
Ballarat mining division comes into view \vhen_t
dividend figures for the last five years are tabulated .
1901 .. ..£134,350 I 1904 .. .. £107,826
1902 .. .. 142,463 1905 .. .. 78,000
1903 .. .. 156,798 |
Creswiek has only one dividend-payer now-Duke of
Wellington ; the Bainganie mines are call-making, ,
Blackwood ditto ; and so pretty well all along the line.
It is a sad list to read, and the bitter reflection is that
there is not much light on the horizon. Theone bright
spot is in connection with the dredging industry .which
so long as it can he kept from the maw of the Stock
Exchange shark, should pay to invest in.
•* * * *
The year’s returns from Bendigo again show
George Lansell as the field’s biggest money maker. He
holds controlling interests in over 20 mines, and most of
them paid dividends. From his own six private mines,
he obtained 10,7300 z. Despite the fact that his conserva-
tive notions have helped to keep Bendigo in the slough
of unscientific management, Lansell has, nevei theless,
been one of the pluckiest and-most pertinacious developers
on the field. He firmly believes that the gold came up,
and lias no qualms at all about starting out to sink a
shaft through 1000 ft. or 1500 ft. of barren ground. So he
earns his rewards, and his success has a vast deal to do
with the ease with which many Bendigo co.’s get m
their calls.
The Union G.M., at Diamond Creek (within
easy distance of Melbourne), threatens to be capable of a.
div. within a few weeks, instead of a further call. Since,
the" present co. aroused the old property from its long-
sleep some six or seven hundred tons of stone have been,
crushed for an average of about loz. to the ton. The-
manager reports that things are looking healthy in the,
main shaft. At the fifth level he found a reef (Ift.) show-
ing fair gold, and the unwatering of the mine is expected
to yield a satisfactory solution of themystery of its flood-
the dim long ago. But an unsatisfactory solution,
is always possible in such oases.
* * •* *
Junction dredge, Bright, is one of the pioneers-
of that prosperous Vic. dredging centre. Its work shows-
the best side of dredging, both for regularity of yields-
ppnnomv Thus the gold won last hall-year
was £3798, and dredge charges £1373. Divs. of £9oo-
- paid bringing the total to £6923, as against the,
paid capital of £8702. Ground "-wkedaveragjid
9-67 gr per cub. yard, or over 5d., and costs-
were "less than half that sum. Co., like Graysons.
Gladstone had bad luck at the jump even-
had to reconstruct. But the directors were
plodders, and now they have not only one dredge turning
out about 360 z. a week at a cost of 150 z., but they ha' e a,
second dredge under way and half paid for. John McWhae,.
W. H. Quick, and Hayes are the bosses of the show', and.
they swear by it—more so than by any other dredging,
show in the State, though they are concerned in lots.
* * * .*
Duke of Wellington, Meredith (Vic.), ™ very
poorly. Bears months ago took a lot of liberties with the
stock and although mine beat them for a while, they
have now the upper hand. Like all the mines in the
lnonlitv the gold was patchy. At times patches were
exceedingly rfch, but only above 280 ft.. When these
“ banks ” were depleted, down came the yield. Manager
Bell’s use of these reserves was a model of judgment and
he made the bears curse more than once. But how low
things have sunk is shown by the last six months return
—12380 z from 8220 tons. Of this 3000 tons did not go
oidwt Still, it is not the sort of mine to throw up the
sponge over, even though all work at the 500 ft. level has.
been in valueless formation. It doesnt look as if the co.
will get much there, but by following the lode at the
upper levels other shoots may he found to put the co. on,
its legs. m ' m
The Gladstone (Tas.) directors are no chickens.
Their balance-sheet saw the light the night the Stock
Exchanges closed, or shares might have finished differ--
entlv Debts tot up £3269, made up thus .Bank, £4lO ~
{or plant, £2261; sundry creditors, £598. The item that,
affraots is plant, £7821, to which has to be added the
£2261 due on it. Therefore a dredge which admittedly is
not satisfactory has cut away with ten thousand. Since
the days of the Campbell’s Creek dredge, when a lot had,
to he unlearned and about three times as much learned,
there has- been such a costly object lesson in the
dredging business. Since the half-year co. has wiped
probably £3OO odd of its debts, bringing them down to-
about £3OOO. Supposing returns keep up at three tons-
every 10 days, it will take well on till June for the co to
clear itself 5 Yet directors talk about being out of debt
in February. They apparently look for higher returns,
as they mention “ some important though slight altera-,
tions to be made which should greatly improve results.
Seeing that the dredge is only working up to 60 per cent,
of its capacity, there is plenty of room for improvement.
Here again half the trouble is due to a preventive cause
the presence of surface timber, which could and ought
to have been cleared away. Generally the report conveys
to the mind an impression of chaos, and the board ought
to he made to face the music over it.
*
The Mt Lvell octopus has put out another
JSS. Tnd tZtimeh» W*ln the E.d Hill (W
omintrv about 10 miles due north of Mt. Lyell, ana
accessible by way of the Mt. Tyndall Valley. You get a
piece of old boom history by turning up the files about
the claim. Property was originally h 6 ld hy. vanous
people, but A. D. Sligo lumped it into one clami H s
persuasive tongue is generally credited with haraig
brought W. K. Wilson, O. W. Chapman and J. T. Lem-
priere into the fold, and they spent a goodly sum m
proving that the big dyke carried copper A vein here
and a patch there gave probably 5 per cent., hut the bulk
parcels ge-aerally dropped to about 2 per cent. Since the
nineties 1 ted Hill has, therefore, been a neglected num-
ber ■ ai'd. judging superficially, it isn’t a too attractive
show no nio my on. But the Lyell people
want an jitter copper mine itouse with their flux quarry
at the I Jow ; so they are trying to find one near at hand,
and the wS>P : V W n ' b £ ru ,W b - l e i£ thc y succeed -
Backers of Kelly’s Queen Block wear a
smile than the supporters of any other Charters *
stock ; 12 months ago contnbs. were at lOch, ana iW ■
closed with the shares at 9s. 10d. Brilliant and Sk
George contribs. went back from 16s. to Bs., and paid*
from 19s. 6d. to 11s. 6d. and Q. Cross Reef from
17s. 6d. to 9s. 6d. But in both these cases dns
were paid which eased the bump to sonie extent,
all round, however, Towers’ stocks have moved alon
steadily, though they haven t got back to their lJ.d
prices: total market value at the close of 190
£2,079,182, against £1,059,998 at the close of 1904, ana
£2,200,000 in 1903. This list shows what sort ot a
recovery, if any, has been made during the year by the
stocks which struck the worst disaster m 1904:.
1903. 1904. 190t>.
Q. Cross Reef.. .. £620,000 £175,000 £95,000
Marshall’s Queen .. 37,200 7, -00 g ’ 4l6
Brilliant Central .. 292,500 87,500 85,41
Brilliant Extended .. l oo’s™ 3 -is’3so
DavDawnG.M. .. 23,750 8,500 28.35 U
Brilliant Central, however, paid £27,500 in divs., and
Queen Cross £62,500. t * *
Carrington P.C., Charters Towers, has put a
nastv taste in shareholders’ mouths by making a call, the
first,'of 2d. per share. The co. was endeavoring to put
up a record by paying 1 a div. before making a ca >
the result is that the bank account is overdrawn £3300.
A call of 2d. on 80,000 contribs will bring in £666. Ith
is to reduce the debt and provide funds to carry on
development work ! The mill has been as good as idle
since it was erected, on account of the shortage of
water ; and the beer that was poured out at the open
ing “ function ” would be a valuable addition to the; h pud
reserves of the co. at present. At a depth o a
third crosscut has been put in. Assays from one section
of the lode give 11 to 12 per cent, copper, and up to
2oz 15dwt gold per ton. What the other section is
worth the circular does not say. On the strength of the
call and the absence of rain, scrip dropped lOd. foi the
week. One would think it was a pastoral business instead
of mining. » * *
Mills United, Charters Towers, 1444 tons for
65905«. ; concentrates £2135, residues £1066. Total for the
two weeks’ run, £5169. Mine has entered the chv list, and
distributed £15,000 after an absence ot 10 ( imt s
increasing and will continue to do so until 4000 tons per
month has’been reached. No. 6 east level is going strong
on Oft. of mineral stone. No. 7 has 6ft. of °
showing. These two, level? are responsible for the stu m
the School Reserve and Mexican. Topi Lister,. who lias
handled some decent properties, notably the Day Dd\ n
PO Tovvers)and the Malay Peninsula mines, has been
app'oi n tedTto man age the School Reserve lister deserve
something better than a squib. Of the Mexican, tno.e
who bought contribs. at 16s. will have plenty of time for
reflection during the next 18 months.
Brilliant Deep Levels, a so far unsuccessful
venture at Charters Towers, is on the £0 again. The
straight shaft, 2350 feet, the deepest on the held, is keing
repaired and skidded, and cages are to replace the
buckets for haulage purposes. Developments in the
western ground of the Brilliant Extended, towards the
Deep Levels, have considerably improved latter s prospects
of late. Stone is of low grade, possibly worth £2los. a
ton, yet even this is better than nothing if it lives into
the lease. But shareholders will have a long up-hill
struggle before the mine becomes a producer*
O K (North Queensland) has run short of
water, and smelting has been irregular in co "* e 9 aenc jf;
Presently there will be too much water, and the vile
read to the mine will be blocked. Result will most
likely be an erratic and probably weaker market during
the early part of next year. Co.’s lately-appointed
man acre r K. M. Gibson, who is new to Australia,
is shaking things up considerably at the mine. Gibson
has had "large billets in India (Mysore) and America,
■ind is the mining representative of Baronet Charles
Tennant the grossly rich Scotch alkali, mining, and
banking’man. He doesn’t quit his Tennant retainer on
takhig over the 0.K.-that is part of the contract
which may account for so large a man being got for
the £lOOO a-y.ear the co. offered.* ,
Mt Morgan (Q.) copper furnaces are now prac-
tically ready for blowing-in. Apparently no metallurgist
has been appointed; but Shepherd, the construction
engineer is capable of handling them though he isn t
disposed to continue at that work. Mt. Morgan s gold
nnfruit is about 8100 oz. ahead of 1904’s ; but the average
Baines have been Is sd. per ton less. Market at present
values the mine at half a million more than the estimate
exceeds his estimate by £500,000 calls for some justifica-
tion- . * *
Down-south “speckers” are very sore over Mt.
Mollovs (Q ) which they are nursing in large numbers at
anvthing over 30s. ; present price is about 13s The regu-
lar divs.diave not steadied the market, and the tendency
is still downward; a curious thing is that people wno
might reasonably be expected to barrack for the l ™ l6 a d
the stock tell you that shares are going to see 10s. ihe
trouble seems to be that the co. has had to do a great deal
of developing in order to find the ore which was included
in some of the published reserves—it wasnt there when
the estimates were made, and it has had to be found
since. And some of it still refuses to be found.
Occasionally vou find something better than
from Ift to 7ft., and averages 9Jdwt. In six months he
lot 5560 z gold. He works under difficulties, having
fo buy goods in a dear market, has only a horse whim
ind has to lie up six months for water. At the 112 ft.
level the reef measures 3ft. 6in., and improves. Men like
this are the sort to develop the Territory. They don t
smuggle their gold out*to Canton.* *
Opnlncist H. Y. L. Brown, returning from
Fitzmaurice River, about 80 miles from Pine Creek (N.T.),
brought in lioz. gold, washed from about a ton of dirt.
He gives a account of this field, and has already
caused'a kind of a rush in a land where there are on y
nhnnt a score or so of white prospectors. If this field
turns out O.K. the Adelaide Government must surely
do something to prevent syndicates taking up large
areasTs dummies for Chinese, as they have done on nearly
, every other field in the Territory. * #
From the Northern Territory: The East
African Cold Storage Co. and the Roper River Syndicate
(N.T.) are out again with a glowing prospectus, offering
£s* shares in a concern which promises to eclipse the
Irafura fiasco. The new co. is styled the Arnhcim
Group Syndicate ; property offered is an aiea of 32,000
square miles of islands north of Australia. Up here
the inhabitants only smile. The lslands . ve"
surveyed, and no one knows much about them , jet
flowing accounts are given Of good soil, mineral wealth,
e te e tc —land splendid pastoral country, will grow
sugar rice, cotton, maize, indigo and many things
besides! You could not sell these shares in the Northern
Territory at 2*d. apiece-the inhabitants only smile.
G. 8.: Can’t advise that way Facies: It is
M English concern masquerading as an Australian co. ;
local shareholders are mere nominees.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE i n steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane.
& 411 George St., Sydney
P.O. Box S5B. Telephone 2076.
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
Aboriginalities.
GATHERING FACTS.
STAMMERING ALGY (out for his health): “ Washing for gug-gug-gold are they? Them I s'pose
this is what you kuk-call a Ch-Ch-Chinese laundry? "
t “E.J.8.”: If the destruction of the
’possum goes on at the present rate the Govern-
ment will soon have to consider the advisability
of a close season to save the animal from extinc-
tion. The increased demand in Russia for furs
lias sent the price of the skins up to a figure never
before realised, and the ’possum is consequently
having a bad time. _ At Roma (Queensland) 9s. a
dozen lias been paid, and men striking a good
patch in that locality can make £1 a day. A
waggon came into Roma recently with a load of
13,200 skins. It won’t require very many loads
like that to clean a district bare. Cyanide poison-
ing is the usual method of destruction.
“Uckle”: “ W.P.8.” (B. 21/lk/’O5) asks
where the Newcastle blowflies have gone to.
i hey re here! From Bathurst to Nyngan the
country is a mass of maggots, buzz, and blowfly,
borne people say that the poisoned rabbits are
attracting them; but the generally accepted
theory is that the smellful odor in connection with
the Lands ” is accountable.
* * * *
“6x8”: A blackfeUer once gave us—
Mayne and myself—a dorg. He said his name
was Monte Christo; but we called him
Monte for short. He used to plant super-
fluous ; provisions, when his “stummick”
couldn’t hold any more furniture.
While camping for dinner once,
between Louth and Winbar
station (N.S. W.), Mayne
tried an experiment on
Monte, who had just
buried a piece of meat
for future reference.
Unobservedly Mayne
dug it up, and again
offered it to the
dorg. He at once
scratched a hole
and re-interred
it. Produced
again, hel ooked
just a trifle du-
bious, but buried
it somewhere
else in good faith.
The third time he
sniffed at it suspi-
ciously, while a faint
look of recognition illu-
minated his face. The
fourth time he was almost sure
he had seen that junk of meat
before, but still gave it the benefit
of the doubt. The fifth and sixth
times lie turned it over and over,
and at last buried it in disgust, l'be seventh
time he picked it up without any hesitation, and,
going to the fire, deliberately cremated it.
• • • *
“Silas Snell”: This story might be en-
titled “The .Jew’s Revenge,” and the scene is a
Victorian mining township in the vicinity of
Clunes. The hero was a stout young Hebrew
partly named Loo ; the rest of his name is lost to
history. He was travelling for a Ballarat firm of
softgoodsmen, and driving his trap up to the
trough in front of the Traveller’s Arms he col-
lided with another trap standing near, and ground
much paint off the wheels. The result was that a
hairy young farmer blundered out of the bar,
called Loo nasty names, and hit him on the jaw.
Loo went down, and stayed down, with glazed,
half-open eyes, and chin pointing to the zenith.
You never in your life saw anything so like a dead
xlebrew. Ihe farmer man gazed at the prostrate
torm in horror for a minute, then he fell on his
knees beside it, and called upon it in anguished
tones to speak to him—only speak to him—one
little word—say, oh, say it was not dead. Loo
aid not speak, and the farmer yelled for help and
besought everybody to bring doctors—to bring all
the doctors available. The only doctor was
brought, and meanwhile the agonised farmer con-
tmued to call upon the collapsed Yid, pleading
with him, m Heaven’s name, to arise and breathe
again. Ihe doctor came and examined Loo, and
k * s^ ve * a * things for him, and charged a guinea
which the farmer paid. He recommended that
Loo be put to bed and that ice be applied to his
head, and the publican charged a guinea for that,
and presently, after meeting other small ex-
penses, the farmer went away, only moderately
relieved in mind. When he had gone, Loo at
once got up and put on his clothes. “ How much
did it cost him ? ” he asked the landlord. “ Oh,
about three quid in all,” said the publican.
Oood enough,” said Loo; “after thish he’ll
have too much shense to punch a Jew.”
“ Wilbea ” : The New Hebridean burial
customs (B. 12/10/’O5) aren’t a circumstance to the
ways of sundry New Guinea tribes. If a man
doesn’t die on the date fixed by his sorrowing
relatives, the unpunctuality of Nature is assisted
by a long spear m the short ribs. This procedure
works better than the New Hebridean method
as the late lamented is prevented from rising
from his shallow grave and putting the mourners
who have passed his will for probate, to extra
troubie. Among other tribes, the deceased is put
to more useful purposes. p
THE FIENDISH SMALL BOY.
INDIGNANT OLD PARTY: “You cruel boy. How
can you torture that poor brute like that? ”
SMALL BOY : "I ain't torturin' it, see. I'm
on'y pluckin' it.”
“Jimmie Pannikin” : To-day in Broken
Hill the thermometer registered 102 deg. in the
shade at 10 a.m. At 3 p.m. I floated down
Argent-street in a flood of perspiration, and
found a wild-eyed Out-Backer, in from Past-
Beyond-Milparinka, leaning up against a post
near the Court House. He was full of gin and
geniality, and read me these lines, which he
swore were not his own at all:
What s that thick viscous stream flowing away
from under your boots?” I asked. “Well I’m
hanged !” said he, “if it isn’t me patent rubber
heels what’s melted right off me boots.”
» • * *
“Uckle” : Decorating verandah-posts with
gum-saplings at Xmas time is a dirty and silly
practice. Early on Xmas Eve nearly every
verandah-post in the Australian country town has
a bush tied to it. By Xmas night the leaves are
withered. By Boxing night they have been
blown all over the town—in the tanks, gutters,
spoutings, houses, streets, everywhere ! The smell
of dead gum-leaves haunts that town until about
Easter. In one small township a storekeeper
determined to discontinue the practice. Father
Xmas has a big stock of toys at that store. The
people boycotted him. They reckoned the non-
appearance of gum-leaves on his verandah was
sacrilege or something.
* • * *
“Snell” : There is an idea that the old
difficulty connected with the lodger is confined to
towns. My informant to the contrary is a com-
mercial traveller, but otherwise reliable. Accord-
ing to his own showing, he was driving from
Whosethis to Whereabout on business about a
month ago, when he came across a tremendous
disturbance agitating a small, bleached, wooden
house in a paddock. A small man, also bleached,
was sitting on a gate-post by the track, looking at
the agitated house, which seemed to vibrate under
the stress of the tumult within. Then a broken-
backed chair hurtled out of the door. The
drummer pulled up, and looked inquiringly at the
man on the fence. “ It’s Mary ’n’ Peter,” said
the man, who was sad, but willing to oblige
“ _Who’s Mary ? ” “ Mary’s the wife.” “ Whose
wife? . Peter’s? ” “Lor’, no—my wife. Peter’s
only livin’ at our place—payin’ 15s. a week.”
“What is the row about?” “The row’s about
me mostly. That’s why I can’t interfere very
well. You see, Peter kicked me out, ’n’ the
missus took my part, ’n’ she sez I’ve got ez much
right there as he has, a’most. So I’m leavin’ ’em
to settle it atween ’em.”
* * * *
“Harrowby”: Be the old-world nomen-
clature of Newcastle coal mines (B. 30/11/’O5).
Nearly all these mines wear the names of U.K.
collieries, in some cases double and even treble-
banked. F’rinstance, Greta, East Greta, and
Heddon Greta; Wallsend, Young Wallsend, and
West Wallsend, Also nearly all Newcastle
suburbs are named from U.K. coal centres, such
as Hamilton, Stockton, Wallsend, Cardiff, &c.
And on the South Maitland coal-beds we have
Stanford Merthyr, Pelaw Main, Richmond Yale,
and Uebburn (the best-appointed colliery in Aus-
tralia). Travelling west to the Cessnock fields,
one stumbles en route on a dilapidated tunnel
with the distinctly novel appellation of “Sore
Eye ’ (on account of an eye-trouble which affected
the men working there). At Cessnock the Cale-
donian Company’s tunnel is Aberdare, and the
Seaham Co.’s is Abermain.
Dave H.R.” : The other night, in my
native town, someone was falling down dead with
wonder that we would- ,’t admit our gallant brown
ally, the Jap., into Ai straha on equal terms with
the native born, when someone hit him with vigor
and a very squashy oange on the upper part of
his whiskers. The j irson who was all broken up
about the Jap. immediately yelled “P’lice!
P, lce • juty ! ” Then someone (I think
it was Bdl the Bulloeky, or Mick the Eager,
or Kelly the Shearer, or Bob the Plumber*
at any rate, it was some true-born Australian
with the fire of patriotism glowing in his
honest breast) yelled “Banzai!” and hit
the friend of our gallant ally with a very
ancient egg, whereupon he gave up his
attempt to demonstrate to the poor Aus-
tralians the error of their ways and drag
them from the white darkness into the
bro wn light. All would now have been
well, but another Australian, who was
a journalist, and made his living off a
white man’s paper in a white man’s
country, borrowed some boiled rice from
the girl at the hostelry, and, as the
color advocate passed, branded him
with it. He was seen, |and a police-
man rushed up. But the journalist
resisted and considerably damaged the
insignia of the “force.” Then the
, rorce called on someone in the
Rueen s name, and the people laughed and said
the Queen was dead. Next day the magistrate
<« rp, ’ H l ®. way, is an Englishman—said
plaintiff 1 ” 6 13 dlSmissed ’ with costs against the
HARD LUCK.
“ Was riding to a darnce when it come on to
rain. I took off me clothes an’ planted them
in a ’oiler log. Suthin’ frightened me horse ,
an’ he bolted. Run ’im two mile. Couldn’t
find him; an' now I can’t find the ’oiler log
either. Bust it!”
“H.J.L.” : Re “Yigilans” (B. 26/10/’O5).
The same conditions of horror are rife in all out-
lying coastal camps from the Gulf to Cairns— due
to the insatiable and uncontrollable animalism
of the Asiatic. The horrors I could speak
of are only fitted for discreet private investiga-
tion. !he alien has damned the aborigine. As
he is, it were better for the community that the
aborigine became extinct. Protection is a farce
m regard to gins. The cunning Asiatic will beat
Protectors every time. Having fished and
anchored amongst the Asiatics I know them • and
if the whites of Australia knew them as I do’thev
would rise unitedly and do as they once did in
Normanton—chase every Asiatic from our shores
Sensualism with low-caste aliens is a fetish'
Chows lead the van with unspeakable devilry. '
TOPOGRAPHICAL COURTSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, dearest, Howlong must I wait
Before you give the sign
That Yuill be my lifelong mate,
And I may call you mine ?
I’ve Binalong to see your Pa,
And for your hand did sue ;
I told him, like a Manly lad,
That I had Picton you.
I thought at first that he would Rous
Upon me with his tongue—
Perhaps eject me from the house,
Or say you were too Young.
But my request he did not Bourke—
He mildly said : “ Don’t fret, man ;
If Liz agrees, your suit will work,
And you may have her Yetman ;
Meantime, anent this subject, sir,
With my good wife I’ll speak,
1' or much, of course, depends on her—
Call round Temora week."
Thus far a Prospect seems Tooloom
Of gladness in my life—
My Lucknow will be quite a boom
If you’ll but Beami wife.
A Sunny Corner in your breast
I hope you’ll find for me—
An Eden where my soul may rest
No matter Werribee.
O, Weddin bells, with charms divine,
Ring in the happy day—
The day on which the Bondi sign
As Lincoln us for aye.
Both late and Airly, black with mire,
I’m Grafton for your sake—
In fact, my love, I Nevertire
While gold for you I make.
I labor in the Narromine,
In dungeons dark below,
And while the sun on you does shine
I shout for “ Candelo ” 1
Let’s have the Orange blossoms soon,
And then, fair maid, we shall
Seek Beecroft for our honeymoon—
You’ll be a Merrigal.
I’ve Adelong desire to gain
Your love, which if not won,
There may be found my empty brain
Beside a Barrengun 1
Or, Raleigh, love, if you refuse,
On earth I cannot dwell;
Deepwater is the grave I’ll choose,
And then I’m Inverell 1
My love, my life, my queen. Myall,
Don’t keep me on The Spit,
Lest some such Folly Point my fall
And from this world I flit.
I Ophir you a loyal heart,
O, Keepit from such fate,
For life were Nhill from you apart—
O, save me ere too late 1
O 1 Sydney Cove, if 1 were gone
Away from Ma and Pa,
And no one left to bake a Scone,
Deep grief would Berrima 1
And should that Appin, O how sad ;
My joy would then be o'er;
To Berry her would drive me mad—
You’d never see Lismore !
Speak not so sadly, Darling, don’t,
Else my Good Hope you’ll kill.
Say you’ll be mine, for if you won’t
I think that Emmaville 1
O Harden not your loving heart—
Say but one word, sweet lass ;
Wilt thou be mine—my “ better part?”
She softly whispered, “ Yass !”
K.S.W.
P. JEFF, WALLACE.
I love the sultry summer ;
Ah ! yes, indeed I love
The days when the thermometer
The hundred soars above ;
When everybody fans and swears
About the blessed heat
That scorches till it nearly melts
The boots from off the feet.
NEUTRAL GROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a bloke is dead an’ buried, in some place ’e 'as to
dwell,
An’ they say it may be Heaven, or again it may be ’Ell.
But I’d like another option-I’d like to fossick round,
An after death, with bated breath, to find some nootral
ground.
Me age is close on eighty, an’ me health it 'as declined,
An I m emit with sore anxiety that preys upon me mind:
though I thinks I am forgiven, yet I’m fearful o’ my fate,
An I dread to meet St. Peter, standin’ sentry by the gate.
I ’ave been a mighty boozer since the age o’ twenty-one,
n I see my sins rise tenfold now me race is nearly run •
So I ve doubts about me safety, an’ I raise me ’umble plea
lor just a bit o’nootral ground—that’s good enough for
me.
The shinin’ streets o’ Paradise I gladly will forego,
If I circumvent catastrophe an’ dodge eternal woe :
111 not clamor arter riches-arter corn an’ wine an’ oil
Provided that my ghost can roost in peace on nootral
soil.
N.S.W.
E.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
DF 1 Buy Whole Bottles. *9l
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort, No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 1"*-* different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.
Spoons
AND
Forks
The “ Fx&R ’ Spoons and Forks are the MOST HEAVILY PLATED of all those made
ir> England.
They are plated on a white hard nickel silver base.
They are the CiieaDest in Australia.
“Fx&r" No. 1 Quality.
TABLE SPOONS and FORKS, o2p DOZEN
DESSERT SPOONS and FORKS, 26s 6d DOZEN
TEA SPOONS and FORKS, 14s 6d DOZEN
“ Fx&R ” No. 2 Quality.
TABLE SPOONS and FORKS, 24s DOZEN
DESSERT SPOONS and FORKS, 19s DOZEN
TEA SPOONS and FORKS, 12s DOZEN.
They will be good and look like Silver after 40 years’ continuous wear.
London Prices
Plus Duty
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
“ Yarrum ” : “My experience
of cockies,” said the groom, “was
brief; but it was a clean knock-out.
I'd made up my mind that graft
was the best thing for a man, and I
got it with a cocky near Cobargo.
The wage was (is. a week and victuals.
First day, toiled at digging post-
holes and straining wire for a fence.
Long before dark my shoulders ached
terribly, and I seemed to be a couple
of men, for my back was quite gone.
After supper was loading my pipe,
when the boss remarked, ‘ You
smoke.’ Told him I’d been chewing
during the day, as I didn’t get time
to light up. He said he was glad I
smoked, as smokers were mostly con-
tented men. ‘ Anyhow,’he went on,
• it’s only wasting time sitting about
smoking. Just come away down to
the barn, and you can give me a
hand with huskin’ for a few minutes
and smoke all the time.’ We husked
until well on in the morning, when
we went back to the house, and I
turned in—am not quite sure that he
did. He told me I might ‘ sleep in
a bit,’ and I quite expected to have
breakfast in bed. It seemed to me
that I’d just fallen off, when I was
awakened by somebody on the pre-
mises calling, * She’s a-comin’! She’s
a-comin’! ’ I couldn’t make up my
mind whether it was the wife I had
to flee from or whether it was the
river that was rising. On spec. I
reached for my boots and cabbage-
tree, and rushed to the door. The
cocky was in the passage calling for
all he was worth, ‘ She’s a-comin’ !
She’s a-comin’! ’ ‘ Who’s a-comin’ ? ’
I asked. ‘Why, daylight , yer lazy
vagabond ! Ain’t it time you were
gettin’ up, or are yer goin’ to sleep
all day?’ I didn’t go to work again
for him. He handed me eighteen-
pence, which he reckoned he ‘didn’t
orter.’ ”
* * * *
“D.H.R.”: The other day I
was talking to a large and hairy indi-
vidual who had travelled in company
with Matilda from North Queens-
land. He told me that somewhere
south of the Fitzroy River he one
night came upon a heap of wood,
with signs of rope, iron, and other
rubbish, and he didn’t know what to
make of it. During the flood of 1864
a schooner, making its way up the
Fitzroy, got over the banks, and sail-
ing out over the country, was, by the
sudden falling of the flood, left high
and dry some four or five miles in-
land. Two stockmen saw it one day
as they were riding round the coun-
try, before it had fallen into dis-
repair, and guessed that _it was
everything but a ship. The blacks in the
neighborhood used to be greatly scared when
meandering through the land to suddenly see this
mighty apparition looming up in front of them.
Would this still be there, and was it the “ heap of
wood ” observed by the hairy personage and his
companion, Matilda?
“Nunomin,” from the New Hebrides :
Re par. 28/9/’O5. The introduced cats haven’t killed
the rats in the New Hebrides nor the birds. But not for
the reason given. Tommy Tanna and Charley Malekula
are very partial to the feline as food, so it has had no
chance to do any good. In my five years’ residence in
the group I have seen dozens of cats speared, toma-
hawked, and eaten. By the way, cats are not the only
things eaten. At the time of writing a man, killed four
davs ago, is being carefully stored for a future feast.
NO LITERARY KNOWLEDGE.
THE OFFICE BOY: “ Yes, he might seem like a
well-read feller to you girls, but I tell you
he hasn't read much. Why, he never even
heard of Deadwood Dick."
“Black”: At Cronulla, recently, when
fishing for black bream, I hooked and landed,
after much trouble, an lljlb. Port Jackson shark
(Cestacion Galeatus), which I lugged home by the
tail. The creature was handsomely marked with
Y-shaped dashes of brown on a grey ground, and
had a spine in front of each of the dorsal fins.
Thinking to try my hand at skinning and stuffing,
I left the fish all night on the verandah, and in
the morning, to my astonishment, I found it still
breathing. I hustled it off to the coast again,
gave it a “breather” in a pool for half-an-hour,
then put it back into the ocean, and away it went,
apparently none the worse for having been nearly
12 hours in a drought-stricken country.
“Nym.”: I’ve read a lot about “Old
Man” and other dead-sure cures for peaeh aphis
and other pests that come in the night to stay.
Give me the old cock-sparrow and his tribe as the
surest, cleanest, and most wideawake aphis exter-
minator going. To see the units of the cheeky
tribe running their bills over the boughs and
round the rose and peach buds is a sight that is
good to see. Last year my roses and peaches
were pictures, and cost nothing save a good word
in season for the sparrow tribe.
* * * ■»
The Waranga Basin (soon to be known as
Lake Waranga) has been covered with water,
with a rising depth since the Goulburn is in flood ;
and water-fowl are present in thousands. 1 here
is a proposal to have this little Victorian inland
sea reserved for all time as a haven for native
waterfowl, and the idea is an excellent one. The
cove with the gun, when found on its banks, should
be exiled to the M‘Donnell Ranges, where he
might have great sport trying to shoot wild cats.
, * * *
“ Eiddal ” (Vic.) : Things are in a bad way
round the Cockadoodleville fringe. Several of the
wealthiest stock-owners and graziers, who con-
sider themselves a rung or two above their cocky
neighbors, are paying able-bodied grafters putting
in time between the shearings 6s. 6d. per week,
poor tucker (your spuds picked for you, and skim-
milk to wash them down, and told to your face
you’re wasteful if you leave the spuds’ jackets
lying round), and sleeping accommodation that
only requires one sniff from some sane inspector of
nuisances to raise the devil. The petty mean-
nesses of the wealthy round the Cockadoodleville
quarter defy description. A young English chap
came along the road one day down on his luck.
Long Ghost, the wealthiest cocky on the road,
engaged him to plough, putting him on then and
there(at dinner spell). He kept him workinghungry
till tea time (7.30. p.m.). The lad workedfive weeks,
ploughing in first-class style. When the crop
was in he was handed a cheque for 16/6, and told
to skip. God speed the right Labor party.
* * * *
“ C.X.G.” : We had run out of dynamite
at the claim, so I rode into the station store to get
a supply. Was riding a tame neddy, but had a
rather wild young pack-horse. When loading up
I put the dynamite in one of the pack bags. Un-
fortunately I omitted to hobble the colt before
packing him. He broke away just as I was
getting an extra inch or two on the surcingle,
jumped four or five wire fences en route to the
yards, and over the post-and-rail fence, right into
the middle of a mob of the station team-mules
in the horse paddock. I borrowed a stock-whip,
and went after him on my old neddy. Chased
him round a bit, trying to cut him out with the
whip, when one of the mules kicked him fair in
the pack bag. There was great light and a fear-
ful roar. I remember seeing about 20 mules
starting to do the mile in three seconds, while the
air was full of young horse. Th< m a great quan-
tity of blank fell on me. I woke up in the men’s
hut with m'v arm in splints, an- d was told that
about a quarter of my horse was on the roof.
“ Yal,” from Launceston :
Everything south of Launceston is painfully suggestive
of the Cold Country. First the fact is apparent in the
wholesale grovel to anyone with a handle to his name.
For instance, the Mercuey’s weekly, the Tasmanian Mail,
for want of something more instructive, published a full
platepicture entitled “ The Lady Edeliue in her boudoir,
depicting a lady sitting in a room. The", again, every
shopkeeper advertises that he is under the patronage of
vice-royalty, if he has only supplied a reel of cotton.
This makes me tired. .
There is the same style prevailing in architecture as
there was 100 years ago, the buildings then built by con-
victs being modelled on the style prevailing at that date
in Hingland. The style has remained unaltered ever
since. The country is in the same condition, being owned
bv large landholders and practically undeveloped. lhe
tenants and employees hold the landlord in reverence,
and regard him as a sort of demi-god. This makes me
16 All the l youths with any grit in them realise that they
belong to a corpse island, and go over to the mainland at
about the age of 15 or 16. Those who prefer to remain
are the real slothful, easy-going “ Tassies. Most of the
businesses in Hobart bear signs “ Established somewhere
early in last century,” and they look it. Their aspect of
ajre makes me weary. ,
Along the N. W. coast the people are essentially farmers,
and their god is “ Spuds.” The universal cry is, Good
morning, Bill; how is spuds?” And when spuds is
low ” there is weeping - and wailing - in Israel—Spud-lsrael.
Since Federation there has been an influx of bagmen from
the mainland, and they are invariably greeted with
“Hallo, how are you?—when ye goin away ? This sort
of thing palls on you. There is a good future in store for
Tassy if the people wake up, but it is veritably the land
of to-morrow.
* * * *
The Immigration Act is already making
itself felt in the interior. Where Afghan camel-
drivers could be obtained four years ago at a wage
of 50s to 80s. a month and rations (Hindus much
less) it is a hard matter to get men now at £6 and
£7 a month. The Afghan worker who remains
has raised his tariff. This is slowly but surely
forcing the industry into white hands. Hitherto
the white man stood off the camel business, prin-
cipally because the imported Hooshta kept the
wages too low for him, and he could get better-
paid employment at more congenial work, blow
that the wages are rising, however, he is bottling
up his distaste of the camel, and, in most cases,
makes a much better fist at the business than
the colored man. He is far kinder to the
beast than the other fellow for a start, and kind-
ness goes a long way with animals, even with so
leathery and wooden-headed an animal as the
camel, _ ,
»♦ . *
“ Homo ” : One thing I strenuously insist
on is that the rooster can give Mr. Baracchi
points at forecasting. Even when forenoon has
been wet or showery, if the cocks of the neighbor-
hood strut round on manure heaps or other
eminences about 12 o clock, and crow persistently
and defiantly, it’s safe to go out without your
umbrella in the afternoon ; but if they stand
round discussing things, with a look of weird
expectancy on their countenances, prepare for
more dirty weather.
The Test
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
\rfhe n Norak smiles on me,
2 know she loves me
\ftt’s plain as plain can W,
ns anyone can see.
.JwhenNorak smiley orv
me .
H?)ut viken ske smiles elsewhere,
doesn't care,
JtQu secret is laid bare
\Z>u'd guess it were ljou ikere,
Norak sjnrvileS elsewhere-
A.R.B.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on if S'. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany. .
J.S.H. : Much of “Bush Fire” meaningless."
For instance, “the cry of an anguished brain.” Who
shrieks with his brain ?... .Jules : “The loved ones in a
distant land,” “ the happy home,” “ the cornfields
green,” “the happy days of youth,” “ the old arm chair,’
“ the little chapel on the hill,” “ the village choir," “ the
dear old country folk,” “ the festive board,” “ the happy
throng” “his boyhood’s home”—all these things are
bathos, and should be boiled.... W.S. : “ When God made
Woman” goes broke on too much detail....Boggabri :
Both inferior, and in any case we never again propose to
publish the remarks of a dying bushman to his mate....
Sappho : Nearly good enough T.M. : “ Secret Garden ”
is pretty, but with too small a prettiness... .Gretta : Not
good enough, yet far from very bad... .Lela M.: “ Rose-
bud” pretty and weak. Most rosebud verses are....
BE.: “Desirfie," after much hesitation, rejected....
N.E. Ild. : Well meant, but rather jagged... .E.UK.
Spicer: Nobody ever did that feat Maxim : New
Ilaram ” has some good lines, but too many bad ones... .
XJneeda : A weird, wild, woeful collection. Look at this
sample verse in print . _
A Z • “Out in the West ” bumps too much as it goes
on 'its broiling way.. ..A.G.W. : Funny in places, but on
the whole rather weak... .Stewart W. : Could do nothing
wit hit W.T.H. : Simply poor prose in verse form....
Meldreth: Only feebly humorous.... Anon : Some grace
of treatment, but track too well worn. . . T.C.IL . linns
upon a very ancient wheeze G.E.T. :As good as much
that is staged, though it doesn’t rank high as dramatic
literature.. .Saga: Humor rather mechanical. A. ..
Poetic in feeling, but faulty in execution ••■•Car L. .
Third-class work only.... Phoenix: Good study in slang,
but otherwise feeble....A.O.R. : You are a funny dog,
but we don’t care for your verses... .H.A. 11. . You say
nothing new about the Yellow Pest, and you don t say it
well T.H.L. : Sound philosophy, but poor verse....
Oeca're (or something like that): Has good points, but is
rather pappy in places, and is much handicapped li> not
bei o' decently legible.... Leslie B. : Naturally told but
hardly worth telling at a 11... .H.B.J. : What in creation
is it all about, anyhow ?... .Tuka: Ornamental nothings.
C.A.W. : Too dry and formal for the subject....
Stonv : You bark a most mistaken bark up the \\iong
tree The bequest of a parent or an uncle to a maiden ot
money, conditionally on her not practically an
unfettered legacy. The law allows her to take the be-
quest and ignore the condition, it being against »
nolicv.” But a husband dying may stipulate that, his
widow shall not marry again on pain of forfeiture of his
bequests. The Law seems to think that a woman is only
entitled to one husband just as a dog is to one bite...
Wa,l D : “ Prayer ” too long and too tame... .u.fe.A. .
You’re not the bard to do justice to the ...Ben
Cox: Patriotic, but poor verse... .D.T. (S.A.) . Sorry,
don’t know of it.... Kitty: Sorry but no roomfi
Perth (W.A.) letter. Smart pars, which wouldn tbe stale
by the time they’d travelled here and back, would be wel-
come... .Hexham: Don’t feel “ tovexmir minds
with tangled relations problems.... John J.. thanks,
glad of your agreement Liberty : Even at this post-
Xmas-pudding season The Bulletin can t be got to believe
in the bogey of Rome. Almost any other sort of snake, how-
ever, can find refuge in the “ Aboriginal! ties column....
Phoenix: What on earth is it about?... .R.N.O.
that your best girl’s “limbs are stout and white duly
notled If thev turn blue when the cold weather comes,
please wire us....Lewin Crade: Mechanically correct,
but no sign of poetic feeling... .G.P.N : Facts are solid ;
trouble is that the verse is very solid t 00... .Outcast .
The fact that the big land-grabber leaves little room for
new population doesn’t prove that Australia doesn t
require population; it only proves that we require to
shift the big land-grabber... .J.C.C.. Empty pocket
verses rather empty of ideas... .Cosmos: Quantity o
pathetic trash about Buddha and Henry George and
Single-Tax and Nirvana to hand Rangiora . Most of
it has been said already Sawdust: Barber yarn is of
extreme age and wears long, grey whiskers.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Michael O’D. : You can’t draw George Reid worth 2d.
Nick B. : Declined for various reasons. One reason
is that it isn’t good enough.
A reminiscence of the 44 bad. old days,
when men were legally kidnapped very much
after the fashion of the gentle Moroccan brigand
of to-day—in the streets, to serve in the British
navy : Number 1 of the London Morning Advjcr-
tiskr, published 10th Feb., 1794, contains the
following: “A very warm press of seamen took
place on Tuesday night, and was followed up with
increased vigor last night; several prime and
ordinary seamen were taken.” Sounds like an
account of a fishing excursion.
44 Vigilans,” from Daly River (N.T.) :
This is the best soil tor agriculture in this lonely land,
vet there is no agriculture, and very little stock-raising
here. What a magnificent sanatorium it would make for
those suffering from pulmonary complaints ! The climate
is ideal. People who have left Melbourne and Sydney
physical wrecks, given only a year or two to live, have
come up to this country, and are still alive, and likely to
remain so. Here they do all sorts of work, mining
included.
“E.J.8.”: It is generally thought that
rabbits can’t climb. Along the N.S.W.-Queens-
land border, trees and bushes can be seen with the
bark eaten off to a height of 6ft. from the
ground And a rabbit that has sufficient climbing
ability to accomplish that, won’t experience much
difficulty in negotiating the wire-net fencing.
Rabbits in a paddock trap will run up the wire-
netting with ease, being stopped only by the
netting spread at the top. The fence along the
South Queensland border has proved useless in
preventing the rabbit invasion of Queensland, and
if the pest cannot be successfully fought m the
sheep country, what chance will there be against
it in the central and northern cattle country ?
And that great procession
That are ever going o’er the hill
To their last long possession,
The Devil.


twJiarr eW Tiw P „ makes “ dif « cult; '°r a publican to keep
mbars. Threepenny and sixpenny must fraternise.
Sports club members may only enjoy refreshments
of a spirituous kind during the actual progress of a
game. And that’s one beauty about bowls. The game
may be protracted indefinitely.
x *vv
. -y>t
V®
On future election days the anxious candidate will have to'
placate doubtful votersf at the town pump.
Inspectors are to be clothed with ample
povtffcrs; and even the town pump, if It is
not very careful, may get Itself Heavily fined.
Skipper of team (to mother of child who has been
an Infernal nuisance—mauling the bowls about
and humbugging the game): “If I was you,
ma’am, I’d take him off the green. What I’m
afraid of Is that the caretaker may mistake him
for a member and sell him liquor, and being a
minor, it ’ud get us all Into trouble.”
rjie police, having legal access
to the clubs at all hours, will
be practically honorary mem-
bers, and, if necessary, have
the right to “shout” all round.
HORRORS OF THE LATEST N.S.W. LIQUOR LAW.


ft
Kirtt E<W<J W
11
/c^is
Wire.
f1 ri Fitj^erWri^-
W~] |>^e r
A
food is l|eJcefo4 *be * _
oilmens stbKes fc fitted duly free
TV»ff l^fT ’)
Uo fee Tamer JrfW Lev* H
\rL,a wh'l* %/
U*« 1,,M '2 t
<s**s"
}
>°
hrn^d!
Aus - P cood oli KinQ ) Y'~ We ' w * s |
Jv/st' w&»W forffigw fot* 1 '* wg
fUsy>t<$
Temporary
Assist an«j
lit* .•
||l»4>
3Wpj
old '
%le-
/^ u 7'
fe
"The A*g>s Ns
"How C*h tije Sty oj- *
S*jv/ W
Tor f/'S
einj)ioyers money
Comment
AH f««e,CAW- W
youia liKe +o SrT lh fo^
i|. <i> Jft/eeK. ?
'Tife 'fit*
Beß+"Sarfs d°7* by
fy'/errjnunt^Motor o* •'ec«nrf^~ Country
'lour, VA<> not" dqrje wljrf«. V on cv\-
THINGS OF THE MOMENT.


A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Hugh Watt, British ex-M.P., has been
sentenced to five years gaol for his clumsy attempt
to hire a man to murder his divorced wife. Jabez
Balfour, ex-M.P., got 14 years. Some of these
British M.’sP. seem to fall into pretty deep holes.
William Wilson, of Sydney, was beckoned
across the street to have a beer about a week ago,
and while hastening to have a beer he was
knocked down and killed. But for the prospect
of that beer William might be still alive. It is a
horrible warning.
Again with the rising of the Federal
Parliament there is talk as to the High Commis-
sionership. George Turner now says that Deakin
should take it. Many members of his own party
urge that J. C. Watson would be the most suitable
man, but he is unwilling to become a candidate.
In addition to an Anglican Archbishop and
a R.C. Archbishop, Melbourne has a bishop, in
the person of the gentleman with the hard face
and the choice vocabulary—Howie’s deputy,
Wilbur Glenn Voliva. At the recent inquest on
a Zionitess who was faith-healed till she died, the
faithful Dowieites who gave evidence spoke quite
respectfully of their “bishop.”
Willy Kelly, of the Pram, intends taking
“a long sea trip to recover from the exhausting
effects of his arduous work during the last
session,” says the Age. This is obviously wrong.
It is the House of Reps., the Hansakd staff, and
the public who should be taking a long sea trip
to recover from the exhausting effects of Kelly.
Somebody has suggested that Melbourne
should erect a marble statue to “ Alfred Felton,
Philanthropist,” in acknowledgment of his be-
quests to the local charities and Art Gallery. But
the “rare generosity ” of the late Mr. Felton was
mostly the post-mortem result of his bachelor con-
dition. He was unmarried; he had a large for-
tune to dispose of, and he left the bulk of it to be
alnon o public institutions—after his death.
Had he been a live philanthropist he would not
have saved so much money.
Max Hirsch writes a Xmas note to say
(referring to recent verse in The Bulletin) that
he is not leaving Australia for good, but will
return in a few months. Also, he claims that he
has not “abandoned the Single Tax.” As to
which later fact he may or may not know best.
Certainly Maximilian has seemed much more
anxious lately to destroy Australian manufactures
than to shift Australian land monopoly.
THE REV. BET INIS,
Head of the Greek Church in Australia.
“ 0.K.” : A paragraph in a recent Bulle •
tin stated that the new Baronet O’Loghlen, suc-
cessor to poor old Bryan, is only 19 years of
age. The youngest of O’Loghlen’s five sons is 19,
whilst the eldest, who inherits the barren
baronetcy, is about 38. Talking of the barren-
ness of the title, now in the third generation, it is
remembered to the credit of the late Bryan that
he twice denied himself a judgeship in his days of
political importance. He had the chance to fix
himself comfortably for life, but his scruples were
stronger than the temptation. His contemporary,
Kerfsrd, had no such scruples.
B. R. Wise, of jS.S.W., has declined an
invitation to stand for Derby (England) in the
Unionist interest. It was certainly a good job to
keep clear of. B. 11. Wise seems" to be a good
deal of a Protectionist these days, and the
Unionists are a very lame lot of Protectionists.
Then their pro-Chow policy, and their pro-.Jap
policy, and their Education Act—under which
English women who refused to support denomi-
national schools were imprisoned, and stripped,
and officially bathed under the searching eye of a
female warder —and their war scandals, and their
army failure, and their general debility have ap-
parently made the Unionists a lost cause for many
years to come.
“ W.S.T.”: The rule under which N.S.W.
Public Service Board dismisses all
civil servants (with certain
gilt-edged exceptions) when
they get over a certain age,
sometimes works unfairly.
An old Fisheries’ inspector,
who has been over a quar-
ter-century in the service,
but carries his age more
lightly than many men
20 years his junior, was
recently in imminent
danger of the “sack,”
which would have been
a great hardship in
his case, as, although
so long in the service,
he is but a “tem-
porary ” hand, and
not entitled to a
pension. But
when the hardy
veteran was car-
peted to receive
his quietus or
show cause, he
broke out indig-
nantly, “Look
here, I will row
any young man
on the river, or
any two old
ones, or, better
still, I’ll fight
the whole dam
Commission.”
The urbane pre-
sident smilingly
declined the
offer of personal
combat, and the
old warrior still
serves his coun-
try.
A man con-
nected with
Wirths’ Circus
was shown round
the Australian
Parliament
House recently.
He saw a bulky
Senator with a
drooping nose
an d hanging
beard, broad
round shoulders,
and a deliber-
ate, up-and-
down sort of
walk. Then he
went back to the circus and named one of the ele-
phants Tom Playford.
Any person who wants to help the im-
poverished widow of Dr. Kevin Rod O’ Doherty
should arrange with an Australian publisher for a
subscription volume of the verses printed b?
her as Eva in the Dublin Nation of nearly 60
years, ago. An American publisher is said to
have issued a small volume of verses by her many
years back, but they have not been produced in
book form m Ireland or England. At 10s. a copy
expenses would be cleared and the venerable and
assisted” 60 aUth ° resS would also be materially
Some of the Opposition leaders showed up
very badly in the attendance record of the Federal
House last session Dealcin, Chapman, Hume
nbid Cro f UCh ’- °; Malle y. Ronald, and Tudor
missed not a single sitting. Willi'emotor Kelly,
f:"°vr d Wilkinson missed once, and Carpen-
tei, Fisher, and Mauger twice. Poor Kingston
was too ill to attend more than thrice. Turner
also was a sick and wandering man, but even he
with 32 appearances, managed to beat the record
but 29 UC6 Smith With 31 ’ and Yes-No Reid with
“ Itan ” from Queensland :
Premier Arthur Morgan and Treasurer Kidston fao-
under heavy Parliamentary duties. This recess has heel
welcome to both. Home Secretary Airey lets Ministerial
worries remain in the office, and goes home to his warden
Agriculture Minister Pigby’ Denham—thT‘‘ man
is a great grafter, but wastes no time on the roads and
bridges member—the Dweller on the Door Mat. He looks
after the affairs of the largest butter export business in
Queensland. Attorney-Genera] Blair always looks fresh
He wastes no energy in matters outside his office and as
him in tee d ° mest , ic cares, and no infant howls at
him m the night. Education Minister Barlow has been
he hwtetfmriei n m to t a^ ep 4 thinB ' S serious, .' r > although
of the House of Fossils to carry on
his dromedary shoulders. Life goes easily with Barlow.
Died the other day, aged 76, ex-Victorian
Pohce Superintendent W. B. Montford, who, in
the early 70 s, helped to capture bushranger Power.
Montford, then a sergeant, was stationed in the
Benalla district. Superintendents Nicholson and
Hare got news as to Power’s whereabouts, and
went with Montford, who was a good bushman, to
the King River Ranges. On the top of a high
ridge they came upon a mia-mia, from which they
saw protruding a man’s legs. Montford pulled
energetically at the legs. They proved to be the
ower ends of Power. The three then arrested the
balance of the bushranger. He was sentenced at
Beech worth(Assizes to 20 years gaol for highway
i ery. font ford got liis “super’’-ship soon
after. He retired from the service about 13 years
ago. J
The Macs in the House of Representatives
provide a fine example of Scotch clannishness,
t hree of them-M‘Lean, M‘Cay and M‘Coll-sit
cheek by jowl m the Opposition corner, the place
where the pawky Scotchman waits patiently for a
chance to step into another man’s job. A fourth
M Donald, is a member of the Labor party, but
cannot always resist the call of the clans. He
was with M Lean and M‘Cay on the Standing
Orders Committee, and when the vote was taken
on the closure .application, M‘Donald was found
sitting on the bench where the other six legs
were stretched. The clan is mightier than the
e^w S fr There is also a MWilliams, hut the
M Williams, like those Scotch Jews, the
M Isaacs, are hardly recognised among the clans.
That old battler ex-Judge Boucaut, of
S.A., cannot keep quiet in his retirement. Having
got out his book on “The Arab Horse,” he has
turned his attention to politics, with letters not
signed, m Adelaide Advertiser pitching into the
Leg. Council. His outspoken style is so unmis-
takable that his old friend John Downer chal-
lenged him—in the Register— to own up, which
next day he practically did. But Downer un-
wisely suggested also that Boucaut’s letters and
the lisers leaders were all written in collabora-
tion, and that was not so. Langdon Bonython
saw Ins chance, and his organ majestically in-
formed ‘the organ of the stupid party” that
the offence against propriety involved in the
production of such a letter” (as Downer’s) “is
only excelled by the departure from the honorable
traditions of the press in publishing it.”
TEE BESETTING PERIL.
“ Why , what's the matter, Jim?"
“ Bin misunderstood!”
Dr. Quick, of the Tariff Commission, is a
source of worry to more than one member of that
information-seeking body of peripatetics. His
persistent hunt after details exhausts some
of his co-workers, who are satisfied to take
statements for facts. He doesn’t take them
tor facts, even on the authority of a tall
hat and patent boots. On one occasion he
sent for a copy of Coghlan, and burst up an
ingeniously-woven fairy tale of imports and
exports. Quick was always a cautious, pains-
taking verificationist. It is said he once refused
to set down his age on a census document until he
had looked up his birth certificate and had done a
. profound calculation.
William Severin Salting, of London, mer-
chant, died worth nearly a million sterling of
which £311,343 was in New South Wales, conse-
quently Carruthers collects the amount of £31134
Ihe Saltings of N.S. Wales date from 1835, when
S. K. Salting was a merchant in Jameson-street.
1 hen lie was joined by Horace Flower, and the
hrm became Flower, Salting and Co., having
stores—still standing—in Hunter-street. John
H. Challis, .a great benefactor in after years to
Sydney University, was the co. To this firm
Sydney is mainly indebted for the establishment
of the Union Bank, Philip Salting and S. K.
Salting being two of the first directors. The firm
gave up business in Sydney in the early ’sixties,
but continued in Victoria under the tide of
Flower, McDonald and Co.
Bill Lyne and Falstaff Forrest are, in the
run of events, sleepless political competitors.
They keep apart as much as possible, each
valuing the other precisely at his worth, but
inexorable necessity couples them to draw the
Federal cart up a pinch from time to
time. Lyne makes no secret of what he
thinks of John, and Big John guffaws when
Bill is called a statesman. In one thing
they are alike—vanity over their personal
appearance. For men long past first youth they
retain inordinate pride in what they consider
their physical graces. Both lived strenuously in
early manhood, and are fine specimens of Aus-
tralian nativedom, and their ponderous and cheery
proportions give pleasure to beholders. But there
are a few other able and good-looking men on the
continent, and there’s no reason why Bill and
John should carry on as if it were wholly a question
of Bill and John.
“ H. Glubb ” writes:—
Deceased White Knight Fitz Gibbon was an example of
the brainy man with the loyal bee in his bonnet. I once
heard the old man refer to the late Queen Victoria as
“the greatest, noblest and best woman the world has
ever seem Now, how is it that a man of common sense
like old Fitz. came to pervert his judgment so as to exalt
in such a way a very decent but obviously mediocre old
lady, with no claims to greatness of any sort ? He was
quite serious and believed every word he was saying.
There was no spell-bind’ng about the phrase. It was a
calm deliverance giver, in private conversation. I can
understand the flowery orator firing off this sort of gup
at public meetings or the ignorant cap-touching family
servant holding these views. But to hear such a man as
Fitz. shove them forward absolutely beat me.
Fitz Gibbon waged a bitter war with the Melbourne
press, and though he cried a truce with the Argus during
his latter years, he died, as far as David Svrne was con-
cerned, with the hatchet in his hand. The “ extry ”
feature about the old man’s death itself, which occurred
at one o’clock in the morning, was that the Argus got a
scoop of the information and published a column-long
obituary next morning, while the Age was a day late. It
was freely rumored in press circles that old Fitz. left
instructions that the news was to be kept from David
Syme in order that his journal might be “ left.”
On one occasion old Fitz. was so annoyed at the Age
that he delivered a violent attack upon it at a Board of
Works meeting, and, singling out the Age reporter, fixed
him with an eagle eye, and read a lecture upon the
iniquity of a man of talent prostituting his abilities for
gold.
The Age man didn’t reply. A somewhat similar thing
happened once in Queensland, but in that case the
reporter did reply. The mayor, at a council meeting,
reproached the local reporter in almost the same words
for selling his abilities for “gold” to a debased rag—the
rag, that is, which didn’t approve of the mayor. The
reporter spoke not, but he solemnly turned every pocket
inside out, placed on the table a box of matches, a pipe, a
plug of tobacco, and ninepence, and went on taking notes.
The mayor fell into his chair with his unfinished denun-
c.at:on in his hand.
f §. e * Henniker Heaton didn’t take
that K.O.MX3-., but threw the silly thing back at
the King. Henniker s title must be a baronetcy
at least, or else nothing. J
“ Outeast ”: A gilded official up here
\£?rt Darwin) the representative of a supposed
White Labor Government, even has a Chinese
boy for a “nurse-girl.”
Deakin, Dow and Quick were Working to-
gether as members of Melbourne Age staff when
beryice and Berry coalesced. Berrv offen-,1
Cabinet positions to the three Age men." Deak'u
and Dow accepted, Quick declined.
N.S.W. Government entertains a reason-
able fear that Nick Willis will be back in Sydney
about next Xmas. Between a gentleman wh s
doesn t want to come and a Government widen
deesn t want to be too pressing, there’s no reason
for hurry.
Melbourne °n Christmas Eve,
1905, William Lambourn, formerly manufacturing
jeweller of the firm of Lambourn and Wagner!
Mr Lambourn arrived in the early forties at
Melbourne, and was about the last of the pioneers
of his time.
Justices Cooper, Real, and Chubb, of
Queensland, are all due for retirement on pensions
amounting to half their present salaries. The
retirement, however, must be voluntary on their
part; and regarding at least one of them—the
cantankerous one—the public is much afraid he
won’t go.
Died in Sydney Hospital, on Christmas
Day, 1905, Thomas Spencer, dentist, Sydney-
born, and a strong supporter of aquatics in hi.-'
prime of years and purse. He was the staunch
mend, supporter, and backer of sculler Searle.
Ihe world had not gone well with Mr. Spencer
lately. His father,, a life-time ago, had a mechani-
cal museum in Pitt-street, Sydney, previous to
which he kept the Shakspeare Tavern, opposite,
the old v ictoria Theatre in the same street.
Melbourne strong-man Weber, who has
mft for a M.L. tour, has discovered an infant
Hercules in one Tommy Druce, who hails from
Brighton, where Premier Bent grows cabbages in
recess. Tommy is 14, but weighs list, and notan
ounce of it. spare flesh. Also he can raise a 5011).
dumb-bell with one hand and can throw most of
V y'L ebe fv S - a ° u^ wres *^ pupils with ease. Among
other things, Druce is the alleged lieir-presumpti \ e
r? Duch y of Portland, his father being in the
Cola Country at the present time trying to per-
suade the House of Lords that it ought to move
up and make room for him. Somebody ought to
write to old man Druce and tell him to keep dark
about his son. It would be mighty difficult to
make people believe that a 14-year-old who can
throw up 561 b. dumb-bells is a genuine member
or the old noblesse. Druce has been born several
centuries too late. In the good old days he could
have walked into the House of Lords, and if any
body disputed his claim he could have degraded
Inin to the rank of a commoner by the simple pro-
cess of throwing him out.
A DOUBTFUL RESCUE.
JIMMY (to old lady who has been cut off by the
tide): “Now, lady, give me ’arf a dollar
an' I’ll carry yer back to shore.”
“T. D.” : What comparative oblivion
covers the name of late Queen Victoria. I cannot
recall hearing that departed lady mentioned more
than once or twice in the two years I have been
perambulating Britain, and, as for the papers,
Julius Caesar has been much longer dead, but he is
far more frequently mentioned. Yet, in her day,
Victoria was supposed to take a hand in the
arrangement of things, and to have a very decided
mind of her own, just as Ned in these times is
supposed to be a great arbitrator when Teddy
Roosevelt doesn’t get there first, and is also under-
stood to promote no end of good feeling between
the empire and various people of more or less
importance and some diversity of color. Is the
Edward worship just as big a sham as the
Victoria worship used to be, and will the pore
Yorldet loom larger than his pater when his turn
comes? As for Victoria, I’ve wandered England
considerably, and I can’t recall a single monument
to her, except a dreadfully chiselled statue in
Kensington Gardens which was hacked by a
royal princess and looks just that sort of art.
V.J.D.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Dead—Art thou dead ? And yet I wonder not —
The marvel is that for so long a space
You lingered here within this little plot
Of little men to spend your sovran grace.
The stars are richer, and the widowed earth
Is glad in sorrow to have added well
Another giant to the world of worth
That went before with black-browed Azrael.
The birds will sing unrivall’d once again,
Except when memories, denying death,
Awaken that half Celtic, Southern strain
Which poured its music in thy ev’ry breath.
Farewell 1 There is not one among us here
Enough the man to solemnly intone
Thy dirge across the cypress-covered bier—
Unless it were.. .thy shadow’s self alone.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


r -•*
r
Si
SSI
9
2\
V.
~k
V.
fSNffWfc
IS THE
TMAT
'
ri
from your body
WHAT WE HEAR DAILY.
“Cupar, Fife, Oct. 11, 1904.
“Dear Sirs—l have used Kutnow’s Pow-
der often myself with beneficial effect.
Would you be good enough to forward a
bottle of sarhe to . . . who is a martyr to
liver affection and accompanying symptoms
of uric acid poisoning ? By so doing you will
oblige
“ JAMES BORROWMAN, F.R.C.V.S.”
ENTIRELY FREE FROM URIC ACID.
Boston, Mass., Sept. 16th.
“I have suffered for the past two years
with Gout in its most painful form, my body
being thoroughly charged with uric acid. I
used Kutnow’s Powder, and in three days
the morning tests showed less and less acid,
until now lam free. I have now taken four
bottles. I consider Kutnow’s Powder the
greatest uric acid solvent in the world. I
am using same throughout practice and hos-
pital.
“JOHN T. SIMPSON, M.D.”
HOSPITAL SURGEON SAYS:
“ Parco Grifeo, Naples, Italy,
9th July, 1904.
‘‘Dear Sirs —I duly received some time
ago a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, of which I
handed some to my friend, Professor Dr. C.
Scotti, House Surgeon of the International
Hospital here, who, acknowledging the re-
ceipt with thanks, says : ‘ I have known the
remedy about a year, and have used it in
many cases with very satisfactory success.’
Yours truly,
“ J. WOLFFSOHN.
The Medical Journal,
OCTOBER, 1904, SAYS:
“ The uric acid problem affords an ever-increasing interest, not
only on account of the many attempts at solution and various
theories set forth, but because of the wide field of investigation
which is opened up with the fascinating prospect of bringing to light
metabolic facts which have ever been shrouded in obscurity. e
do know, however, whence uric acid is derived, but the metabolism
produced thereby has yet to be determined. Regardless of diet, rich
and poor suffer alike from the accumulation of uric acid, which some-
times occurs without any apparent failure in health ; but more often
are the kidneys and bladder affected, and the digestive organs im-
paired ; hence excessive uric acid is frequently responsible for heart-
burn, flatulence, and liver trouble. Litlna has been tried and found
useless, for when taken by the mouth it chemically combines wi
the phosphates in its progress through the stomach and there forms
insoluble compounds. The best remedy we know possessing a solvent
action and eliminative properties is Kutnows Powder, which is
largely used by the Medical Profession pid has always given the
highest satisfaction wherever it has been tried.
IMPORTANT CAUTION I
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others who,,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some cheap,
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capable of
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-snnile signature,
“ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and also on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWOEfi.
NERVOUS HEADACHES.
How is nervous Headache brought on ?
Principally by the retention of the excessive
uric acid, which is a terrible scourge to the
nervous system.
How is this uric acid headache distinguished 1
When it is due to uric acid poisoning, it is
generally one-sided or partial, as over the
brow, and more or less intermittent pain
on pressure of the scalp, and darting or
shooting pains from temple to temple.
Is uric acid dangerous ?
Not immediately so ; it is very insidious, but
ultimately, if not checked, its ravages are
disastrous.
Is nervous Headache a first sign of uric acid
poisoning ?
Yes ! when the uric acid is absorbed by the
blood it is rapidly circulated and deposited
in the nerve centres, notably the spine
and brain.
Is uric acid productive of disease ?
To its baneful influence may be ascribed in-
numerable ailments, amongst which are
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Insomnia, Melan-
cholia, Gout, Sciatica, Rnfeebled Biain
and Suicidal Tendency.
What is the proper treatment ?
Kutnow’s Powder not only removes the
headache, but concurrently invigorates the
nerve centres and expels the cause of
the trouble.
Is the action of Kutnow’s speedy ?
Yes, it will remove headache within 20 or 30
minutes.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.G
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., Ltd.,
853 Broadway, New York.
[3-91


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
& m
FINEST EXTRA Q!*
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE OHLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SIDNEY
MELBOURHE BRISBANE PERTH & WELUHGTONh;
HIGH-CLASS COMFOR TS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
“e ETTES”
cW raincoats.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
FOR
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 2, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Nineteen hundred and six has not, of course,
advanced more than the tip of its nose, so to
speak, into our day as yet. It is a very cold nose.
The temperature is mid-wintry. Last year piled
OP horrors during the last weeks of its life—
drownings, burnings, crimes ; and all the time the
wandering bands were playing “Come Let us
Adore Him” in city and suburbs. “Christian
fools with varnished faces,” as old Shylock called
the masquers, saw the old year out blowing into the
goose’s windpipe and the penny trumpet, and
making aboriginal noises at the theatre crowds.
The Old Year Parade of Sydney Block has, by
the way, quite died out. Some years ago, at the
dawn of the New Year, you might always see
little groups of notables walking along King-street
and greeting the New Year in the middle of the
city. Now the streets are given up to wild horse-
• play, larrikins of both sexes rehearsing the bar-
barities of “ mafficking.” For the matter of that,
the “ Block habit” seems to have died away alto-
gether in Sydney. Hardly a trace now remains of
the old fashion following which.those with le.sure
and a good dress sauntered along the King-street
Block for a few minutes at noon, Saturdays, or
at four on fine afternoons in the week.
Concerning Nellie Stewart. How studiously
she kept her ears covered ! Awhile ago, I asked
one who had known her for 20 years if she had
ears, and he replied “Yes, and very pretty ones.”
Whenever I met her in private, she always wore
her hair so as to show only a narrow little wedge
of face from eyebrows to chin. Her forehead was
always covered by her hair, and her eyes glowed
from under an awning of carefully disordered red-
gold locks, that also partially concealed the upper
part of her neck below the ears. Possibly it
was the exaggerated hairiness that was the
first cause of the frantic story—half Sydney
implicitly believes it—that the artiste tucked
back her sagging skin out of sight, and had it
secured with a very strong kind of sticking plaster.
Her round, unlined neck and smooth cheeks
proved the success of the dodge, asserted
that storyteller. And one rich and fading
beauty is said to have offered Nellie “anything
she'd like to ask ” for plans and specifications of
the way to be beautiful for ever. Every skin-food
concoctor and face-lotion mixer, everyone who
had a powder to push or a soap to float or a hair-
grower to urge, sent samples to Miss Stewart.
“ I take no risks,” fair Nell would say as she
either threw or gave away the fakes.
Off the stage, especially in the house, Miss
Stewart was an extraordinary dresser. Like all
originals she had a great assimilating power, and
could wear with artistic effect clothes that would
make the average woman look a candidate for
Callan Park. Blouses and skirts that would fight
if even spread on the bed together, triangular
shawls, or capes with deep fringes (of fringy gar-
ments she was very fond), strange laces, neck-
laces, and combs of barbaric beauty, bangles, ear-
rings, and belts—they were all unusual, but’they
looked harmonious on Nellie. A belt she was
wearing during her last days in Sydney was
mostly splendid cameos—big ones that she had
patiently collected and had mounted—or belted.
. Little Nancy, her daughter (by the way, “ little ”
is no longer a correct description), promises to be
a handsome grown-up. She will probably grow
out of her freckles, and all she wants now for real
prettiness is some more eyebrows and eyelashes.
In New York the beauty doctors produce those
for their clients inside a month. At least, they
cry aloud their ability to do so. Nancy’s manners
are already grown-up, and she is calm and tactful.
Awhile ago, when she was about 10 years of age,
she would sometimes, whilst her mother was at
rehearsal, come down to lunch at a certain table
d’ hote by herself. And often her order would be
“ Welsh rabbit and a pony glass of English pale
ale.”
Some pearls of wisdom gleaned from a single
issue of Sydney D.T.’s “ Woman’s Letter ” :
Man has been a g-ood friend to woman in the past and
there is every hope that he will continue so in the future
Marriage is by no means to be despised as a profession
for women. It is old-established, safe, and in most cases
fairly remunerative.
The oil of the scalp should never be disturbed by wash-
ing. It is only when the scalp is actually diseased* that it
is in need of cleansing, and then a suitable tonic should
be thoroughly massaged into it.
The tidy man always goes over the front of his coat and
waistcoat on taking* them off with a little benzine, castile
soap and water, naphtha, or gasoline, rubbing the spots in
a circular direction with a piece of flannel.
. Brisbane, as is usual with it at Christmas-
time, decorated its shop window's with a back-
ground of cotton wadding to represent snow, and
fixed up an overcoated, long-bearded figure ’with
icicles hanging to his nose as a centre-piece. At
night a musical crowd went to and fro and carolled
for all it was worth, “ The Snow is on the
Ground.” as it mopped its joint and several coun-
tenance and tried to ignore the thunderstorm. A
backblocker held his head under a spout for five
minutes to cool his fevered brain, in order that he
might better be able to recite “Beautiful Snow ”
in Queen-street; but his mate interfered and led
him away to have a drink. After which the ther-
mometer left the nineties and moved down two
degrees.
. Justice Barton and family, who have been
living at “Elystan,” Woollahra, are going hill-
ward for the summer.
The Mayoral Allen Taylors, who live some-
where in the fastnesses of Annandale, are a-house-
hunting nearer town, and last week viewed the
interiors of certain Elizabeth Bay mansions.
Mrs. Arthur Dowling is taking time by the
fetlock and is getting up a girls’ dance for the
Powerful ” officers. That’s so as to forestall the
Hobart girls in the honor of kicking off the first
ball.
Sydney society is making it a great evidence of
its own spirituality that it did go to church, to
Christchurch, to a “ high ” service, on Christmas
morn, and that it did kneel on the utiearpeted
floor, and that the altar had fortj' candles burning
upon it. It is in little things like these that
bridge-playing, warship-pursuing Sydney reads it
title clear to luxurious flats in the ethereal blue.
Some senders of Xmas and New Year cards
showed individualism. The tooth-edged glitter-
ing bit of cardboard with a snow-scene and sprigs
of holly and mistletoe, and a sedative verse by
Adelaide Proctor or Julia Jobson, has departed,
ihe majority of the Christmas wishers didn’t
break their wish-bone in the hunt for the new.
They just ordered and sent out a couple of hun-
dred cards with their printed names and a waratah
in gold relief, or with the Southern Cross and a
native beastie on a twig, or loping along an inch
and a-half of desert. Some who live in pic-
turesque houses sent out picture post-cards
of the same, and others who have picturesque
small children “carded” them. Saw a long narrow
panel portrait that would have made a fascinating
picture-card. A small boy, Justin Markell, such
a jolly little chap in a belted blouse, stands behind
a row of seven blinking puppies'. Each infant dog
has a pupality of its own, and their puzzled eyes
seem to say to the child “So that’s the world, is
• t ?—well, you should see our kennel.”
VVent to see the “Eight English Primroses” at
the Tivoli. Had been told that as the time for their
turn approaches not a vacant seat is to be seen in
the circle, and the standing room at the back of
the circle is filled up by “ lean-overs ”•—all men
and all moderately full of drink, and quite full of
expectations. The Primroses enter by sliding
down mountain scenery. After some preliminary
singing and dancing, they stand on the backs
of their shoulders on a strip of green carpet,
heads towards the house, and wave their tan feet
up in the atmosphere. As the yellow skirts fall
back hundreds of leaf-green frillies are disclosed.
The tan-hosed legs are the flowers’ stalks. It is a
pretty enough exhibition of pretty supports, but
on the whole rather tiresome. You could find
scores of Australian girls in any chorus to sing
better and dance better than these imported
starlets.
That pretty little Tasmanienne, Nora Parker,
had a very brief career in the pantomime at the
Royal. She is related to some Sydney Some-
bodies, and at first production of the panto, these
were in the audience, and nearly dropped dead at
seeing the ingenue in tights. She made no second
appearance, and is now back in Appleland.
This from a primly Conservative English paper :
A MERIOANS and Bridge Players.—A Young Girl of
birth and position BEGS for £5O to pay off debts
incurred secretly before November 24 ; will promise
not to play again ; in great distress.—Address, X.Y.Z.,
01882, Morning Post Office, Strand, W.O.
If genuine, she must have lost the money to per-
sons who were much the same at heart as the
animals that hurried over the precipice at Gadara
a long time ago. Eor naturally she, before appeal-
ing to public charity, would have asked the
winners to forego their winnings. In Sydney
very few young unmarried women play bridge for
money. Hostesses don’t encourage the young
spinster to their card-tables, not because of any
special care for the spinster’s pocket or welfare,
but, I am told, because “the irresponsible
Australienne wouldn’t feel bound by debts of
honor.” Which, if true, makes the Australian
girl very different from the Australian lad in that
regard ; he is most scrupulous about his “debts of
honor ” and will too often rob the bank or the
till to pay the bookmaker.
A girl wearing pyrographed shoes (and an ankle-
length skirt) did the Block industriously for the
last week. She had evidently got a pair of cream
velvet shoes and hot-pokered them herself, for the
decorations were initials and flannel flowers. Very
well done too.
At Medlow Hydro was a gay Christmas dinner.
One hundred and eighty persons attended the
feast. When the plum-pudding was brought in
all the electrics were shut off, and in the deep
darkness the brandy round the pudding was fired,
and the flame of its burning shot up eight or
nine feet, like the burning of Moscow on a
diminished scale.
A modest wedding was that of Sydney Parltes
a son (by the second wife) of the late Henry
Parkes, and Miss Marion Edith, eldest daughter
of Daniel Morrissey, of Glebe Point. The mar-
riage was celebrated on Nov. 28 of last year.
The widow Parkes—the third wife—in whose
charge the children of the second marriage were
left, is understood to be enjoying a holiday in
England.
The motor car Prestons a,re back and staying at
the Wentworth Hotel previous to going into their
Kirribilli Point place. The G. B. Simpsons and
the Matthew Henry Stephens also tread the
Commonwealth once more. Amongst Australians
doing the West Coast Sounds in the Union Co.
steamer Waikare are the Edward Knoxes, five in
number, two Thorne girls, and the G. Swinburnes
of Melbourne. The Philip Mortons are going to
Colombo for some months, and the Jack Tooheys,
if they can let “Buckhurst,” will go away for
three or six months.
Among the presents of a bride of last month
was an anklet of gold and enamel beads with her
monogram on' the clasp. Sender (a friend in
India) advised the bride that it was for wear
under a very transparent stocking. The anklet
is the last link of the chain which the primitive
husband fixed to the primitive wife when he drove
her before him to their cave at a sharp run, and
flicked her with his whip if she showed signs of
flagging on her honeymoon. It seems* ut of date
these times.
Miss Amy Castles, now that all trace of doubt
as to her stellarship is removed, has a duty to
herself, her art, and the public, and that is to get
thinner. When she was here she was just about
right in the matter of bulk, but of late
she has plumped out too much, She will, so her
friends promise, now go in for training down.
The two Castles, Amy and Dolly, are described
by those in whose houses they’ve stayed as
‘miserably small eaters,” and they never touch
a stimulant. And both have that nervous organi-
sation that afflicts them with nausea and sickness
previous to facing their audiences. The fat that
is put on under such conditions should be easily
dissipated.
Isn’t it time exploiters of “the woman of 40”
let up on the fiction, or raised the age of charm to,
say, 50 years ? We are rather satiated with essays
and paragraphs on the physical and mental
charms of the woman of 40. If a woman
of 30 is good to behold and charming to
associate with, she will doubtless retain con-
siderable looks and charms when she is 10
years older. But the woman of 40 who re-
tains a youthful complexion, lustrous hair and
a girlish figure, and for whose society men neglect
sweet twenty, is such a rarity that she doesn’t
warrant all the pumped-up enthusiasm about her.
if or it is pumped up by the beauty-doctors and
physical cultunsts, aided in a degree by the swell
dressmakers and corseticrcs. Also it helps enor-
mously the sale of ladies’ papers. A woman of 40
loolvs it, except in unique cases. If she lias been
m the habit of taking spirits or wine she generally
more than looks it. Nothing hurries up a middle-
aged complexion and figure faster than the use
of the liquors that, under the new Act, you can’t
—really can’t—get after 11 p.m.
Ihe lost property office of Sydney Tramways
has been kind to 6421 homeless articles found
in the cars during the year just closed.
Ut these lost parasols head the list—over 1000
of them were “left behind.” Gloves numbered
oln, and purses totalled 490. Sydney is a very
picmcky place, so 66 hampers, 29 billycans, and
three kettles were amongst the forgotten. The
travelling public is the finder, mostly always, and
it doesn’t feel pained at handing over an empty
purse, a billycan, or a prayer book to the tram-
guard. Jewellery it promptly annexes. Opera
glasses and ladies’ watches it just loves, and find-
ing them means keeping. A few weeks ago the
engineer on a Mosman boat found a portfolio con-
taining eighteen hundred pounds in notes on a seat
in the boat. ||s owner was discovered. A friend
tells me that she was staying in a frilly Melb.
hotel some few years ago when a fellow guest
roused the hotel after midnight with loud out-
cries about the loss of a priceless diamond ring. It
had slipped from the ledge of the bath down the
waste pipe. The electrical engineer of the premises
began at one in the morning to pull up skirting
boards and cut pipes. The lady loser sat and
watched him like a famished cat eyeing a fat mouse.
After two or three hours work the ring was
found in the “elbow” of a pipe and the
owner became reckless with joy and offered the
engineer half-a-crown Probably he said nothing.
I have looked through a dictionary of 1876 pages
and found nothing that an engineer would be
likely to want to say under such conditions.
Probably he felt a desire to bite the lady hard.
Mrs. Fitzwilliam Curtis is to be married shortly
to a well-known London man—name to be dis-
closed later on. She will be remembered in Syd-
ney as Miss Genevieve Fattorini, and she
divorced her Captain some little time ago.
Mrs. Curtis is of an alluring type—large,
dark, sleepy-looking, and when she dressed
ln W:th big bunches of violets, and
made Cleopatra eyes round an assemblage,
the men present felt as if a big surf was breaking
over them and began to dream out loud. The
1 attorinis are said to he great great grand-
daughters of the great Napoleon, and certainly
have some of his facial characteristics.
Miss Grace Joel, a Maoriland artist, who has
been working for years in Paris and London, is in
Sydney, and intends to hold an exhibition of her
pictures about March. She is mainly a figure
painter, and has exhibited at the Salon and
Academy.
A male essayist on the modern woman writer’s
novel:
Iu these books man exists to be run after or to be run
away from ; to be attracted, rejected, married, deceived,
divorced. In the world, of course, he serves all sorts of
other purposes, but in the ordinary woman’s novel he
lives for these alone.
Not long- ago I read a really able novel bv a
really able woman—there was nothing* ordinary about
either the writer or her book—in which, from
cover to cover, the hero never addressed one sen-
tence to any man but his valet. The whole of his mental
and physical activities were exhausted in making- love
and being- made love to. We were told, I seem to
remember, that he was a journalist, and an amateur of
pictures ; but he never had time to write anything but
billet* Uoux,and he never visited a picture gallery except
to keep an assignation with a woman.
State Excellency and daughter Alice are staying
at Cranbrook for this week. I hey landed quietly
at Rose Bay, both looking far from well.
Puce faces, coats and skirts, and shabby white
frocks at New Year’s Day races. Swarms of
country people, but very few Sydneysiders pre-
sent. The visitors asked if we were not ashamed
of our climate, which was winter under false
pretences.
The admission of a resident woman-doctor to
Prince Alfred Hospital is almost historical in its
importance. Also, it’s somewhat of a backhander
to the Sydney Hospital, which refused to
admit a resident medical woman last year.
Miss Aspinall, the accepted of the P.A.H.,
is described by those who know her, including
h e-fellow and she-fellow students, as “a dear little
thing, quite pretty, almost fluffy.” The Master
of the Scotch College has the honor of being her
Pa. There are eight or nine male residents at
the P.A.H., but her friends say Miss Aspinall
intends to do her share of the work. Unlike the
women residents at the Melbourne hospitals. The
men did their work “when it was of a horrid
description.”
Dr. Agnes Henderson, for many years practising
in India, is in Sydney getting ready for a Maori-
land tour.
If we are to lose motor-car Kelly, we will at
least keep sight of his auto’bile. His brother has
bought the whizzing instrument for his fair Ethel
and her babe.
Lamb (he manages for Houlder Bros.,
the steamship people) was married the other day
to a North Sydney pretty. Bridegroom is of a
Hour Irving pictorial type, and used to be a
renowned oarsman and fine all-round athlete.
They are going to build themselves a home up the
North Shore line.
Australians at home—that is, in the Common-
wealth-will soon learn something about Bruges.
Because one may live there for about tuppence a
week, sundry Australian girls who have not for-
tunes and who have married poor naval men
intend to reside in Bruges while hubby’s vessel is
away cruising. At present it’s mostly known
through Longfellow’s poem mentioning the belfry
old and brown, the bronze twelve apostles, and
Hans Sachs, the cobbler bard.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
.The Australian melodrama “Thunderbolt”
continues a triumphantly sensational career. At
Adelaide last week Mr. J. G. JDawe, aged 45, was
watching it from the stalls when “his head fell
forward, he breathed heavily, and died immedi-
ately.
WINE
WISE-FOR ITS L-iCTIfSQ SOUMO IS OFTEN SUNC
Rut LCtR'MC Bacchus at the minstrel winks
ARHE COO WtUL H,NOWJ THAT VNHE/S HIS, H *LRp
1 he’s strong
T He BOWL HE QUAFFS CONTAINETH OTHER
DRinvss.
Qt*f barley ears with twisting Vines should
TWINE
coo of and mirth to crown
IJ»HE rhymster graces All as red red wine
But wine is MOSTLY BEER and BEER IS
BROWN.
W' TH ale and porter, brandy, shandygaff
H'l’HE TASTES ARE VARIED WHEN THE CLASSES
CLINK.
SOME TAKE CIN, AND SOME TAKE HALF
AND-HALF,
But CODS AND Scotchmen still good
WHISKY DRINK.
MAMEK.


tocKjty*
Dress
Shields
After Long Dalliance, SUMMER iS HERE!
THE TRYING DAYS ARE AT HAND WHEN
GOOD DRESS PRESERVERS become a Necessity.
There is just
One Reliable
Maker—
KLEINE-RT.
Shun the “ JDST
AS GOOD.”
None such are made.
To ensure Personal Comfort, Ladies will buy DRESS SHIELDS of AMPLE SIZE,
and only those that bear the jpg- KLEINERT Trade Mark.
Ex-Minister Perry makes no denial of the
published statement that he made a Tattersall
win of about £4OOO over the success of Crick’s
horse, Ossian. As Education Minister under
Lyne and See, Perry was a strict disciplinarian,
and at the Boer-scrimmage time he made teachers
aware that “disloyalty” to the pro-Chow raid
was an unpardonable offence. “Tattersall"’ is
against the law of the land directly, and not
merely argumentatively, and here comes the great
disciplinarian’s name at the top of the list of law-
breakers.
A PRETTY WOMAN fades early unless she gives
careful attention to the preservation of her complexion.
Every sign of wrinkle, sallowness, or blemish should he
arrested with the least possible delay. A few applications
of Dr. Lykuski’s great discovery—Valaze—removes all
imperfections and brings the lilies and roses of youth to
the oldest face. Is the most exquisite preparation for re-
moving wrinkles, freckles, tan and all other facial dis-
figurements. It is delightfully pleasant, and makes the
skin beautifully soft, white and smooth. A scientific
product of blended fragment herb essences and healing
balsam to promote the beauty of the skin. Specially use-
ful in allaying the dry and parchment-like skin caused by
Australian hot winds. Price, 3s. Cd. and 65., posted 6d.
extra. New importations from Vienna. Comtesse
Potocka’s “ Voskpasta,” to be used with “ Valaze ” Herbal
Soap, 3s. per jar. A delightful preparation. Comtesse
Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,’’ for outdoor entertain-
ments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful beautifier. “ Valaze ”
special “ Blackhead and Open Pores Cure ” guaranteed,
3s. 6d. per jar. “ Valaze ” Massage Boilers, for use in
vour home. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service,
Sydney, leading chemists all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubin-
stein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to
Beauty Free
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street
Melbourne.*
r
J ■ /
DUNLOP
MOTOR
CONTEST.
GREAT
DUNLOP TYRE
VICTORY.
13 out of the i 5 Contestants who
“Signed on” in Sydney, after
the Run from Melbourne, used
DUNLOP TYRES.
In last February’s Contest, the
five Cars that finished in Final
Test were all shod with
DUNLOPS.
These are hard, solid facts that
point unmistakably to ONE
TYRE being best suited to
Australian Roads, and that Tyre
is the
DUNLOP.
Stocked in all Sizes, with
or without Leather Treads.
The Dunlop Rubber Co.
OF AUST. LTD.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
sm
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 2, 1906.
My Dear Narrie,—
The summer girl is paying a lot of attention to
her back hair. She wears a gossamer over the
rear of the head, even if she leaves her face
exposed to the sun-kisses and the fierce breath or
the baked wind. Another summer fad is the tan
which is carried round generally. It is usually
of a dainty kind, opening pansy face or rose petals
to the view. In use it suggests a flower in a
breeze. Some of the choicest are not much
roomier than a pen-handle, and all are as decora-
tive as a French poster. Even the schoolgirl
hereabouts flies a gossamer sail and carries her
own breeze-whisker. But then the local school-
chick is a daisy. She has a waist, defined curves,
and a precocious swing of the figure, and her
open-work hose are most knowing—and informa-
tive.
A most unlucky softgoodsman’s mistake has led
to a serious hitch in what has been outwardly one
of our best-regulated families. The wrong Cup
accom t passed into the hands of Madam. The
highly proper Missus went to settle a bill that
wallowed in under-frillies and fluff. Instead of
her three commonplace Cup garbs and sets of
plain good underwear (Jaegers next the skin) she
found chiffon creations, billowy cobweb laces and
silken raiment of a most luxurious and suspicious
order. The same old story. The proteg# and the
wife of the suburban Dives had patronised the
same shop and the bills had got mixed. Now
there’s the devil as well as the draper to pay.
There has been no peace or good-will in Dives’
house this goose seaso .
One of the principal nummers of the Musgrove
Co. nearly landed one of the wealthiest Bull and
Bush brethren before setting sail for Uncle Sam’s
country. The cattle-king paid opulent attentions
to the little beauty, and had the co. only been
able to tarry a month or two longer the clank of
the matrimonial chains might have been heard.
As it was, one of the most promising stage catches
came to nought, and the ranch-man remains to
wallow in his bachelor wealth, and probably to
thank Providence for his rescue—as the bachelor
is wont to do.
Ex-Judge Casey prepares for another globe-
trot. This one, from the point of view of the
epicure-on-tour, is to beat all former programmes.
It is a most elaborate bill-of-fare, with gorgeous
shows from the start to the finish. Even the pil-
grimage to Lourdes (though there is nothing
famous to eat there) is listed as one of the items.
And the Judge is 76.
The Northcote pair paid a year-end visit to a
State school out Brunswick way. The Dame
heard the kids elocutfs and saw them in a variety
of scholastic turns, finally looking on at a grill and
cottage-pie being burned in the school oven. So
satisfied at its being done to a turn was her Ex.
that she ordered the next breakfast steak and the
supper stewed onions from the miniature cooks.
They tell great and gay things of Cairo. Miss
Tressie Madden, daughter of an ex-Mayor of
South Melbourne and small City magnate, has
returned from a season or two there, and relates
gaudy tales of life in the land of the Sphinx. Her
medico brother is in practice at Cairo, and making
pots of money among the sickly English residents.
Mosquitos seem almost the only evil of the visitor.
These attack the newcomer in great force. If you
can resist the attack or beat the enemy down, then
you have the time of your life. Paris seems to
be a small circumstance to high life in the hot
Egyptian city.
The story goes that a wealthy dame who owns
nerves has her daily programme, as well as her
prescription, made out by her doctor. She only
goes away or returns by his leave. Lately she
secured permission to visit a neighboring capital.
She was having a good time there when the
medico ordered her back, and she meekly packed
her bag and returned to the tyrant. He has
refused to sanction a trip to the Cold Country.
The dame pines to go, but dare not disobey.
The faith put in a bossy doctor by the sex passes
all intelligent credulity.
Miss Y. De Loitte’s matrimonial engagement
with Howard Vernon causes the dark little stage-
twinkler to be an object of interest and curiosity
to the local girleen. The other night, at “ Pina-
fore,” all the glasses were levelled alternately on
Miss Yinia and her elderly Howard, and every-
thing else in the show was overlooked. The De
Loitte air was free from any self-consciousness or
shyness, which led the cynics of the house to
declare, “Then the girl’s married.” And they
believed it. As if the engaged girl of these times
is supposed to be blushful !
Several motor mishaps occurred this goose
season. One jaunty little German who has a
habit of chanting “ Car-rar-a-boom-de-ay ” as he
steps aboard with his party, had a worse accident
than usual this trip. His party and his car came
back in pieces and took days to arrive even that
way, and repairs are going on steadily even now.
It’s rather foolish, by the way, to go motoring
with a Benedict. There’s no hope of permanent
consolation in that case. The bachelor machine-
owner provides the safer course. Then, should a
girl-guest be damaged in a break-down, there’s
always the hand of a repentant motorist at her
service and a sympathiser to murmur that he
always did prefer a girl with one leg or a scarred
skull, as the case may be.
Miss Margaret Thomas returns to London in
j u ]y—being satisfied with success here and hunger-
ing for a wider field. It’s a common complaint.
A self-depreciation pill to be taken three times a
day is the only cure for the there-is-a-green-hill-
far-away sickness.
Madame Anita Sutherland leturns to London
presently. In view of that, the ’Varsity Conser-
vatorium girls gathered at the Voice Instructor’s
rooms last week and after a moving speech (the
farewell speech always moves) made a presenta-
tion of a silver rose bowl to the dame. The Con-
servatorium wasn’t altogether a happy family,
but the girleens stuck like glue to the big, joyous
Madame.
The Chief Justice Madden flock is preparing
for a flit. There is a present effort to arrange for
the whole family to go gadding with papa. The
youngest hope is now out of pinnies.
Miss Violet Morrison (of the musical-medico
clan) has set off for Singapore on a matrimonial
mission. Her fiance— Mr. Clive Gaunt—is,
stationed there and couldn’t call out here for his
Mrs. Archbishop Clarke lately imported a book
of songs supposed to be suitable for singing by
the Girls’ Friendly Society. Several gushers,
male and female, voted them “simply charm-
ing, and so appropriate.” One of them (to be
sung to the once well-known tune of “We are
a happy family, we are, we are, we are ”)
ended thus: “ We are such happy servant girls, we
are, we are, we are.” Mrs. Archbishop tried
vainly to introduce this poetical effusion at St.
Mark’s Church of England, Fitzroy, but the fac-
tory “ladies” flatly refused to call themselves
happy servants. “ Indeed,” said one young lady
dressed in an imitation voile, enormous hair pads
and a large string of Roman pearls, “I’d like to
catch meself singin’ that.” And the beautiful
ditty is still unsung.
The widows are making a wild dash from this
dusty centre. Mrs. Tobin has set off with her
chick, Mrs. W. Blake with hers. (The latter
shipped by the Victoria.) Mrs. Ross-Soden has
made for Colombo with her brace of sons. The
Cliveden Dowager, Mrs. Wesley-Hall, and a few
less gilded grievers hustle away shortly.
A colossal brother of ex-Senator Harney passed
through here last week. He is on a wedding-trip
(his second venture). The marriage came off in
the Apple Isle without any spit •ding of confetti
or scattering of dissolute shoes. There’s perhaps
not a weightier wag than Mr. Francis Harney in
Australia. He has the light heart and ready
tongue of the Hibernian, and carries his 26 stone
of material round the earth as if it were feather-
down and didn’t bulk any. The lawyer Harneys
are known in the Sandy State as the firm of the
Blarney Brothers, and where the big bulky pala-
ver of Francis fails the subtlety of the slim Ned
succeeds. There’s a seat on the Bench waiting for
the lean Harney, as soon as he likes to leave off
gadding and take law seriously.
One of the best correspondents among the Melb.
footlighters who have gone to Europe is Miss
Alice Crawford. She keeps dozens of her old pals
posted up in her doings, and photos, come along
every now and then showing the Bendigonienne
growing more and more like unto a stately Juno.
Recent letters state that Alice is now drawing a
salary of £25 a week. Her recent performance at
Sandringham and the royal approval thereat,
have gladdened Bendigo considerably.
A recent scribbler from the Big Smoke relates
that an Australian warbler whose solo once sent
’Rooland into massive applause, is actually
starving, and the failures that have met every
effort of hers to convince London that she has a
voice and a great soul attached have affected her
mind. She is a ghastly illustration of an Aus-
tralian who believed in herself and in the Big Fog.
It is said that the Australian Parliament House
waiters have “struck” on attending the poli-
ticians’ garden-parties at the Spring-street estab-
lishment unless paid specially for their services.
They smothered their feelings so long as it was
the large potentates of politics who gave the
parties, but when the small fry started doing
likewise, and it began to appear that they would
have to dance attendance on everybody’s party,
right down to Joseph Cook’s garden bun-struggle,
the worm revolved on its axis.
The pathetic sight of a short, red, fashionable
bachelor of 15 stone or more, in a trim grey tweed
suit, towing about a tearful and draggled family
of five dirty little boys and girls, with the stains
of picnicking all over them, afforded gratification
to the campers-out down near Carrum on Boxing
Day. The florid and reputable bachelor
man was seeking the parents or guardians
of the weeping family, which clutch of
miserables he had discovered howling in the
scrub and declaring that they were lost. The
bachelor, whose figure is the delight of scores
of affectionate girls in Collins-street, took the
waifs and strays out of the kindness of his heart,
and set about finding fathers and mothers for
them. It seemed a simple thing at first, but as
the long day wore on, and his search grew more
hopeless, and his desolate family more hungry and
more full of howling, and the derision of the
campers-out swelled to a great clamor, he
realised that he had tackled the job of his
life. Being unable to foist his deplorable
charges on to any authority, he made a desperate
resolution to deliver them to the police in North
Melbourne, the eldest of the lost souls having a
vague idea that his parents resided there or else
at Coburg. A maddened bachelor passed through
Flinders-street station at half-past eight that
night, with flags of distress flying and his string
of wailing infants hanging on behind and clamor-
ing for “ ma.” People noticed that the grey suit
had the tracks of jammed hands and baby boots
all over it. The trouble came to an end soon
after, for a large woman, claiming to be a friend
of the family, threatened the philanthropist with
her umbrelia on Port Melbourne platform, and
took the children from him. After he had satisfied
a policeman and three independent citizens that
he had not meant to kidnap the family for his own
use he was allowed to depart without a caution,
and with scarcely a stain on his character.
Victoria put up a record of Christmas sensa-
tions. Five persons—including a father and three
children —were swept by a blind roller off a rock
at Sorrento, and drowned. A girl swimming at
Queenscliff was caught in the backwash and
drowned. On a Melbourne suburban railway, an
unknown man was found dead. An old pen-
sioner of 84 years was knocked down and killed at
a crossing. The deadly pea-rifle accounted for a
15-year-old boy. In Bourke-street, in the heart
of Melbourne, an armed burglar shot a grocer.
A constable was half murdered by roughs in South
Melbourne. A buggy upset in a Carlton street,
and injured four men. An old man’s body was
hooked out of the Yarra, and a dead infant was
found in a Carlton right-of-way. A small boy’s
clothing was discovered on the banks of the Salt-
water —the boy being presumably in the river—
and a skeleton was dug up on the beach at
Frankston.
Melbourne Homoeopathic Hospital took its
sensations in large doses on Christmas day. A
nurse venturing to the door encountered a hairy
person on the doormat; he looked like a Reform
Leaguer from Kyabram. She shrieked for help
and the entire male staff turned out to repel the
invader, who was a very tall baboon escaped from
an adjacent circus. The baboon had just been
secured and returned to durance vile when an
elderly person turned up and announced that he
was a vegetable. It was at first thought that he
was a member of some Upper House and really a
vegetable, but when he insisted on being planted
he was passed out in charge of a policeman, and
the Homoeopathic Hospital returned to its
globules with a sigh of relief.
The large boots and the Greek profile of the
new actor-man in the “Mary Ann ” farce make
no appeal to the Melbourne Miss. Mr. D.
Gerrard is not the sort of strutter she would sell
her stay-laces to see. She sighs for a greying he
whose brow is as a title to a tragic volume. The
Gerrard type with his various sets of voices
(there’s one for every emotion) and business-like
despatch of trying situations, fails entirely to im-
press.
Great preparations are on hand in a woolly
Western family for a domestic event where such
happenings have not been particularly rare as
times go. A Gamp is on the spot, and has been
accompanying the dame on her voyage to this
city, and she also guarded the fair one from
shock on her trip to Macedon last week. This,
however, isn’t as remarkable as the case of the
medico man who was retained for weeks by a big
mining magnate for a similar event. The magnate
and the medico hardly lost sight of each other
once till the final act. It proved the best “ad.”
that particular doctor ever got.
The Domestic Pet craze has arrived at a humor-
ously mad stage in the Cold Country. A column
or two of ads. in every journal reveals the state of
things in all its absurdity. Siberian puppies,
“very affectionate, like small Polar bears”, are
up for auction. The likeness possibly consists in
their hugging propensities. This would suit sen-
timental she-fanciers. Pekin bantams are pro-
claimed by a trader to be “charming pets.”
Another advertiser gushes out, “two sweet Persian
kittens like little balls of silken fluff.” Price, so
and so.
The sad minority of males at all the seaside
hotels is still a source of soft complainings. The
party of twelve girls and two men starting off oil
a jaunt to the bracken and fern glen isn’t satisfy-
ing. Tt lacks the true picnic spirit. It is obvious
that the men will be spoilt and probable that the
girls’ tempers will also be spoilt. In some in-
stances the father of a comely flock of girls has to
requisition all his old veteran cronies to come
along and help to man the picnic outing. Small
boys in knickerbockers, and old rakes with one
leg at the picnic and the other in the grave, are
the only availables at most of the resorts. Now
and again a good-natured dame lets her husband
take the girls for an outing. Being married
she is inclined to be generous at the sight of so
much waste unattached girl. The Miss who
attracts a rare youth all to herself wags her tail
and is generally overbearing in her behavior
before the other stranded dears. It isn’t that
there are actually so very few males in Victoria,
but the present state of things is the result of
painful experiences of former years. The eligible
male was then so rushed by that most persistent
of all campaigners—the kind indigenous to the
summer sands—that his holiday was spoilt. Now
the proposing sex steals off in large batches and
camps out of feminine range.
The adopted daughter is the latest craze. It is
said to be a very charming fashion by which a nice
old man can enjoy young female companionship
on strictly proper lines. Of course, the family—
that is the non-adopted family, the family that
“ growed ” —sometimes objects. If the idea catches
on generally type-writer girls will be the worst
sufferers. The adopted daughter will take the
place of the lady typist
A local he-killer is trying hard to dodge the
clutch of a variety artist with a particularly catch-
ing warble. The killer won the regard of the
charmer too easily, and now he is trying to elude
her. A report of his great poverty is being in-
dustriously circulated as a means of loosening the
siren’s grip.
Dame Forrest tricked forth her woolly-haired
niece for Mrs. W. Green’s fancy hop as a
Westralian panel with a dado and fresco of
swans. The child was a wonderful sight.
Big John Forrest and Mr. Motor Kelly, M.H.R.,
are to be fellow-passengers to the Cold Country.
During last session the W.A. Falstaff scowled
often on the Sydneyite, and that precocious young
man bit his thumb in the face of an angry Forrest
as often as he found the large man looking. Now
the pair will roll on the mighty ocean in close
quarters and be a nuisance to each other for five
rocky weeks.
A Brighton girl, Miss Isabel Backhouse, faces
the Eden Chant with Mr. Harold Dudley Hay
next week (10th).
One theatrical manager believes in a star
cutting a dash in the eyes of the crowd, and has
compelled one of the most economical to put up
in style this season. It’s only fair. A well-paid
star ought to keep in sight—not bury herself in a
cheap suburban corner.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Hugh Nelson, ex-Premier of Queensland,
died at Toowoomba on New Year’s morning, at the
age of 70. He spent a quarter of a century in
Queensland politics, and except for his rather care-
ful management of the finances, left no mark on
them worth speaking of. Even as a financier he
was only good as compared with some of his awful
contemporaries. He once laid down the rule that
when there was any definite sign of the year’s
income exceeding the expenditure taxation should
be reduced, and that any accidental surplus that
happened in spite of this should go in reduction
of the huge accumulated deficit. Under these
circumstances—especially as Nelson had a pretty
cordial belief in borrowing—the deficit didn’t
reduce very fast. Yet Nelson was a good financier
as financiers went in Queensland those drunken
days.
The Saturday night jar is the Sydney pub-
lican’s first idea to meet the difficulty of the rigid
new Sunday-selling law. It is ingenious, but
hardly meets the occasion, for great numbers will
empty the jar before Sunday’s sun rises, and will
consequently be in a worse plight than of old
when the day of drought comes. An improve-
ment on the idea would be for the publican to sell
a jar fastened with a patent lock, of which he
would hold the key. The jar, or case, or whatever
it is, could be delivered to the customer on
Saturday night, and the customer could
call for the key on Sunday morning.
This would enable Bung to keep his financial
drinking crowd together. Of course a question
would arise as to whether handing out the .key
wasn’t really Sunday trading after all, and this
question would in due time come before the
courts, but it would take many a day to settle it.
And by that time the jar of whisky with the time-
lock would have arrived.


A certain effect of bad drinking-water is
bowel trouble — Wolfe’s Schnapps will keep tbe
bowels in perfect order. Caution—There is no
genuine aromatic schnapps but Wolfe’s. Call it
by its full name.*
The Australian Traveller prints, by way
of a Christmas number, “ Australia To-day,” a
bulky, well written and well illustrated account of
the manufacturing and agricultural life of the
Commonwealth. It tells a true tale brightly, and
should be a valuable corrective to the yarns of the
Stinking Fish Party.
The World. —We all"know the value of
Sciubb s Cloudy hluid Ammonia, and so widely
is it used that others have been trying to imitate
it f but Messrs. Scrubb and Co., having announced
their intention to take proceedings against any
one infringing their rights, it will perhaps be
hardly necessary to warn people to always make
sure that they have been given Scrubb’s Ammonia,
and not an imitation of it.*
Centenarians. Professor Metchnikoff has just
drawn up a formula to enable life to be prolonged beyond
the usual term. His idea is to reduce the work of the
digestive organs by using food of very small bulk but of
superior nourishing power. Now by rejecting the bones
of animals, the husks of wheat and the rougher parts of
most foods, civilisation has been gradually selecting the
parts easily cooked and easy to be eaten. At the same
time, however, that which is necessary and invaluable
has been removed from the food. Hence it is that child-
ren are more puny, that the teeth become soon decayed,
and that adults are not so capable of endurance as were
their ancestors who lived on a coarse diet. The golden
mean can be reached by using the ordinary food and
adding to it “Cerebos” Salt, which makes all the food
much more nourishing because it contains the vital phos-
phates of wheat. This solves the problem at any rate in
part, since phosphates are peculiarly necessary to bone,
blood, muscles, nerves and brain. The use of this salt in
the kitchen and at table, therefore, increases the strength
of the body and consequently its power of resisting
disease ; and thus constitutes an important factor in
prolonging life.*
pi's
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Hansard talked during last session of
lie Australian Parliament was Ift. 4in. high when
the volumes were placed flat one on top of the
other. Roughly, a cubic foot of Jaw.
“Seddon is sitting on the rail, with his
ear to the ground, listening to see which way the
cat will jump.”— Potpourri of metaphors served
up by a Maoriland Opposition candidate the other
day.
The Canadians of the future will be a
hook-nosed people _ unless something is done to
stern the tide of emigration of Jews from Russia
to the other Cold Country. Stated that 25,000 of
them went over to the Dominion (via Britain) in
1905.
Geo. H. Reid tells Melbourne Argus that
it is his intention, on his return from Colombo,
r ma^e a great effort to bring into line all the
Liberals of Australia.” George will not succeed
~™ e . Liberals do not regard Mm as an enemy of
sufficient importance, or he would have brought
them into line long ago.
John Forrest is to have an opportunity to
spread his plumage in England during recess,
lie goes as i‘ ederal Treasurer to collect informa-
tion as to finance, and if he really intends to
learn something on that point he should have a
busy time. There is room for a lot of financial
information in the empty spaces of John.
Austin Chamberlain, on the effects of
Freetrade in England
. , nlen of. 60 years ago were told to fight foreign
tariffs by free imports, and the nation had done so for
these 60 years. Had we reduced a single tariff ? Had we
succeeded in converting a single foreign nation by our
example ? Had our rivals been ruined, as it was said they
would be, by their adherence to Protection ? In the iron
and steel trades we had been reduced to third place.
Joe Lesina’s talking record for the Parlia-
mentary session just closed in Bananaland is 250
columns, to say nothing of the hours he wasted in
early morning stonewalls when Hansard was
mostly asleep or insensible through weariness,
if Joe had remained dumb, the time he mono-
polised would have been ample to get the
Arbitration Bill through—one of the slaughtered
innocents of the session.
Considering how recently it is that Japan
demanded and obtained freer admission of Japan-
ese students to Australia, it is rather startling to
read that Japan has lately put such restrictions
on Chinese students at Jap universities that prac-
tically the whole lot have had to leave. The Jap
is a broad-minded person in a way ; that is, he
wants other people to be broad to him, but he
isn t broad to other people.
W. Bateman, the Brighton constituent of
Premier Bent, _who was more or less engaged to
skirmish up evidence for the Butter Commission,
and who claims £250 as against the £BO offered by
Ihomas the Bellower, is going to law over the
matter. It has just transpired that Bateman
happens to be father-in-law to Lands Minister
Murray. This is one of those accidents that
happen even in the worst families.
Germany has just put a duty of Is. Bd. a
case on imported apples. But there is no corres-
ponding duty of about 40 per cent, imposed by
Australia on German manufactures ; which is why
the Australian fruit-grower has to skirmish all
over the earth to find markets for his produce,
instead of supplying the local artisans who should
be making the millions of pounds’ worth of goods
which Australia now buys from the foreigner.
HIS NEW SONG.
“ What do they think of me at ’Ome?”
J. H. Carruthers, unveiling the memorial
tablet to the late F. Bridges, N.S.W. Under-
secretary for Education, wheezed : “ The greatest
man in the community is not the ruler of the
country, but the man who makes the rulers—the
schoolmaster.” And if Joseph turns up his own
Estimates for 1906 he will find the schoolmaster
the worst paid of all professional officials. The
man who kills, the man who cures, those who
make laws, interpret them or administer them, are
all recognised in Joseph’s Estimates as of more
public value than the schoolmaster.
Sydney Telegbaph tries to regard the
secession agitation engineered by some Sydney
importers as “a great popular movement.” The
executive appointed to carry the thing out con-
sists mostly of M’s.L.C. MacLaurin, Creed, Fos-
bery, Heydon, Vickery and Trickett, with Alfred
Allen, John Nobbs and Donald Cormaclc to give
it an air of progressive radicalism. Imagine a
great campaign against the Australian nation led
by Dr. Creed, Ebenezer Vickery and Donald
Cormaclc ! The movement would have as good a
chance under the leadership of Parkes’ Dead-
House.
The sympathies of Mr. Geo. Reid are with
the ten rich landowners of Kerang(Vic.) who form
the local Farmers’ League, and who, after eon-
sideringthe Anti-Trust Bill, dashed off a letter to
Alfred Deakin, peremptorily calling upon him to
send in his resignation and that of his Govern-
ment. _ Mr. Reid is understood to be shocked at
the Prime Minister’s callous disregard of this
reasonable demand made by a large and influential
section of the community.
Every time the Peel River Co. decides to
sell, at a most exorbitant figure, another bit of the
huge area which it has kept locked against settle-
™eht for generations in the richest portion of
N. 9. W., it seems to get a leading article in some
Sydney paper about its philanthropy and public
spirit. This time it is the S.M. Herald which
pats it on the spine because it has decided to take
the last penny it can get for 30,000 acres just out-
side Tamworth. A weighty graduated land-tax
would do a great deal to put velocity into the
public spirit of concerns like the Peel River Co.
N.S.W. has had, up to now, 32 Ministries
and 16 Premiers. Cowper, Robertson, and
Parkes were each Premier five times; Martin and
Dibbs three times. There have been five new
Premiers in the last eleven years; the last of the
old recurrent Premiers—the men who kept turn-
ing up periodically pretty well all their lives—
passed out when Dibbs resigned. He was the
latest of the professional Premiers. Parkes was
the toughest holder of the office (11 years, nine
months, 16 days in all). Waddell’s reign as Pre-
mier was the shortest (two months 14 days).
Donaldson enjoyed the job for two months 19
days, and Foster for four months 11 days.
Reid, as an ignoramus or a liar, takes the
cake every time. To the daily press (issue
27/12/’O5) he said :
The Anti-Trust Bill was one of the funniest things in
the world, but it fell stillborn. It was to he the Bill of
the session, and Parliaine. was not to be prorogued
without it, but the voice of lur. Watson was heard, and
the Premier would not risk a division, and the Bill was
rejected on the voices.
And the second reading of that Bill was carried
on the voices. Reid shows himself either a very
reckless liar, or such a dodger of his political duty
that he doesn’t even trouble to read the votes and
proceedings of Parliament.
The scheme of J. C. Watson, M.H.R ~ to
have the Federal capital site shifted from Dalgety
to Lake George strikes one very bad difficulty.
Lake George is mostly dry or nearly so—even now,
though this isn’t a drought year, it is only a
grassy depression. The lake ” has been known
to be dry for 14 years at a stretch.
It is proposed that it should be filled by
diverting some of the waters of the M.urrum-
bidgee. But Carruthers is going to use the
Murrumbidgee to fill his great Barren Jack
reservoir, so apparently Lake George will just have
to parch, and it would be ridiculous to put the
federal city beside a dry hole close to jßungendore
when it might be alongside an absolutely unfailing
river at Dalgety.
Premier Seddon, of M.L., has been getting
back on people who were yelping because
Minister of Customs Mills charged £7O exes,
while away on the Mapourika cruise to the South
Sea Islands. The big man has unearthed a picnic
which cost £419 in the old, unregenerate days
when the Tories gripped the purse. About £lO6
was spent in canoes, and the party paddled its
own canoes down Wanganui river. Then there
were charges for vaseline, insect powder, Wor-
cester sauce, and a corkscrew. Further, Seddon
is quoting the time when two Cabinet Ministers
tripped to Melbourne Cup at the country’s ex-
pense “ in order to see if they could improve the
breed of horses.”
Premier Bent has just discovered that
Victoria has a lot of land leased which is being
put to no earthly use. “Along the Ninety Mile
Beach, for instance, there is a large area leased in
blocks of 1200 and 2400 acres with which nothing
is being done, and the Crown will have to get it
back even if it gives compensation of some kind. ’’
Also Thomas lately noticed that out of 52 persons
who had selected land at Wyelangta, near Colac,
only 15 had actually gone on the soil. But
Ihornas says no word of applying the one remedy
that will cure these and a dozen other land-locking
complaints—a heavy progressive land-tax. Nor
does the Federal Labor party seem over-keen to
move in that direction either.
Sydney D.T. leading article Dec. 30 :
By all accounts this has been a booming 1 Christmas in
Sydney. Not only has trade generally been brisk, but
people seem to have had plenty of money to spend on the
luxuries that are appropriate to the season if, happily
they can be afforded.
Forgetting for the moment that Sydney ia being
“ruined by Federation.”
The Bulletin receives the programme of
a new Citizens’ Progressive party founded at
Bundaberg (Q.). There are many good progres-
sive ideas in the policy of the Citizens’ Progressive
party, and The Bulletin had just finished admir-
ing them when it ran into this :
(4) Renewal of State borrowing for above purposes.
One of the “above purposes” is assisted immi-
gration. Queensland has already spent more loan
money on assisted immigration than all the other
States put together, and one would think it was
time it expended a little of its own money on the
good work instead of resorting to the three-ball
institution. The loan business has left the State
in about the deepest mudhole on earth. Surely
it doesn’t want to scratch the hole any deeper.
The Liquor Act which came in force in
N.S.W. on January lis interesting in spots. It
provides, among other things, that the bar siren
must be at least 21. (She generally is, but she
doesn t look it.) It says that no person under 14
shall be sent for drink, and that no person under
18 shall be served with drink. This is confusing,
but it seems to mean that anyone sending a child
of 13 for beer can be fined as well as refused the
beer, while anyone sending a child of 14i will
only suffer from inability to get the “rum.
A sorrowful point is that not only must the door
close at 11. but the supply of liquor must cease at
11 ; therefore the person who gets in at one
minute to 11 had better get served by a swift girl,
and snatch his drink with both' hands, else he
may go out dry after all.
Now that the westward movement of popu-
lation is filling up the Pacific Coast of Canada
and the United States, why should not Australia
seek for immigrants there—when it has the land
ready and the industries ready? These people
are nearer to us than the people of Europe, and
they are mostly of a better class; also, they are
men who have already acquired the colonising
idea. Besides, there is some instinct which
always ma,kes great human movements “ go west.”
Even the interest on our public debt goes west
worse luck ! Australia has tried to drag people
eastward from Europe with only moderate success.
Perhaps the really great inrush of population is
still to come—from across the Pacific.
There is something pathetic about the
S.M. Herald’s dread lest somebody should do
something. Last week it issued a solemn warning
to the Commonwealth against taking over the
Northern Territory because S. Australia has tried
the place and found it a mill-stone and a white
elephant. That, no doubt, is true enough, but
the Commonwealth can stand a white elephant
better than a single small State can ; and the
Commonwealth can put up the money to give the
territory railway communication, whereupon it
may cease to be a white elephant. Anyhow, it is
our own elephant—white or otherwise—and we
must keep it. Every country has to keep the
elephants which a discriminating Providence
leaves on its doorstep ; therefore the Common-
wealth should take over the Territory with all its
assets and liabilities, and the unfinished railway
leading to it from Adelaide, and wade in to make
the best of it.
William Nathaniel Pratt, manager of the
Juinbunna (Vic.) coal mine, broke loose before
.Commission which is enquiring into the con-
ditions of work in the Gippsland mines, and de-
livered himself of some vigorous remarks on the
T??stion of compulsory arbitration. Part of what
William Nathaniel said :
I consider compulsory arbitration a wolf in sheep’s
clothing. It is a contradiction and an absurdity. . . It
has been a failure where tried. It is an unjust law, com-
pelling* a man to work against his will, and an employer
to keep his works open against his will.
Also, it is possibly unjust and a wolf in cows’ gar-
ments to compel a man to pay his debts against
his will. By the way, when a man doesn’t work
against his will, but simply sits down and rests, the
law often sends him to gaol for having “no
visible.” Would Bill Nathaniel Pratt abolish the
vagrancy law as being also a wolf in bulls’ clothes,
or something like that ?
THE IMAGE WITH THE FEET OF OLAY.
“Joe” Chamberlain stated in a recent speech
that “the idol of free imports was shaken to its
base.”
In 1894 Canada produced 25,685 tons of
steel and rolled iron. That wasn’t much, but it
was more than Australia produces even now.
Then Canada built up a huge tariff-wall to protect
its little industry, and in 1904 it produced 382,822
tons. _ That, and other things like it, fully
explains why Canada gets so many immigrants
while Australia gets so few.
When Thos. Bent chooses to say things
about Fat, he generally manages to say something
that hurts. When, however, he says he’s going
to do something against Fat, Fat always wags a
threatening forefinger at him and Thos. subsides.
This is what Thos. said at Warracknabeal (Vic.)
the other day:—
I know something of the big swells of this State. Years
ago they got the land in big areas at a cheap rate. Then
they built big houses. Then the girls wanted to live in
Melbourne, and after a while on the Continent, and the
big swell" iollowed them, and continually cried “ Stink-
ing Pish ” ..bout the country which had behaved so well
to them. Ik: uv the run of these swells, because I have
been in Parliament 31 years, except when I was given a
rest. The time has arrived when one and all should
stand up for their country.
But, alas, Thos. does not act up to those brave
words.
Another cry of protest:—
The Australian Parliament has closed its session
ingloriously. It began with a useful achievement by
casting Iteid into the place of forgotten things, and,
having done that, it appeared too exhausted to do any-
thing further. The affable and ineffectual Mr. Deakin
came into power, and spent several months acting in a
polite and useless manner. While Reid went away, and
began to develop a lucrative practice in the Sydney law
courts, Reid’s little coterie of obstructionists held
up the business of Parliament until Deakin’s
Labor supporters forced him to take steps to put
an end to this farce. It seemed possible that
thereafter the affable Mr. Deakin might ask Parlia-
ment to do some work. But he remained ineffectual.
He passed the Trades Marks Bill, containing some
measure of useful legislation. An Electoral Bill about
which practically no difference of opinion existed; a
measure to placate the sensibilities of Japan, and a slight
alteration of the law regarding contract immigrants, were
sent through Parliament. The affable Mr. Deakin was
not the man to spur a lazy Parliament to work. The 110
men whom Australia pays to make its laws were not in a
law-making frame of mind, and to oblige their tired feeling
Deakin began to drop things overboard. He dropped a
promise (just or unjust) to give compensation to Colonels
Price and Baylv. He dropped the Bill that aimed at
giving some aid to the production of Australian iron.
He dropped the Bill that set out to protect Australian
manufacturers from greedy foreign trusts. He dropped
the Federal Capital Bill. By the time the end of the
session arrived, Deakin had succeeded in dropping almost
everything but his affability.
“ Viator” : The present German naval flag
was unknown till about 1864. The first one
London Docks was flaunted by a merchant craft
A mob tore it down, and trampled on it. There
was a little diplomatic ruction. Premier PaW,
ston wrote to his Bremen Consul: “ What is this
piratical flag ? ” aii 13 tills
iv'TT 1 ” : S °T ° f Tommy Bent’s Mallee
(Vic.) lines are beautiful examples of mean
economy At most outlying stations there is no
accommodation for women, and no seats outside
or inside the offices. Cookies look after some of
the stations, and receive therefor one free pass ner
y ? M , 03t of the others are in charge of women
at 6d. and Is. per day and mostly they have to
put in about six hours daily to earn the same If
a private concern beat that for sweating it would
soon become a public scandal.
“ Two Seas ” : A melancholy feature of
the back country is the number of bush workers
travelling through miles of “improvement leases”
looking in vain for work. At present the “great
pastoral industry” doesn’t, on the average pro
vide permanent work for one man per 5000 acres
I would suggest to Joseph that, instead of bleating
defiance at the Australian Government like a little
woolly lamb on wheels, he should legislate that
all pastoral leases henceforth granted carry labor
conditions. A mining lease must employ one
man (usually) to every five acres. Why shouldn’t
a pastoral lease carry a similar obligation—if onlv
one man to every 1000 acres ? J
“T.D.,” from London :
• T , he °how commences nowadays to get a footing even
in dear old England ; the yellow sailor-man is deserting
his ships whenever he gets an opportunity,, and settling
down in the big commercial to /ns. It is calculated that
there are now over 1000 Chinar en in Liverpool, and several
hundreds more in Birkenhead, whilst much of the laundry
business in Manchester has fallen into Chow hands. In
Cardiff and the smaller seaports the Chinese are securing
a footing, and the first people to offer up protests are
those who so strongly favor the yellow peril in South
Africa, and deprecate the anti-alien legislation of Aus-
tral'a;, The Harmsworth Mail, however, Mails the Chow
with delight, and says that the police give him an excel-
lent character. That far-seeing journal seems to approve
exceedingly of the fact that in the typical Chinese
lodging-houses of Liverpool and Manchester, “opium-
smoking is the chief pleasure,” and states approvingly
rru A* l Sin is proud to marry English women.'”
The Chow is not firmly established yet, but when he is
tairly settled, and a few of him have gone back to the
Orient with comparative wealth and pointed out the
advantages of England as a field for Private Enterprise of
the yellow variety, and Chow Private Enterprise comes
along in good numbers, the British worker will find that
his Australian brother wasn’t so far out after all. But by
that time the Chow Empire will probably be bound in
alliance with the British ditto, and the man who desires
to cast out the yellow citizen will be denounced as a
traitor and a pro-Caucasian and a person who wishes to
do his country much harm.
Sydney Morning Herald wails the old
wail of the spoilt child :
The figures submitted herein are not the product of
fancy, influenced or interpreted by inclination : so that
it is through no spirit of unfounded pride that every New
bouth Wales man will claim for his State the primacy
amongst her equals. Primacy, that is, in importance and
wealth and population ; though obviously not in the
influence %n the counsels of the Commonwealth which
should accompany this position.
Out of four Federal Premiers to date N.S.W. has
supplied three. It has had more than its fair pro-
portion of Ministerial billets. Of the three High
Court judges two are N.S.W. born and the other
was educated in N.S.W. The sole P.S. Oommis-
sioner and many other important billet-holders
are from N.S.W. And if the State’s large propor-
tion—nearly one-third—of Federal Representa-
tives have not the influence they should have, the
fault lies with the people of N.S.W. for sending
such men there.
Another bogey is being worked up to fill
the place of the frayed-out Six Hatters and the
submerged Petrianas and the cracked Potters,
this time it is a Syrian, Malouf, a prohibited
immigrant, who got into Australia Dec., 1903, on
exemption for four months, to help his mother to
wind-up a business. Finding he was in a good
place, Malouf resolved to try and stay on, and on
y?i]. ous P re^ ex tB managed to remain until Dec.,
I.JOo. On Jan. 17, 1905, the American Consul,
applying for about the fourth exemption
extension, pledged his word that Malouf,
it allowed to stay until Dec. 31, 1905
would then surely go. In spite of that pledge]
Malouf raised a clamorous cry last week that he
should be allowed to remain permanently. And
the fact that he was met by a properly firm refusal
is being twisted by the Sydney papers into
another grave wrong against Joseph Carruthers.
Tiip papers represented Malouf as a man who
had been led to come here and start a new busi-
ness not wind up an old one—under an elaborate
series of false pretences, and lied magnificently
over him. But the plain brutal fact is that Aus-
tralia does not want Malouf or any other Syrians
and Malouf must get.


e
Ira de’Marie
m
HETHER the world is growing better
is a moot point to be left to moralists;
but in every direction success waits on
the man who specialises and minds
his Wn business. It would be
idle for “ Callaghan’s " to attempt
to teach the hundreds of doctors,
barristers, solicitors, stock and
station agents, sharebrokers,
chemists, farmers, agriculturists,
graziers, men of business, men
of leisure, men of wealth and
men of wcrk, who are
making things hum in
their particular lines,
but Callaghan's can
“ fit " them and
make their “life's
walk easy."
THE
IDEAL.
“ 'COOT W EAR " is
“ Callaghan's " aim
and special object in living. For
years and years Callaghan's have kept
their collective mind on boots and shoes
to suit every Australian wearer,
and because they can do footwear
just a bit nicer, just a bit cheaper,
just a bit more durable than
anyone else is the reason that they
are on top to-day and are
pleasing everyone everywhere
in Australia or the East,
and “The Bulletin" is
helping them all the time.
Callaghan's mail order
department ensures a
correct fit to any foot
or the money is
refunded.
THE
SPECIAL.
TJERE are three
leading lines —
THE IDEAL, THE SPECIAL,
THE ELEGANT.
The Ideal, as the name implies, is the
boot fit for smart wear. In tan willow
calf 235. 6d., post free 2is. 6d.; in black,
225. 6d., post free 235. 6d* The Special
is a sturdier production for hard wear;
price, in tan, 17s. 6d., post free 12s.
6d. i black, 16s. 6d., post free 17s.
6d. The Elegant's the acme of
style ard finish to meet the
demands of Fashion. In
tan Russia or the softest
Vici Kid, also in
black ; price
255., post
free, 265.
THE
ELEGANT.
State size of Boot worn, being particular to specify if
narrow, medium, or wide fitting, and whether Pointed or
Medium Shape Toe is required.
Son,
395 George Street, Sydney.
er SPECIAL NOTE. “Post Free** means duty paid in
West Australia.
'CUhZ
Refiners; and
Sole Manufacturer? of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINOS
THE RAILWAY
Commissioners, after the most severe
test, are now using Malthoid Roofing
in preference to all others. This test was
made under the direction of the Chief
ENGINEER
and proved tohis entire satisfaction that
Malthoid is not affected by sulphur
fumes. Made of wool felt and a water-
proof acid-resisting mineral.
“Ifit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcos Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & CO.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & 00., Sydney, N.S.W-.
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chyh., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
WATER BAGS! WATER BAGS! C °W\J L THe' 'IfoTT l Es/'wEATHEP.
Our Water Bags are made by our Own Men of the very best canvas, and are of the “ Finney, Isles ” £ta:idtrd
each
12fn. Hand Bags 91d.
„ All Hand Work 1/-
~ „ With Gusset. 1/3
~ ~ „ All Hand Work 1/6
16in. Cart or Dray Bags. All Hand Work .. 2/-
18in. „ „ ~ ~ ~ .. » •• 2/3
Saddle and Horse Heck Bags 1/6
~ „ ~ ,i >, All Hand Work 2/-
Our Special Saddle Bags, large Leather flap, all
Hand Work 2/- & 2/6
12in. Hand Made Drum Shape Water Bag .. 1/8
16in. „ „ „ „ „ „ •• 2/-
A convenient shape for use when driving.
Long Verj.nd ih Bags, with Wooden Tap. . 2/6, 3/3
each
With Canvas Spout or Wooden Tap, Extra
Large Size, all Hand Work .. .. •• 4/11
Long- Combination Verandah Bag, with Wooden
Tap, and our New Charcoal Filter .. . • 4/3
The “ Commonwealth ” Combination Bag and
Butter Cooler, with Wooden Tap .. 3/11
The “ Success” Butter Cooler, our Special
Cooler, Best Canvas, Strong Tin Lining .. 3/9
The “Success’’has sold to the number of many thou-
sands, and is likely to remain a favorite with
families who appreciate well-kept butter.
NAVY CANVAS.
24in., 9Jd., 10£d., 1/-, 1/1,1/2,1/3 per yard.
36in., 1 6, 1/9 per yard. 72in., 2/6, 3/6 per yard.
Those who invest in one of our Water Bags have good reason to say, as they enjoy a glass of really cold water,
and note that their butter never turns to oil, “ For Water Bags and Butter Coolers You Can’t Beat Finney’s.”
Finney, isles & CoLimited, The Big Block, Brisbane .
f
V
Ladies s attention :i s
mi—uiJimu«l.y
a perfect complexion beautifier and
REMOVER OF WRINKLES.
The Only ELECTRIC MASSAGE ROLLER (patented by Dr. John Wilson Gibbes)
with the World-Famous EPIDERMIA CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
All ladies who have given this a trial are delighted with the result. Rollers supplied
at— Silver, 15/6 : Gold, 18/6 ; Epidermia Cream at 2/6— posted free to all States. Apply
only at THE AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL ST.,
SYDNEY. Beware of All t mitations and Fraudulent Rollers. 'TJX®
ELASTIC TRUSS
SINGLE - 15 s.
DOUBLE - 20 s.
THIS . .
Elastic Truss
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs. We
make all kinds of Trusses and
have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS. 281 George St., Sydney
( Opposite \
\Hunter St./
SURGICAL INSTRUMENT fIAKERS,
And at Cor. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts., MELBOURNE.
A costly block of land, alongside the Mel-
bourne Supreme Court, which a Victorian Govern-
ment bought some years ago for a new City Court,
is just now being used as a grazing paddock for
one cow. The animal is just a common poley
cow, and doesn’t seem to put on any “dog” over
the circumstance, but it is none the less a fact
that every mouthful of grass that cow eats costs
the suffering State about sixpence !
“Two Seas” : Long years ago I was an
apprentice on a ship that was unloading Mauritius
sugar in Bombay harbor. My duty was to see
that the niggers at work in the hold did not broach
the cargo. One day I came softly upon a group
scooping sugar into their capacious maws by the
double handful. The first to note my presence
was a pot-bellied serang, and he at once fell upon
his astonished mates with both fists. “ Whaffor
Kj blully tiefs steal ’em sugar?” he cried.
en, with his own black mug glistening with
sugar, he explained to me that he viewed the be-
havior of his countrymen with disgust.. ’Twas a
long time ago, yet whenever I read that our own
pot-bellied political serang with a glass eye has
been denouncing anything or anybody in the
Australian Parliament, I form a mental picture of
him —not as a responsible statesman, but as an
oily nigger, clad only in a dirty turban and a
waist-cloth, and his stout face encrusted with
the sugar he is denouncing the other party for
having stolen.
“ T.D.” from London :
Have just been having a look through a new “ Settlers’
Guide ” issued by Minister Jack Murray at great expense
to the Victorian Government, and sent to London for
wide distribution through Agent-General Taverner. The
book contains precisely the information that nobody in
England wants, and the one or two facts which might
possibly be of some use are stowed away in such a mass
of verbiage that they would take a week or two to find.
Some magnificent word-painter by the name of Orooke
contributes an article in which he constantly refers to
himself and indulges in general statements to the effect
that “ Victoria may, without fear of serious criticism, be
said to have been endowed by Providence with a most
plentiful stock of valuable arboreal vegetation.” Like-
wise, there is an excellent portrait of John Murray, and
an article on the geological formation of soils, which
contains many words and statements which the “ intend-
ing settler ” won’t understand unless he takes a special
course of instruction for a year or two. Another
document of which there is much floating around just at
present is the “Journal” issued by the Victorian
Agricultural Department, the main purpose of which
seems to be to advertise Victoria in England a,s a place
infested with poultry tick, cattle tick, swine fever,
phylloxera and all the scourges that ever afflicted nature.
The object of sending these weighty books to London is
understood to be that of inducing people to make tracks
by the first boat to Victoria. The statements about
drought and cattle plague, and the portrait of Jack
Murray ought to fetch them.
Business Announcements.
Clean White
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
' England.
PHOTOS
Mode's from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List, with 100 Minia-
tures and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or Stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, Brieffach, Germany.
Visitors to Melbourne
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being; close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and i iree minutes’walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
Missing Friends.
SHOULD this meet the eye of OSKAR
OLIVER TONNESSEN, of Norwegian
birth, last heard of in Brisbane, will he kindly
communicate with his brother, Louis Thompson,
213 Van Brunt-st., Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
WANTED, the whereabouts of SIM DUX-
BURY, age 23 years, who left South
Africa on March 17th, and arrived in Sydney on
April 19th, 1905, and who has not been heard of
since May 18th, 1905.
Any information will be gladly accepted by his
brother,
WM. DUXBURY,
23 Laurel Street, Rochdale, England.
WILL FIND
THAT . . .


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc , or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 43 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French wort-, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89C. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY AND OFFICES:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
N.S.W. police force received its greatest set-
back for many years on Thursday night last, when it
essayed to break into the two-up school in Pitt-street,
Sydney, and took so long over the job that the gamblers
wandered out by the secret exits and came round and
cheered the copmen on to greater efforts against the
steel doors that barred their passage. The Pitt-street
establishment is pretty solid. Even after the police had
burst in the front door they found a steel door a few feet
down the passage, and to get past it they? burst out
through the passage wall into the shop adjoining, and
thence burst in again when they judged they were past
the steel door. Their calculations were quite correct, but
the two-up people had thoughtfully provided steel doors
every few feet, and the windows were protected by
barbed-wire entanglements. But good as is that Pitt-
street emporium it is not quite perfect, and the writer
intends to float a company to construct the absolutely
impregnable gambling den. The building will be con-
structed of freestone lined with a skin of cement and an
inner skin of steel. The passages will all ascend towards
the centre of the building, and when the last steel doors
are blown in by the raiding police the operation will
burst large tanks of water, ana the contents will wash the
police back into the street. The water will be mixed with
large quantities of blue indelible ink, which will leave the
force of a nice bright tint. From the ring room, which
will be in the centre of the building, a couple of
underground passages will lead to adjacenthouses. These
passages will also be fitted with steel grills, and a patent
contrivance will fill them with water if anyone tries to
enter by them. As a last resource the gamblers will re-
tire to the tower on the top of the building, closing the
steel compartment doors behind them and filling the
intervening spaces with water. From the tower they will
be taken off to a place of safety by an airship of the
writer’s own invention. Then men could two-up in quiet
comfort.
» » * *
At the A.J.C. summer meeting all the six
winners were by imported sires—Grafton (2), Positano,
Sir Foote, Haut Brion, and Simmer, and not one of them
started first favorite. At the V.A.T.O. meeting, on the
same Boxing Day, the failure of the favorites was equally
complete. Moral: Don’t take Ikey’s shortest odds at
Christmas meetings.
* * * *
For once, W. P. Crick’s luck was right in.
Ossian had so often failed to do anything, in spite of the
fact that his owner had planked his affluence on him,
that Moses thought he might meet the plunging ex-Lands
Minister with perfect safety ; and then—Oollarit and
Ossian both won. Israel went home and rent its
frock-coat, and hoped that it might find itself in Russia
if it ever played the fool in that manner again. Crick’s
old colleague, Perry, drew Ossian in Tattersall’s sweep,
and immediately laid William Patrick one-third of the
£4OOO, and altogether, with that little sum added to what
he wrung from Ike.v Noses, William Pat. is understood to
have cleared nearly £BOOO. Had Crick backed Collarit
for the Nursery Handicap to anything like the same
extent as he did Ossian for the Summer Cup—well, it
would have been as good as a small Mount Morgan.
Marvel Loch, seemingly, is a flyer up to 12 fur-
longs only, like many another Caulfieid Cup and Metro-
politan winner before her. It was want of stamina,
rather than the heavy burden on her back, that stopped
the mare in the Summer Cup last week. Paris, of old,
was, perhaps, the most brilliant of the mile-and-a-half
specialists that Australia has seen. Paris w’on a couple
of Caulfield Cups, but never won a race of consequence
over a longer course. Hymettus w'as another horse of the
same class—something more than a non-stayer, yet less
than a stayer as compared with a Lord Cardigan or a
Tartan. All the same, the Lochiels are noted for gaining
stamina with age, and Marvel Loch may get among the
first three in nex t Sydney or Melbourne Cup. Where are
the first-class animals (bar Tartan) that can go two miles
without flinching, these times ?
* * * *
The way Antonious, the son of Sir Foote, won
his Nursery Handicap from a field of 17 after a long and
sustained run, marks him as a coming champion, and a
horse to be considered in anything he starts for.
The winning of Tattersall’s Club Cup was an
interesting business. On Saturday night owner Wootton,
strolling into the Club, heard £5OO to £3O offered against
his horse for the big race. Shern, who had just shied at
4 to 1 against Ossian, grew suddenly venturesome when
the owner of Fabric said he would take £lOOO to £3O, and
booked it. Wootton’s offer to take another £lOOO to £4O
was declined with thanks. Out at the course on
Monday the fielders were more venturesome, and
were calling 6 to 1 against Fabric and Elvo, but
only 7 to 2 against Ossian. Cakewalk and Marvel Loch
were going at 4 and 5 to 1 respectively. Cakewalk
started at a bound, and streaked away at a great pace,
with an apparent intention of getting a break on the
field. For the first mile and'a half he led the way, and then
Fabric ran up close, ranged alongside and passed him.
With Fabric came Elvo and Marvel Loch, and the ex-
hausted pacemaker dropped back to fourth place. Ossian
and Naphro then passed the luckless Cakewalk, and he
finished sixth. It was a gallant run, but badly managed,
and the horse met the usual fate of pacemakers. The
time (3min. 30sec.) has been tied twice in the race’s his-
tory, by Nightingale in 1894, and Hoop Iron in 1902. In
1903 Postilion beat it, getting over the distance in 3min.
29Jsec., and the record for the race is Overdale’s 1905 time
of 3min. 28sec.
• * * *
William Patrick Crick is understood to have
made a desperate effort to lose the cash he accumulated
over his double win during the A. J.C. meeting. But the
sons of Shem had no faith in the Law of Chances, and
declined to raise their price from threes to the “4tol
against ” that William P. asked, and no business resulted.
When they saw Ossian struggling home fourth they were
very sorry.
* « * *
A private, cable tells that Australian bred nags
Long Tom, Great Scot, and Munderah filled the places in
the Viceroy’s Cup at Calcutta on Boxing Daj-. Long Tom
was bought for India after last A. J.C. Autumn meeting
for 1000 guineas, and Great Scot won the two previous
Viceroy’s Cup.
* * * *
Czarovitch, winner of Perth Cup, Wednesday
last, promised big as a two-year-old, and then failed so
badly the two following seasons that his owner gladly
parted with him for 120 guineas. The Westralian heat
and conditions seem to have improved the horse
wonderfully, as they did many others from the eastern
side, particularly Blue Spec. Czarovitch now belongs to
P. A. Connolly, who also owns Blue Spec, which appropri-
ated last year’s Cup for him, and the same owner has
r iked in quite a lot of big things lately. If he is wise he
will sell out now while the profit is substantial, for as
Solomon said of the game, there is no profit in it in the
long run.
* ♦ * *
Tattersall’s Steeplechase at Rand wick on
Monday was a dispiriting business. Five started. Shooting
Star was the first to fall, and was destroyed. Then Royal
Standard came down at the second fence, while May Not
refused the fence at the top of the hill. This series of
misadventures left the winner, Verger, about a furlong
and a half in front of everything, and people had forgotten
all about the race when May Not drifted in like a purely
accidental horse and got third prize.
The Select Committee appointed by the
Westralian Legislative Assembly to inquire into horse-
racing in the Golden State practically advised that the
State should take over the control of unregistered racing,
and the clubs should go on drawing the profits and
having the fun. Which is so very Westralian ! Westralia
has, it seems, only two unregistered clubs, and each of
them supplies 60 days racing per annum—l2o days of
unregistered racing out of 365 ! The registered clubs
have 19 days among the three big clubs. Practically the
committee finds that unregistered racing is a curse, and
instead of recommending its abolition on that account,
the committee proposes that the two curses now in exist-
ence should be given a monopoly by law, and the start-
ing of any opposition unregistered clubs be prohibited. In
return for this actual monopoly the two unregistered
clubs are to submit to State control, and the Governor in
Council is to fix a minimum amount of stakes to be raced
for each day, fix the days per year on which the unregis-
tered clubs may hold race meetings, and, ye gods! fix
the distances over which the races shall be run. The
only astonishing thing about the report is that the com-
mittee didn’t suggest that the proprietors of the unregis-
tered courses should be made members of the Upper
House, have free railway passes granted to them for life,
and have their office expenses defrayed out of loans.
One of many odds the punter has against him !
At Epping, t’other day, Lady Beauchamp went to the
post for Epping Handicap, but the stewards ordered her
back as being too lame to run. Backers of the mare very
properly looked for a refund of their money, only to dis-
cover that there is a wholly unjustifiable rule which
enabled Moses to hang on to it. The air was blue with
oaths for some time afterwards.
» * # »
Old Marmont is still a shining light among
hurdle-racers when the handicapper doesn’t drop too
heavily on his dwindling “ form.” At Caulfield on Boxing
Day he won another race over the little sticks, giving 541 b.
to the second horse. And the second horse was named
Brilliance. The irony of it 1 At the same meeting the
aged Proceedor carried top weight (9.5) in the Hopetoun
Cup and won handsomely.
* * * *
The Maoriland footballers managed to beat
the district teams of Wales, but by very narrow majori-
ties. Their best exploit, the defeat of Glamorgan by nine
to nil, looks very puny after the 40 to nil wreck they
inflicted on Yorkshire. Newport went down by three
points only, Cardiff was beaten by two, and the last
match in the principality, that against Swansea, was won
by four to three —a field goal to a try. And the lordly
Maorilander has always held the potted goal in awful
contempt. The ex-Maorilander who runs the football
screech of Sydney Telegraph has explained it all away,
and the gist of his columns of screech is that when this
great and glorious team of toeballers triumphs it is
magnificent football—the concentrated essence of pure
Rugby. When it goes down, it is trickery, biassed or
corrupt referee, rough play, and darned roguery gener-
ally. Which is so like the Maorilander. The remaining
match is one against Great Britain.
When it was announced that the Maoriland
footballers would play a match against All France, every
Briton beyond the seas wiped his eyes, and making - a
mental note of the brand he had last- consumed, swore
never to touch it again. But it was not a dream, neither
did it live in the bottle, and an All-France team actually
met the Maorilanders at Paris and did more than England,
Scotland or Ireland could against them. On a heavy
ground the Gauls scored eight points—-a goal and a try-
while the Maorilanders scored 33 points—four goals and
six tries.
* * * *
Champion sculler Jim Stan bury picked up a
£25 handicap single sculls race at Wallaga Lake (N.S.W.)
regatta last week, after conceding an opponent a start of
90 seconds. In the double sculls race, however, the
champion and Nicholls were defeated by Harry and Clem
Bate, after a line race, by barely a boat-length. Stanbury
and Nicholls are old “ cobbers,” having rowed together 17
years ago, after which Nicholls held the South Coast
championship for five years,
' * * * *
Stanbury now gets back heavily on Towns for
the bargain that the ex-champion drove with him when
he asked for a match. When Stanbury won the champion-
ship on the Parramatta a few months back, Towns took 75
per cent, of the steamer money, and now Stanbury declines
to consider a match except on the condition that, win or
lose, he takes 75 per cent, of the steamer money. Stan-
bury admits that the terms are hard, and back’s up the
statement by offering to row anyone but Towns with an
equal division of steamer money. This 75 per cent, idea was
an inspiration of Towns’s, which he justified on the ground
that it cost him a lot of money to obtain the title, he having
to follow wily Jake Gaudaur to Rat Portage in Canada,
and give away everything when he got there. He argues
that as Stanbury will not be put to any such expense, his
terms are rapacious in the extreme. The Stanbury crowd
is said to admit that it is asking for the lion’s share of the
proceeds merely in a spirit of reprisal. In the meantime
the match is off.
* * * *
The easy triumph of the N.S.W. team against
S. Australia and Victoria gives an accurate idea of N.S.W.
cricket. The team contained quite a host of men who
had been sitting on the door-mat awaiting a chance in
Sheffield Shield cricket, and the success of the Southern
trip is rough on the section which has always argued
that if the personnel of the State team were changed,
defeat was certain. Fancy a N.S.W. team without
Trumper and Duff putting up such scores ! N.S.W. is
rich in good young cricketers who only await the oppor-
tunity to illustrate their ability.
* '« * *
When The Bulletin went to press last Tuesday
the N.S.W. cricket team in Victoria had scored 35 without
losing any wickets, and had made a decent start on the
record innings in N.S.W.-Vic. cricket history. When
Mackay and Noble got together the downfall of the
Victorian bowling commenced. Mackay drove the ball
along the grass in a way that gave the fieldsmen no
chance, and Noble fell on it with the ferocity of George
Reid attacking a chocolate cream, slashing and off-
driving in a manner marvellous to watch. It was a sort
of frenzy—a dancing dervish kind of cricket. A few
minutes after 5 o’clock the third century appeared on the
board, and almost immediately afterwards Mackay pulled
one from Saunders round to square-leg, where M'Alister
held it, and one giant was down for 194. Gregory took
his place, and Noble and he saw the day out, when
N.S.W. had scored 370 for the loss of two wickets.
Wednesday found Noble steadier, andatrifle uncomfortable
facing Armstrong, but the second century appeared
opposite his name shortly after the luncheon adjourn-
ment. In spite of frequent changes in the bowling,
shortly after the tea adjournment be was well on his way
towards the third century, when Christian clean bowled
him at the fourth attempt, and he departed in a blaze of
glory with the figures 281 on bis tail. Waddv, Cotter and
Carter accumulated 185 among them, and the day ended
with N.S.W. 796 for eight wickets. Thursday morning
saw the N.S.W. innings end for 805, and the Victorians,
with 438 to make to avoid a defeat on the first innings,
commenced their hopeless task. Warne certainly made a
struggle, putting up 56 before he was bowled bv O’Connor.
Laver made 17 ; Carroll and Carkeek 48 and’ 30 ; but all
the rest were content with single figures or the sign of
the water-fowl. Their tails were obviously right down
The innings ran out very quickly for a miserable 185, and
N.S.W. had won by an innings and 253 runs.
* * * *
As this paper goes to press the Sheffield Shield
match is proceeding between Victoria and South Aus-
tralia on the M.B.C. ground. The South Australians’
first innings had yielded 181, a miserable score. The
Victorians made a shocking start (no less than three of
their men failed to show figures), but making a slight
recovery the stumps were drawn with nine wickets down
for 166. Compared to the N.S.W. display this wretched
showing on both sides is too dreadful for words, and the
less said the better.
*■»*-*
Cotter didn’t lose a great deal of his erratic
trundling in England during the recent tour. In the
match against Victoria he bowled 276 balls for 134 runs
and six wickets—besides adding seven no balls and one
wide to the opponents’ total. Wicket-keeper Carter had
an exceedingly anxious time prancing around to stop the
flying missiles. Carter is a particularly clever wicket-
keeper, but has the appearance of being too small for a
representative player capable of standing the onslaughts
of Cotter. Cotter’s bowling argues the wisdom of
wicket-keeper Kelly’s retirement.
* * * *
The idea has been started of X oily’s benefit match
taking the form of N.S.W. v. Rest of Australia. And as a
large house is the main object, this fixture would attract
more local attention than one against the Australian XI.,
as was first mooted. The career of the XI. is happily in-
terred, and its resurrection would not be pleasant to
anyone.
* * * *
N.S.W. cricketer Mackay, in Association
matches, has scored 1070 runs this season ; while his
inter-State figures are 202, 90, 194—486 runs in three
innings, an average of 162.
* * * »
One thing the Australian cricketers have decided
upon—that future Elevens for England must travel as
bachelors or grass-widowers. No honeymoon players
need apply for places in future teams. But, then, we
have heard that same thing 13 times before. The trouble
is that the cricketers of the future will be young fellows
with their own honeymoons yet to take.
* ★ * *
That industrious cricket recorder, R. H. Camp-
bell, has compiled a “ hard-luck ” list of batsmen, who in
N S.W.-Vic. cricket have topped 90 runs, but failed to
reach 100. Nobody stopped at 99, but A. Christian and
F. A. Iredale each came to grief at 98. Aleck Bannerman,
Jack Worrall, and Frank Iredale all figure twice in the
list.
* * * *
“ F.C.” gives his version : —“The ‘unregistered
cyclists’ ’ race meeting, engineered at Melb. Exhibition
track on Christmas and Boxing nights by Plugger
Bilmartin and Don Walker, was a wearisome and
bedraggled failure. The novelty and the absence of
counter attractions brought some 500 or 600 spectators
on the Monday, but the following night saw an attend-
ance of about half, of whom a liberal proportion were
Ikeys. These paraded their amazing generosity by
bellowing odds of ‘ evens ’ and ‘ 6 to 4 the field ’ —in
fields of ten and fifteen ! As for the class of Ikey who
laid these noble odds, I would sooner risk my coin in a
two-up school or marking Chow lottery tickets. The
riders seemed to be either disqualified ex-Leaguers or
unknown juveniles. Each evening saw some £4O distri-
buted on half a dozen races, of about four heats each ;
but Heaven knows where the coin came from (unless
from the Plugger’s Collingwood pub.), for the takings
wouldn’t pay for the lights. Another £4O was recklessly
splashed (£3O to the first, £lO to the second), in alleged
matches between Walker and Martin, which Walker had
little difficulty in winning. Plugger Bill also pervaded
the track at times in alleged matches against the old first-
flighter, Con Dwyer, on the old high machines, and the
pair toddled round at the breakneck speed of 10 miles an
hour. The only swift circumstance about the draggled
meeting was the way many Ikeys disappeared just before
they were expected to pay out on the last race.”
* * * *
Sydney Summer Nights Syndicate is going to
spice its January meeting with a series of motor-bicycle
races. The first will be between A. E. Austin, of Leich-
hardt, on a 4J h.p. Rex machine, and J. Doherty, of New-
town, on a h.p. Buchet. Both riders are of an inven-
tive turn of mind, and have made improvements to their
engines according to their own designs, and each claims
that the improvements have made his engine absolutely
perfect. A. J. Bergin, the Rozelle rider, has challenged
the winner to a five-mile match for £25 a-side. The first
contest is to be decided by the best of three runs of five
miles each. Doherty tried his improved engine at New-
castle on New Year’s Day, when he conceded Bergin 6sec.
in two miles, and beat him by more than half a lap.
Austin, meanwhile, is lying low.
After all, and contrary to expectation, Lawson
and Mac Fat-land failed to rake in the Austral Wheel race.
T. E. White, of Boulder, won the big- prize. Still, the
Yankees did not have their trip for nothing, the ex-world
champion taking a five-mile and a three-mile scratch
race, and a half-mile handicap. MacFarland won the
First-class Handicap; and, in addition, the two cracks
are understood to have been generously treated in the
matter of appearance money.
* * * ♦
Bill Martin’s experiment of an unregistered
“ cycling carnival,” at Melbourne Exhibition Oval, was
not a success, although the dates, Christmas Night and
Boxing Night, were probably well chosen and the weather
favored the spec. Racing for the most part was dull-
unknown men going for paltry stakes. In the principal
events Don Walker proved a bit better than his old
antagonist, Martin, and an absurd “match” on old-
fashioned bikes between Martin and Con Dwyer gave
Plugger Bill his only win. The spectacle of two men
perched on tall machines was a novelty for the youngsters
present, but if there is any popular demand for sporting
studies in the antique a tricycle race would be more
attractive.
* * * *
Victorian League of Wheelmen promptly dis-
qualified Don Walker for 12 months for taking part in
that “ unregistered ” cycle-meeting at Melbourne. It
was an inglorious ending to Walker’s wonderful Australian
career as a League rider ; and his retirement has taken
the shape of throwing brick 3 at the League out of which
he has made a lot of money. The Victorian League would
have been justified in disqualifying him for life as a
deterrent.
* * * if
The new idea of publishing cycling training
notes, with full information of how Herr Sauerkraut held
the watch while Saussagestein covered the 100yds. in 6sec.,
and Saussagestein afterwards performed the kind office
while Sauerkraut whizzed over the distance in a fraction
less time, is just plain unmitigated rot. Nobody
but a born idiot who wants to try another
way of losing, just to see what it is like,
would dream of using such information as data on which
to base his wagers. It is one thing to equal the best
times riding on a track that is empty, save for the trier
and his pacer, and another to do it after a gruelling run
in a handicap, with the front markers comparatively
fresh, and all bunched together.
* * * *
S. S. Levey, who won the Austral but was
disqualified for forcing Sandberg up the bank, having had
his appeal dismissed, now threatens recourse to the law.
As he subscribed to the League’s Rule 145, which
stipulates that the Appeal Board’s decision shall be final
and binding without recourse to law, it looks as if the
pugnacious young man were throwing good money after
bad. But he challenges the Appeal Board’s constitution
and its conduct of the inquiry, on the ground that his
witnesses were excluded from the inquiry room while the
disqualifying stewards were allowed to cross-examine and
afterwards to give evidence themselves ; and he may pos-
sibly find a leg to stand on. But the £5OO won’t go very
far in “ costs.”
**•**.
Now that the Austral Wheel Race is all over,
and the damage, if any, is done, Chief Secretary Gillott has
arisen in great wrath and demanded of the police heads
why they didn’t suppress all betting at the bike races.
Gillott is president of the M.8.C., and says he can’t very
well prosecute himself—though he omits to say why—
but somebody belonging to the club badly wants
to be talked to. It was chiefly at the instance of
this M.B.C. that the law prohibiting betting at sports-
meetings was passed, and notices drawing attention
to such prohibition were prominently posted, yet the
blessed club actually licensed 55 Ikeys to ply their calling
(or bellowing) at ss. per head per meeting—there were
seven meetings—and gave permits to 30 sweep-promoters
at 2s. 6d. per head per meeting. A club that first pro-
hibits betting and then sets out to collect £l2O out of the
illegal traffic is a poor kind of object. And if Gillott, as
president, isn’t responsible, why isn’t he ? And who is?
• * • *
Marsh, the aboriginal cricketer, was up at
Sydney Central Police Court last week under the Vagrant
Act, for having- no lawful visible means of support. The
beak discharg-ed him with a caution. As a matter of law,
no aborigine can be charged under the Vagrant Act. He
is supposed to live on ’possum, which may he lawful, but
isn’t visible unless you know where to look for it.
* * * *
The Highlanders have this year deserted the
Sydney Cricket Ground for their annual display, and soon
the ground trustees will have to consider the position.
The tariff of membership—£2 2s. per annum and an
entrance fee of £3 Ss. —is high, and its only justification
is an attractive programme of sports. This season
cricket, owing to the poor quality of visiting teams,
promises to be vapidly uninteresting. Cycling is
on its uppers, and an odd football match or
two is really the only attempt at an attrac-
tion. The feeble efforts to fill up gaps by semi-
music-hall-semi-circus sort of desolate entertainment
don’t go really far. There is a popular idea that the
members’ stands are filled with dead-heads ; still the steady
income from members’ subscriptions is as much to the
trustees as an occasional bumper house in the other parts
of the ground. And to keep up this steady income it
behoves the trustees to scratch their bald pates and
devise some attractions.
* * * *
One defaulting Melbourne clerk, who gotthrough
over £lOOO of his firm’s money, declares that he lost the
coin in a two-up school. He says he lost £6O at one stand,
and had seen plungers rake in £3OO for an evening’s earn-
ings. Melbourne employers are now taking extra pre-
cautions to ascertain if their clerks attend “ school.”
* * * „
Professional athletics seem to be on the up-
grade just now in Australia. The recent Kalgoorlie
racing was so successful that a second Kalgoorlie Hun-
dred meeting will commence on January 16th. In
Sydney the governing professional body is carrying on a
war of extermination against stiff runners, and is doing
the business a lot of good. Only last week four were
suspended for three months, and two others passed out
for a “sixer.” Once it ceases to pay to be dishonest, the
professional sprinter will develop all the virtue of a
Galahad. As the League announces its intention of
dealing out heavier sentences in the future, there is
every promise of a fine crop of Galahads, and although
this writer has no more love for a synthetic virtue than
he has for a synthetic perfume, he prefers a synthetic
virtue to no virtue at all.
* * « »
Although there were no sailing races on Sydney
Harbor on Saturday before New Year there was some
beautiful navigation. Writer went up the usually peace-
ful Parramatta in a motor launch that heeled over before
the howling nor’-easter like a torpedoed battleship. Down
the river, with the howling gale behind them, rushed
three sailing boats, the crews, perched up on the side
that was out of the water, baling for their lives. Every
wave went clean into the boats, and the great white-
winged things ran clean through many waves, but they
flew so fast before the howling gale that they could not
go over, for even a sailing boat can only go one way at a
time, and as they rushed past and disappeared in the
mist and spume they were very beautiful—as beautiful as
they were uncomfortable. It is to be hoped the sailing
boat will never go quite out of fashion ; it makes the
harbor look so picturesque for the people smoking snugly
behind the windows of the motor launch.
■‘Jab.”: Is it possible that appendicitis was
not really responsible for swimmer Kieran’s death?
Late crack N.S.W. lightweight boxer Herb M’Kell com-
plained of abdominal pains, and was “ satisfactoryv ”
operated on for appendicitis, but after “ progressing
favorably ” for several days the trouble appeared as bad
as ever, and the knife was used on the left side and back.
Yet he died, and a post mortem revealed some intestinal
trouble not suspected.
The period of peace on earth and good will to
men was broken up at Sydney Gaiety Athletic: Club by a
disturbance between Walcott and Wilkes. Mr. Walcott
is a gentleman of color, and, although the white man had
the advantage of reach and .youth, plugged steadily away,
taking his punishment like a Trojan, and dealing it out
whenever he could reach his lighter-footed opponent. In
the. seventh round the colored man landed his right
behind the ear and broug'ht his left to the jaw, and down
went Wilkes. At the word eight he was rising, when
the police intimated that they were satisfied, and Walcott
was declared the winner, while Wilkes went home to
commence the New Year with a deteriorated counten-
ance.
* * * *
Now that Kieran has gone, people are beginning
to ask who will take his place in this section of the uni-
verse. At present there is no one about who can cover
all the ground Kieran did, hut Cecil Healey has more
than a possible. So far he has not cultivated himself any
—merely trained for specific events and won them. If he
would settle down to build up his physique there is little
doubt that he would beat anybody who is likely to come
on deck at the present moment.
* * * ' *
N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Association has
inaugurated a new by-law compelling clubs that wish to
forfeit grade fixtures to give 24 hours’ notice to the Asso-
ciation, or pay a fine of ss.—which isn’t nearly enough. A
similar by-law (with a bigger fine) is badly needed in other
branches of sport. After paying admission-charges, to
find that the bottom of the programme has fallen out is-
annoying, and it isn’t always possible to forecast where a
disappointed crowd will stop in order to get revenge.
* * * *
“J.” :When I called on the garage-man and
asked him could he let me have a motor car for next
Sunday, he assured me it was as easy as drinking.
“ You’ll want it for the afternoon, of course ?” “ No, the
morning, want to go for an 80-mile spin out into the
country, where the bees sing and the birds ” “ Hum !
Don’t know if I can manage that. Tell you what I’ll do.
It’ll cost you eight guineas, and you leave your telephone
number and I’ll ring you up and let you know if I can fix
you.” Every garage in Sydney talks like that, and the
reason is that the naicest of Sydney, who have paid
anything between £5OO and £750 for a car, turn an
honest coin by hiring the thing to various garages when
they are not using it themselves. But the majority
of them bar long spins into the country, and fix a
suburban radius, outside of which their vehicles must not
go. No matter how great the rush, some garage can al-
ways get you a car to run to National Park or Parra-
matta or somewhere within shanghai range ; but often
neither love nor money will obtain a snorter for a run to,
say, Moss Vale. When the garage man has to fall back
on that class of car he can never give a direct answer ; he
has to find out if Mrs. de Darlingpoint is going out, or if
the jigger is in the hospital because old Darlingpoint was
so heavily freighted with whisky that the lamp-post got
in the way, or something of that sort.
* * * *
A Presbyterian church in one of the Melbourne
suburbs is getting the name of a mascot. In 1904 one. of
its prominent members drew first prize in Tatts. In
1905, in the very same kirk, while the minister was
preparing a biting sermon on the evils of gambling, report
reached him that one of the elders had drawn another
big prize in the great gamble.
* * * *
Mr. Seddon opens up a new field of political
possibilities by his decision to “shout” to Maoriland
footballers now in England, out of the Treasury, and pos-
sibly out of loan funds, a holiday trip through America.
A “permanent and reproductive work” of the future
Loan Estimates (for every item of expenditure one day
finds its way to the Loan Estimates in Australasia) may
be the price of the neat little pub. that a grateful country
handed over as a token of esteem to some pugilist of
derring-do.


One of the most successful means of
quenching the Great Australian Thirst is the
Austral MCrating Water Machine. This imple-
ment of cheerful intentions, manufactured by
Eckersley and Sons, of Queen-street, Melbourne,
has the good word of thousands of hotelkeepers
throughout Australasia and Maoriland for its
time and labor saving properties. Moreover, the
blessing of all Temperance Unions descends upon
it annually like a dove.*
A prominent member of the Federal
Ministry expressed, the other day, the unanimous
opinion of machinery experts when he said the
Simplex Oil Engine is the best, of its fighting
weight, in the world. The Vic. Railway people
recently tried conclusions with it, and were wholly
satisfied with the results. And this after they
had tested a number of imported oil engines for
pumping water. The Simplex is manufactured
by E. Ooulson, of A’Beckett-street, Melb. ; its
improvements are of local invention, and it is a
very hard and sudden fact for the. belittlers. of
Australian industries to bump their scepticism
against.*
" Pub ications.
JUST IF*XT B^ISHEO
(“In the Cause of Charity”).
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS
QUEEN BEE,
A Story of Fact and Fancy, and Other Stories, by
H. BYRON MOORE.
Copiously Illustrated by MISS HOPE S. EVERSHED.
Cloth, 3s. 6d.; Posted, 3s. lid.
THE stories have the same simplicity and sincerity as
that which gave the charm to Mr. Byron Moore’s
previous volume, “The Cruel Imp.” Mr. Byron Moore is
a Nature-lover, and Australian Fauna and Flora live and
breathe in the Book. There are 70 illustrations, drawn
with feeling and a skilled decorative touch.
NOTE. —The Proceeds from the Sale of the Book are to
go to the Children’s Hospital.
MELVILLE & MULLEN, Melbourne,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Missing Friends.
/CHARLES WILLIAM DUNNING, age 33, and sister
VF SARAH ANN DUNNING, age 30, children of SAMUEL
and SARAH A. CAMPBELL DUNNING, lived in Stam-
ford, Conn., U.S.A., to 1881, when they went to Australia
with their father.
Information leading to their whereabouts will he o
great benefit to the undersigned as administrator aim
themselves as beneficiaries of estate of their unck,
William Campbell.
WALTER E. HOUGHTON,
Stamford,
Conn., U.S.A.
Dyspepsia
and all Affections of the
Stomach, the Liver
and Kidneys,
HEADACHES
and Nervous Weakness,
which usually comes
from Stomach ills,
** * *
INSOMNIA
and Palpitation of the
Heart,
CONSTIPATION
ARE ALL QUICKLY
CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIOEL’S
SYRUP
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like Indigestion or Liver
trouble, and nothing lifts them up
so quickly and surely as a course
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
THE GREAT
STOMACH REMEDY
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
iw
DAY
SEBS
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round. '*
From the leading Drapers.
HARVEY & JAMES,
Tel.
4301.
150 Queen St., Melbourne.
MOTOR BOATS Complete Built to Order.
ENGLISH 12ft. DINGHY, 3 h.p. engine, gunmetal
propeller. Fast. Carry 6 people. £46.
20ft. CARVEL-BUILT PLEASURE LAUNCH, counter
stern, decked fore and aft, combing, 3£ h.p.
Fafnir motor, Gaines reversible propeller,
awnings and all fittings. Price £lOO.
25ft. FAST PLEASURE LAUNCH, similar above, 6£
h.p. twin-cylinder Fafnir engine, Gaines
reversible propeller. Complete, £l5O.
35ft. CRUISING LAUNCH, similar above, carry 50
people, awnings and all fitting's complete, 12 h.p.
fonr-eylinder Fafnir engine, Gaines reversible
propeiler. £250.
All Boats Copper Fastanetf, and Built Faithfully of
Well-Seasoned and Picked Timber throughout.
L
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
Is non-%eating. One cup contains
mere nourishment than 10 caps of
any ordinary cocoa.
Legal Notices.
IN T~n£ HIGH COURT OP JUSTICE IN IRELAND
KING’S BENCH DIVISION (PROBATE).
The Principal Registry, Dublin.
TN the Goods of NICHOLAS JOSEPH ANDREW
1 O’CONNELL FFRENCH, formerly of Galway, in the
County of Galway, and last heard of from Townsville,
Queensland, Australia.
To the said Nicho'as Joseph Andrew O Connell Ffrench,
if living; or, if (lead, to his wife, chid, executors, ad-
ministrators or assigns.
TAKE NOTICE that Kora O’Connell Ffrench, of Lis-
rivis, Dundrum, in the County of Dublin, Ireland, the
lawful mother of the said Nicholas Joseph Andrew
O’Connell Ffrench, has applied to the said Division for
Letters of Administration of the Goods of the said
Nicholas Joseph Andrew O’Connell Ffrench as of a person
who has died intestate, and unless you or one of you
communicate with Messrs. Maxwell, Weldon and Co., of
10 North Great George’s Street, in the City of Dublin,
he Solicitors for the said Nora O’Connell Ffrench, within
ne calendar month after the last insertion of this adver-
sement such Letters of Administration may be issued.
JACOB T. GEOGHEGAN,
Asst. Registrar.
Li.xwell, Weldon and Co., 40 North Great George’s Street
Dublin, Solicitors for the said Nora O’Connell Ffrench.
B€CAUS€ A MAN LIV€S—~
in the country there is no reason why he cannot be as well dressed as the
city folk. Write to the Leading Sydney Tailor for Patterns, Measurement
Forms, etc. Suits delivered free.
If in town kindly call and leave your Measure for future ordeis.
E. T. WALSH, M«rcbaot Tailor,
359 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
THERE’S SAFETY
IN THE
ANCHOR FENCE
IF YOU ARE . .
FENCING, WRITE
E. RICH & CO.. LTD.,
Sydney and
Brisbane.
Amusements.
Theatre
Lessee
ROYAL, SVDNEY.
.. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
OR, THE FAIRY OF THE DIAMOND VALLEY.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
qr|TE R I O W T HEATRk, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHAR LL S HOLLOWAY’S
PREMIER POPULAR COMBINE in
THE TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.
Prices, Players and Plays Popular.
g_|ER MAJESTY’S
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manasrer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson Presents the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in their
Latest Success,
THE GIRL FROM KAY’S.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mi;. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
8 ENGLISH PRIMROSES 8 and THE TWO BELLS.
HILL and WHITTAKER. A. G. SPRY.
RYDER SLONE, Vocal Character Comedian.
BOY GLEN, Juvenile Raconteur.
LEEDS and LEMAR, ARTHUR ALBERT,
CARLETON and SUTTON, IIALLINAN and ALDOUS,
MARGARET OGILVIE, Miss CLARA KEATING,
Mr PERCY DENTON, Miss OLIVE LENTON, BABY
WATSON, CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MANNIKINS.
JACKSON FAMILY, Premier Musical Team.
GRAHAM AND DENT, Sketch Artists.
SISTERS WARNER, Duettists, Grotesque Dancers.
MAUD FANING, Coon Impersonator.
LOTTO, LILO and OTTO, Trick and Comedy Cyclists.
ADA OBRITO, Serio Comique Character Actress.
Plan at Allan’s. AST PRICES—As, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Christmas and New Year Attraction,
A PATH OF THORNS.
itsr PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s,
rxvior. Bugjness ManaKOT> Mr . c. SIMONSENS.
•jER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, ME .aOURNE.
n Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY GREET
the Return of Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star,
MISS TiTTELL TR Ni
in
MERELY MARY ANN.
(For the First Time in Melbourne.)
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THURSDAY, JAN. 4, FRIDAY, JAN. 5,
SILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY
—in —
THE GONDOLIERS.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, PRINCESS IDA.
An Exceptionally Strong Cast. Additional Attractions.
P R.
NCES COURT,’ 1 MELBOURNE.
ieneral Manager L - BATim
@]®- ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d.
SHUTE ! TOBOGGAN !! HELTER=SKELTER !! 1
And Kindred Novelties.
NOW ADDED — XATZENJAMMER CASTLE.
(Singularly Sensationall Surprises)
And FUN FACTORY (Hilarity Hall).
THE
|(l
ents
of the
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
“MASTA"
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless . briar-
wood, well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDHEIM*
GOTTHELL & CO., Sydney.
JL
YeryOldVatted
kb 11 *
Liqueur Whisky.
Distilled Scßottled. by
'enA
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin ; kilis nits ; heals sores,
Bv post—Small 1/2, large'2/3, < xtra large 3/6.
Manufacturer —P. KLEKSATTEL,
T rar-'lgoM. Victoria.
Amusements.
gTjOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GRAND HOLIDAY SEASON. EVERY EVENING,
THE PLAYERS,
in the Fascinating Gaiety Success,
m TOWN.
PRICES AS USUAL, m Plan at Allan’s.
THE TALK OF THE TOWNI
BOSTOCK AND WOMiWELL’S
CIRCUS OF VARIETIES & MENAGERIE,
AT A LOCATION ON ST. HILDA ROAD, OYER
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
BOSTOCK & WOMBWELL’3 MENAGERIE
is Accompanied bv a Combination of All Star Variety
Artists from all quarters of the Globe, including- the
LUKUSHIMA TROUPE OF PLUCKY JAPANESE.
CAPTAIN FRANK TAYLOR and his Athletic Baboons,
PERFORMING LIONS, TIGERS, &c.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and ALI
HOLIDAYS. EVENINGS at 8.
PRICES—3s, 2s and Is. Boxes to Seat Four, 20s.
Sole Proprietor, E. H. Bostock ; Managing Director
Captain Frank Taylor ; Advance Agent, Alec Verne.
Evidence at an inquest re a boiler explosion
at a sawmill at Tallarook (Vie.), whereby three
men were killed, draws fresh attention to the need
of regular inspection of boilers and engines, and
of the men who work them. Usually, when
a boiler bursts, the fault is found to be
that its plates were rotten and worn; a man
putting up bush machinery generally buys a
cast-off boiler when its anginal owner has
abandoned it as beyond service. Here, the boiler
appea-s to have had plates sound enough to stand
a pressure of 75 to 801 b., beyond which (said expert
evidence) no experienced man would have dreamed
of using it. But those in charge had the safety-
valve overweighted, and the pressure ran up to
1501 b. Then the boiler burst in every place at
once.
Probably no man ever showed more de-
votion to his hat than did an excursionist near
Ballarat the other day. He was riding in an open
truck (the way Victoria accommodates most of the
people who want to travel in holiday-time), when
a gust of wind blew the hat off. He made a
desperate leap to catch it, and jumped right over
the side of the truck to the permanent way. Ihe
engine was uncoupled to run him back to Ballarat,
where he died of a fractured skull within a few
hours. The hat was picked up by the engine-
driver and taken back to Ballarat too.
Supporters of a Black Australia would do
well to study a recent discovery by Professor
Clarkson, of Columbia (U.S.) University. The
fact he has elicited has long been known to all
breeders of stock, but it has been left to Clarkson
to prove what was merely a theory in regard to
human beings. He has found that, when a white
woman bears a child to a negro, and subsequently
bears other children to a white man, the latter
progeny carry with them some of the negro taint,
and, though their children may be apparently
pure white, there is a chance that their grand-
children may have among them a little woolly-
headed coon as black as if both its parents were
fresh from the cotton fields of Alabama. This is
further reaching and more serious than the imme-
diate throw-back, which led a U.S. Senator, who
married a beautiful octoroon girl with scarcely a
trace of her black origin about her, to become the
father of an apparently full-blooded nigger kid.
“ P.” : There are some good blokes about.
Walking on Christmas Saturday up Pitt-street,
Sydney, and marvelling at the number of Chinese
“ importers ” who hang out their shingles in that
region, I felt a timid touch on my arm. I was
asked by a dilapidated, skinny youth of 17 or so
to “ give us a smoke.” I gave him my cigarette
box, from which he gratefully took two “smokes.”
Then, by request, I gave him my match-box, and
he bashfully took DO per cent, of the contents.
Next, he raised his cigarette-adorned “chiv’
to mine, and said: “O’ny wastin’ matches
ter strike in this wind; give us a kiss.
I kissed him according to local custom
among blokes by igniting his cigarette from mine.
Then he said, “By Ghost! Great feeds about
now.” "Yes,” said I, genially. “ Harmy’s givin’
it out ter day, an’ some other push ’s cornin’ ter
the rescue at ther Town ’All, C’ris’mas Day. By
Ghost!” He threw his “bumper” into the
gutter, and took three more cigarettes from my
box. “Yer ought ter go ter day; it’ll be
a bosker feed. I’ll get yer a ticket, if yer
like. I got two other blokes tickets this
morning’.” He turned, seemingly to hurry off
and procure my ticket, when I stopped him
with the apology that I was pledged to dine with
the Governor-General. “Wot ’ard luck! he
said, regretfully; “yer won’t ’ave a chance of a
feed like this fer another twelve munse. O’ris’mas
o’ny comes once a year, yer know.” Then he
emptied my cigarette box, and went off, with his
shoulders squared under the stimulus -of that
prospective “ booker feed.” I think he was a good
bloke.
Advt. in Dunedin (Maoriland) Star :
Respectable working man, middle-aged, wishes to
correspond with a lady 70 years of age view to matrimony ;
also with view to obtaining work on the Government
Construction Contracts. Address: “ Baffled,” Star.
“ Alix ” : How are the mighty fallen!
I bought a threepenny Christmas stocking, and
found in it three sweets, a wooden doll, a tin
shovel, and a patriotic song on “ Our Heroes in
South Africa ! ” Presumably that is the only way
they can get rid of the African blood-song in
these degenerate days.


A ; SAuA'PERr.
Sterling Silver-Mounted
Crystal Glass Stamp
DAMPER, 4s 6di
i&S
wchaKEai
«ClSiCKjy
t AJill l
IViy
mm
Oh
A. SAUNDERS.
S-Bottlo Luncheon CRUET.
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Others, 10s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
lion WAIST BELT, Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Crocodile or Russian
6s 6d. t\ ider, 7s 6d. Other Styles, Open Straps, 5s 6d, 0s 6d.
A. SAUNri-FS.
C.E. or R.C. Hymn and Prayer
BOOK, Morocco Leather, Pure
Silver-mounted, 10s 6d.
Extra Heavy, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
ryT,
r>
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Toilet Pomade
JAR. Solid Silver
Mounts. Hobnail Cut
Glass. 6s 6d.
Larger Size, 10s 6d.
, A. SAUNDERS.
Cherub Design I foilet MIRROR, Solid Silver, Bevelled
f Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin Tobacco POUCH,
Best Rubber Lining.
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other St.vles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Collar Button BOX, Pure Silver-
Plated, 7s 6d.
Similar Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
m
1
mm
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH, Bure Silver, Extra
Long White Hand-drawn Bristles, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value 4 o’clock Cake
F' V 'H q ra 'ire Silver-Plated,
in Silk-lined Case, 6s 6d.
Ouie» ,'uy.es. 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
GIFTS.
Our fine Illustrated
Catalogue of
Xmas Gifts
and Novelties.
Sent to any
address, Post Free.
A post card
will bring you
a copy.
We prepay
express charges
on all goods.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, Fitted with Every
Convenience, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
No matter where
you live,
you have the
same opportunity
in choice and price
that you would
have if personally
selecting in our
extensive showroom.
lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMi
I mmn
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Concave Military lIAIR BRUSHES,
Solid Silver, Extra Long White Bristles,
in Solid Leather Case, £3.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
OXOCO3C
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Seal Leather Purse and Card CASE,
Sterling Silver Mounts and Lock, 21s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Butterfly Design, Gilt
Lined, comprising Four Pieces, Al Quality, Sheffield Manufacture, £4 4s.
Other Styles, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, to £75.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar CASE, Seal Leather, Sterlin
Silver Mounts and Shield, 16s 6d.
Other Styles, r ''; fl- 1 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specimen VASES, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, in 3 sizes: sin, 5s 6d;
6|in, 7s 6d; 7|in, 16s 6d.
Solid Silver, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugar SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely En-
graved, 255.
Others, 16s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Arilber-tinted Glass,
Pure Silver-Plated, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INK STAND, 2 Crystal Cut-glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated, £2 ss.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving STROP, Automatic,
Self-rolling, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed, 13s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Porcelain
China Shaving MUG, 5s 6d.
Pure Silver-plated, 13s 6d,
15s 6d, 2Qs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butter Dish, Knife and Toast Rack Com-
bination, Pure Silver-plated, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handkerchief BOX, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely-
Chased and Embossed, Silk Lined, Size Bx 7, £3.
Glove Box to Match, £3, or £5 10s pair.
MS
kiStßfiS
r.vw
mm
meusst
m
i-Osix^jj^jsSSi
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSH, Fine White Bristles, 20s.
Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS, Pure Silver-Mounted, Crystal
Hobnail Cut-glass, 8s 6d. Larger Size, 10s.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
Spirit Flask and Cup,
Morocco Covered, Pure
Silver-plated, Patent
Top, 20s.
Others, 10s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving TIDY and Mirror, Pure Silver-
mounted, Morocco Leather, 255.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fern POT, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
tin high, 15s 6d.
Others, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Manicure and Toilet SET,
Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, £3 10s.
Other Styles, £2 ss, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS
( SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, )
( SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, )
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


m
%
m
m
'V//> .
revive the grass and flowers,
giving them beauty, vigor and
freshness.
In precisely the same way
DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES
revive the weak stomach by sup-
plying those natural digestive
elements which every weak sto-
mach lacks. They will positively
cure Indigestion, Dyspepsia and
all stomach troubles.
Price. 2/6. Guaranteed.
Dr Morse./
□
1
n
H AV&
STOOD TAt
T EST OF TIME
m
imimiiJinim
V
Sex
U
m
A
ij
3
l
sold in. America foraearjy & Century.
For more than seventy years Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been well known in America
as a family medicine, and their ever-increasing sale bears testimony to their merit and popularity.
In Australia, where they have been known only seven or eight years, they have become a
household necessity, ministering alike to the rich and to the poor. The wonderful efficacy, of
these Pills to overcome the common ailments of mankind has convinced not only the working
section of the population, but the more wealthy, professional and independent classes that
DR. MORSE’S, INDIAN ROOT PILLS are the BEST FAMILY MEDICINE.
“ Dependence Implies Subordination.”
—
In a recent Westminster Gazette, a leading
English Liberal newspaper, there is an article by
Harold Cox, a former secretary of the Cobden
Club, and a prominent Liberal, on “ The Imperial
Government and Colonial Opinion.” Mr. Harold
Cox’s personal views are not of much importance
to Australia, but when they are published, with-
out any editorial comment, by a leading party
newspaper, they may be fairly taken to represent
something more than the irresponsible opinions of
an individual. This is what Mr. Cox says about
the Australian Immigration Restriction Act:—
A conflict of opinion (between the Imperial Government
and the Commonwealth) did arise a few years ago when
the Commonwealth Parliament passed a law which had
the effect of excluding Japanese subjects and our own
Indian subjects from the huge continent of Aus-
tralia. This law was, and is, utterly at variance
with the liberal traditions of this country. ... The
right of self-government possessed by Australia in no
way debarred us from interfering in this matter. We
have granted to the Australian colonists the right to
manage their own internal affairs. We have not granted
to them the right to manage their relations with outside
countries, and we cannot grant that right, because it
would be useless to them unless we were prepared to
enforce their decisions.... The Australians not only
make no contribution to the general defence of the
Empire, but even their own purely local defence is largely
KpL'S m h K
practically reminded that dependence implies subordm-
ation.
mi • ~ . . ~ ,• , . cnWonto
Thui throws an interesting light; on
It shows, first that there are “swh whi
admitting that we have as a gift the people
is* the
right of the Imperial Government to determine
what are our own exclusively internal affairs. It
shows, second, the impression created in the minds
of English politicians by our miserable policy of
hiring our naval defence from the Admiralty. As
far as the first of these points is concerned, it
doesn’t seem to have occurred to the writer, or the
people who think with him, that any claim on the
part of the Imperial Government to decide what
are matters of exclusively Australian interest
cannot be tolerated by any self-respecting
Australian Government. If we really have
the right to manage our own internal
affairs, it is essential to the exercise of that
right that we should also have some voice in decid-
ing what are our internal affairs. And if there
is one matter above all others, which Australians
regard as of exclusively Australian concern,
it is the character of the population which is
to inhabit this continent. If our connection with
the Empire involves an obligation to admit into
Australia any race which, thanks to the earth-
hunger of rapacious Jingoes, has been included in
the category of British subjects, or which, for
reasons to which we had nothing to say, has been
admitted into political alliance with Great Britain,
the most ardent believer in the Imperial connection
will begin to get uncomfortable. A piebald Empire
is the poorest of reasons for a piebald Australia.
The jeer at Australia’s defence policy, with which
Mr. Cox concludes his references, is ungenerous
and undignified. But it is not, unfortunately,
without justification. As long as Australia re-
mains content with the miserable policy of
dependence on Britain for its naval defence, it is
true, as the writer says, we “ have no right to
complain when practically reminded that depend-
ence implies subordination. ” That comment comes
with very bad grace from Englishmen, whose
official representatives are mainly responsible for
our existing conditions of “dependence.” In 1899,
when a practical scheme of independent naval
defence for Australia was formulated by a com-
mittee of Australian naval officers, it was re-
ceived with indignation and ridicule by the Eng-
lish naval authorities. Australians were bluntly
told by the Times, the unofficial spokesman for
the Admiralty, that the naval defence of Aus-
tralia was not Australia’s business, but essentially
the business of the British Navy. This view was
strongly urged by Lord Selborne and other naval
authorities at the Conference of 1902, and it is the
underlying principle of the unfortunate naval
agreement which was drawn up at that Confer-
ence. Only the other day Admiral Fanshawk
reiterated the old story, and told us that any
attempt at naval defence on our part was an ab-
surdity. However, the bad taste of the comment
doesn’t matter much. What does matter is its
truth. As long as Australians are content with
the “ dependence ” involved in the mean-spirited
system of buying their naval defence from Britain
it is very difficult for them to repudiate the
subordination which their dependence implies.
Australia can never claim complete self-govern-
ment until it is in a position to defend itself from
all real risks.
»
N.S.W. State Parliament once sat into
Sunday morning. In 1886, in the Premiership of
Jennings, the 5 per cent. Customs Duties Bill was
stonewalled by the Foreign-traders from Thursday
until 33 minutes after midnight on Sunday morn-
ing.
Australia, whose exclusion laws are rep-
resented as something beyond the average in
savagery, is one of the few countries m the world
which allow commercial travellers free entry.
Canada and the S’ African colonies both charge a
heavy import duty on the bagman, even if he is a
British bag-gentleman.


m
f
n
m
I
N
ill
/
■
w
M
M If
m
'
sWf *
■ • *
.
•# d. ♦
# ♦ .
; # # : # V'. *
■*?*» . ... ..,♦ ■
\
..- #• ■ «*. 9 \ »
' ' 'a* '
■'*. ' #
# -r
lk»yJ,Vfsto!\
“ I hope, John, you have made some good
resolutions for the New Year?”
” I have —to stick to
“YANKEE DOODLE.”


uijj/iwi/'iiiiijiimrrrff/inTifitiii
i I'i 1 !.,! ?i wnTii/ mtfrfTiiri
lull ntnn
11 • *' m
m
M
11l
'MA
IliS
IISI
w
PSS
HiiiiinmiiiUiiJ
I imiim
m
hi uiiw
0
7
11 iTilM idlJ ilitiirm 11 ini i fr’ii pm
n
§
%
&
&
a
u
it?
-iiifn-iiii l,l ii' , l H li 11ll 11ll 11l l lli i> ll l i l! l;i i i! lii 1 ii' 1,^lli^
AUSTRALIANS!
WHY?
THAT NOTE OF INTERROGATION IS WORRYING YOU.
Because you need a Vacation, and don’t Know
where to spend it.
it’s NEW ZEALAND
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR!
THERE'S NO BETTER. PLACE in which TO MAKE HOLIDAY.
Splendid Climate:
Not Too Hot. Not Too Cold.
JUST RIGHT.
Mag'nificent Scenery
Mountains, LaKes,
Waterfalls.
Intensely Interesting Thermal Acftion.
Boiling Pools, Geysers, Mud Volcanos.
Mineral Water Baths
Hot Swimming Pools.
Massage, Douches.
A Land of Plenty:
Fruit, Flowers, Ferns.
Green Forests Everywhere.
Maori Life :
HaKa and Poi Dances.
Canoeing'.
Easy Access:
Days by Steamer. Comfortable
Hotels; Low Tariffs; Cheap Travel.
Trout Fishing':
Xshe BEST IN THE WORLD,
Deer tStalking
EXCELLENT.
Full Information supplied Free;
Drop a Post Card to
T. E. DONNE,
Government Department of Tourist and Health Resorts, Wellington, New Zealand,
NEW ZEALAND is the Country you want to think about.


1352E2
,
N
1
■ *
1
V.
iff
m 4
"*
505 C
Front
Vi' .'“
OB
K@s
Casting
eaie
Australian
piano Frame
TTHE chief feature of the Beale Australian Pianos is the Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-Plank, which forms a part of the usual cast-iron frame. We cast the frames for our pianos in our own foundry
1 thus obtain complete control of the material, worlooJ
ship and design. The Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-Plank takes the place of the wooden plank used in all imported pianos,
~i *■» “ -I j j -j • , * , i i~~ • r —; — -*•* **“ ****This wooden pl&nk, with a surface area of only souare feet, is drilled
with no less than two hundred and sixteen i-mch holes, into which are hammered steel pms and to these are attached the strings or wires. The total strain on these pins is Twenty Tons and the ninoh oi
the timber is all that there is to hold them and keep the strings at true pitch. They do not hold at concert pitch for any length of time, and tuning tends to rub down the fibres of the wood so that it losai
its pmch and the pins become loose. Hence our invention of an iron wrest-plank. We shall be pleased to send you a booklet, giving full information on the subject, on receipt of your name and
We have Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth, and our Pianos may be obtained for cash or upon easy terms anywhere. Write, or call, for Catalogue and Circulars. auaress.
BEALE &
474 George Street, Sydney
207 King Street, Newtown
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
101 Brisbane Street, Launce **
127 Bundle Street, Adr"
615 Hay Street, P- ***


i nvnoK •• •• £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. wttt^TO
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO. _
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
-t HR-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210. _
Policies issued 98,461- assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,2/^.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Offloe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
** limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under. Agreement Extending to 30th June, .1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. "*’s* ®?.
Capital Paid Up .. • - • • «f,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—J as. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. pat q T ON
General Manager.—W. V. RALoIQIn.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—J AMES BURNS, Esq.
J.P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. •• •• £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . . . . 250,000
Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) } £370,000
Lfjr trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COIVIPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. - •• £9o > ooo 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .• • £17 > 009 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.,
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bri hUCo.) Sir John Sbb, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. JbSsof Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide. Y . N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. .
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt bt., a x *
-THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1579.)
Head Office-HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, HimitetL
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,035,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,085,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
“JeTAmIo. :: ::
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: G-eorge Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £.500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Slilpping.
IST. TD. !>.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, BRISBANE,^NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 20th JANUARY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 17th FEBRUARY.
*PRINZ SIGISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
'49
The Result.
CRAIG &. AIT KEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LIKE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via OAPETOWM
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
19th JANUARY,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEYIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 "
19 0 0 to 30 0 “
25 2 6 to 36 2 o
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and, all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ RB€RP€€ITLTN€i
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE^
•MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
DAMASCUS
T. F. Spalding
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Jan. 12
Noon, Feb. 2
Noon, Feb. 28
London
Cape and Natal
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll6.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
LIKTE.
r> m A tvtto S.S. 00. A-. antl * A **
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS-EVERY THREE . WEEKS.
RM o SONOMA 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, JANUARY 15.
Vm NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN ™A"™°°’ '‘°A’J£'aT BRITAIN
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE <« AMERICA CANADA GREAT BRITAIN.
EUROPE and ROUND THE wuklu.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
RIJRNS PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
BUKINS, Pn PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day— that is less than your hotel expenses
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
SURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridg o Streep SYDNEY^
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —-
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
ss>
BILLS
discouwtel.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed, to Suppress Usury.
3NT-S.-W.
Mont de pete D.sl.Ko.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
* LIMITED. w
Capital Paid-up .. £ i7s 819 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders . 175, iu u
Reserve Fund (Invested in Government Stock) do, QUO u »
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
fien Manager Edwd. 1). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
Ge,, ‘ LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland . Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the H orld.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. ■ • ••
Amoun t of Capital pay able by Shareholder*
1,000,000
500,000
600,000
total Capital
£2,000.000
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
royal mail line.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS-
jan. 22, Feb. 19, March 19.
The Magnificent New Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
Promenade Upper & Main Deck Cabins.
Sea and Fresh Water Baths of
Every Description.
The Finest Vessel yet seen on the
Pacific.
m’ Send for Illustrated Pamphlets l urnished Free.
UNION
STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
A Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size-causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard lush (gives
the definition of your character- very superior
for parlor entertainments), the* Joker s Love Bond
fa good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the M Famous
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the f amous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packetposted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 28. 6a.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £600,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell-
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, AaaitAOT MAMAtBR.
The South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports*
FOK MELBOURNE, >
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
January 5.
”s.S. Gran tala Wednesday,
January 10.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, (
And Ports North to Oairns. I
S.S.lnnaminoka, January 6.
S.S. Yongala, January 17.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Gold/iehis.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
Q. 3. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
tr ASSeil'l Ur JCiiiO OOOlteu l/U nuuimj, ’
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. # BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
ILeaveSydhey.
Steamer
Tns
EASTERN
AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
EASTERN
Commander.
3600 G. H. Powell ..January 10
3000 VV. G. McArthur.. February 7
4500 P. T. Helms .. March 7
3600 G. H. Powell .. April 10
liV 15.1 t V -CON V bNIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Foi handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
ATEWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydnej\ The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be Arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St.j W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality, (
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
Business Anrttmncements.
GILLETTE
SAFETY RAZOR
No Stropping
No Honing
Awarded a Gold Medal
al St. Louis in 1904.
TToney Returned
after 30 Days’
Trial, if not
Satisfactory.
Always Ready, Always Keen. T here is noth-
ing to adjust, nothing to learn : simply shave.
The wonderful feature of this razor is its j
blade. 12 blades (twenty-four sharp edges),
as thin as paper, as hard as flint as todgh
and flexible as whalebone, go with each set.
Each blade is good for from 20 to 40 VELVET
shaves Impossible to cut yourself. Shave
with either hand-in a gale or on horseback.
Duplicate Blades kept in stock. Descriptive Cir-
culars and Prices sem on application.
address— Agency, Gillette Razor Co.,
52 Margaret St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
OR BOX 143 Melbourne ; Box 494 Wellinqton, N.Z.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Feu.


c <?™ s P on( lent up-north swears to the
truth of this yarn. The Government subsidises a
steamer to carry passengers, and mails to, say,
Boobambah. Kflw, the steamer is supposed to
carry two certificated officers, according to Marine
Board regulations; but it doesn’t. There is a
mate ashore who gets a retaining fee of £4 per
month to deposit his certificate with the con-
tractors and “clear” the ship; but instead of
going to sea, having cleared the ship he gets back
to shore and carries on his business there—some-
thing m the mining way, it is alleged. What will
happen to the passengers and mails when the cap-
tain, the one certificated officer aboard, falls sick,
or gets washed overboard, isn’t yet clear. The
drowned however ’ that somebody will be
Kodak ” about the machine that gives
the hfe-like imitation of an excitable sausage
getting fried B
Down h e re( B i-; ff ht ° n , Vic.) the Sunday morning peace
is diluted with long shuddering Yankee howls of “Hon-
l lla dusky da-a-aisy, yew drive me cra-a-azy, indeed
' Th ? records are manufactured from the
, v ° Ice « of angers whose existence emphasises the necessity
for a Comedians Destruction Act. In the absence of any
IdST 6 ’ ° r °," e Prohibiting the use of machinery
calculated to provoke a breach of the peace, there ought
„J. e nt a la w to prevent anyone from spraying his im-
mediate neighborhood with imported nasal yells. If a
T'n h haVe <i hat sort of thing let him crawl into a
tank and have the necessary tune pumped in for his own
ahnnf t H- U f. e A and ,? uietl / v . Curate himself with shrieks
“ins Ho " 7 —or his Dripping. Formerly the motor-
finih was the seasider s greatest trial. As he sput-
ters by, arrayed in goggles, lie looks like the devil on his
way to an urgent case, but he passes quickly and the
fragrance of his machine is soon dissipated by the breeze,
win C !r?' a P h ’ h o' vev er, is a stationary trouble, and we
will piobably have to endure it until someone invents a
machine for bottling politicians’ghosts, so they can be
uncorked and let drift about the lawn at the end of a
Eton Vale Estate,
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND.
T AST SUBDIVISION of this fine Estate
now being’ offered privately at most reason-
able reserves No finer farming land in all
Australia. Close to the large town of Toowoomba,
and right on the railway line. Apply
MANAGER,
Eton Vale Estate Ltd.,
Cambooya, QUEENSLAND,
or, 45 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
y-v"
Si
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
376-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the YVaverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd. is
separately examined by experienced hands
and any found defective are discarded.
H3T- BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIR/VIINGHAn.
r 4
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS,
Cures the sams
diseases in 4.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name |w~
Ml
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
'JIHF Largest and x>esc-Appointed Boarding-house in
tl>e Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Wh
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IIIfIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
” * Kdda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
Buys a
Splendid
MEDICAL
BATTERY
*
A genuine Medical Battery that IS a
battery and not a toy. It w'ill do all that
is claimed for it. It is a cure for ftheu-
mat ism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Nervous Dis-
orders, etc., and is highly recommended
by the medical profession. It can be made
very weak or very strong, as preferred.
Costs little to maintain and is easily
operated.
Price 35/=
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
D
.•
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
**
“MY OPTICIANS,"
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE
SYDNEY.
STREET (facing Royal Hotel)
OSTRICH PLUriES
FROM THE FAMOUS FARMS OF SOUTH AFRICA.
SLACK;, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 16 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
.. 'y® Make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes,
r v. lte vrM? T ,? >os * ia ' Notes or Monev Order payable to
John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 1* yds.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Gornei* of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Street;, MELBOURNE.
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
estimated cost of each house. The largest Architectural Publication in the world. It is our business to m .kc
ttraswwwss
XrrcHe
is. to
©I7IIAGS
IS. 14
P>A£)l°R
TWt
All rooms open into hall
with grille arches between
dining room, parlor and
hall.
gm
m
This Plan can be Reversed to Suit Any Location.
d2>£D VtcoK
K » iO
J*W
%>EI>Wq<W
IS 9
JbtDfy°S4.
14
<®COp/<D
Three comfortable cham-
bers, 2nd floor.
bui](Hn/a l ?imn V p e t0 \\Wr lS fr> to Se " d 2S k f °, r V?. ok , “Modern Homes,” which contains all information about
Chu /hes S rp: b^ k ’. .^ bllC Bui dw.SS ) ” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
desbmqln ?S Ce and P, ? blic Buildings of all kinds and descriptions, ft also contains a series of
and most nwpsiJ?fi C «f d . dwel J ln p> posting- above £2OOO. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
and most practical designs in business buildings and fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s.
Established
1882.
J. H. D AVER MAN & SON, Architects,
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Pc rter Block.
Subscribe for ART IN ARCHITECTURE,
home furnishings.
a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artistic homes and
J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Publishers.
The SHERMAN RUPTURE CURE!
In a Few Days I shall Leave Sydney!
If you want relief from your rupture—if you want to
be permanently cured, it is important that you should
see me AT ONCE for I shall be some time in the country.
This is your last chance to see me for some months, and
when I return I shall make Sydney or Melbourne my
headquarters.
1 will relieve your Rupture in One Minute
by the Sherman Rupture Cure.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
excepted) - from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to, 5.30 p.m.
JLA.IKA' FLOURS—luesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
12.30 noon.
A W /VI A DTI ]\l Sole Controller for Australasia,
* ~ l ll>|, St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter-st., Sydney.
—As I intend to visit the Main Centres
ot JMew oouth Wales after New Year, early application is necessary.
Afterwards oydney or Melbourne will be selected as headquarters.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
SoldV
by \
all first- N.
class stores \
in Australasia.
No. 8176 A 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S
ANIJIATO6RAPN.
The
Beet
Living-
Picture
Machine
Extant.
*?*
, Large
{Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
I’RIUE LIST GRATIS.
IV. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
BEST*'
razor guard
PI KN who shave with a “ BEST ” RAZOR GUARD
attached to their own blade experience the
delightful sensation of being quickly, safely and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing-, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary razor blade, no
matter what size or shape. Instantly converts your
blade into a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe
to use under any conditions—travelling on a train, or
even in the dark—without fear of cutting yourself.
Makes your razor shave as smooth as velvet, just as
close as desired, in half the time you ordinarily .take.
Absolutely prevents scrapes, even to the most
tender skin. Just as useful to the “ good ” shaver as to
the novice. To try it is to appreciate it. Thousands
now in useT Every one sold makes a friend for life.
Send 2/- and a Guard will be mailed you to any
address in Australasia.
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
opp. G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
For Sunburn
or Sore Byes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
>old by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
THE CURE
.OF..
DEAFNESS.
'T'HERE are lots of “ LIE-
* CURES ” for Deafness
on the market. Lots of
“CURES” in which the
word Electricity is used merely as an Instrument for
•Juggling with the Truth. And .vet the fact remains
that DEAFA ESS CAN BE CURED. The new century
has witnessed the perfection of the MASSACON for
the Cure of Deafness and the ACOUSTICON as an
Artificial Aid to Hearing-. The MASSACON CURES
DEAFNESS by restoring the little bones of the ear to
their Normal Vigor. Because of this, the Scientists
at the St. Louis Exhibition, after Exhaustive Tests,
awarded these instruments THE ONLY GOLD
MEDAL. VVe want YOU to test these machines too
—to Test Them Before You Purchase. We offer
you a FAIR TRIAL, a full opportunity of testing the
instruments. We will place before you PROOFS OF
CURES that cannot fail to convince you. Write for
BOOKLET A to-day—NOW—while you have the
matter in mind.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
POLICY for tAk COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.\ Posted, 8d


' The following advertisement appeared m
an would be most grate-
L f d’toYadV (Voung, medium size) who would give
hi left off clothes to help her maintain social posi-
tion ; references. Address - „
The awful struggle to “maintain social position.
“ Mulgarian”: Let me ask in all reverence
-Is thecferical section of the Cold-Water party
acting in the best interests of the Church by its
strenuous efforts to restrict the liquor trade > I
£ not Afc first si s ht thls T ould
heterodox even to the verge of blasphemy, but the
standpoint from which I regard the question is
less a moral than a fiscal one, there being, in my
opinion, a co-relation between the offertory bag
and the hotel-till. In other words the value of
offerings is regulated by the price of drinks. I
support whereof : .
m On the W.A. goldfields drinks were a shilling. Then
no one put less than that sum in the plate ; but the in-
stallation of sixpenny beers was a blow to the foundations
of the local tabernacle, from which it has never recovered.
(2) When the little town wherein I live was first
founded, we had to part 2s. for our nips. A visiting
evangelist who arrived then got a half-crown gate, and
went away insensible from surprise. . ,
Cl) Sydney was the pioneer of the threepenny drink
movement. The Wail of the Thrum was heard in the
land earlier there than elsewhere in Australia.
14) In England it is possible to obtain even a ha porth
of liquor ; and the falling of the halfpenny in the plate
drowns the voice of true religion.
An “ offering ”is not an entity. Like the Chinese
tael, 'it is simply a hypothetical amount, but it
varies, not with the rate of exchange, but with the
price of beer. Should it be possible in the future
to obtain a “’arf o’ 4-’arf ” in Australia as in
England, the diaconal dirge will be sung, not on
the recurrence, but oh the absence, of the despised
thri’penny. In a conventicle I (very) occasionally
attend, there are some apparently-prosperous
persons to whom the saucer is never proffered ;
they prefer to compound by quarterly payments.
These individuals never frequent bars but get in
their drink wholesale and keep it in the cellar.
They pay their liquor bills quarterly, so they also
pay quarterly to the church. Thus does the co-
relation of the Drink and the Plate again assert
itself.
FALLSHAW BROS
191-5 Queen St., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AN 1 ) RETAIL.
Make Every Description of
INVALID CHAIRS,
BARBERS’ CHAIRS and
MIRRORS.
BILLIARD DINING
TABLES, Bft., £2l.
BILLIARD TABLES, Pull Size, £7O Complete.
Furniture of Every Description.
WALLABY CARS, 275 . 6d.
Be- ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
Peter’s
Original
]Hilk
Ghoeolate
“Oil! So good for
Little Mary.”
'44
r THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain. Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book,
“Rupture, its history a cure”
FREE TO ALL.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
l2 9 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE- j
WILL ANDRADE... BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic .Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 3s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfaddkn’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man llis Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
I
.1!
--
&
v,v>
ur/
n
Confessions ok a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. a
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to tiie .Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20tn
Century edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Bong Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s od.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingkrsoll’s Works, 9d. lRf SH
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strkl Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of DUBh-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is -a.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2— Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7— Advanced
Literature.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
The most complete work ever published. 1905 Edition Fully niustrated. with breeding
training, W Its ,nf rmation, but offeree# for 10/6.
breaking
them and
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
jYol Q 99,993 -
lm Bank of Prosperity, Limited
• c9/-ote
ts>o-- O-j- 00 ‘
7j’ freavev
p‘
46-/O-0
/
o
YOUR
CHEQUE
FOR
£46-10-0
Will make the first payment on a 36 m. x 60 in. “Niagara
II” Thresher.
The Thresher can easily be make to earn the balance of its
payments before they fnll due .
The “Niagara II” will thresh 2000 bushels per day, which
is nearly double a usual day’s work, making it an
exceptional money maker for threshermen.
It makes a good sample and wastes surprisingly little riain.
We can refer yon to plenty of satisfied users.
SPECIAL
We shall have a shipment of Threshers arriving
thirty days later than ordered. We don t jvanr
To store and insure these for twelve months. They
for delivery January 10th , and we offer SPECIAL IMJULtiMtiiVi
to those who will accept delivery on that date.
Send for catalogue now, and get one of these Threshers
in time for coming season.
agents throughout
AUSTRALASIA
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Launceston, and Christcb.
2061
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
|mh
UJ
O
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Ages. . • .
The “Allenburys" DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “AHenburys” DIET Is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
’ . full paeticula.es on application to
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.


<s
2)
5K
JU
r
Of the Skin and Scalp Speedily
Cured by Baths with
Soap to cleanse the skin of crusts
and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle, gentle applications of Cutb
cura Ointment to instantly allay
itching, irritation, and inflammation,
and soothe and heal, and mild doses
of Cuticura Pills to cool and cleanse
the blood. A single set is often
sufficient to cure.
Soap, Ointment, and Pill, are sold throughout
the world. Depots: I.ondon, 27 Charterhouse Sq.: Paris,
fi Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
. A -> P°, t ‘? r & Chem. Corp., Sole Prop*.
U6T Mailed free, “ The Great Humour Cure.”
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP *
Good soap
Pure soap
—All soap
No woman
ever quarrel-
led with her-
self for trying
good Sunlight
Soap, for Sun-
light Soap is
really good
and contains
no irritants.
309
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
\-ou will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand for scouring metal and woodwork.
i •li&T.kT.
te^
mmmm
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Oorrespond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS. *
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth!
Of course you have System
invouroftice BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue!'
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
m
The “fleo flajah”Gold flame Bpooehes
Gold Cased, Good Pins.
Any name up to 12 Letters to order—Dinna For-
?et, Mizpah, Forget-me-not, Regard, BABY,
)arling, Mother, Good Luck, Pet, 1.0. R.,
C.E., 1.0.G.T., etc. Price only 1/6 each, or
4 names, 5/-. Post free any>here. Send
Postal Note to STAR NOVELTY CO.
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Smart Girl says the D. C. L. Degree Is all right,
is far better for the man who wants a clear brain
But D.C.L. Whisky
and a sound heart.
OLDiSMOBILE.
m
Oldsmolu!? Standard 7 h.p. Runabout.
Tlio Oldsmobile is America’s most successful motor car.
It is so strongly and perfectly built, so durable and reliable, that it
has successfully accomplished a 3000 mile endurance run in England, a
30 days’ continuous trial trip on the continent and a 3500 mile race across
the United States of America.
It is especially adapted for use in this country because of its con-
struction, economy of operation, mechanical simplicity (repairs cost
practically nothing with intelligent handling) and its ample power.
The Oldsmobile Standard Runabout is really worth twice what it
costs—and is sold at a remarkably low price, because we know how to
produce the highest automobile efficiency at a minimum cost.
Investigate the merits and save money by owning an Oldsmobile.
Free Catalogue showing an Oldsmobile line of Runabouts, Touring
Cars, Delivery Cars, and Railroad Inspection Cars.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Agents: SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
m
Selection
from oil
Qmr.
Jndu
M Win PIT ■ ANY DISC I
* Talking
•" Machine
NICOLE
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
¥
The Colonial,
The New Standard,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE
on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT.
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Some humorous misdeeds are charged to the
account of a sanctimonious Melbourne trader, who lately
cleared out and is understood to be now lying low in San
Francisco. The absconder in question started his down-
ward career by taking over the business of a general
importer and taking in a partner with the insufficient
capital of £9OO. The guileless partner seemingly dropped
out of the firm when his working capital was exhausted,
and then the wily Christian gentleman began operations
on his own. Before trying his hand at forgery and
other old-fashioned indiscretions, he played some
new and amusing tricks on a money-lender—of all
people ! For instance, he ordered a box of camphor
from another importer, giving instructions for the goods
to be delivered late in the day. When the goods came
to hand per carrier, the good man professed to be so
full of business that he could hardly find time to sign
for them, and early next morning he rang up the car-
ner, wanting to know why he had brought a box of
camphor round to the office instead of taking it to the
free store. The apologetic carrier rectified the mistake
by calling for the box and carting it to the free
store, where it was accepted as being just off
the ship. Then did the tricky schemer invite
a money-lender to come along with him to the free
store and advance £3O on the security of that case of
newly-imported camphor which was subsequently found
to be full of sawdust, the change having been worked
what time the case was lying at the office. An advance
of £l2O was obtained from the same money-lender on a
case of zithers that were possibly concealed within the
package when the transaction took place, but were cer-
tainly not there when the victim foreclosed on his
‘security.” In pawning his zithers the merchant
referred casually to his high moral standing as
a principal member of the Wesleyan church in his
suburb, and even that didn’t scare his dupe. But
the saddest part of the story relates to a second box of
“camphor” which was pawned for another £3O. The
goods in this instance proved to be bottles of patent
medicine, and the boss of the free store consented to buy
them from the mortgagee for £l7, in consideration of the
circumstances of the case. A wholesale firm of druggists
gave the free-storer a profit of £43 on his deal, and the
moneylender, hearing of this, went forth like St. Peter of
old and wept copiously. Also, he took out a warrant for
the arrest of the missing Wesleyan, but seeing that he
couldn’t get it executed without paying the necessary
police expenses, he has decided to lose his vengeance in
preference to losing some more money.
* * * *
“Robert Brothers”: The Yorkshire Post
waxes awfully indignant because an expert inveighed
against Yorkshire’s shoddy before the Tariff Commission
in Australia, and it pointed the finger of scorn at the
Commission for accepting such evidence. The indigna-
tion, however, finds no expression outside the office of
the Post. Yorkshire weavers do not try to get away
from the imputation, in fact they are rather proud of
their shoddy, which is difficult' to detect from good
tweed. There is no secret about the matter. It is made
and sold as shoddy to suit the pockets of the poor. The
fact that it is sold as good tweed in Australia is the
importer’s lie. Old clothes are put through a devil and
then soaked in acids to destroy the cotton. The product
goes through the mill and comes out looking as good as
tweed. But it is easy to detect by unravelling the staple,
which will be found in short shreds, while good tweed is
always long in the wool. Shoddy suits are sold in Eng-
land at 255., while you cannot get a good tweed suit
under 70s. Yorkshire people in the weaving business
have a,sked me how it is we send wool to England to be
made into tweeds and blankets for our own use. They
think it is a good joke, and generally consider we are
awfully “slow.” “You have the finest wool in the
world in Australia,” said one spinner to me. West of
England tweeds are not very well thought of in York-
shire. “ There was never anything lived so long on a
name,* a weaver told me.
* ■* * #
Australia now pays any prices the Standard Oil
Trust chooses to fix for its kerosene. Besides being used
for illuminating purposes, much oil is now required for
motive power, and more would be used were the price
reasonable. Australia could, by an adjustment of the
tariff, make itself independent of kerosene. For both
illuminating and motive power purposes spirits answer
admirably. The spirits give off no noxious fumes and no
smoke. The clear, colorless flame, giving no light but
much heat, can be rendered light-producing by causing it
to raise to a white heat a mantle such as is now used in
the burning of gas. For motive power, both for fixed
engines and motors, it has the advantage that there is no
deposit of carbon to interfere with the electric ignition
and no trail of suffocating stench lies in the wake of the
car. When spirits are in general use, the motor-car
driver will be able to pick up a fresh supply of fuel at any
town, in place of, as now, having to send his supplies
ahead. Spirits can be distilled from almost anything
that grows. Potatoes and grain of all kinds would be a
constant source of supply. In place of allowing potatoes
tq rot in the ground when prices are low, they could be
converted locally into spirits which would keep for all
time, and thus the prevention of a glutted market would
do much to make potato-growing and the like a certain
and profitable industry in place of the risky speculation
it is at present.
* * * *«■
Copy of a letter received by a country' bank
manager frbm one of his way-back customers, a postal
official:—
“ Sir, lam offishely informed by memo from Mr.
-—DP MG- that my salary has been risen to £ll4 pr
Annum, on the Ist of lust July, but I see by the Depart-
mental payments in Pass Book that there is A concider-
erble amt of my Pay still keept back-but I suppose at
the end of the Fmivancial year the back pay will be all
paid in. May t al--o trouble you to ask the gentleman
who writes up my Pass Bpok to please mak the intervs A
little more legable as I fiend it rather difficult to mak
some of the -nterys put. lam Dr Sir Yours &c &c
TO-MORROW WE DIE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is some land-, only youngsters now play in it;
It will grow \Vheat—let the kids go to hell.
Crop it as io'rtg as the virtue will stay in it;
WheS,t may go up yet, you never can tell.
Let’s have a dig at it,
Come on, let’s jig at it,
Make our cheques big at it,
Leave no heart in it. To-morrow we die.
There is some ground with a little fine gold iri it,
W orn-out old fossickers make a few bob.
Let’s float a company—when the scrip’s sold ih it
P’rhaps the old battlers will still get a job.
Let’s have our cuts of it,
tick Out the huts of it,
tear out the guts of it;
fteave it and rob it. To-morrow We diie.
there ih the forest the saplings are straight enough,
they wOvild make logs if we left ’erh to grow.
Cut ’em tot (firewood, gap >jj make weight enough,
turns aWay quick ? Well, the people don’t know.
Let’s have a slash at it,
All have a bash at it,
Make a great splash at it,
Hew it and hack it. To-morrow we die.
There are the kiddies, why should they not work a bit ?
We have to work though we’re getting old men.
Keep them well to it, and don’t let them shirk a bit,
Chickens can scratch as well as a hen.
Don’t let ’em sing at it,
Make their hoes ring at it,
Till their brains swing at it,
Bend ’em or break ’em. To-morrow we die.
There is Bull Cohen, he’s got some money left,
Come, let us borrow it whilst still we may.
Who gets the nest will find there’s no honey left;
What will it matter to us turned to clay ?
Let’s have a go for it,
Blather and blow for it,
Give an 1.0. for it.
Get it and spend it. To-morrow we die.
VIC *
JEACH.


SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATIONS TO GENTLEMAN
w " # ?miiF<STS FOR
SEND YOUR ORDERS and REQUESTS FOR
CATALOGUES DIRECT TO
'ament
Beauty and appropriateness of design,
combined with excellence of workman-
ship and intrinsic value of the Goods
we sell, have contributed to the reputa-
tion for superiority enjoyed by
Stewart Dawson <& Co.
If you want to buy an article for pre-
sentation to a Man we can meet your
wishes with as fine a Stock of Suitable
Things as could be found anywhere,
and better by far than what you can
see in the majority of shops.
Plain Solid 9ct. Gold Match Boxes,
the new flat shape,
Plain Sovereign Purse, holds 10 sovereigns.
15cfc. Gold, £lO ; 18ct. Gold, £l5.
Combination Solid Silver Match Box and
Cisrarette Tube Holder, with G >ld Mount! d
Tube, £2 2s.
Out Glass and
Solid Silver Whisky
Decanter, £2 15s.
Oct. Gold Cigarette Case, £ll 10s.
Solid Silver, 27s 6d, 355, 40s.
All Solid Silver Spirit Flasks, each
in a Morocco Case, 635, 755, 90s.
Amber and Gold Mounted Cigar 11older®,
in Leather Case, 14s 6d, 22s Cd.
Cigarette ditto, 12s 6d.
'Silver-Mounted Shaving Tidy, 17* 6d
Case of 1 Finest Ivory Brash and Comb, £3 ss.
2 large size, with Comb, in case, £7 7s.
Silver-Mounted Shaving
Tidy, 6s 6d.
In Crocodile Leather, 12/6
Solid 9c t. Gold Cigar
Case, £2O.
Solid Silver Shaving Mug, £5.
Brush to Match, 12s 6d.
Plain Photo Cigarette Case,
Solid Silver, £2 17s 6d.
Combination Match Box and Sovereign
Purse, 15ct. Gold, £9 10s ; 18ct., £l5 10s
n
WHERE’ER
YOU
BE
(a
#
%
<s
*
!Ct
(fe.
A.
«
**
68®
&
**
4
&
-V
5%
&
«*
Sfe
%
%
%
%
%
<t
«&*£?
4*
Cfc
%
%
'4l
%
. V RGIU
m
%
%
%»
r»
fit.
rpO any part or address of the thTskk°and e sufferin|. No charge is made
physical salvation to the afflicted, of lie, « PJ, n„n Why not send for it? Just mention
SS“d r o P „T^ f « the booh will be sent at once.
This book is given away by •.TilVlf
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
1 iif Tf n crood New Year’s Gift. This work is published
and it is no sham. Lend it when you have read . Australia The Institute is the home for sick
by the Specialists who have one of the greatest pvactioos all forms of Delicate and Serious Diseases.
S m. write Mi. " "cot “ley have a Vdi'cul Stall of Four Legally Qualifled Physicians.
REASONS WHY.
1. -Because our practice extends throughout
A we cure more men than any other
as Genito-Urinar.v Diseases, which afflict that im-
dis ffl ses are
“ a V ny Conuner-
ciatlankinT Institution in Sydney for public
reference. au ge knQw the Diseases of Men like a
boy knows his alphabet.
7.— Because it is knowledge and experience,
that has assured us world-wide reputation and
SU B.'—Because we have FOUR Regally Qualified
Physicians and Surgeons, and registered by Aus-
tralasian Medical Boards at our Institutes, thus
giving 1 patients the benefit of combined Medical
01 9.— Because our books are the medium of
genuine instruction to all who possess them
B 10.— Because our Department for ''°h} en
Children is supervised by a Qualified Lady
Specialiste, registered by Medical Boards of New
South Wales, Victoria, New Zealand and America,
an authority upon women’s ailments.
Here are TEN G
To sensible men our
'OOD REASONS why we address you, through the medium ot this advertisement,
'argument will appeal, for they should always he cognisant of their personal welfare.
Young, Middle-aged and O.dMen, what arc your know
of your health, t 0 thousands. We have thousands at present upon our books treated
'"We receive grateful letters dad,.
We make a Organs of Man-Bladder and Kidneys.
Urinary tract, .mb■ f „J, t „„ . tack t „„ dement by .nr tctimnnlc.
SSaSiSSf “ Sprorin, w. o«r. men to stay enrer,
lant uapita*. * J _ ~ . _
j Woiiaop T have been under your treatment for the cure oi a
Messrs. Freeman and Wa , nebilitv lam entirely cured. Your skill cannot re-
General Weakened condition a • VIDIjER, Crookwell, N.S.W., October 12, *O5. •
ceive too great an advertisement.
ceive too greau A man now itrong and sturdy. Reader, What Ail, You? Our
Wallace, is registered by Australian, English, and American Medical Board,
We have a Splendid Service
. . of • •
Electro-Static
... AND ...
X-Ray Instruments.
These have been recently Installed
by the Director of the Institute, as
the result of his late tour of England
and America. They are the finest
instruments of their kind introduced
into Australian Medical spheres.
• * • * »
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
LA GRIPPE, ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, TONSILITIS, and all Chest
Troubles, the
««GLOBE NEBULIZER”
is an instrument of wonderful effi-
cacy. It is used in all large
Hospitals and Schools of Science.
» * * • *
If you have a Lung Disease, call on
us and we will alleviate it. We work
wonders with this fine instrument.
Our RADIUM WATER CURE
is the greatest benefit of the 20th century.
There is no discovery of so much important
in the treatment of disease as that
Charged Water. There is no disease from
which a man or woman may suffer but instant
relief is afforded by its use. BnnCT the Cura
fiup Mineral Soringfs to the fireside ot every
family. For Men’s deadly serious Diseases it
has almost instant relief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Meaical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney a»o »t muesut
DR RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., riiysician-in Chic{\
DE. ELIZAr.HTU WHITE, M.D., Dept, of Women/
UOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
D 3 ft -WALLACE tHi&FPHYStCIAN,


This is what the waiter told
“ Kodak
me:—
“Oh, good mornin’ t’ you! Well? Bizee ! Bizee’s
noname ! I tell you wat—ze race-time’s wat you call ze
damawful. I hate ze paint vimmen an’ ze beeg fat ten-to-
one s. Wat you say? Zat’n it—ze bookamaker chap. I
just as soon cook for dam-zoo as him. Wat t Ees, zoo—
you know ze lion show ! Ha, ha ! You laugh—like me—
Imtno damjoke all ze same. I tell you zis restauran
hnvmze hes cook in Melb’ne. He is proud man- verb
pronuof iss cookin ; he tells me—two times each day — tf
am ze hes cook in ze worl’—but for ze dam-booze ! ’ an’ hi
cry into ze soup—tvvo times each day. Ze beeg, fat tene
to-ones zey drive him near silly. But he ver’ sargastic
man, ze cook. I tell you! Ven I come firs’, I un’sfcan’
not one thing but O hell ! ’ —wat I learn on ze ship—an’
Shoo tup . an Dammayou ! ’ an’ ze names.of ze dishes.
One day ze cook sees ze fattest ten-to-one I ever ! He—
ze cook -say to me, wiz ze despaire in heez eye, ‘ Zair he
?? “ e will eat hafaton my bes’ cookin’ like ze dam-lion.
I tell you he is ze pig-eater-see heem ! ’ An’ I not wait
for order, but run wiz all ze pork in ze show where he sit
an grunt. Wat you zink he do ? He pick up ze pork an’
heet me n here—on ze nose ! Wat I dot I not know
much, so I cry to heem, ‘Shutup, dammayou !' an’ run.
Ze religion, you say ? I don' care-I tell you it ees no
religion to knock ze pork on me ! Dash ze pig*-eater ! ”
“ Hassan ” : The piecework system has, at
one time and another, come in for a deal of well-
earned abuse. It is curious to find in the byways
of entomology, a brick to heave at it. Some years
ago the British Museum employed a person to
classify and describe certain sections in its col-
lection of insects. Instead of paying him a regu-
lar screw, as they should have done, the authori-
ties gave him a matter of half-a-crown or so for a
classification and a pound for a description.
Ihe result was obvious. He was perhaps poor,
and was certainly not conspicuously honest.
Wherefore he, upon the slightest opportunity,
classified the same insect three or four different
ways, thus receiving enough out of the extra
enumeration of the beast to get an extra drink or
so, and to buy himself a new pair of boots. And
now the entomologists curse him loudly and upset
and correct his classifications wholesale. Which
upsettings may at any time be discovered by the
curious in a frivolous and ephemeral publication
labelled, “ Proceedings of the Lin mean Society.”
Lil : I wasn’t feeling too well the morn-
ing after a joyous outing, but I brightened when a
pamphlet entitled “How to Have a Perfect
Bust ” was poked under the door. To my disgust
it did not tell of a new kind of tipple with no
unpleasant after-effects, but merely advertised
the method of making the front elevation of
woman look more globular than it was intended
to be.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
a
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minids of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION 1 GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNbigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tric ks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldbeads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Xs
post. How to Yami> on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s (id.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Xs ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Xs 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s Od. On Our
New Selection* 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is Od.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self,Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. gm~ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Tricks wrra Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid’
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter VVriter, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry
Is 2d Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.’
Tokology, 7s (id post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 .latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, 2s (id: Tiie Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ijlus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa»-es cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is Cd posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide’
5s Cd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood’
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3’d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies,; 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. .New Tricks
with Coins, is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
<§/■' A)*
* # J'
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy lor Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition ot ill health
known as ‘‘run-down ” <r “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find* Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speveiest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago. Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lun«
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness"!
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
V #
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
CHOCOLATES .-a
SWEETfIEATS
Made on the
Premises
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
This
Trade
Mark
X
57
°0
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
SoLn Agents in N.S. W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
IjJLafilai
Sufferers from Deafness or Hei.„ '•oises
fhn'.fm*? a .s°“ I Plote and permanent cure
should write to The L. It VERNON i n
>0 HUNTER ST., .SYDNEY, for pa °1
phlet describing an entirely
apphed method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper. P
Himself Cured.
DEAR SIR,— I have been cured of Weakness and
ktelm'ty hy a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
u this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHIJRST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
u . PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES
'-fohilit.v, and their serious consequences. ' A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN ACCNCY, Castlereagh St.,
1 '■ SYiDirsriE^r-
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your nam •
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade EI.ECfoIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
i ess, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule u)iIS glue Free
to each per
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Superior
to
AH Others -
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.’ -
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ 1
*
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and tha AGED.
BENfiGR’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERiJ,
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


DUNKUNC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
%
rSr/
i M g
F=h
MELBOURNE
Gunmetal Open F ace Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. a,
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
MEMORY.
A COURSE OF
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories ; therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
The Pelman-Foster System
Scientifically trains the natural memory and enables
anyone to remember names, faces, facts, figures, business
details ; to speak without notes, to follow lectures and
conversation.
Ijb is easy.and interesting, and the oldest and youngest
can learn it. No matter what your life work may be,
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM will make you more
successful.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet, “ Memory
and How to Improve It,”
The Secretary, The Pelman School of
Memory Training, Box 402,
G.P.0., Melbourne.
ENGLAND : 4 Bloomsbury St., London W.O. FRANCE :
109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris. SOUTH AFRICA : Lynn
Buildings, Durban. AMERICA : 901 Whitehall Building,
New York. GERMANY : Prannerstr 13, Munich.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAE.
ETTES. Boldly all Chemists.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you wane to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S.
Engf.
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has oared
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL (Washable) -Klch and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
"SAPOLIN ENAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
"SAPOLIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN " FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ’’ ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
TIMKEN
AXLE
REDUCE THE DRAFT OF VEHICLES BY HALF.
With Timken Axles TWO HORSES, CAN DO
THE WORK FORMERLY DONE BY FOUR.
r Qi y Axle guaranteed 2 years (will last lO).
Obtainable from all Coachbuilders.
Wholesale Agents—W. S. FRIEND & CO., York Street, Sydney
&
DO YOU SUFFER FROM
Lost Strength, Debility, Early
Decay, or Varicocele?
They are Quickly and Forever Cured by this
Grand Product of Nature.
Dp. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT.
With Free Attachments fop Weak Mon.
These Attachments carry the current direct
to the weak parts, and Cure all Weakness of Men,
Varicocele, etc. They develop and expand all
weak organs, and stop unnatural loss of power and
vitality. No case of Debility or Failing Vigor can
resist the powerful Electric Belt and Attachments.
Most of the Pains, most of the Weakness of Stomach, Heart, Brain,
and Nerves from which men suffer is due to an early loss of Nature’s
reserve power through mistakes of youth. You need not suffer for this;
you can be cured. The amount of Electricity you have lost you can get
back, and you may be as happy as any man living.
Electricity has a wonderful effect on all pains of the Limbs or Body,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc., quickly curing ailments
of years standing.
• •
READ THIS
• •
DRAKE,
via TENTERFIELD, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in inform-
ing you that your Belt has given great satisfac-
tion. Before I cot it I was very bad with
Sciatica, Rheumatism, and Lame Back, and was
unable to walk, and could not stoop to lace my
boots. I could not lie on my back without
losing the power of my arms and legs, and could
not get sleep for the pain. But since wearing
your Belt I am a different man altogether, and
when people ask me what has made the change
I tell them that the Dr. McLaughlin Electric
Belt did it all.
Thanking you for your kindness and advice,
I am, Yours truly,
E. H. HERTRAMPF.
The McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market-st., Sydney
And at 167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne
90 William Street, Perth
64 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z
William Charles Crawford
Harry Joseph Crawford
CUT OUT
THIS COUPON, FILL IN
NAME & ADDRESS AND
POST
IT TO
US
TO-DAY.
A GRAND HEALTH BOOK
FREE BOOK.
TI7E publish a Grand Illustra-
• * ted Book, showing how
we apply this wonderful
Life-Giver, in all sorts of com-
plaints. It shows how the
wonderful Electric Current is
carried to all parts of the body,
and how our Belt is as good
for women as for men. It also
gives photos and names of
hundreds of cured and grate-
ful patients. If you are ailing
send for it to-day. Do not
delay.
Please send me a Book
as described above.
Name.
Address.
k
FIGS
in 5 and lO pound Boxes
FINEST FRUIT in the
j A truly delightful Thirst Quencher g
MONTSERRAT
l
LIME JUICE.
Insist on the genuine “ Montserrat.”
AVOID CHEAP IMITATIONS. 80LD EVERYWHERE.
t
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id,
Poet Free.
r
L
“ Is superior even to meat and of
inestimable value as a food.”
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
" A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid ii especially dangerous*
©
*
*? O' 9
&
o
«■>
*
V
\
& _«s>
* 4?
9
V
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It ihjures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The d ischarge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Drunkeness Cured,
EUCRASY may be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient without his
knowledge or consent.
Mrs. J. HATTON, who
cured her husband with
Eucrasy, now writes us
that she has also cured a
near and dear relative,
and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women
to save the Drunkard.
Send name and address
to the
EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter St. f Sydney,
and they will send you booklet and particulars
FREE.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
ib and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Wi ite to-day. Address—
R. H. BARRADEN, 39 Pitt St. f Sydney*
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLiS
la the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. Ijd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout «ie Australian Colonies.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
LAUNCESTON CUP, Launceston, Tas., January 31, 1906 ••• ••• ... 50,000 at 5/2 each.
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, February 7 •• ... •« ... 50,000 at 5 2 each.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 3 ... ... ... 100,000 at 10/4 each.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6 ... ... ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A
(Sraphophone
FOK 50/-
including' Nickeled Horn,
Bent Wood Cabinet, new
large Reproducer and
RECORDER for TAKING
RECORDS AT HOME.
AN IDEAL GIFT.
Price tfjrt -ifle
Complete— S'- ■
Records 15s. per Dozen.
PHONOGRAPH USERS ! What are you paying for Records?
Latest Columbia Gold-Moulded
Records for all Phonographs are■
1)3 each *9|
FOR LISTS, and Name op Nearest Auent, send to
Columbia Phonograph Co., 25 Ash St., Sydney.
ALWAYS TRUE
s«g
frrnMn
fTTTiTiiTi'iTniffH'nirnnTiitTiiiiffni
ALCOCKS TABLES
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
„„ : rh r Il . vB ta ' lB “ t,n i ar ? * ma ?. ed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com.
n 0 » r »Irlle al v yinS 1 5 rltat . IO ‘‘ '{* ll‘e throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to‘develop. Consumption has
S" c“"ptee C^e e iree W rWn. 8 " " l>ro,>orly treated " ,<!dici, '' ! - N ° housß sh “ uld be without *“• t » ken the heghming, a dose is generally sufficient!
BEWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
Results. Always keep it in the home for use, It acts like
magic,"
(Rev,) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria,
“I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
•completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
‘ For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I g'ot Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Olonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broad ford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly,”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C, GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Drbmana,
Victoria.
“I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Ooanwpod,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he' has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of anv other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
*' Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken.” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“lean thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to vou.”
ISA'S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
you was
Enoch’s
I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family
p nd w lt MTTTT?£o h ?, f from one t 0 three doses.”—
MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
o»te 1 T ln t l bu V sending for another bottle in
QufrindU KS M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
A“I OU SIMM( n )NS tiS Tp Ure M iS S r nder,ul medicine. ”-
Sydney. MMONS ’ J ‘ P- ’ N °' 7 Renn Y-st., Paddington,
lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure The
me ri * ht off at
“ I , ha , ve * rled lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
I. suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another; often had to "Sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inforrnyou that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me." (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well. ”
Brooklands, Avoca-st.
H. HOOD,
, South Yarra, Melbourne.
Pl eas ® send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
, “kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE-Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size 4s 6d
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE YENDOES, AND BY THE PROPKIETOP ’
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
branch depot-


LIFE.
(BY “VIVA.’)
No living thing, from man to a microbe, can exist unless it is continuously dying. It is not merely
necessary for man to absorb nourishment in order to live ; it is equally necessary that, simultaneously,
some portion of his body, bone, blood, or tissue, must waste away and die. It is essential, also, that'll
balance be preserved in the two processes of replenishing the body and the removal of the waste or
dead material which is constantly accumulating within it. An uneven action of either means disease.
A total suspension of either means death.
Of course everyone knows that an adequate supply of suitable food, pure water and fresh air is
requisite to build up the body, but, unfortunately, most people are not as well aware of the complicated
action of the mechanism with which nature has endowed man for dealing with the used-up, dead and
waste material always being produced within us, and which, unless regularly extracted from the blood
and expelled from the body, must cause disease or death.
Upon the skin, lungs, kidneys and liver rests the main responsibility of removing waste matter
from the system. The skin usually requires little attention beyond regular washing with good soap
and water, and it will, in the form of perspiration, rid the body of a quantity of dead matter? A fit of
coughing or a chocking sensation will speedily call our attention to anything which hinders the lungs
in their work of removing, in the form of carbonic acid, an amount of used-up material equivalent to
eight ounces of pure charcoal every day. The kidneys and liver, on the other hand, are delicate organs,
and it is often not until we begin to suffer from some serious complaint that we become aware that
their action is impeded. Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Neuralgia, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Dis-
orders, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, General Debility, Gravel, Stone, Bladder
I roubles, Depression, Low Temperature, Anaemia, Bright’s Disease, are all caused by disease, or
indifferent action of the kidneys or liver, or both of those organs, permitting the body to retain
urinary and biliary waste poisons which it is their functions to eliminate from the blood and expel in
a natural manner.
It will therefore be seen how important it is that the vigorous health aud activity of the kidneys
and liver should be maintained. A person suffering from one or more of the many complaints men-
tioned should not regard them as diseases, but should adopt the rational course of attacking them at
their true source, by restoring a proper and regular action of the kidneys and liver, when, the cause of
the disorders having been rectified, the waste matter which produces the trouble is removed and
health ensues as a matter of course.
It was the comprehension of this fact which resulted in the discovery of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men—being aware of the difficulty of treating the disorders referred to, and knowing
that they were due to inefficient action of the kidneys or the liver, but being unable in most cases to
accurately diagnose just which organ was at fault—set themselves the task of compounding a medicine
which would act specifically upon the kidneys and liver alike. After long research they succeeded
and introduced the medicine to the world under the name of Warner’s Safe Cure. This was about
thirty years ago, and since then many millions of bottles have been sold, and millions of people have
been saved from pain, suffering and death by taking a course of this invaluable specific for all kidney
and liver diseases and disorders arising therefrom. rg
Pimples
AND SKIN IRRITATION
n
y
oc
“ TJ’OIi several years past,” says
I Jl Mr. H. Rae, of Warrnam-
, bool Road, Camperdown, Vic.,
“at this time of the year, I
have always been troubled with
Pimples, and a nasty skin irri-
tation under my chin, and on
parts of the neck. After shaving,
the irritation was unbearable.
I tried several so-called skin
cures, but could gain no benefit
until I applied Zam-Buk. Three
applications of this wonderful
healing balm was all that was neces-
sary to effect a cure. Its soothing
effect is marvellous. I can with confi-
dence recommend it to sufferers similarly
afflicted.”
NATURE’S OWN
HEALER.
«3
ii?
ZAM-BUK, the GREAT
HEALER, is a SPEEDY CURE for
PILES, ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING SORES,
SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BAROOO, &c. As an EMBRO-
CATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK,
rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSE-
HOLD BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS,
PRICKLY HEAT, FRECKLES, SUNBURN, RASH, and BITES of INSECTS,
ZAM-BUK is INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at Is. 6d., or 3s. 6d.
FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times the quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK CO.,
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
History.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHAOTIC annals feel my breath,
Creative, warm their clay ;
I read from hieroglyphic Death
The text you heed to-day.
In quarry-holes of Greece and Rome
I hammer crystalled creeds,
And archetypal fossils from
The lava-jetted “leads.”
Mine alchemy, retorting with
The flux of neighboring facts,
From leaden matrices of myth
A silver Age extracts.
In wastes whose wayward glimmers miss
The threshold of the eyes.
My spectroscopic synthesis
Bids realms unknown arise.
The walls of Distance I can rase,
The feuds of race o’erset
With prattle of your baby days
In exile spoken yet.
The score of modern glacier
Upon the oldest rocks
I trace, and rifts that reach you here
From ancient earthquake shocks.
From jumbled empires petrified
In common ruin’s heap,
I bring the crystal’s facet-side
Of each from aeons’ sleep.
I lure with sunlit guess and hint
From crannied time and place,
The negatives through which I print
The Genesis of race.
My Clian breezes playing by
Wrecked arch and monolith,
HColian oracles supply
That ravel tale and myth.
Elusive salts of rumor press,
I average with tact ;
With litmus ordeal I assess
Their bias and their fact.
I rummage plays and chapbooks for
The manners of a time,
And on its darker shadows pore
In chronicles of crime.
In every theologic shard
(My microscopes declare)
Wherever graved, however marred,
The Hand of God is there.
I yoke the Thalian arts to use ;
From climate argue worth ;
From blemish on the sun deduce
A period of dearth ;
From all your Time-barque’s mystic crew
Their poignancies I draw :
Of all their functions glean for you
The biologic law :
How wind-blown raiders silent grow
To rich prey’s shapeliness,
(As parasitic fig-trees slow
The palm or gum obsess);
How here in fastness, there in slums,
Survive the races faint;
How ruder age’s strength becomes
A finer’s felon taint;
How Nemesis on tyrannies
Dews her corrosive rust,
Or waits relentless centuries
Until her scales adjust;
How legends winged with love or hate,
From pods obscure uncurled,
Are lifted by the wind of Fate
And planted o’er the world ;
How selfless acts are madmen’s dreams
When on you come their blows ;
How patriots’ astuteness seems
Obliquity in foes;
How prophets on the tower of Truth
With myriad tongues confound;
How, still, ascetic lonely Youth
Sees visions with Mahound ;
How Europe, brand-new truth to win,
’Neath Eastern temples cast,
Discovers new evangels in
The pupae of her past.
At times I wield the drama’s power,
I plunge you in the past;
You see your own young errors tower
O’er ruined cities vast ;
You find in ancient charnel-rooms
Your baby crimes full-grown ;
You hear, perchance, in older dooms
A presage of your own ;
You see the awful vials pour
That rouse you at your feast;
And, trembling, feel your foreheads for
The signet of the Beast;
Till you, at Death’s reproof aghast,
On Virtue lean, and live —
For, lo ! like rainbow o’er the Past
God’s promise : “ I forgive ! ”
Before I speak I send my seers
To chart minute the scene,
The chroniclers of days and years,
Tempestuous, serene:
They fill me from the masses’ dens,
From caves of coteries,
Museums with the specimens
My science classifies;
They scour the jungle, watch the mote,
The sacred landscapes scan,
All sea-paths map, all passions note,
For monographs on man.
To Truth’s perspective lines I drill
Their crude facts’ disarray ;
Empiric wells of night I fill
With principles of day.
I gauge in voltage absolute
Their great events and small;
Regrade, degrade, reconstitute
World-empire, noble, thrall.
Amanuensis, annalist,
Yea, poet and his theme,
Are but the brook and cradle-mist
Of my Gangetic stream ;
They are the birds who daily rove
To save your daily crumbs ;
I move but when the aeons move,
Come as the Pheenix comes.
The cyclic vision, story, song,
They sing, they tell, they see ;
I am the Homer of their throng—
Am Epic History.
VIC.
BERNARD O'DOWD.
A Gulf Funeral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is seldom that a full-blooded white
man starts business as an undertaker in the
Gulf country. Chinese, Manilamen, and
Japs rush to earn a few shillings when one of
their countrymen die. The struggle for a body is
not so severe among the whites. The hearse may
be a handcart, or a hastily-rigged carry-all, and
someone may sound a death-horn or kill a pig.
There is a different noise at every funeral.
In the small, nameless Gulf ports, where the
population changes color every year, and where
the children are squat or lean or Hindu-eyed, a
burial becomes a festival. Two things impress
the newcomer from the South—the thirst and the
rapid funerals.
Tommy Tung, a half-caste Chow-Kanaka,
entered the ghoul business with great fervor.
He marked off and fenced a three-acre block
adjoining a mangrove-skirted inlet, and put up
a notice signifying that black and white men
could be buried cheaply on the shortest time-
allowance.
After Tommy had deposited about 30 Kanakas
and Manilamen under the earth, he began, like
his European brother, to wear crape pants and
sheets round his hat. His ideas of a first-class
funeral often led to unexpected results.
The residents of Chow Flat were kept awake at
night by terrible noises in the creek bend. Some-
one suggested that it was Tommy working over-
time. A white official came to the Flat suddenly,
one day, and closed Tommy’s little burying trust.
He pointed out that the cemetery was a mere
swamp that swarmed with alligators. Tommy
had to spend £lO on fireworks to prevent the
Chows and Manilamen from lynching him. The
fireworks created a friendly diversion, but the
“boys” promised to give him a lift next time he
started an alligator farm in the paddock set apart
for their illustrious dead.
* * • *
O’Keefe’s funeral was the biggest thing that
ever happened up North. It lifted itself from the
ruck of ordinary corpse-shivoos and burst into
whiskified splendor.
O’Keefe during life had been a hard man, a
fjearl-sheller and captain, owner of a small fleet of
uggers, and a tyrant in his way. Such men have
large funerals. His daughters worked like
negresses in his cane-field so that his banking
account might keep level with that of Wong Ling,
the Chinese butcher.
Everybody in the little Gj»lf port attended his
funeral —Kanakas, Malay's, aborigines. The
aborigines stole the tobacco that was placed near
O’Keefe’s head.
O’Keefe was an unprepossessing corpse. Death
sometimes casts a halo around the lifeless figures
of men, but the Man with the Scythe simply hit
O’Keefe as he passed, and called him a bad name.
Two gins walked in from the Gilbert River and
offered to make funeral noises over the body if
someone would give them all the tobacco in sight.
Jim Malone rose and said that the purity of wakes
ought to be observed. He threw out the black-
fellows, and shoo’d the gins into the street.
Ram Sinjh, the storekeeper, apologised for not
coming to the wake. He hinted that his presence
at the white man’s corroboree might interfere
with his caste rights. He forwarded a packet of
tea and some fireworks to O’Keefe’s widow. The
Asiatic mind never gets past fireworks in moments
of grief and tribulation.
A slush lamp and two candles burned at
O’Keefe’s head and feet. There was a penny in
his left hand, and Boko, the aborigine, regarded
it wistfully through the window, and bided his
time.
The undertaker and his assistant, a full-blooded
Malay, took O’Keefe’s measurements. The under-
taker measured the whisky in the big jar, and he
appeared satisfied. Other people measured it
regretfully. The whisky up North runs pretty
deep at some funerals.
At ten that night, the company got to business
with an accordeon and a Chinese fiddle. The air
was full of yells and Polynesian laughter. Chinese
Kate, the wife of Won Ling, danced a mad horn-
pipe with Jim Malone, the sheller. Tommy
Tung measured the whisky again, and passed
from the house. He put his head through the
front window a minute later and said he’d be back
with the coffin in two hours.
Won Ling remonstrated with his wife for
dancing so violently. He complained of Malone
having breathed on her. Malone said that if Won
would step outside he would guarantee another
wake in seven minutes. Won Ling looked
alarmed. Then he offered Malone a pound of tea
and some crackers to let things drop.
M‘Gee, a cousin of Malone, hit a Manila boy
because he wore a hat in the corpse’s presence.
The Manila boy pitched under the truckle bed
violently and the deceased assumed a list to star-
board.
At 3 a.m. the undertaker returned with the
coffin. The funeral started at dawn. Won Ling’s
cart led the procession. The Kanakas followed
on foot, while Chinese Kate and O’Keefe’s widow
brought up the rear.
Half-an-hour later the hearse appeared on a
sand hill ploughing its way to the new cemetery
at the back of the lighthouse. A clergyman had
come over from Port Darwin, and he stood near
the grave as the procession approached.
The Kanakas were first in the cemetery. Won
Ling limped up and complained about the scarcity
of roast pork. The spirit of O’Keefe was uneasy,
he said', but a little hot pig would put things right.
The-hearse was in difficulties in the deep sand.
The funeral party went back and pushed it from
behind. The Malay assistant seized the coffin
with both hands and ran with it to the waiting
clergyman. The face of Malone grew dark at sight
of a thin-legged Asiatic assuming the important
office of bearer. Catching the Malay by the waist-
cloth, he swung him, coffin and all, into the newly
dug grave.
The clergyman regarded the pair severely for a
moment, then scratched his ear. “Gentlemen,”
he began earnestly, “ does that coffin hold an
astral body or six feet of sanctified atmosphere?”
Malone lifted the coffin with one hand and
waved it at the distant undertaker.
“Ye, poisonous ruffian,” he said. “Where is
O’Keefe? Tell me, ye soulless blackguard, the
meanin’ av this?” And Malone shook the coffin
to emphasise its loneliness and the absence of
O’Keefe.
The undertaker eyed the empty coffin dumbly.
Then he smote his assistant twice with a large
piece of uncooked tree. “You dam M’lay fool !
What for you not put Misa O’Keefe in de blitty
coffin. You screw up de blitty lid en see notin’.
You work one week more for me en I go into te
blitty asylum !” The undertaker wrenched off
the lid, swung it like a cricket bat, and pursued
his assistant into the mangroves.
The clergyman coughed uneasily. “ I regret
that such heathenish conduct should be displayed
at the grave-side,” he said sternly. “ The deceased
in life was not a paragon of humility or politeness,
but he deserved a better funeral. 1 ’
“ He did,” sighed McGee.
“Be gob.” Malone shook his head mournfully.
A sudden shout turned all heads from the empty
coffin. At that moment the undertaker appeared
on the crest of the sand hill, bearing O’Keefe in
his arms.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Thus an old battler :—-
It was the first time I was jugged. I was blind para-
lytic drunk, and two Johns picked me up and gently
threw me into a cell. These Johns treat you as a brother
all right. Ten minutes later two other Johns brought in
a mad German and chained him to the wall. My oath,
he did perform until sweet oblivion overtook him, as the
poets would say. A little later some more Johns brought
in another drunk, who fell asleep without a word. In
the morning the third man woke up, and looked round
him in a sort of puzzled way, and asked me what he was
there for. “ Murder,” says I, solemnly. “ And what are
you here for?” says he. “ I’m here as a witness,” says I.
“Yes,” says the German, “and I’m chained here as
another witness.” We got the poor bloke going, and
spun him a yarn full of blood and murder and dead Dagos
until he began feeling at his throat for the rope. Just
then a cobber bailed him out, and he left wondering
why somebody didn’t come and bail the witnesses out.
Anyhow, I had a feed with one-and-a-sprat I found I had
after he left. I think someone must have put it in my
pocket while I was asleep.


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW.
The Way to be Well is to keep the Kidneys Well.
What a lot of backache there is among the women.
. , And little wonder. A womans work and care and worry are enough to break down a much stronger constitution than
is given to most women—or men either for the matter of that.
lhe kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And they let their needs be known, too, very promptly.
Baekacke is the cry for help. The cry of the sick kidneys.
Ihere s that awful dull ache away down low in the back. Then comes sharp pains higher up, pains in the limbs,
headaches, a weary, never-rested feeling; a desire to stay in bed
in the morning—it’s all from the kidneys.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help the kidneys, they
are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s Piils cure
every ill of the kidneys and bladder from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s Disease. Bead the follow-
ing testimony :
Sydney Women Cured.
| BALMAIN. |
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion-street, Balmain,
this city, says:—“Four or five years ago I
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for cold
in the kidneys. I was subject to that trouble
at the time; every cold would fly to the
kidneys. In fact, the pain in the back would
be frightful. It seemed to affect my whole
system. A short course of these pills cured
me. I have had no cold in the kidneys since,
as the pills seemed to fortify these organs
against changes in the weather and such
conditions which bring out that troublesome
ailment. I made a statement to this effect
three years ago. lam pleased to confirm it.
I’ve recommended these pills to many who
suffer with the kidneys.”
| REPFERN.
Mrs. Burgess, 59 Eveleigh-st., Redfern.
this city, says : —I used to suffer with pains
across the small of my back so severely that
I could scarcely get about the house. I was
very run down and in need of a tonic—one
cannot suffer with backache and keep in
good health. One day I complained about
my health to a friend, and she said, 1 Why
don’t you use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills ? ’ She spoke in great praise of this
remedy, how they had cured her. I imme-
diately sent to the chemist for a box of these
pills. lam glad to inform you that the pills
gave me complete relief. They are grand
pills for backache, and should be used by all
who suffer with this trouble.”
Are for Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or
will be posted on receipt of price, by Foster-M'Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mam
Backacfie
Kidney
rrt
r
X 3
fns
f
m
w
“Every Picture Tells
a Story.
The Parlor and the Bar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHERE the hardened drinkers cluster in
the corner of the bar,
Where the Once Had Beens are drink-
ing to the health of Men Who Are,
Wlrnre the man who has the money gets the
of a king,
And the stony-broke is hustled and regarded as a
“thing”—
I can see him sitting nightly ever ready for the
call,
With a pewter pot before him and his back
against the "wall.
I can see him from the parlor—where you pay a
penny more
For the liquor, and you don’t expectorate upon
the floor,
Where a blazing fire is burning when the nights
are bleak and cold,
And a siren sings in chorus to the jingle of the
gold 1
And from dreams of wine-sweet kisses I in fancy
wandered far
As I pondered o’er the difference ’twixt the parlor
and the bar.
Night shall have no dread to-morrow, as you roll
your cigarette.
Dawn will bring no crown of sorrow —you are
flush and out of debt.
“Dark eyes flashing from the sofa, come and clink
your glass with mine.
So! I love you ! and your lips are sweeter than
your ruddy wine.
I will gem these slender fingers that more soft
than snowflakes are.
Hear that laughter ! What’s the matter with the
drunkards in the bar ? ”
These are nights of wanton pleasure. Lift the
chalice high and drink !
Drink and gamble ; think at leisure —if you have
the time to think.
Friends in plenty gather round you ; spend your
money while you may ;
White and tender arms have bound you—soon
she’ll take those arms away.
Drink and revel with the devil ; you will see her
as a star
When across the blinded threshold you have
stumbled to the bar !
Where the hardened drinkers cluster, and the
pewter-pots are deep,
I can see him sitting nightly getting drunk upon
the cheap !
And his ancient hat is battered and his whiskers
wild and grey,
And the old frock-coat upon his back has seen a
better day;
And the way he sometimes glances thro’ the cur-
tained door ajar
Makes me think he knows the difference ’twixt
the parlor and the bar !
TAB.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
A Whirlwind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNDAY at Brulong. All was quiet. Few
of the residents were out of doors, for the
heat was intense. For once the wind was
resting, and the red dust lay undisturbed on the
plains.
At the navvy camp on the. railway job also an
unusual quiet prevailed. The week’s washing was
drying in the sun, and the toilers, in clean flannels
and moles, were lolling in their tents.
Dinan, the working ganger, was lying on the
bunk in his 6xB in a semi-conscious condition,
trying to piece together the doings of the previous
day and night. Friday had been pay-day, and
the intervening time was but a blurr in Dinan’s
memory.
He remembered that he had had a row with
Graham, and had left his boarding-house for a
calico home midst the other workers. That was
clear enough, but what of his month’s pay ? Had
he knocked it all down, or had he been robbed ?
His pockets were empty, anyhow.
Dinan engaged in much bitter self-reproach.
Then he thought some more.
“I paid Mrs. Graham f’r me board,” he said,
“an’ didn’t Oi sock a fiver in th’ behind pocket
av mo best pants ? Av coorse Oi did, an’ put th’
pants under me piller whin Oi come back.”
He felt under his pillow: The pants were there,
folded up, right enough. He felt much relieved.
“It ain’t as bad as I thought, ennyliow,” he told
himself, and went to sleep again.
Out on the plain beyond the township a tiny
cloud of dust had arisen, and now it began to
move rapidly. Gathering strength and increasing
in speed as it came, it caught into its whirling
embrace all things movable that lay in its path.
Through Brulong’s only street it rushed a twirling
mass of dust and debris reaching now many feet
into the air. Doors were closed in haste, and
windows shut down, whilst children and live stock
scudded for shelter. Then the whirlwind gave up
Brulong as a place of no further interest, and
roared away in the direction of the navvy camp.
Dinan’s awakening was a sudden one. He
thought the earth had arisen and assaulted his
massive person. Ere he could think of enough
swear words to express his feelings the ridge-pole
of the tent smote him violently across his intel-
lect. Then he felt his home was leaving him, and
he held on manfully. He was caught up bodily
holding on to his tent, and whirled through space.
All around him was a thick brown darkness, as of
the infernal regions. His nose, eyes, and mouth
were choked with dust. Dinan tried to pray as
he flew. He thought the last trump had sounded,
and that he was being transported to the place of
torment. Around him he could hear many navvy
anathemas, and felt better for the company.
Presently he again struck mother earth with
violence; and then there was light. The whirl-
wind had dropped him and was careering gaily
away towards the Dai'ling. Dinan sat and gazed
after it, speechless. Then a thought struck him,
and he leaped to his feet and gasped, “Me pants ! ”
High up, at the very apex of the whirlwind,
rode a pair of pants, filled out as if enclosing some
ghostly form.
They were Dinan’s. Even at that distance he
recognised them.
“ I’ll have thim or bust,” he vowed.
Hatless and barefooted, he set out in pursuit of
his trousers. The hot earth blistered his feet.
The fierce sun burnt his unprotected scalp, but he
faltered not. Many articles of clothing were
strewn over the plain, having fallen from the
column of whirling dust, and many more kept
falling; but Dinan’s nether garments still fled on-
wards and turned somersaults in the sky, and left
their angered owner far behind!
In the distance could be seen a belt of dead
timber, which stood close to the Government dam.
Towards this struggled Dinan in the track of the
whirlwind, but ere he reached it the dusty dis-
turbance had vanished.
Throwing himself down in the mud at the edge
of the tank, Dinan drank deeply of the dirty
water. The crows up in the dead trees cawed as
if in mockery, and he gazed aloft and cast ve-
hement curses at the birds. As he looked up his
bloodshot eyes discovered something caught high
on the limb of a big box-tree. ’Twas the wreck of
his Sunday trousers. In desperation, he began
throwing sticks and lumps of clay up at the cloth-
ing. All to no purpose ; it was out of range.
Then, in a state bordering on insanity, Dinan
addressed the wide world. His language started
several more whirlwinds going, scared the crows
into flight, knocked a big goanna off a tree into
the water, but still the pants hung tight.
The rumble of wheels checked the flow of lurid
language. Graham of the boarding house, with
one of his boys, had arrived at the dam for water
with two casks in the dray.
“What th’ deuce are y’ doin’ here?” said
Graham. “ Y’ll have t’ give up the beer.”
“ Beer mefut! ” shouted Dinan. “ It’s not that;
’tis th’ whir-rly wind, man.”
“What ! Y’ don’t mean t’ tell me y’ was carried
away be th’ whirlwind. That licks ”
“ No, ye ox, not me, me pants. Luk at ’em oop
th’ tree. Oi’ve chased thim two moiles an’ bad
luck to it, Oi’ll have t’ be after failin’ th’ tree to git
thim.”
“ Y’ gettin’ mighty mean, Dinan,” said Graham.
“ Why, tli’ things ain’t worth th’ trouble of runnin’
after.”
“Me good man, all mo wor-rldly wealth is in
the pocket av thim pants.” Dinan almost wept.
“ Why don’t y’ climb up ? ” said Graham.
“ Is ut a abor-riginal black fellow ye be after
talcin’ me f’r ? C’ud ye cloimb ut, think ye ? ”
“ It’s easy.”
“ Get me thim pants an* o’ill give ye haf a quid.
There y’ are,” said Dinan.
Graham descended from the dray armed with
a tomahawk. Waving off Graham, junior, who
wished to undertake the job, he started the ascent.
Though the tree was high and very hard, Graham
arrived at last. By holding on to a limb above
and walking out on the lower one to the extreme
end he managed to reach and detach the
trousers, which he took between his teeth. Then
he began the return journey. But his luck was
out. With a crack the lower limb broke off,
leaving Graham suspended by his arms in mid-air.
In vain did he try to work his way along by his
hands. He could not manage it.
“Stand fr’m under,” he shouted as loud as he
could, with his mouth full of pants. “I’ll have to
drop.”
“Howld on a minit,” yelled Dinan. “Wait
till Oi giv’ th’ wor-rd.” Graham hung on pa-
tiently.
Running to the horse’s head, Dinan backed th e
cart under the tree. Then seizing the tarpaulin
f ro m off the casks, he secured a corner to each
side of the back of the vehicle. Taking one
corner, he gave the other to young Graham, and
they pulled it tight under the suspended boarding-
house-keeper.
“Now thin, let go,” yelled Dinan. “Whoa;
stand stiddy, ye divil.”
Graham fell .with extreme velocity. As he
struck the tarpaulin the old mare bolted. Dinan
was pulled off his feet, and landed heavily on
top of Graham, with whom he instinctively got
into holts, and they were dragged some distance
across country before they fell off the tarpaulin.
Why didn’t ye luk afore ye jumped, yeyong
idiot?” gasped Dinan. “ Oi’ve a momd to ——
“Lemme up, y’ lunatic, or I’ll murder y,
hissed Graham,
Give me me pants, thin.
Graham wrenched himself free and threw the
cause of all the trouble at the owner,
Oman searched the pockets. His red face we it
wb Jte and he trembled. , ,
Graham, he said huskily, yr a dirthy
</?■ „
~ . . „„
bee l s the fiver that was m me pants
„ How do I know .1 don t believe you ia< a
,er. Ai Ve b ° osed ab Y r P a Y;, ~ ■ , , ,
Ch tell ye I put a fiver in th behind pocket av
I, ‘? P ant ? after Oi sittled wid ye fr me board on
* n day noight, an Oi buttoned th flap. Y ; ve tuk
me down f J Y e miserable, tree-climbin pick-
Pocket. Ye tuk the money out av me pants
"’ h . olle 7 e was U P tbere hangin by y r two hands,
Foire it out, or be th’ powers Oill have ye
ai ™ted.” . , „ ~ n ,
“, You wa nt Y r brains brushed, said Graham.
Yve got th blue devils. Get home.
Dinan danced around in a trenzy, and suddenly
ea P ed * n and capsized Graham,
At that moment young Graham arrived back
} v ! th the dra Y- . f lounshmg his whip he rushed to
his parent s assistance,
, J on lea Y® m Y dad alone > he shouted,
Away wid ye out av me way, foamed Dinan,
“ or Oi’ l . l , drown ye in th’ dam an’ y’r quid man
along wid ye. Taking a, poor wor-rkm malm
down fer th on y fiver he had in th. wor-rld.
, “Yeron’y fiver? Why, y’r ratty. What about
, th five-pun -note y gave mother to mind fer y
last Friday night. .
. F^ hat 1 An chasm a da ™ n whir-rly
w j nd f . r modes mme bare feet. Bad cess to ye,
why didn tye say so before? Sure it s balmy a
mabn do be afte F gettin’ in this cursed country.”
Words seemed to fail him. Hurling his nether
garments from him he strode away,
T , Graham watched him for a moment. “ Well,
d , d ' he muttered.
Then he went down to fill hls water casks,
ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Professor W. E. Addis, of Oxford, Eng-
land, has pretty well boxed the compass in tiie
matter of religions. He was the son of aPresby-
terian minister at Edinburgh. He became a
Roman Catholic priest. Next he was assistant
to Dr. Strong in the latitudinarian Australian
Church, Melbourne. On returning to the Cold
Country in ’92, he joined'the Unitarians, and the
other day he. entered the wide door of the Church
of England. He is still a comparatively young
man, and may expect to hear his threepenny re-
bound in the collection-plate of many more sects
before he dies.


This is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
lady residing at Balmain, N. S. W.y whose portrait
is also given.
‘ £ Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
wouldbecomesoill Iwouldhave
to go into a neighbor’s house'
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
ft
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
Ail Sarsaparillas ore not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DH. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maas., U. 3. A.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Wtphone No, 10hS. CUT ERER,
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all '.'usiness entrusted to him.
Public and g for Banquets and
Private Balls ?“ bla Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Of Various Sizes Supplied.
THE DRINK HABIT
CURED.
BQOB.ES of those who were slaves to
Strong Drink, Drugs, and Tobacco, have
been permanently cured by The London
Institute Treatment. It is the only cure that
has stood the test of time. References given
by well-known gentlemen. Write for booklet
giving full information, sent post free.
H. W. BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Masterton,
New Zealand.
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
kWHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
Dr. .Langston’s Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holism never fails. A few doses produce
a wonderful chan?' The craving for all
intoxicants is desuoyed, the nerves be-
come steady, the appetite for food returns,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
and Cures are effected Quickly, Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dis-
ease, not a Habit, and can be cured.
MOTHERS, SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release them from bondage whether they will
or not. My Cure takes away all desire for
liquor without the patient's knowledge.
My Book "Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address ail Communications to the
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
o - CORO'S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
? u Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
Most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
or four q-'-ntities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Pamphlets 1. >e. Agents—'Perry & Go., 47 Queen
BL, Melbourne ; F. li. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
T?“ e , nu " tn K Cured o i all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Deb u lty ’ Vaneocele, etc., no matter how severe
the (»se may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Reined’-
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address: HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
%
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &C. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Po3t F roe, 13.
The Lite, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney,
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
phowlong standing. Arethesame
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
DOB Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, ]'lash-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of 1 >reath. Cos iveness. Blotches on the Skin, Di-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. &c. THU FIBS'] DOS I'.
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINHTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and ctey will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tne system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—-a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Stren d.boning the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen ed e of appetite, and
arousing with tlie Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physccal Enkhov of the human frame. 'these
are “ faefs” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that BeerJuim’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EH GLAND.
Sold K very where, in Boxes, Is ljd, anti 12s 9d each.
THE BULLETIN BOOK 3 (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughou
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from Thk Bulletin Office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland.—-Editions de luxe of CN THE
HOP (a splendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“his best work,” says The Athenasum),
21s. each ; boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only, 2s. Cd. ; posted 35.) FAIR GIRLS
AND CRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF COLD (cloth,, illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4s. (id. each ;
posted ss. AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses by R. Quinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Mack, H. Church, B. O’Dowd, 4s. Gd. ;
posted ss. THE BULLETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss.
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.), pap.r 2s. 6d. (posted 2s. 9d.).
THE RED PAGAN, bv A. G. Stephens, cloth fjs. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.).
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “Steele Rudd” (bestbooks of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus., 6s. each ; posted, 6s. 6d. — —THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. 6d.; posted
ss. SUCH IS LIFE, a real Austr ilian yarn, by “Tom Collinis,” cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. CASTRO’S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories by A. Barrington, cloth 2s. 6cL ; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Morant’s
life and verses), Is. ; posted Is. 3d. A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Bd.
THE LAST OF SIX, stories by E. Favenc, 6d.; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (three new series in
colours). Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “HOP.” Series IV, BACKBLOCKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, Is. per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
m
7
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i PURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH the
Be Sure they are
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
PM Free.
DR. MARTIN,
M.D., ALB., 0.M., L.R.0.P., L.R.C.S., L.F.P.S.C., &e.
Elizabeth St.,
k'V'i-, ivnr> v
s * XJ-EV E X .
The old-established, Reliable Phy-
sician and Surgeon may be consulted on
All Diseases of
Men and Women
FREE.-W
Age and Experience Important—Avoid Unskilful Pretenders —Both Sexes Consult
Confidently—No Experiments. If you are afflicted and Wish to Recover your Lost
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE FOR
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE.”
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate.
The most interesting, up-to-date and reliable,medical
work published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free to the public. It
is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity, afflicted with long-standing chronic,
nervous, exhausting or painful diseases. No similar booh has ever been published.
FREE
a 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
CONSULT THE AUTHOR. All Correspondence
CONSULT THE


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
Tha.t is, if it has n’t got one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You ’ll get it at . .
Perdriau Rubber Co.“
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CA TALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
I
'T'O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
1 possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons ef either sex who send in the
correct solution of Che following puzzle;—
OXR f'XXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
•The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition beea i*e
we want our Catalogue to get into tke hands of reputa >le
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
»RTHUR PRYME & CO.,
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
<iAimd,
3HA
lAimd,
3H.L
“There is no Better Pump
than
the .
‘KNOWLES
9 99
Every Pump Guaranteed.
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Aeiin’g
Plunger Pumps, Tank or Light Service Pumps
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc -
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
60 CLARENCE ST. ? SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To Buff srers from Gout, Rheum. -it, ism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tho Old /tollable English Romadg.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrh & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of tba World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMMS NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. A Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinglmcstre b Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOtlN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 Greorge Street,
SYnWEY.
&tt£aiS>&ix^z9ae&ai
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
III! 111.
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES ;
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William'St., Perth.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND,
restores eyelashes.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
never fails.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book ■
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT .
)
AN receipt of P. 0.0.
V forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
address in Australia one
Set. KOID-FILLEB
BROOCHES, with any
or M.O. for 5/- we will
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed' the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire.
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King:, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vio.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
allowed on every cycle bought of üb. Your
Money in full refunded without qu' stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted ’sa Vearsiir■ ■■
LATEST
MODELS
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
Or l lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Him
llrakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
tanked and Delivered Free
'.o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delive
Second-Hand Dye lea
all makes, £J £2.10
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
£2.10 to £6
200
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from Bample
machine. Active Agenfts
wanedin each district. Large profits easily Trade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our spec*"/ <-Jf'er , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc., hal f prices.
MEAD GYGLE GO. Dep'. **39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AKC CHICAGO.
Cockle’s Hntibilious Pills
ot hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTIidv • _ _ ..
s A fc wTURY, invaluable to every Mother of a family.
s^v
FEW PEOPLE
know what a wonderfully
a mple and efficient pump
the
PULSOMETER
is, if
correctly
designed.
It will pump anything liquid. Can be slung anywhere*
Only a steam pipe required.
THE PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND,
TVTo Tro-Mn /\-P nwnvi'n TT»VP« a v m
Makers of CENTRIFUGAL, DEANE SINKING, PNEUMATIC and OTHER PTTMPQ
CHITON WATER SOFTEN jB, TORRENT FILTER, REFRIGERATING MACHINERY.
I. CUTHRBDGE Ltd APAnfa
Liu., ngeiUS,
BOND street, SYDNEY ;
collins street, Melbourne.
