

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
WHISKY.
BT G. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Kent . Street, Sydney,
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBAHT.
pdley’s Orient |jotel.
pioneer
LEATHER!
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
TRACTION ENGINES
McLAREN’S Compound Traction
Engines are used throughout
Australasia--
FOE General Haulage, Farm Purposes, and Direct Ploughing.
LARGE STOCKS OF ENGINES and DUPLICATE PARTS HELD IN SYDNEY .
For Full Particulars apply to Sole Agents, GIBSON, BATTLE & CO,, 7 Bent St., SYDNEY,—
Cl
m
llltowE
Take it back,
I must have-
-IUTTON’ S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A qibß, Manager.
Active Age ts andOanvassers Wanted. “WB
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
SYDNEY
E. J. K. MACKENZIE, Manager,
LIMITED,
BENSDORPS
I
k
is the Queen of all Cocoas
foj^
l Aroint,StrengtKt'Purity:
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNHIVALLLED IN QUALITY• PT X3XT BOTTLER
m
k
**
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
••■•O'.".":-
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-Making Machinery.
QP A Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.— N0. 1393.]
[Thursday, October 25, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, -Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST IN
DAIRY SCIENCE.
-A Practical Guide to Successful Dairy Management, by Ch. Peck,
PROFITABLE DAIRYING.
illus., 3s fid, post free 3s 10d.
MODERN METHODS OF TESTING MILK & MILK PRODUCTS -
Mike "’ o, ’ i ' c "' «—»*«
Snyd “' Pro '“ Or A S'”» lto > University „1
DAIRYING IN ALL ITS BR..ANCHEIS, with Special Reference to Australian Conditions
by M. A. O Callaghan, paper covers ss, cloth is 6d, postage extra. ’
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
‘HE NEW BOOK-SHOP.
THE BQOKFELLOW’S.
7 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Write for Australian Beets, Bare Beets, Any Eccki
Agents in Paris and New York.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
gmudson.M
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young.
The Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bactericidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. [3.
The Inky Way.
Robert Sherard, who put in a long; period as Paris cor
respondent for various English and American papers
prints some of his experiences under the heading o
“Twenty Years in Paris." Sherard’s view of the Frene'
press is not attractive. Press blackmail seems to b
fairly common. Towards election-time, some papers se
fall control of their main “ news ” pages to Parliamentary
candidates. One of these journals was Royalist on tli
front page and Republican on the third. The hirer o
the frsnt page, who had been first in the field, pro
ceeded against the publisher, but the Court held tha
defendant was within his rights, and that there was no
reason why a politician should not be put before th
public as an angel and a devil in the same paper
When a French politician is “out” he usually takes t
journalism, and altogether the eagerness of all sorts o
prominent persons to do a bit of journalising tends t
spoil the market for the regular pressman. Even when
Zola had an income of £BOOO a year from his novels, h
did not disdain to contribute articles to the papers. Th
average war correspondent from Paris takes things in
leisurely way, as the editors mostly prefer a well-writtei
account of a battle which is months old to a “ scoop ” ove
the news of a victory. Duringthe recent Jap war, a French
correspondent inTokio calmly notified his chief that he hac
been prevented from sending much news on account o
“ the voluptuous atmosphere of the extreme East, ami th
enervating effects of the climate and other seductions o
Japan—ail so hostile to literary work.” Sherard gives
typical instance of London newspaper meanness. He
received orders to write up in advance four or five
accounts of a great political function about to take place
in Paris, and to send them along marked A, B, C
etc. When the event took place, if the seconc
account proved to the one nearest to the real thing he
was to wire the single letter B, and so with the others
While Sherard was helping a New York daily to denounce
electrocution, ground that it is not instantly
Fatal, a leading French scientist asserted that he had
Frequently electrocuted the same dog ten times, and each
time had brought it back to life by using the methods as
in drowning cases, the asphyxia caused by the electric
shock being similar to that of drowning. ’ He offered in
all earnestness to demonstrate by “ killing ” and reviving
Sherard, pointing out that as consciousness was fully
retained during the shock, it would give him a splendid
opportunity of describing for his paper the agonies under-
gone by the victims of electrocution. When the strenuous
New York editor heard of tfiis he said, in a puzzled tone,
“ Well, why didn’t you tell him to go ahead ? That would
have made a fine story for the paper. It would have
been a scoop, and we’d have paid handsomely.”
* * » *
“ Yarruni ” : Once was hard-up enough to accept a posi-
tion on a cow and big-pitoipkin paper in one of the States.
The boss’s wife told me I was to be sub-editor—boss was
part editor, and she was the other part—and general
reporter ; and thaFt I was to keep accounts, and have an
eye to the old man, who was addicted to tanglefoot. It
was my first venture in journalism ; and to jump straight-
way into a sub-editorship, even on a rag, didn’t seem too
bad. I had visions of the old man breaking 1 his neck
when in beer, and of eventually marrying the journal.
I’d been on the job a week, and hadn’t tried too hard to
keep the old fellow in the straight path, when I was sent
down to the opening of a creamery to get a “ verbatim
report” of the speeches. I was to be especially verbatim
about Mr. Spiffkins, one of the directors, who was a
subscriber to the paper, and had a standing ad. about
“ poison laid for dogs.” MK Spooks, chairman of
directors and mayor of the borough, spoke first.
Then mv man eameou, and I thgnght he would never
stop. Talk about Jawbone Neild! Standing by the
mayor were his three unmarried daughters. In conclu-
sion the dog-poisaner looked around and remarked that
he had been in the country for upwards of fifty years, and
had seen the town grow from a humpy that he himself
had roofed with bark stripped on yonder now bare hill.
“ Why.” said he, “it was then I first made the acquaint-
ance of our worthy chairman of directors, and at that
time the youngest of his daughters, among us to-day, was
only a little toddler as high as my knees.” With that,
he sat down amidst .deafening cheers, and I left to get
the rag out. I found the boss on a terrible tear, and was
informed by him that “ misshus wash at bun-shtruggle.”
Next morning, as I was returning from breakfast to the
office, the female occupant of half the editorial chair met
me down the street, flourishing the latest copy of our
publication. She was gesticulating wildly with her dis-
engaged paw, and wanting to know what despicable
scoundrel in town had bribed me to ruin her little busi-
ness. With a tottering forefinger she pointed to the
portion of the verbatim report reflecting on the mayor’s
daughters, and asked me to accompany her to the office
to be paid off and discharged. It seemed that old Spiff,
who was a widower, had recently proposed to one of the
mayor’s “ young ladies ” ; and, because he was rejected,
he had had his knife into them since. That was why the
scallywag wished to be reported verbatim.
# * * *
“Nym.”: M'Skiter, of the Codville Express, was
going to move to cheaper premises, and so that his
thunder machine would be taken to pieces and re-erected
in time to go to press with his weekly sheet, he—scorning
the local machine-builders—got a man up from the
metrop. The machine was an antiquated and cumbrous
affair, of a kind which the city man had never seen,
though his grandfather had heard of such things. When
the city man had got it to pieces, Mac. put the staff on
to move the parts (duly numbered with chalk) while he
and the stranger went out to irrigate. He didn’t irrigate
the staff, and this injurious differentiation, as Bruce
Smith would call it, aroused ill-feeling. During the
absence of the twain the numbers were tampered with,
so that the component parts of the machine got mixed
up like a Chinese puzzle. It took the city mechanic 10
days (at £1 a day and exes.) to right matters —and then
he only did it with the aid of the local reaper-and : binder
expert.
An Australian scribe in London sends the follow ing
yarn about the papers which pay and the papers
which don't pay:—The owners of Australian dailies
are a luckier lot than the London proprietors
of big- dailies, several of which are losing heavily.
The latest born, the Tribune, the only penny paper run in
the interests of the Liberal party, is still dropping money
—some folk in Fleet-street say the weekly loss runs to
four figures. It was founded by a young millionaire with
political ambitions, and as it is a very excellent production,
should become established if the owner is prepared to go
on wasting his substance in riotous ink for a couple of
years. The Daily News, next door tq the Tribune in
Bouverie-street, is mainly owned by Cadbury, the cocoa-
man. It represents the Puritans of the Cold Country—
a ha’penny paper with a guaranteed circulation of at
least 200,000 —but it doesn’t make ends meet. It is the
organ of the National Liberal Association, and is
violently Cobdenite, although Cadbury has a penny
a pound protection against imported cocoa, and
wouldn’t lose it for anything. Another daily which
doesn’t cover expenses is the Dailt Express, owned
by Pearson, and originally intended to compete
with the Daily Mail, the great Harmsworth production,
price id. But the Mail’s mast dangerous rival is the
Daily Chronicle, the best newspaper in London and a
model for the stodgy Australian dailies when they think
about being stodgy no more. Yet the Chronicle, good as
it is, barely makes both ends meet, though that doesn't
much matter, as it belongs to the same proprietary as
Lloyd’s, which sells over a million a week. The Daily
Mail has a circulation of a million and a quarter, and
pays magnificently, as does the Daily Mirror, also
owned by Harmsworth and Co. The Mirror is
a daily ha’penny illustrated paper, and it sells
about 600,000 copies every 24 hours. It is doubtful
whether the Standard, Conservative, largely controlled
by Pearson, ami price one penny, returns any great
profits. The Morning Post, the blue-blood society daily,
is a good property, while the Daily Telegraph, tiie great
British business man’s organ, is immensely prosperous.
It is the Sydney Morning Herald of the Cold Country,
both on account of the number of its advts., the compre-
hensiveness of its news, and the dull, heavy, and long-
winded manner in which it dishes up the aforesaid news.
The Morning Advertiser is run in theliquor interest, and I
believe it is a remunerative concern. An excellent
ha’penny paper, the most consistently Radical of all the
London papers, is the Morning Leader, which is a fairly
good property. It is owned by the same company as the
Star, the cleverest of the evening papers. Probably one
of the heaviest losers in London is the Pai.l Mall
Gazette, Conservative, price one penny. It is the paper
with the finest literary touch in its writing, and not par-
ticularly “ newsy.” It is owned by Waldorf Astor, who
would rather, so lie says, waste money on a newspaper
than on racehorses. The Globe, another penny Conserva-
tive paper, is the most old-fashioned daily in London, and
would delight the heart of the Argus or the S. A. Register.
But it is not at all bad in getting news, and has its little
army of readers. The Evening Standard, which has
absorbed the St. James’s Gazette, belongs to the Standard,
and is a valuable concern. About the Westminster
Gazette, the penny evening Liberal organ, I don’t know.
I should say that it works its way at least, and doesn’t
lose money. Altogether, there are seven evening
papers, and only three are a ha’penny—they are
the Star, the Evening News, and the Sun, all good
specs. They do well on account of the popular
mania for buying an evening paper every half-hour from
IO.JO a.m. (the first issue of a London evening paper casts
a shadow over the breakfast egg) to 6.30 p.m. for the
sake of the sporting results. There is one morning
paper apart from the exclusively sporting and financial
dailies 1 have forgotten, the Daily Graphic, illustrated,
one penny. It has lately begun to yield a profit, but had
been a loser for some time. Great Snakes ! 1 have for-
gotten the Times, price 3d. Judging bv recent indica-
tions and an impending law-suit, I should say that the
Times is worth owning more for the glory than the
cash. Time, a large percentage of the London
dailies are clearly not as valuable properties as,
say, the Melbourne Age, which brings in about £50,000
annually to David Syme. One reason is that competi-
tion is severer and expenses higher. To maintain a staff
of foreign correspondents is a costly undertaking, and
leading men on the staff in London are paid much better
than in Australia. Compare some Australian salaries—-I
know an editor of a big city paper in Australia who gets
less than £SO(> a rear—with the £3OOO a London editor is
paid. The Daily Mail’s chief sub-editor gets £lOOO a
year, vvhile on another daily, not nearly so important,
the chief sub ’gets £650, with a big prospective rise in
another year.
Here is a conundrum that bhtfled the solving capacity
of a late Darling Point dinner party : “ Why does Janies
F airfax s paper erect a printer’s quarantine fence between
vice-regality and ordinary beer or softgoods nobility in
its personal columns, while in its social columns it herds
all promiscuously ! ” The nearest approach to an accept-
able answer was that the personal columns are conducted
by men, a id the social by women, and that a man who
is a snob is prone to be moreof a snob than a woman who
is a snobbess.
* * * *
“Gilrooney”: What ails Australian literature, a-nd
why isn’t it purchased abundantly ? I think the whole
trouble is due to the lack of business capacity on the part
of the n anufacturers. The world is a huge trading house
where we peddle day by day little hunks of our lives—a
great emporium, where every salesman must lie and
cheat and hustle or go to the wall. And the man
who doesn’t realise this obvious truth is doomed to
get badly “left” by the man who does. It’s time
Australians writers, above all, realised this, and talked
business. I’m talking it now. In the very adjacent
futpre I’ll be publishing a book of verses (the*best verses
ever published, or ever likely to be published in Aus-
tralia). I’m going to advertise my literary wares. If I
don t, whoMl buy them? And, if nobody bins them,
who’ll read them ? And, if nobody reads them, what* was
the use of writing them, I’d like to know? Therefore,
ladies and gentlemen, I am here to sell ; you are here to
buy—so by netting in early you’ll avoid the crush, and
grasp one of the grandest opportunities of your lives. I’ll
advertise the book in every paper in Australia—“ on the
cheap,” like this, when I can—because I know that
judicious advertising pays. lam now letting a contract
calling for 10,000 placards carrying notices like “I’lease
Shut this Gate, and Read Gilrooney’s Verses ” ; “ Keep off
the Grass, and Read, Learn, and Inwardly Digest Gil-
rooney’s Pomes. Absolutely the Purest aiid Best,” and
such like. These placards will be systematically distri-
buted throughout the Commonwealth. And I am
offering a p ize of £lO to the person \\ ho correctly supplies
the missing word in the second last verse of the first
poem nr the book. Every attempt must be accompanied
by the printed coupon which will appear on the right-
hand top corner of the first page; and in the event of
two or more competitors naming the right word, the
prize will be balloted for. As I said before, it will be a
great book—a marvellous book—and a gift at the price !
* * * *
The Australian at home has to suffer from the craze of
his countrymen for imported genius ; but great is his
mana abroad. There is, for example, quite a colony of
Australian journalists in Asia. W. H. Donald, son of a
late member for Lithgow (N.B. W.), who had his journal-
istic experience on the Bathurst National Advocate, is
now editor and managing director of the China Mail
Hongkong. He has with him Lionel Pratt—an old
Sydney Telegraph man and Bulletin contributor—and
three other Australians.
* * * *
The “press of the neighborhood” is vested with new
importance by the provisions of the N.S.VV. Gaming and
Betting Act. The declaration of a common gaming-house
will be notified in the “ press of the neighborhood,” and a
copy of the notification will be served on the owner and
the occupier of the premises. After this publication, anv
person found in the house designated, without lawful
excuse, will be liable to imprisonment for any term up to
six months. Therefore the public will have a new incen-
tive to read the “press of the neighborhood.”
* * * »
The comic column of the Australasian is now run by
Macdonald and McCay. Hoot, mon !
The case-compositor, a victim to Inventive Genius,
touches his cap philosophically, and passes out ot the
modern newspaper office. Even in the smaller to ,
where ruling rates of pay are an existence only, he occa-
sionally strikes the monoline, and even the linotype, i e
case was an educational medium, which the machine is
not. The tvpe-selter, in his steady work, studied his
copy, imbibed the thoughts of the writer, and sorted out
the' arguments. How many men in Australia have
graduated from the case to high posts—the highest
m the State ! As a class, the case-comps, had no equals
among artisans for intelligence, largely the result ot the
training imparted bv their work. The smartest of them
forged their wav upwards as opportunity beckoned, became
editors, politicians, secretaries, reporters, writers, ana
many other things. Some of them even floated big loans
and dreamed of statues of Australia Facing* the la\\n.
The machine is no substitute as a means of expanding the
mind. The operator works more mechanically; the
motor-car speed is too great to enable him to grasp the
thoughts of the writer. The hand-comp., not infre-
quently, pointed out blunders of tbe editor or the
reporter, Ailed in the punctuation properly, and
corrected bad spelling. What does a lino, proof to-day
reveal? Punctuation, even if correct in copy, atrocious ,
spelling bad; word-divisions worse. The machine,
therefore, cannot give to the literary ranks the crop of
recruits characteristic of the case. Besides, the smart
linotvpist earns much more than the average reporter, so
he is not likelv to take risks, even were the chance
offering. In a few years the case comp, will have dis-
appeared from country newspapers also. Monolines are
now gradually supplanting him. The tramp comp, was
an institution worth remembering. Profligate to the
very last shilling, he went from one town to another for a
day or two’s work, left his scanty earnings at the
nearest pub., and then moved along. He always stirred
the country office to excitement when he arrived ; gene-
rally he stirred the town to a violent attack of red paint
before he left. Between sticks he pitched stories to the
boys of his “ swift ” days, of his editorial experiences, of
his adventures on the road, of his debts, drunks, shifts,
expedients and devices. For days after his torn hat had
vanished in the dust-cloud down the road, the men he
left behind tried to equal the records he said he had put
up, hut they never succeeded, .still, their efforts enabled
the edit 'r to get the next issue out early. The linotype
is never likely to develop the picturesque travelling liar,
who hung like a fringe on the old hand industry. There
is no scope for the imagination about it.
* * * 1
“ X.” : Our local reporter says “ the Press was drunk ”
and “ the Ladies was drunk.” I have seen the Press a
bit squiffy, hut not the other item.
* * « #
“ Reka ’’: The popular actress is not the only public
character who insp.res the unknown admirer. The lady
journalist has hers also. Generally he lives in the back-
blocks, and consults her with pen and paper on knotty
points of household management. When he comes to
town, he calls to see her. One such appeared at a city
paper office, lately, and demanded an interview with the
lady editor. As he was beery and sentimental, the lady
was out, and wasn’t likely to be in again at all. So the
admirer sat himself down on the stairway and sang
loudly and continuously, punctuating his song with
appropriate remarks. “ Dear little girl ! I’m not
the man to go home without seeing her ! Not
me! She would be cut up! Dear little pet! ” All
efforts to induce him to disappoint tbe lady were futile ;
he still sang on. Finally, two spare comps, were detailed
to' hasten his departure. They ejected him gradually,
and he sang himself cheerfully into the distance. Then an
angry married lady looked down the stairs and inquired,
“ Has the brute gone ? I suppose it’s safe for me to
venture out now? Dear little pet, indeed 1”
* * » *
“ Mul ” : After a can fnl study of the Argus have come
to the conclusion that nothing ever happens in Melbourne
except—
Mudkins’ Beastly Sunday Afternoons.
Rev. Mr. Jugfull’s Charges
Wren’s Pony Meetings.
Archbishop Clarke.
Bent.
* * * *
“ F.Z.”: Australian pilgrims on the Inky Way in
London meet with better reward, financially, when they
reach the Mecca of Constant Work, than they do in Aus-
tralia. But it doesn’t count for more in the face of the
higher cost of living. One of the greatest mistakes ever
brought from “ down under ” is that you can live cheaply
in London. You can’t. Double the cost of Australian
living in your calculations, and you barely come out on
the right side. Australian pen-people hold their own
with tiie best, onee they get in. But, with the many
avenues for work here, anyone with staying power and
sufficient ability to justify the claim for work has a chance.
Miss Argus Elmes seems to have no difficulty in placing
her work, ditto Mrs. Creed and Ethel Mills. The Spec-
tator’s booming of Abbott with “ How it Strikes an Aus-
tralian ” (since published in book form) was one of the
best starts ever given to a man from this side. Smiler
Hales seems to have staled a bit at journalism, but he
keeps abreast.
* * * *
Died at Dunedin (M.L.), lately, William Fenwick, editor
of the Otago Witness, and brother of George Fenwick,
proprietor of the Otago Daily Times, printed in the same
office. Deceased was a most unobtrusive man, of charm-
ing personality, wflo spent his time in his home and his
office. He never went anywhere else. He joined the
Witness in 78 as printer, and became editor in the fol-
lowing year. One department of the paper in which he
tosk great interest, and which achieved great success,
was the “Little Folks’Page,” that awful and kittenish
product of modern journalism. But, at all events,
Fenwick’s yarns about Toby and his cat, and the new
calf, and the pig’s baby, were not clumsily faked together
in the office. He ran the page as honest, genuine baby-
drivel that was above suspicion, and it boomed the
Witness a good deal. Deceased wasn’t by any means a
brilliant journalist; any man who makes a hobby of
running a page of puppy and kitten talk couldn’t be ;
but he turned out a fairly readable weekly—most of it
reprint, unfortunately.
* « # *
One Sydney paper wrote in a tone of subdued disgust
r« the disinterment of Grohn, the man who was said to
have been fatally bottled in 1902. On Saturday, it asked
the authorities for information, and was simply told to
wait till Monday, and it waited. Apparently, all the
other papers did the same. If'et everybody guessed that
Grohn would be disinterred, and everybody knew
that it must he done promptly. Therefore, the
natural course would have been to tell off relays
of reporters to hide surreptitiously behind the
next tombstone and wait events. That wpuld have been
journalistic enterprise. A paper that, is left behind in a
race with a dead body has only itself to thank. A des-
perately live paper would have bought the bit of vacant
cemetery space nearest to the scene of action, and .
started digging a grave there personally as an excuse for
its presence, rather than be left, if it really wanted to see
that disinterment.
* *. * *
A new weekly, The Sun, was due to rise and shed
light on Brisbane on October 21. Frank Kenna, poet
and politician, will occupy the editorial chair.
* * ■» *
The Cumberland Times, at Parramatta, N.S.W., had a
birthday the other day—its 37th. In the initial nine
months of its career, dramatist Garnet Walsh pushed it
along ; since then John Ferguson has kept its head above
water —“while free, and, when deprived of freedom,
through the villainous law of libel,” to quote his own
words. The Times is a Protectionist organ, and does'
good work in its district.
“ Mallarapoonie ” : I have lately been contemplating
public appreciation, such as obtains on the Outer Edge,
of certain black-and-white artists’ work. Except the
work of such men as O. D. Gibson, B. Partridge, and one
or two cithers, I find very little interest taken in artists,
as men , outside those of The Bulletin. Among the
great bulk of busbmen there exists a familiarity with
Bulletin artists such as can only be born of long
acquaintance with their work. Indeed, the average
bush dweller speaks of Hop, and Vincent, and Lind-
say and Souter, as though they were of them-
selves—men who live and work for Australia, and
outside Australia don’t give a hang who wins the
boat-race—men whom they seem to have known since
boyhood. And as it is with the artists-, so with the
writers of prose and verse. They arc criticised and
summed-up to a point that would probably astound those
gentlemen did they know how much the average Aus-
tralian backblocker thinks he knows about them per-
sonally. It almost constitutes bush-lore to know The
Bulle'iin artists, and anyone who can’t tell a Hop, V in-
cent, Souter, Lindsay, Minns, or McCrae drawing
as far away as it is \ isible, is set down as a raw sort
of new chum, liable to get bushed at any minute.
To admit ignorance of the work of Bulletin artists and
writers is to court the contempt of busbmen, but to pre-
tend familiarity and be bowled out is ruin. F’rinstauee,
recently Bill (no relation to Jim) left this district with the
purpose of taking a trip to Sydney. On his return we had
great difficulty in eliciting an account of his experiences
down by the Lovely Harbor, but on one or two matters
he was frank, not to say emphatic. One of these matters
was his new-found acquaintance with Norman Lindsay,
the Bulletin artist, whom he described as “a blanky
decent sort of cove,” who was “stayin’ at the same
pub.” as Bill, and who was “ something cruel good
on drunks,” besides being many adjective degrees of a
“ booker on the pen.” For a while Bill lived like an aris-
tocrat on the strength of his acquaintance with Norman
Lindsay, and then we found that he. hadn’t passed the
Towers, having “ done in-*’ his cheque in the city of the
poppet-head and the amalgamator. Right there, Bill
fell heavily into social bankruptcy.
But, with all their so-called knowledge, I find there isa
sort of unspoken wish among busbmen to know the lead-
ing writers and artists for The Bulletin even better than
they do ; and I think The Bulletin might do worse than
reproduce a photograph occasionally of the staff and
contributors under (say) the “Inky Way Column.” The
reason why I suggest this measure is the keen interest I
lately saw shown in the reproduced photograph (cut
from Life, I think) of a leading B. artist, pasted on a
cardboard background, and hung in the bar-room of a
well-known western hotel, much frequented by drovers,
miners, and cattle-men. It had this legend printed below:
“ Hop, of The Bulletin,
the man who made Geo. Reid famous, and who is
now engaged digging Reid’s political grave.”
Also, reproduced photos, of V. J. Daley are to be seen pasted
over the length and breadth of Australia. Among other
items required are two photos, of The Bulletin’s editor
(to disperse the impression that it was he who sparred up
to Bent in 8., 23/8/’O6), one depicting his expression in pri-
vate life, the other conveying his official expression about
what time he strenuously wrestles with an unusually
large budget of particularly deadly correspondence.
Also, contributors would give large sums for a life-sized
portrait of the man (if he is a man and not a fiend) who
writes “ Answers to Correspondents.” There is a yearn-
ing desire to meet that person in the flesh—with the big
end of a gum sapling, or an axe, or a pick-handle, or
something.
* * * *
Thus an old Bulletin contributor “ I enclose you a
copy of the Review (England) with an eight-page
article of mine into which I put a lot of special know-
ledge. Will it surprise you to learn that for eight pages
the Review, after deducting agent’s commission,
returns me just 7s. 6d ! I have often satirised the
magnificent Cheap Snips offer of a guinea for a
prize story, as an artful scheme for getting copy
practically gratis, but I am surprised to find
that there is at least one “ great ” magazine
which gets quite down to the Cheap Snips rate.
Of course, I’m willing to admit that my name cuts no ice
in the London market; and perhaps, lam beastly un-
grateful to grumble when I have the honor of being
allowed to appear in such serious company as the— —
Review affords; but all the same, I think if my stuff is
good enough to earn the honor of publication it is good
enough to earn the regular pay of the magazine in
which it appears, and if about Is. a page net is the regular
pay, then God help the tattered devils who pursue
literature in London ! All the same, don’t publish my
name or that of the magazine. I might again get the
eraving to address a British audience, and if the
influential monthly document knew I was dissatisfied it
might cut me dow nto 6d. a page next time. You never
know what may happen.
* m * *
The lack of originality shown in naming newspapers is
illustrated by the case of a Parisian printer, who makes a
decent income by calling round when any journal feels
very poorly—in Paris papers grow up like Jonah’s vege-
table umbrella and wither like a fly in hell—and buying
its name for little more than the price of a drink. The
paper thus acquired is added to a host of others that are
not dead but sleeping, and it keeps up a magnificent
circulation of one, with nothing new in any issue but the
date. Anyone who wants to start a new’ journal wnth a
conventional title of the Mail or Post variety is almost
sure to have to buy the name from the speculative
printer. The best way to avoid such expense is to give
one’s venture some out-of-the-way designation say Le
Jimjam or Le Fantod —though even then there is a cliance
of the picker-up of unconsidered titles owning a pre-
historic relic with the same unusual name.
The Tory crowd in • Australia has got up
so many leagues that presently it won’t know
where it are. For instance, it is announced that
the “ Australian Democratic (!) Union ” is “ allied
with the following leagues ”: —
Anti-Socialist League.
Australian Liberal League.
Liberal and Reform Association.
People’s Reform League.
Women’s Branch People’s Reform League.
Women’s Liberal League of N.S.W.
Women’s Social and Political League.
There is a deep art and mystery about this way
of doing things. If the Democratic (!!) Union
and the other seven were knocked into a single
organisation, then Mrs. Smith, struggling in her
best bonnet to preserve the sanctity of the ome,
would only be one member, and all the counting
iti the world wouldn’t make her more than one.
But now she can belong to a whole procession of
leagues, and be counted about eight times, and
that makes her look quite numerous.
VERSE—AND PROSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the verse that Jack built.
This is the paper, wrapped in red, whose veins of gold
profusely bled to pay for the verse that Jack built.
This is the Girl—the poet’s dream—whose face was the
frequently-drawn-upon theme played off on the paper
wrapped in red because of the sums it was weekly led to
pay for the verse that Jack built.
This is the pen-name—“Amador”—wherewith the
songster used to score, and thus used Jack to advertise
to just one pair of big brown eyes that he’d got home in
“ Various Verse ” with a set of stanzas, bright and terse,
describing the orbs whose beams were shed all over the
paper wrapped in red that paid for the verse that Jack
built.
This is the date—October third—when Jack’s fair
vision said the word, and a stylish match supplied a par
for social columns near and far; but there followed
a day, extremely soon, which gave the knock to the
honeymoon of Jack and the girl with the big brown eyes—
those orbs of quite abnormal size—which sparkled once
in the stanzas bright that that poor penman used to
write—lyrical cameos, pictured rhyme, which scooped
the shekels every time he sent ’em along to that town up
north—that town whence good red gold came forth to
pay for the vense that Jack built.
These are the smart political skits to which Jack now
confines his wits ; and he casts a shrouded, clouded gloom
over his change of nom de plume, because, alas ! he
writes no more above the title “ Amador,” content to keep
his weekly job by signing his copy “ Hiram Globb," for
fear his wife might sail him down, and hold him up for
every crown, produced by pars that take the place of
\ r erses framed to fit the face of the glorious girl—the
poet’s dream whose beauty used to be the theme, before
the day when he was wed, of verse in a paper wrapped in
red that paid for the things that Jack built.
vie.
KETTLEDRUM.


dfg
Send Your WOOL to
& GO.,
The Leading- Sydney Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS.
Pflllfv
CRICKET.
MEN’S BATS
Postage on Bat, Is., N.S.W.; Is. Bd., Inter-State.
BUSSEYS Ss -
CLAPSHAW’S ... Gs, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, los.
F. H. AYRES’ All Cane 13s, 13s.
F. H. AYRES’ DOUBLE RUBBER HANDLE STAMPED
“CAN’T BE BEAT” SPECIAL SELECTED ... 18s fid.
F. H. AYRES’ International
COBBETT’S
WISDEN’S
WARSOP’S
SYKE’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BARTLETT’S ...
DARK’S
NICOLL’S
HEARN'S
STUART SURRIDGE
GUNN & MOORE’S
SPECIAL VALUE BATS
,20s, 245, 295.
10s Gd 15s Gd, 18s Gd. 20s, 22s fid.
10s Gd, 12s fid, 15s fid. 17s fid
12s fid, lGs, 18s fid 20s, 255.
8s fid, 14s Gd, 21s, 255.
8s 3d, 8s Gd, 11s fid, 14s.
18s, 19s, 19s fi(L
12s fid, 15s, 18s, 19s fid.
... 10s Gd, 17s Gd, 245.
... 15s fid, 18s fid, 225.
14s fid, 22s Gd, 27s fid.
... 13s Gd, 17s fid, 21s.
21s, 255, 275.
l2s 6d
MEN’S STUMPS
Postage on one set Stumps, 25., N.S.W. ; 3s. Bd., Inter-State.
PLAIN BLACKWOOD 2s set.
SUPERIOR ASH 3s, 3s 9d set.
ASH, Brass Tops, Steel Shod ... ... ...5s 9d, 7s 9d, 8s fid set.
ASH, Revolving Tops, Steel Shod ... ... ... 10s fid set.
HICKORY, Brass Tops, Steel Shod ... ... ... lfis fid set.
MEM’S LEG GUARDS
Strong White Twill ... ... ...4s Od pair.
Tan Leather, Continuous Straps ...(is Gd pair.
Tan Leather, Vent., Continuous Straps.. 8s Gd pair.
Tan Leather, Skeleton, Continuous Straps
10s Gd pair.
Best Quality Gold Cape...l2s Gd, 13s Gd, 10s Gd pair.
Postage on 1 pair Bads, Is, N.S.W. ; 1/8, Inter-State.
BATTING GLOVES
Featherweight ... ... ... 4s Gd pair.
Chamois, Tubular Rubber...fis Gd, Gs Gd, 8s Gd pair.
Surry Shields ... ... ... ... 4s each.
Postage on one pair Gloves, 4d pair.
dfg
Leather Balls
(sAoz.)
“ M.S.” Special Gut Sewn.
4s 6d, 6s Scl, 7s 6d each.
Specially suited for Matting
Wickets.
DUKE’S ... 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s Gd each
SPECIAL SIX SEAM PRACTICE
BALLS-
Is. Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s Gd eacli.
Postage on one Ball, 3d. extra.
f
Cricket Bag’s
Strong Canvas, Double Ended (leather), 14s 6d each.
Postage Is. 9d., N.S.W. ; 3s. 2d., Inter-Stace.
Men’s
Tan or Drab Ventilated
Gold Cape, Ventilated
White Kid, Ventilated
Buff Chamois, Rubber Palin
Gold Cape, Rubber Palm ...
All England Special
The “Lilley”
Gauntlets
5s pair
... 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair
... 7s Cd pair
... 7s Od pair
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Cd pair
Us pair
14s pair
Postage on pair, 4d.
c '‘^=<s'
Cricket Nets
Complete S. Tarred, 18 x 6ft. ... 13s 6d each
42 x 6ft. ... 27s 6d each
42 x Bft. ... 35s each
Cricket Mats
Full Size Double Wickets, in two pieces, 6ft.
wide, green color —
£3 10s, £4, £5.
Solid Handle, Plain
Solid Handle, Polished ...
Half Cane Handle
All Cane Handle
All Cane Handle, Selected
Postage
Boys’ Bats
Boys’ Cricket Balls
Leather, Six Seam, Is., Is. 6d. each.
Composition, 3d., Gd., 9d., Is., Is. Gd., Is. Bd.,
2s. 3d. each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d.
Boys’ Gauntlets
Chamois or Tan, Ventilated, 3s. 6d. pair.
Gold Cape, Ventilated, 6s. Gd. pair.
Postage on one pair Gauntlets, 4d.
Scaring Books
1 Pocket Size (Postage 3d.), 6d., Is. each.
2 Full Size (Postage 3d.), Is., Is. Gd., 2s. 6d.
each.
Bat Handle Covers
1 Plain Red Rubber (Postage Id.), Is., Is. 3d.,
Is. Gd. each.
2 Pure Black Para Rubber, Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
3 Red Rubber (Fancy Patterns), Is. 6d. each.
4 Red Rubber (to Bind on Handle), Cafferay’s
Patent, Is. 9d. each.
Boys’ Leg Guards
Strong Canvas, continuous Straps, 4s. 6d. pair.
Tan Leather ~ ~ 55., 6s. Cd. ~
Postage on one pair Guards, Is., N.S.W. ;
Is. Bd., Interstate.
Boys’ Stumps
Polished, with Bails, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. Gd., 25.,
2s. Gd. set.
Postage on first three sets, 9d., N.S.W.; Is. 2d.,
Interstate ; on last three sets, Is. 3d.,
N.S.W. ; 2s. 2d., Interstate,
Cricket Sundries
1 Ash Bails (Set of Four), (Post. 2d.), 9d. set.
2 Lignum Bails (Set of Four), Post 2d.) Is. Gd.
3 Rubber Bails (Post. 4d.), 2s. 6d. set.
4 Steel Shoes for Stumps (Post. 4d.), Is. 3d. set.
5 Bat Binding Twine (Post 2d.), Is. Gd., 2s. Gd.
ball.
6 Boot Spikes, on Card (Post Id.), Is. card.
7 Boot Screw Nails, on Card (Post Id.), Gd.
card.
8 Wicket Regulator (Horn and Parr’s), 2s. 6d.
each.
9 Bat Oil, specially prepared (Post. Is. extra),
lOd. bottle.
10 Book on Cricket (Post. Id.), Gd. each.
illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports, Tobacco J jsts, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing-—Post Free.
and RIFLES.
iMMifitfiitiMfliliflM
The “Bullscye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3|lb
Postage— Is 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
11/6
The Celebrated
“MAINE’
RIFLE
ƒ
"THE MAINE"
Pifie
f
<Sheu/tng Qtf/P parr.
ƒ
fitted with Sporting- Hear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
•Shoots 22 Short, Bong, or Kxtra Long Oartridg-es
Weight, 2|lb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
5
m
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2Jlb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
13s 6cfi
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
Postage: N.S. \V'., Is 2d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
18s 6d
Remind
N.S.W,
ton S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F.,
~1s (id; Interstate, 2s 8(1 ..
20in. barrel, weight 3£lb.
Postage—
PO S9l
Winchester
1904
Model.
f
“Winchester” Single Shot
Model, for -if snort or long rim Hi
zlin. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37£in.
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
Rifle, 1904
•e cartridges,
bolt action,
, bead front
24s
MB
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel
Darrel, 20m. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 3tiin
weight about 3ilb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s Sd Inter-State). ’’
21s
df
Stevens’ “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4£lb. (Postage, Is 9d NSW
_3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. .. .. ■ • .
£1 10s
Stevens’
rear and i
S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sitrht onen
ernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S. W. Is fid ; Inter-State, 3s 2d ’ F
£2
Lest on
Daiy
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
MICK BIMMONS
•nm
>
m
LESTON, DALV CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gaug-e, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postay —N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
—3B
m
- : H
THE GLOBE
D. 1). B.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choice, patent
I>. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S. W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
1
Hksl
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding’ Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2}in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s fid N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gaiige, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved,
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALU SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREiGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.<®|
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


r
Mr. THOS. J. SMITH,
of the Salvation Army,
whom wo cured, and
who testifies to our ski!!.
i *
■ •
ft;
I
M
Mr. F. BARKER
(of Messrs. Barker
Bros., Richmond, Vic.,
■p/r whom we cured
after medical men
had treated in vain.
'r- ’\W'!
Mr. GEORGE
of MuMawarra, Victoria,
r who says we have
marie him a new man.
A PAGE OF PROOFS and TESTI-
MONIES FROM CURED MEN TO
THE GREAT SKILL IN CURING
CRAVE DISEASES OF MEN BY
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
PHYSICIANS and SURGEONS.
WE do not, like the average physician, treat all kinds of disorders, we treat one
class, MEN’S DISEASES. These we specialise, AND THESE WE
CURE. When a man places his case in our hands he may be sure of three
things, Honesty, Reliability, and Secrecy in practice. These are essential to all men,
whose c/iseases are of a grave character, and upon the complete
cure of which their happiness and those of others depend. We publish here the
testimonies and portraits of men whom we have cured. Surely the man, hoping and
longing for sound health, desires nothing more in proof. These men can be written to
if need be, or particulars can be furnished quickly by our physicians. When we
say we cure we give a written guarantee to do so. If not, we decline the case. lo
sick men we say call on us or write. Do not delay as it means danger, for the curable
disease may develop into the incurable. In any case of a serious nature to
a man, DR. WALLACE, L.R.C.P., E., L.R.C.S., E., L.M., the Chief Physician,
and who is registered by Medical Boards of Australasia and Great Britain, may
be consulted free of any charge whatever. He and his Staff are renowned for the
rapid and complete cure of all Disorders of Men.
♦
These Testimonies Prove Honesty and Skill
♦-
Mr. THOMAS J. SMITH, late Sergeant-Major, now Treasurer, Salvation Army, Prahran, Mel-
bourne (portrait here published), whom we cured and made strong and perfectly healthy, testifies to our
Specialists’ skill in the following splendid manner. He is a man of marked abilities and considerable
organising power, as may be judged by his position. His testimony should be read and remembered by
all men desiring to be cured and to regain lost health and strength. He says:—
“ It affords me great pleasure to express my gratitude for the benefit accrued since I resorted to your
specialistic method of treatment. For some twelve years I have been an acute sufferer, the whole
nervous and physical organisation seeming to bo involved. lam now cured, and a new man.”
(Signed) THOS. J. SMITH.
Mr. F. Barker, care of Messrs. Barker Bros, 262 Victoria-street, Richmond, Melbourne (portrait
here published), who, after unavailing treatment at the hands of several medical men) consulted us and
was cured quickly. He says :
“ I desire to express my gratitude to you, as well as my complete satisfaction, with the results of your
Specialistic Treatment. I was afflicted very gravely. The blood was entirely out of order, and I suffered
acutely. Treatment at the hands of two well-known doctors failed to do me any real good.
Fortunately, I was persuaded to undergo a course of your treatment. The results have gratified me almost
beyond expression. Marked improvement was soon manifest. lam now a new man, feeling strong in body
and free from the local disfigurements. From a run-down condition, lam now rescued to sound health.”
F. BARKER.
Testimony from Mr. GEORGE SIMPSON (portrait here published), of Mullawarra, Victoria, whom
we treated for Nerve Weakness. His condition was a desperate one, but we ultimately restored him to
complete health. After detailing his recovery, Mr. Simpson concludes an interesting letter thus :
“The last remedies you sent are doing a wonderful amount of good. I am now splendid in health in
every way. I feel that lam cured for good, and I thank you for restoring me to health and strength once
more. lam glad I consulted you.” (Signed) GEORGE SIMPSON.
GEORGE TOWNS, the World’s Champion Sculler, also says of our treatment: —
“ I underwent a course of your Electro-Medical treatment. I soon felt better and strong, confident
that I could stand any strain hard and continuous training might impose. Your Medical Battery is the best
I have used.” (Signed) CEORGE TOWNS.
Mr. F. C. DYER, Little Barcom Street, Sydney, says :
“ I have been an inmate of two leading Sydney Hospitals without receiving apparent benefit. I was tired of
suffering and consulted the Specialists of your Institute, and am completely cured of Hydatids of the Liver.”
INSPECTOR FOWLER, N.S. Wales Police, writes:—
“ Since adopting your Electro-Medical treatment, my health has, I am glad to say, considerably improved.”
Mr. EDWARD CLARK, J.P., St. Leonards, Sydney, twice Mayor of that suburb, and its Member
in Parliament for years, writes :
“ I tried your Electro-Medical methods with great success. My ill-health has disappeared.”
Mr. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., Sydney, testifies:—
“ l adopted your treatment for a few weeks. lam satisfied It gives health and vigor to the sysiem.”
After all this indisputable evidence, can you any longer doubt our ability or sincerity to
cure you ? If you have the slightest doubt in your mind we will give you further proof of the
efficacy of our wonderful healing treatment.
Patients who take our home treatment receive the same expert attention as if we saw
them in person. When we receive our QUESTION CHART filled out correctly, our
Specialists are able to diagnose your case as accurately as if you were personally present. Our
Diagnosis Charts are seriously studied by our Specialists, and careful records made so that we
understand your case as well as if you had given us a personal call.
The Specialists’ 750-page Medical Work on Men’s Diseases, “ Clinical Experiences,” 31 Chapters, 150 Medical Plates,
will be sent FREE to any genuine applicant.
If you cannot call at our office, fully describe your symptoms, and you will receive in a plain envelope a scientific and
honest opinion of your case. GUARANTEED CURE IN EVERY CASE ACCEPTED. Diplomas and Certificates of
qualification and registration open to inspection. The Chief Physician, DR. WALLACE, L.R.C.S., E., L.R.C.P., E. L.M.,
is registered by Australian and English Medical Boards, and may be consulted free by post or personally. He bears
diplomas from some of the leading Medical Centres of Great Britain. The Specialists’ 750-page Medical Work post free
upon application.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
cor Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director
DR. WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief
AND AT MELBOURNE.
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Diseases of Women
DR. BELL, Lecturer to the Institutes.


Do not envy
the beautiful
hair of others,
but possess it
yourself. Some
are born with
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none
have it thrust
upon them.
Those who ac-
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the
discovery that
V
A
o
m
A
P ::=
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
remedy is
ylifer’s
Mair Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER'S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Hope for the
DEAF
The “EAROSCCPE” Home Treatment for Deaf-
ness, Head-noises, and all Aural complications, is
the greatest discovery in Medical Science. No
Drugs, No Electricity, and No Ear Drums, but pure
natural Aural Kinetics, applied by yourself at your
home, without any interference to vour daily
routine work. Endorsed bj r the highest Aural
Specialists. Call or write for FREE particulars.
The “EAROSCOPE” Co., 90 Pitt St„ Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Oo.)
Price 6d. Post Free.
Strength
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
for MEN
WOMEN
CHILDREN
BABIES
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
for the THROAT
CHEST
LUNGS
BONES
Strength in
1 1 O
Emulsion
after illness
HEAVY COLDS
OVERWORK
fevers
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
during SUCKLING
PREGNANCY
TEETHING
LOSS OF SLEEP
Newton Boyd, Grafton Road, Barney’s
Hill, N.S.W., July 21, 1905. “Some
little time ago I contracted a very severe
cold which left my chest and lungs in a
very weak state. At last I decided to
give Scott’s Emulsion a trial. From the
first dose I obtained relief, and after
continuing the treatment for a time my
cold was completely cured.”
Mrs. J. T. Winstanxky*
Scott's Emulsion is purest Norwegian cod
liver oil made pleasant, digestible and trebly
nutritious by the celebrated original Scott
process, and skilfully blended with the
tonic hypophosphites of lime and soda.
If you or yours require
strength we will gladly
send you a free trial
bottle by return post
(enclose 4d.for postage
and mention this pa-
per). Scott & Bowne;
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ƒ
IRISH
t 0
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, J*
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
Pi'p
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
0
0
i
m-'s
mm
W.&i
rfct i2>
in
-iO
MUJJ. ARD
Tables.
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia.-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
Icomplete catalogue, which will
mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOTi
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ƒ
His Majesty Tho
King and
Royal Family.
M GIFTS
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauoe,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU CET
MOIR'S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON. Limited.
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [8
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
9 M
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDQ
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sea Glamor.
At eve she walks beside the dunes
’Neath dappled skies,
And wild enchantment of sea-moons
Is in her eyes ;
Such orbs as these upon him turned
Ulysses from his ship discerned ;
But through the foam and fairy seas
His thoughts were still Penelope’s.
She watched the brightening of the star
As Sirius
Arose whence waters came from far
To Pegasus ;
The wave with phosphorescent crest
Seemed drinking from the failing west ;
And from her eyes came wildering gleams
Of continents new-found in dreams.
She heard the voices mariners
Heard oft of yore;
The sea-god’s visioned caves were hers,
The sea-god’s lore;
The grottoes where lithe weeds unfurl
Red coral and the sheen of pearl;
Where rainbow shapes throng silent hall,
As one with them she saw them all.
The never-ageing, youthless sea
Poured through her veins
The fatal charm and mystery
Of old refrains
That sang men’s timid hearts among,
When men and seas and lands were young;
Refrains that duller ears to-day
In murmurs hear—and wish away !
O, thou who wooest on the shore
This sea-born child,
A heart thou wooest, born of yore
’Mid beauties wild !
Beware her eyes ! —for in them be
Grey eld’s allurements of.the sea,
That may another world reveal—
But may thy heart in silence seal !
MAOIULAND.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
Love’s Day.
The summer sky, so blue, so blue,
G-lows overhead ;
My world holds only love and you,
When all is said.
Though all things crumble in decay
To-morrow, we have still to-day.
Oome weal, come woe
To-morrow, what is that to me ?
To-day is all eternity,
I love you so.
While ’gainst Delight the heathen rage
In ashen prose,
We sing in passion’s golden age,
’Mid morning glows.
What time the sages scowl and scold,
And careful folk grow crabb’d and old
And scant of breath,
We flee from out their shabby streets—
For love that feeds on love’s own sweets
There is no death.
We hear the music—soft, remote—
Of Hybla’s bees;
Those distant islands are, you’ll note,
The Cyclades.
Always beneath those joyous skies
The blue JEge an basks and sighs,
And Sappho sings,
And Circe has her hiding-place—
We’re conquerors of time and space,
While love has wings.
Poor fools, who let such joys go by,
Such chances slip !
For me... I love you, eye to eye
And lip to lip.
To-day I have you, hold you —aye,
To you I yield myself alway,
Come weal, come woe !
To-morrow ? What is that to me ?
To-day is all eternity,
I love you so !
M.L.
FRANK MORTON.
Thoughts.
There was never a ring around the moon,
But someone has wondered why.
There was never a wind that sighed at noon,
But someone has heard that sigh.
There was never a star that crossed the skies,
When the weird night voices call,
But that star was plain to expectant eyes,
And someone saw it fall.
There was never a thought all unexpressed,
And never a voice so dumb,
But someone at least that secret guessed,
And that voice was heard by some.
There was never a care in patience borne
In the gloom, where none might see,
But someone has grieved for that heart forlorn,
In spite of its secrecy.
’Tis a worldly way that has slowly come
Through the aching centuries ;
Where we shall speak, one shall be dumb,
And where we are blind, one sees.
And through wisdom vast, or all too scant,
While the Nations fall and rise,
No man shall be totally ignorant,
And no man perfectly wise.
N.s.w.
GILROONEY.
“Nulla”: Have had much experience of
all sorts of Australian snakes, and have never
seen one chase anything more formidable than a
frog or a small bird. When, after sloughing the
old skin, the snake is feeling inflated with pride
over his new suit, he will, at times, show a dispo-
sition to argue the point, but that is the most I
can say for his alleged aggressiveness, and then
I think he only wants to show off his clothes.
The one exception was a tiger snake whom I
encouraged to remain remote by dropping a
swingle-bar where I judged it would do the least
good. The curses he forked out when he found
his pet strangle-hold ineffective were disgraceful.
By the way, the sound made by the passage of a
snake through grass is never forgotten. New
chums will occasionally jump at the rustle of a
goanna, or other lizard, but once the soft, glozing
rustle of a snake strikes the ear it is never mis-
taken for anything else.
“ Kerani’s” testimony :
For blind swearing in the witness-box, Will’s sailors
(“Red Page,” 15/9/’O6) are not in it with the average
Hindoo hawker. A mob of the inky fellow-subjects held
a re-union here, the other day, and in the course of the
festivities one fellow got laid out with a shovel. This he
considered beyond a joke, and when he came to, he took
his tale of woe and his injuries to the police-station and
swore an information. Then the excitement began. The
defendant placed his case in the hands of a solicitor, and
brought along four witnesses to swear to anything. The
first effort was a complete denial of the whole affair —the
man hadn’t been near the camp at all, and they
didn’t know him from a.kookaburra. The four witnesses
gave this statement their hearty support. Counsel con-
demned the defence as unworkable, and recommended
them to try again. After a long yabber, defendant had
another go. With much waving of the hands and bowing
and scraping, he explained that one of the dogs had
started howling at the moon in the early a.m., that he
had thrown the shovel at it, and that the other fellow must
have been walking past at the time and received the shovel
instead of the dog. The four witnesses backed up the tale.
Counsel discarded this defence also, and again the crowd
consulted. Then the defendant emerged once more
from the heap of murky conference. One cf them had
been using t e shovel, he said, an I had left it sticking
in the gtound, and the injured one must have been
walking pa t the camp in the night, and rm into it. The
oilier f ur rose as o e blot and stated t atth y had all
seen the shovel sticking in the ground early in the even-
ing. Counsel asked how it could stick in the ground
with the bla e up in the air, and again the five went into
committee. Th conference vas a long one this time,
but the result was success. The def i.daut explained,
with much detai, how the other fellow had come to their
camp very drunk, and armed with several revolvers and
knives, and had tried to kil. them all. He (defendant)
had picked up the shovel to use as a shield, and the
pla ntiff, in his wrath, had rushed on to it and cut his
head. His four mates gave the tale their whole-hearted
support, a d re-enacteu the performance, n the end the
defendant got off with payn.tnt of the doctor’s expenses,
and the plaintiff, who was a person of no account, and
had no m one}' to buy witnesses, got a lecture on the
evils of drink.
“Bunyip”: I am falling over myself in
haste to nominate this place (Barmah State
Forest, Victoria) for the snake pressure prize.
Four of us boated out on 2Gt’n September on a
hunting trip. The forest is flooded at present,
but there are numerous small ridges above water.
Landing on one of these—about five acres in
extent—we found a colony of tiger snakes. The
“bag,” for less than hours, was 99, and we put
up the century by killing one on a log in the
water some distance away. After my experience
of snake-killing, my advice is—never aim the first
blow at his head, because, when you hit it, it
isn’t there. Hit him somewhere about the 76th
rib first. If I could duck my head away from a
blow with the rapidity of the snake, I would
challenge Bill Squires to-morrow, and let Bill
wear himself out bruising the atmosphere.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the ® ec “ rity
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Cures While
You Sleep
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-0; Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz., 2-3; 2 oz., l-3»
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trad* Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY. LTD.
'
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less tlmn
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from-
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefally attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
wtMCHßsnn.
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
The “New Rival” is a grand good cartridge ;
good in construction, good because it is
primed with a quick and sure primer, and
good because carefully and accurately
loaded with the best brands of powder
and shot. It is a favorite among hunters
and other users of black powder cartridges
on account of its uniform shooting, evenness
of pattern and strength to withstand
reloading. A trial will prove its excellence.
ALL DEALERS SELL THE M
lows
r*n
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDEK LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, «&c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE.. .. ..
LANGTON GRANGE
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twill Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall S W London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Ouyo, Buenos
Aires 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street. London,
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
PLASMON
The Food for Old and Young.
MarE.' i
(Also Plasmon Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, &c.)
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
salt:
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT BALT/ Without It you hart «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. UNO.,
by J. C. BNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
I
There’s SECURITY In
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
The, TOUCH the
Be
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
LIVER
Sure they are Carter’s


Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
THE BALLET GIRL
4
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1| and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors—PKOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
JA S. C R A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
N 5 LAND
WES
UA
AUSTR
CTO
Many of the
f COMMONWEALTH’S
W sturdy sons and daughters owe their
r good healtli andr“ , “ JJJ
strength-giving am
good healtli and splendid physique to the
' ’ id nourishing properties ot
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
COCOA.
A pure liquid food which gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, ‘
and which can be absorbed with little
digestive effort. Invaluable for young
and old at all times and seasons. ‘
“ The Standard of highest
purity." —The Lancet,
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
I\) EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
b. “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.” *
The Lancet writes : —“Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
I
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice P’antations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEM'STS.
Pure Grape H.VD. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
" 1111 1 1 1 ,
I 111 111 j
! * 1111, i
mm
The Day of the
Puny Man is Past
THE world has no time for the puny, half-hearted weakling. In
order to take your place in life’s battle you must be strong,
robust and vigorous of body and brain. Your present con-
dition of mind—timid, uncertain, lethargic, absent minded ;
your feeling of being certain of failure, instead of sure of success—
gives you no place in this busy world. . . . You are run
down, your nerve is gone, your tissues are weak, your mind is a
jumble. Are you going to continue in this fearful con-
condition ?
Dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
is made for you and all sufferers in your condition. It infuses New Vi-
tality, New Nerve Life, New Stamina, and New Energy into your Nerves
and Tissues every day until you become as strong and vigorous as Nature
intended you should be. “Electricity is Life,** and our Elec-
tric Belt gives it to you. It pumps a warm, soothing current of this vital-
ising element into your body for hours at a time while you sleep, and
will cure any case that exists of Broken-down Nerves, Weak
Back, Varicocele, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Stomach or Bladder Troubles,
Constipation, Indigestion, Insomnia, General Debility, and all Weakness of
Men and Women.
Read This Letter
Thb Dr. McLaughlin Co. THORNLEIGH, N.S.W.
Dear Sira,— Though it is now past two years since I purchased your Belt, I
am at the present time—and have been for months—enjoying perfect health. As
I previously informed vou, within the first month after beginning your treat-
ment I began to see an improvement in my condition, and though you had
advised that about three months would see me completely cured, if I remember
aright, it took a little over that time.
Whenever 1 find anyone suffering the same as I did, I strongly recommend
them to try one of your High-Grade Belts, for I am confident that they will
never regret doing so. I always take pleasure in answering written or personal
inquiries regarding my cure, and you are always at liberty to recommend pro-
spective patients to verify these statements.
Yours sincerely, E. H. SEERY.
i'
I'm
„ 11 1
!!! 11l
|i"!
111 l
Cut off here and Post Coupon to us.
Free Book.
Write your name and address in
this COUPON and post it to us
to-day. In return we will send
you our Grand Illustrated Book, which describes in detail
our wonderful remedy. ... IF YOU CAN CALL, do so, and
we will give you FREE AD VICE and explain the working
of our Belt. . . . Write or Call TO-DAY.
Consulting Hours, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Open Wed. and Sat. evenings.
e»e dr. McLaughlin co.,
IOOW MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your Free Book, and oblige,
(Name)
Address
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
Bulletin, 25/10/96.
f
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring 1 this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fastcross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, top action, choke bore, walnut stock.
Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. ..£ll2 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 16 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, with cartridge machine and cleaners
complete. Usual price, £5. Sale price ..£2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. . • •. .. £0 If* 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. 6s. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO..
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
ASK, FOR,
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
\SUBSTIWTEsJ
dfg
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or C lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Itim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery. _
200
Second - tin nd Cycles
all makes, /q £2.10
Great factory clearance Bale at half factory price*.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. _ Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. 1 “f PSS"" 1
free catalogues and our special ojfer , using sufficient Postage,
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &e.,hatf prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dept. B3d
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
L
DEAFNESS
“The Electrlcon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR— invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE L. R. VERNON CO. t
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney. _______
df
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Pois*n Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus. Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


THE “ BRUNSWICK”
ICE MACHINE
. - ■ e
Si SH
may be classed as a small HOUSEHOLD REFRICERATOR.
It’s capacity varies from 10 tons of ice to lOlbs., and it
is in its smallest size that its remarkable convenience
for small households is apparent.
Hotels, boarding houses, butchers, and restaurants
have hitherto had to be contented with an Ice Box and a
few blocks of ice—a wasteful and expensive proceeding.
With the BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE you have a port-
able cold storage sufficient to keep sweet and sound all
your perishable stock, and, in the smallest size, give you
101 b. of ice per day for actual use as ice as well as
refrigeration—equal to 2001bs. of ice. The whole thing
is run by a little i-horse power motor, and the cost is
very moderate.
THE BRUNSWICK HOUSEHOLD ICE MACHINE
solves for ever the question of cold storage
on a small private scale. Send for Circular
and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., s °' e Aa °" ts - 7& 9 Market St., Sydney.
4r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it ; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
in
XHZ
Qraphophones
Make Happy Homes,
<t GENUINE
1 COLUMBIA |
<fc v*/
MAKE \*/
« - . V»/
t Price, 15/- Complete* $
»y\_ ‘ m
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co*
GEN'L.,
25 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
acetylene:.
THE Headquarters of the Acetylene Business in New South Wales
will in future be situated at . . .
314 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
EXTENSIVE SHOWROOMS have now been completed, and the Public
are cordially invited to call and inspect all the latest improvements in
Acetylene Lighting.
WILLIAM TYREE
Sole Manufacturer of
Tyree “ Perfection ” Generators;
Tyree “ECONOMIC” Generators; Tyree “PERFECTION” Acetylene
Table Lamps ; Tyree “ SOLIO ” Optical Lantern Generator ; Tyree Motor
Launch Generators ; Tyree Motor Car Generators; Tyree Miners’ Lamps ;
Tyree Lamp-post Generators; Tyree Bicycle Lamps; Tyree Carriage
Lamps; Tyree Contractors’ Lamps. Patented throughout the world.
Used by all the Government Departments, Sydney Harbor Trust,
Commonwealth of Australia, New Zealand Government. Installations
in every Town and District in New South Wales.
THE. LATEST NOVELTY :
15he TYREE. Patent AUTOMATIC SPRAY.
PRICE, from *.2 lOs. EACH.
No pump required. No syringe required. You simply put in the mixture,
or the paint, and the machine does the rest. YOU CAN PAINT YOUR
HOUSE AND FENCES, DISINFECT THE PREMISES, OR SPRAY
YOUR GARDEN AND ORCHARD WITHOUT WORK, AT ONE
HALF THE COST. Everyone should see this invention at the
SHOWROOMS:
314 Georg'e Sydney.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM at Lowest Rates. Send for Printed Matter.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to maks a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, Ac.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
Tobacco Co.’s
Warehouse
with
RUBEIOSD
SI
;
r
W-
~^~n^rz:-~-
ii
JS%K
35
■ :
***&&*,
Hi
■
What the British-Australasian Tobacco Company, Ltd., think of
RUBEROID ROOFING.
Messrs. E. RICH & CO., Ltd., 2U <sc 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —You will be pleased to know that our Ruberoid roof, which
was laid nearly 12 months ago, is giving every satisfaction, and during this
time it has stood the test of some very heavy storms. Being flat, with only
a few inches slope, the sun and rain must put it to a very severe trial, but up till
now it shows no sign of leak or break, and, considering its comparative small cost,
is eminently satisfactory.—Yours faithfully,
THE BRITISH-AUSTRALASIAN TOBACCO CO. PROPTY., Ltd.
(Signed) W. H. WICKS, Factory Manager.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1393.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1906.
Pbiok 6n.
•C „
-O
A
*? £
v? s £
<? ° *
4? //
//
V
V
But children and dogs, and other
harmless things, will be muzzled.
And the Salvation Army is
to rage freely.
And when Nature’s little songsters A
are effectually shut off from song on I
the Sabbath—then the perfect gloom of
the pietist will be achieved.
And any Sunday meetings to encour-
age Yellow Pup rioting will be cor-
dially encouraged.
THE “QUIET” SUNDAY OF THE PIETIST.
Australian holy men are again agitating for a quiet, squashless, bananaless, gloomful Sunday.


XMAS NUMBER.
"We are now booking
Agents’ Orders.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
** Australia Joy the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
«//. sending direct to Tin? Bult.ktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bult.ktin posted
regularly to you even/ week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
llow to Address I.otters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paper
(ana, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
■invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bult.ktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
( those dealing, with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Nervspaper Clippings.
■MI communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
rim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. ]Vhen MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bult.ktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in llladc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson <!c Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x 1/An.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Zfe'&alZeim.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1906.
TO THE PEOPLE OF N.S.W. IN
PARTICULAR
A general election is at hand, and again the
alleged Freetrade candidate (who never dares to
really advocate his own creed) is abroad, telling
you how New South Wales grew up and pros-
pered under Freetrade.
THIS STATEMENT IS A GLARING AND
nriTT man aunnrvrvTS
OTIi LiUibil T AEbEHOOD.
New South Wales never had Freetrade. It has
no important industry that grew up under Free-
trade. It never had a Government that dared to
adopt Freetrade. It never had a single real
A . .... . . , , T ® ,
h reetrade politician of note. No Freetrade
Premier ever Ventured to give you the benefit of
the nostrum that he said he believed in, lest after
one year of genuine Freetrade the Freetrade
party should be so dead that even its tomb would
be undiscoverable.
The essence of Freetrade consists in giving NO
PREFERENCE, direct or indirect, to any local
product. This is supposed to be done for the
good of the country. In England (where the
Freetrade creed had its temporary home, and
where it seems likely soon to be homeless) when
it was necessary for revenue purposes to place an
import duty on any article which could be locally
produced, a corresponding excise duty was placed,
in the real Freetrade days, on the local product,
so that the two might be absolutely on a level.
The Freetrader of N.S.W. says this is the doc-
trine he believes in, vet he won’t practise his own
belief. ”
HE WOULDN’T BE FOUND DEAD IN
rpuLi qATVTF PARISH WTTH TT
IME oAiVLjL 1 AKibJA VVJ.J.M 11.
The local Freetrader says that it is by Free-
trade that a country becomes great and rich. Yet
he never, in all the years his party held office in
N.S.W., attempted to thus make his State great
and rich. He even sacrificed an immense amount
of revenue in the struggle to avoid following his
own policy, and to escape from the happiness and
prosperity which he says it brings about.
* • * *
In 1891, after New South Wales had voted
Freetrade many years, this (the Protectionist
tariff of those strenuous Freetraders —Parkes,
M'Millan, Bruce Smith and Co.) was the re-
sult :
Protection to
Article. Import Duty. Excise Duty. Local Product
Beer (dra’ght) 6d per gall'. 3d per gall. 3d per gall.
Beer (bottled) 9d per gall. 3d per gall. 6d per gall.
Apples (dried) 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Bacon .. 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Biscuits .. Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Buckets .. 3s per cwt. Nil 3s per cwt.
Butter .. Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Candied fruits 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Candles .. Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Cement .. 2s per barrel Nil 2s per barrel
Cheese .. 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Cigars.. .. 6s per lb. 2s 6d per lb. 3s 6d per lb.
Cigarettes .. Cs per lb. 2s 6d per lb. 3s 6d per lb.
Confectionery 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Temperance 9d. per doz. Nil 9d per doz.
drinks pints pints
Cornflour .. Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Doors .. 28 each. Nil 2s each.
Preserved
fruits .. Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Dried fruits .. 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Galvanised).,,, . „„ ,
iron goods, i 2OB fc ° 003 Nil 20s 60s
all kinds / P erton P erton
Hams and
tongues .. 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Jams & jellies Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Red and white
lead .. 60s per ton Nil 60s per ton
Molasses and
treacle .. 60s 8d per Nil 66s 8d per
ton ton
Oils (all kinds) 6d per gall. Nil 6d per gall.
Paint.. .. 60s per ton Nil 60s per ton
Posts and rails Is 6d per Nil Is 6d per
100 ft. 100 ft.
Fish .. .. Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Raisins .. 2d per lb. Nil 2d per lb.
Raspb’rrvpulp Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Salt .. .. 20s per ton Nil 20s per ton
Window sashes 2s each Nil 2s each
Methylated
spirits .. 4s per gall. Nil 4s per gall.
Sugar (raw) .. £5 per ton Nil £6 per ton
Sugar (refined) £6 13s 4d Nil £6 13s 4d
per ton per ton
Timber (all Various Nil Various
kinds) .. rates up to
3s. 6d. per
100 ft.
Penny News- £d each No postage jd each
papers . postage.
Tobacco .. 3s per lb. Is 3d per lb. Is 9d per lb.
Snuff .. .. 3s per lb. Nil 3s per lb.
Varnish .. 2s per gall. Nil 2s per gall.
Wine .. .. 5s lo 10s per Nil 5s to 10s per
grail. gall.
&c. &c. &c.
The final column represents the revenue which
was lost bp not putting the excise on a level with the
import duty—by not conferring on JV.S. W. the
allegedly inestimable benefits of Freetrade and free
competition.
IT REPRESENTS, NOT THE PRICE
WHICH JUDAS RECEIVED FOR BEING
A TRAITOR, BUT THE PRICE WHICH
THE FREETRADE JUDAS PAID FOR
THE PRIVILEGE OF BEING A TRAITOR.
* * * »
Then, after four years of the Protectionist Dibbs
tariff, you voted Freetrade again, and got this—
the Protectionist tariff of those staunch Free-
traders, George Reid, Sydney Smith, J. Cook,
and others.
Protection to
Import Excise Local
Article. Duty. Duty. Product.
Wine .. .. 5s to 10s per Nil 5s to 10s per
gall. gall.
Beer (draught) 6d per gall. 3d per gall. 3d per gall.
Beer (bottled) 9d per gall. 3d per gall. 6d per gall.
Tobacco (leaf) 3s per lb. Nil 3s per lb.
Tobacco(mfd.) 3s per lb. Is 3d per lb. Is 9d per lb.
Cigars and
cigarettes.. 6s per lb. 2s 6d per lb. 3s 6d per lb.
Biscuits .. £d per lb. Nil Jd per lb.
Confectionery Id per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Jams & jellies Jd per lb. Nil Id per lb.
Sugar (raw).. £3 per ton Nil £3 per ton
Sugar (refd.) £4 per ton Nil £4 per ton
Penny news-
papers .. £d each
postage No postage id each
The last column represents the money which
was sacrificed in order not to put the local and
imported article on the same basis, and to avoid
conferring on the State the allegedly priceless
boon of free competition. And even this is only
a fraction of the case, for it takes no account of
the huge system of Protection carried on sur-
reptitiously by carrying local goods on the rail-
ways at lower rates than imported articles. The
whole agricultural system of N.S.W. was built on
this surreptitious Protection.
All this was a case, not of the moral leprosy
coming to Gchazi, but of the Freetrade Gehazi
going in search of the leprosy and paying cash for it.
If the Freetrade politician finds his own
ALLEGED FAITH TOO LOATHSOME TO BE PRACTISED,
WHAT USE HAVE YOU FOR IT ?
IF THE FREETRADE POLITICIAN
IS WILLING EVEN TO SACRIFICE
REVENUE IN ORDER TO ESCAPE FROM
THE ALLEGED BLESSINGS OF HIS OWN
CREED, WHY SHOULD YOU BELIEVE
IN HIS CREED?
« • » »
' You have now to face this position. Either the
Freetrade politician has always been a liar when
he professed to believe that Freetrade and free
competition would make the country rich and great
and happy; or else, during all his years of pow*er,
he was a traitor and a scoundrel who deliberately
endeavored to make the country poor and miser-
able.
There are many alleged Freetrade candidates
now before you, and they all tell you that what
Australia requires to promote wealth and happi-
ness is the bracing atmosphere of Free Competi-
tion, and the complete abandonment of the policy
of “pampering” and “spoon-feeding” local
industries. Yet, is there among these so-called
Freetraders, one man, or even half a man, who
credits his own lie, and who is prepared to de-
mand that the local beer, sugar, wine, tobacco,
cigar, &c., should pay an excise equal to the
import duty, so that there may be no Protection
on these articles, and so that the beer, sugar,
wine, tobacco, cigar, and other trades may become
more prosperous through Free Competition ?
Is there, among all these sham Freetraders, one
man, or even a quarter of a man, who is prepared
to demand that local goods shall in every case pay
the same railway charges, wharfage dues, and all
other imposts as are levied on imported goods, so
that the local producer, by getting rid of the in-
direct Protection he has so long enjoyed, and by
having the blessing of Free Competition dropped
heavily on his head, may become so fat with
prosperity that he will stick in the doorway ?
IF YOU CAN FIND SUCH A FREE-
TRADER, SUPPORT HIM ; HE IS THE
ONLY ONE OF HIS KIND.
« • * ’
The Freetrade Sydney papers used to be pro-
tected against papers imported from other States;
the imported paper, even if you posted it in
Sydney addressed to a friend at Parramatta, paid
id. postage while the local paper went free. Did
you hear of any joy among the Sydney Freetrade
papers when they lost this Protection, and when
the blessing of their own gospel fell upon them ?
Or did you hear them get angry and break
things ?
If you are Freetraders and can find (for the first
time) an honest Freetrade candidate, who advo-
cates his own doctrine and believes in his own
belief —vote for him.
But don’t vote for the old gang of shams,
frauds, liars, and sundries who called themselves
Freetraders, and lived by practising Protection,
and who denied that they did practise it, and
spent their time in denouncing the policy by
which they surreptitiously gained their political
bread and their official cheese.
When you hear again about the alleged benefits
of Freetrade in England, remember that England
is very far off, and this oft-told tale is too much
like the patent medicine testimonial which always
tells about the wonderful cure performed on Mr.
Phinkas Q. Springbufff.r in Massachusetts
(U.S.). You want something nearer at hand—
something that you can verify. You require
information about the Freetrade you didn’t get in
New South Wales, rather than the Freetrade some-
body else did get on the other side of the globe.
For many years the N.S.W. Freetrade poli-
tician has posed as the Superior Person of the
land. His attitude has been that of the Almighty
looking with pity at a cockroach. He has been
so sorry for the ignorant people who didn't believe
in his small fetish that he has nearly burst with
the swelling of his large, kind heart.
It is now time for this political bounder
to justify his lofty attitude by really advoca-
ting his own alleged fiscal faith for the first
time in all his mean, lying, shuffling career. If
he hasn’t the courage to do that he should be told
to climb down. And if he calls himself an anti-
Socialist, who has sunk the Freetrade issue, it is
time he was informed that he hasn’t sunk the
Freetrade issue, for he was always too much of a
coward to raise it, and that he will almost certainly
be as great a traitor in his new capacity as he was in
his old one. Therefore, he is in every sense an
undesirable candidate, and, on his own record, it
is time he were dead.
A CAMPAIGN OF LIES.
The anti-Socialist campaign which is now raging
throughout Australia deserves to be long and
specially remembered as the Campaign of Lies
and Folly. It has the ear-marks of Ananias
even more conspicuously than most electoral cam-
paigns, though election time is not, as a general
thing, a period when unadulterated truth walks
abroad in any great quantity. A large section of
the anti-Socialist party began by being a liar from
’way back. In the old days it was the Freetrade
party, which practised Protection in a multitude
of things, and denied that it did so, and repre-
sented any prosperity which the Protectionist
features of its tariff brought about as the result of
Freetrade. In those early days it was an appren-
tice Ananias learning its trade, and it learned the
trade not at all badly. Now it is mostly
a Freetrade party which professes its readiness to
accept Protection if it can thereby climb into
office. That isn’t exactly being a liar, but in the
way of being a glaring turncoat and time-server it
is something handsome. Also it is the great
anti-Socialist party ; it became so by the simple
lie of declaring that its opponents were Socialists
when it knew perfectly well that, with some rare
exceptions, they were not, and by the simple
invention of devising and publishing as Socialism
certain imaginary horrors which were too dread-
ful for expression. The democratic sections of
Parliament might have retaliated by setting
up as the anti-Cannibal party, with explanations
about how human flesh was consumed by ladies
and gentlemen in evening dress during horrible
dinner orgies at Darling Point and Toorak, but
the Democrats were at a disadvantage; they were
hampered by a conscience.
One great original lie, on which most of the rest
are based, is to the general effect that Labor
members and Protectionist Democrats are, in
the main, penniless political adventurers, who,
having nothing to lose and everything to gain by
a general confiscation and division of property,
are naturally desirous of tearing up the roots and
tearing down the superstructure of society. But
for the appalling ignorance of the outwardly cul-
tured class on which Toryism relies for its sup-
port, this fiction would have been exploded long
ago—its falsity is so self-evident. The Labor
party includes barristers, doctors, business men,
and men of property. The leader of the Federal
Laborists could certainly buy up half-a-dozen
of the cheaper class of Tories opposed to him
—not that he would have any use for them
when they were bought. Some of the
distinctly wealthy men of politics are in the
ranks of the Labor party or of the Protectionist
Democrats who are allied with them —in fact,
some of the wealthiest. This applies equally in
State politics ; for years about the richest man in
the Victorian Assembly was a Labor member.
On the other hand, Toryism has a quaint habit of
returning strange and impecunious raggamuffins
to pose as the props of Property and commercial
stability; quite a number of members who profess
to represent the class with a stake in the country
possess nothing outside their Parliamentary pay
except their superciliousness and their debts, and
possibly a begging or borrowing connection or a
relative to loaf on. And, having returned these
dead beats to Parliament, Toryism makes sapient
remarks about the advisability of sending solid
men and not mere adventurers to the numerous
Legislatures of Australia. It is quite serious, too,
when it talks in this way.
• * • •
The Tory lie about the intention of the Labor
party to abolish the marriage tie, and break up
the home, and desecrate the hearth, wasn’t robust
enough to last out the campaign, and even the
Sydney Telegraph, finding the thing was dead,
has just made a virtue of necessity by repudiating
the corpse. The lie about the same party’s pur-
pose of shutting out all immigrants is also pretty
dead now ; the fact that it carried its devastating
law, and the said law last year only shut out 106
people out of 48,049 arrivals, made this cnce
brilliant fiction look seriously unwell. But the
great lie about the proposed general confiscation
of land is still going" strong—in fact it is, at
present, about the most serviceable weapon in the
Tory arsenal. In this matt' r the Labor party
proposes to let all estates worth less than £5OOO go
free, which is a great deal better luck than such
properties have in England. Above that, the tax
begins at |d in the £ and ends at 4d., so a man
with £lO,OOO worth of land will pay an average of
in the £, and a man with £60,000 worth will
average about 2d. or in the £. In
both cases, even with all local imposts thrown
in, the burden of taxation will be lower
than it is in beautiful England. If the land-
owner, with a £60,000 or £lOO,OOO estate,
likes to hold on to his property, and pay the tax,
he will still be as well off as most of his species in
Europe ; if he wants to escape the tax he can do
it by selling his property in £OOOO allotments,
which, being under the tax limit, will maintain
their full original value. It is a scheme—a pain-
fully moderate scheme—to provide land for small
farmers (land, however, for which they will have
to pay), and to so vastly increase their numbers
that their votes at the poll will make any scheme
of confiscation impossible. Nevertheless, this
confiscation lie is going very strong in the litera-
ture of Anti-Sosh just now, and the rank and file
of Anti-Sosh, to a great extent, honestly believes
in it. This says a great deal for the believing
capacity of Anti-Sosh.
There are small, subsidiary lies, too, some of
which look almost too ridiculous for belief. One
of them concerns a scheme for taking all children
from their parents and rearing them in State
nurseries. -Another—which is probably based on
the proposal to adopt the long-tried banking
policy of conservative Canada, which requires the
banks to hold a proportion of their local cash
reserves in Federal paper money, and to create
out of the proceeds of the scheme a fund for
paying off the public debt without taxation —is a
vague whoop re the proposed stealing of bank
deposits. There is a small, creeping, muddled
lie about the intended seizure of all businesses by
the Government; and a large, wild-eyed lie which
is waving its arms and shouting at the top of its
voice, and which concerns a general device for
the immediate division of property, with a re-
division every Saturday night. And there is a
small dead lie about the imprisonment of Six
Hatters, but it is very dead now and hardly worth
noticing. : -
» « • *
As a matter of fact, there is not one proposal in
the Labor or Democratic programme which hasn’t
been tried elsewhere, and proved eminently
successful and a powerful aid to prosperity. Most
of the proposals have been tried in countries which
are highly conservative in their political institu-
tions ; it sometimes happens that it is the country
where many traces of absolutism still linger that
is most radical in its industrial and social legisla-
tion. All the proposals for Federal old age pensions,
the breaking up of great estates, Federal issue of
paper money, Government banking, national-
isation of monopolies, &c., can be seen in full
working order in Germany, Austria, Denmark,
Canada, or elsewhere, though the rich Tory
globe-trotter from this side drifts through these
countries and never notices any of them. And as
the rich Tory is the most unlettered, as well
as the most unobservant of men, he doesn’t
read of these things any more th-n he sees
them. Consequently lie is often quite serious in his
belief that they are raving experiments of a per-
fectly new description. The lies of Anti-Sosh fall
on fertile ground, and are manured by Tory
ignorance and irrigated by Tory stupidity.
• * • •
The strength of the anti-Sosh campaign really
lies in ignorance. In Australia the working-man,
in nine cases out of ten, knows something and has
read a good deal ot political economy, and his
wife often takes an intelligent interest in the
matter, and knows something also. On the other-
hand, the gilded female of Darling Point or
Toorak, as a rule, knows as much of such matters
as an aborigine—no more and no less. She
is full of a blatant superiority, based on
her hat and her clothes, her furniture,
her capacity for small talk, her piano-
strummings, her French (often very bad French),
and her Bridge parties, but her literature is mostly
novels and fashion intelligence, and Maky Ann in
the kitchen is generally a dozen times more fit to
exercise a vote intelligently than her mistress in
the drawing-room. And the male of this same
species is often just as low in the intellectual grade
as his feminine belongings. As a fair sample of
their joint intelligence, a year or two ago a tale
wandered round the fashionable dinner-tables of
Sydney—it may still be wandering round for all
this writer knows to the contrary—about how a
gentleman who sheared his friend’s pet sheep for
a jest was fined £lO in a Sydney police court for
not being a member of the Shearers’ Union. The
origin of the fable was plain enough ; the sheep
was a client, and the man who was fined did some
legal work for him, thereby infringing the cast-
iron rules of the legal trades-union of which
Beuce Smith is an unsuccessful and long-winded
ornament. But Darling Point and similar locali-
ties took the impossible yarn in dead earnest;
their ignorance was too vast to see its incon-
gruities.
• * • •
And the bagman, the merchant, the accountant
—all the members of the vast class which hangs
round commerce in its various aspects, barring
the Hebrew members, who present many honor-
able exceptions to an otherwise dishonorable rule
—are, in the main, just as blankly unintelligent
as the other elements of Toryism. It was their
crude ignorance, and their incapacity for any-
thing resembling intelligent conversation, which
made Governor Beauchamp turn his back
on the commercial snobs who formerly ran
Goverment House, and commercial snobdom
never forgave him for it. After much meeting
and travelling with this class, the writer
reckons that out of 40 commercial travellers
encountered at random, the average pans out at
39 Tories, and 38 bagmen who never in all their
lives read a work on any aspect of political
economy. These men firmly believe, being guiltless
of any of the inner aspects of modern history,
that all the items of the Australian Democratic
programme are raw and frenzied inventions,
concocted on the spot, and matters which
no country ever tried or dreamed of trying. And
the bagman’s employer is usually on the bagman
level. Against the child-like ignorance, the abori-
ginal credulity, and the overbearing self-com-
placence of Society and its wife or Com-
merce and its female there is little room for
argument. They are a blank wall. Anti-
Socialism, as it calls itself, is the creed of
a class whose education in current events
consists —apart from the buying and selling done
by the male bagman in business hours—mostly of
clothes, small talk, social functions, races, and, as
regards the richer section, travel and a wide
acquaintance with the hotels of the earth; and
its members have an immovable confidence that
these things qualify them to govern the country.
If the feminine half of them has any lingering
doubts, it arms itself with a scrap of misheard
and misunderstood information picked up from
Bp.uce Smith at an afternoon-tea function, and
then rushes forth to do and dare all things in order
to get Kelly back into Parliament.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Whom to Vote For.
The three Federal leaders have spoken in opening
the electoral campaign, and the net result is not
very satisfactory. G. Reid-Cook has made a
number of vague remarks about a tiger, and Has
promised to restore Constitutional Government,
bv which, it is understood, is meant G. Reid in
office and Cook as Chairman of Committees or
Whip, or something else small and umbie—
such a job as generally falls to the man who
does the bullocking. Watson has put forward
a programme the essence of which is Federal
progressive land taxation, to force the mono-
polised areas of Australia into cultivation,
though the extreme moderation of his tax is a
drawback. Deakin has announced the policy of
his Government as High Protection ; he promises
to give the Commonwealth a tariff which will
practically cure the importing disease and keep
Australia’s work for the Australian people. On
other points of policy Deakin and Watson are
about equally commendable. Each offers a
vigorous progressive programme ; neither suggests
any retracing of the steps already taken to secure
this continent for a white race enjoying full poli-
tical and industrial liberty. But Australia wants
both the High Protection offered by Deakin,
and the Land Taxation offered by Watson—
rather more, in fact, than Watson offers.
It wants both so urgently and both are so
easily feasible that there is reason to grumble
at the cantankerousness of the fate which
makes it necessary to choose between the two
policies when obviously the two leaders should
have pooled policies and personalities, and be
offering together all that they now propose
separately. But, since the position must be faced
as it is, not as it should be, The Bulletin puts
forward this advice to the electors. When in a
constituency a serious candidate is offering who
favors both High Protection and Land Taxation
vote for him, whether he is for Deakin or
Watson. If it is necessary to choose between a
High Protectionist and a Land Taxer, vote for the
Protectionist. The tariff question is a shade
more urgent than the land question. It must be
settled one way or the other by the coming Parlia-
ment, for the coming Parliament will receive the
reports of the Tariff Commission, and it must
therefore, if a satisfactory decision is to be come
to, be a decisively Protectionist one. It may
then happen the Deakin and W atson programmes
will be affirmed—that a majority of the members
returned will favor both High Protection and a
Federal Land-Tax. That majority will be in a
measure divided by party bonds, but party
arrangements in the new Parliament may make a
union of forces possible, and thus give to Aus-
tralia both the essentials to security and pros-
perity. Meanwhile, the patriotic elector should
keep his attention fixed on the tariff issue as the
one of greatest importance.
♦
The Socialistic Nobbier.
The proposal made in N.S.W. Assembly, that
municipalities should be empowered to take over
and run the grog business within their own limits,
moved Sydney Telegraph to a laboriously comio
article, headed, “The Socialistic Nobbier,” with
heavy things like this in it: —
If every employee, from the pot-boy to the manager,
had a vote for the election of the alderman who fixed his
salary, and every customer could bring political influence
to bear on the men who determined the size and price of his
nobbier, profits would necessarily become harder to make.
And when the inevitable loss came, it would fall upon the
ratepayers, irrespective of their opinions regarding the
liquor question. The teetotallers would therefore be put
underthe necessity of buying nobblers for the drinkers.
The aldermen, of course, would be deadheads, like mem-
bers of Parliament on the railways, as in what other way
could they be expected to supervise the quality of the
liquor sold, and make themselves practically acquainted
with the wants of their constituents ? It would be their
privilege to be shouted for by the Good Templar rate-
payer out of a special bottle, and the thirst of the in-
fluential constituent immediately before election-time
would require to be assuaged from the same source.
Sydney Evening News had a spasm of this same
kind of bulky foolishness a while ago, and
issued pictures showing the State-owned ship with
the captain washing the deck and the cook on the
bridge, and other plantigrade jokes of the same
order. Of course this sort of thing is lamentably
incomplete, inasmuch as it always deals with the
imaginary future, and never with the real present.
The Tory press ought to point its moral and
decorate its tale with views of the State-owned
railways, with the Chief Commissioner stoking
the engine and the greaser sitting in the Com-
missioner’s office and taking a turn at running the
show. Also, there should be a thrilling and
truthful picture of the State-owned Savings Bank,
with the general public sitting on the counter in
negligent attitudes, smoking, conversing and
pawing the books, the Domain dosser looking
into the cash-box, a confused meeting of deposi-
tors outside fixing the rate of interest at 10 per
cent., and members of Parliament helping them-
selves to overdrafts. Also, the State-owned army
might be shown, with the General scrubbing the
floor and Private Jones supervising him; and
the State-owned tramways, with everybody riding
free, and Mart Ann, on her day out, taking a
turn at driving. But with all the pictures
that Toryism supplies about the comic-opera
chaos that must come if any new business
is undertaken by the State, there is a complete
absence of allusion to any similar condition of
things in those businesses that the State runs
already. Also there is no allusion at all to
the very well-conducted liquor shops m such
countries as Sweden and Russia, where drink-
selling is partly or wholly a public mono-
poly. The Telegraph is quite prepared to
demonstrate that public control of the liquor trade
must lead to a whirlwind of free drinks and con-
sequent loss; but in the same issue it alleges that
public control of telephones doesn’t lead to a
whirlvvind of free ’phone ; it says instead that the
State is raising the price of ’phone, and that it is
making large profits out of the business which it
shouldn’t make. Also these same papers that
picture any proposed new State department as
being, of necessity, a cheerful drinky bear-garden,
where Jack is as good as his master, are always
wailing that in existing State departments disci-
pline is too rigid, and that the condition is one of
red tape instead of bear-garden. The Tory press
is very hard to satisfy.
4.
Reid Goes Fishing.
G. Reid lately finished a tour through the Vic-
torian Western District, in the interests of the
Dear Land Party, and the squatters and
rich landlords feted him and strewed flowers in
his path, and hailed him hoarsely as their cham-
pion and protector. Reid’s chief text, of course,
was anti-Sosh, and he worked the leg-weary
animal to death. At Terang, for example, his
Speech was one long anti-Sosh scream, and
included the following pearl: —
If I lend a man my boat and oars and bait and lines to
go fishing, and he catches two fish ; when he comes in I
am surely entitled to one ? But if he is a Socialist he will
say: “ You are a robber; I caught those two fish myself.”
The simile is one of those crafty, specious, and
unfair illustrations that the Tory leader is a
master of. Reid was speaking to a body of the
richest landlords in Australia —men who are
rolling in wealth as the result of the labor of
others. They have lent their boats and bait, in
the shape of land, to workers who, on returning,
find all but a prawn taken from them. In most
cases just enough prawn is left to the man who
caught the fish to enable him to keep alive for the
purpose of catching more. Nob one of these
landlords would dream, as George hints, of
dividing the catch equally. It is much the same
regarding the wealthy farmers who are fighting
under the anti-Sosh banner. These men pay
their employees 15s. or £1 a week, and get in re-
turn 12 or 14 hours work daily. So, out of every
10 fish the employees catch, the boss allows them
to keep one, and they have to eat the bones and
scales to keep going. The Labor party, which
the unscrupulous Tory orator represents as want-
ing all the fish, would be quite content if the
worker got half of what he helps to produce.
At present it gets only a small fraction, and has
to battle hard for that.
A Memo from America.
The “ White Australia ” principle is not safe. It
never will be whilst inside our borders there are
greedy capitalists who think nothing of Australia
and everything of cheap, servile labor; and blas-
phemous parsons who, for the sake of the man
who can put a sovereign in the plate, will drag
Heaven in as a Devil’s Advocate for slavery. It
is well, therefore, that the Australian Labor
party puts, as the first plank of its plat-
form for the coming elections, “ the mainten-
ance of a White Australia.” The fact shows
vigilance, and eternal vigilance is the best safe-
guard against any attempt to interfere with a
decision which clearly represents the will of the
majority, but which will never be assented to by a
certain minority, and which would be in grave
danger of destruction if the Reid party should
happen to get into office. And it is well, also,
that, on the eve of the elections, there should
come from the United States of America news of
the Atlanta outrages as a warning to Australia of
the inevitable results of bringing a colored race to
live side by side with a white people. America
to-day pays a heavy price for the greed of the early
settlers who introduced negro labor from Africa.
The negro population remains, not to be absorbed
except at the price of reducing the white civilisa-
tion to the level of the Republic of Hayti, its in-
creasing numbers a source of constant anxiety, its
repression to a semi-servile position necessary
but only possible by continued tyranny and
remorseless cruelty. Give the negro in the United
States the rights of education, marriage, social
intercourse, and the franchise —which he is sup-
posed to have as a citizen of the Republic, and
which he thinks he should have—and it is farewell
to white civilisation, and the most powerful white
race on earth steps down from its throne to
wallow in the gutter, where all mixed breeds lie
prone. So the negro is kept down. He is barred
from the white man’s schools, assembly places,
trains, and churches. The vote he is supposed
to have is hustled from him. In the States where
he is best known, he dare not court a white woman
and hope to live, even if his idea is marriage. The
rope, and the stake with its pile of kerosened fire-
wood, are always waiting for him when his natu-
ral ferocity brings him to trespass against the
white man’s laws. In America the very school
children are familiarised with the spectacle of
gross and horrible murders of negroes; and a
proud father tells of the “cuteness” of his kid,
who, a nigger being in question, rallies his school
mates, and, with a bit of clothes-line, starts out
for a lynching. It is all most horrible ; and it is
all just about inevitable. The sins Of the
fathers are being visited on the children
unto the fourth and succeeding generations.
The unholy greed of the white man brought
the negro to America. The white man pays now
by having his nation debased by crimes which
revolt humanity, but which are hardly anything
less than necessary, and which jvhite Australians
(or any other whites) would commit under the
same circumstances. But Australia being warned
must guard against such circumstances arising. A
White Australia will never have to fry a nigger
at the stake.
♦
Victoria’s Squirarchy.
Thomas Bent seems to be in downright earnest
over his scheme for obtaining a large area of the
fertile, but at present uncultivated, Western Dis-
trict of Victoria for purposes of closer settle-
ment. The big landowners in that region got
their land in the early days at a nominal
figure. They have waxed fat and wealthy on the
increase of this land, and for land-taxation pur-
poses they have valued it at 25., 2s. (id., and 4s. 6d.
an acre. Still, when asked to sell to the State or
anyone else, they have wanted from £7 to £4O an
acre, and in many cases have refused to sell at
all. These men are the persons who have created
in the Western District a squirarchy on English
lines—persons who require that everything that
walks or creeps on their land shall touch
its hat to them, call them “sir,” and work
for no wages, or next to none. These same squires
every year troop off to Hingland with their wives,
or their friends’ wives, and spend much of their
incomes junketting abroad. They are useless to
the State. They are vampires that fatten on it,
and at the same time prevent other people from
using to some good purpose the land they hold but
do not cultivate. Then there are other land-
owners, whom Bent last week described thusly
There are other large areas of country owned by people
to whose properties we have built railways, and we want
to get some produce to carry on the railways. You can
go for miles and miles by rail and never see a house or
hut of any kind. We have to keep the railways, and the
promises that were made that, with the railways, they
would have production, have not been kept. They are
waiting for the land to go up, and they put a few sheep
on it to keep them going ; and meanwhile we get nothing
for our railways. These are some of the lands that we
purpose to take compulsorily.
The Victorian Closer Settlement Act gives the
State power to compulsorily purchase the land,
and Bent has sent notices out to the owners of
five large estates, informing them that they will be
dealt with under that Act. But this sort of thing
sounds better than it is. The machinery for com-
pulsory purchase under the Closer Settlement Act
is absurdly unwieldy and complicated. The land-
owner who refuses to sell may be reported, eight
weeks after an offer is made, to the Minister.
(The Closer Settlement Board does the reporting.)
The Minister has to go to Parliament and get
both Houses to pass a resolution for compulsory
purchase. In the very improbable event of the
Council not blocking the way, business may then
be said to have begun. The Minister next directs
the Board to acquire the land ; but the Board has
a lot to do before it can obey the Minister.
The owner can keep £lO,OOO worth of land if
he likes, and the Board has to find out whether
he means to like or not. The owner is
served with an intimation of the Board’s inten-
tion to purchase. He files with the Supreme
Court a copy of his claim and the name of his
arbitrator, and within 14 days of that the Board
nominates its arbitrator. These two arbitrators,
with a Judge of the Supreme Court as umpire, are
the Compensation Board. The Board takes evi-
dence as to the value of the land at the date
of the Board’s ultimatum to the landlord, the
value of improvements, the amount of land
the Board is entitled to take, and the
amount the owner is entitled to retain. When
it does come to a decision, and costs have
been paid, and the purchase money handed over,
the matter is settled. That is to say, the State,
by all this circumlocution, at last achieves the joy
of acquiring the land at fully twice its value. The
value is artificially enhanced by the fact that the
land is exempted from its fair share of State
taxation, that it pays only a fraction of the local
taxation that is levied on the city worker, that
its produce is carried per rail at far lower rates
than other produce, that it has been opened up
by roads and railways for which the landlord
didn’t pay—in fact, the State policy has mostly
consisted in artificially boosting the value of land,
by exemptions and indirect bonuses and sub-
sidies. The State has paid all these things to
make land absurdly dear, and when it buys it has
to pay the landlord all over again for doing these
things for him. And even when it is willing to
pay him as much as the most arrogant thief could
ask, the process of securing the land is as long
and complicated as an ancient suit in Chancery.
The Federal graduated land-tax is the one thing
that will meet the case.
The Political Half Loaf.
One of the axioms that political Labor Leagues
should write in their hat-bands is that concerning
half a loaf and no bread. The Vic. Assembly has
just passed a Boilers’ Inspection Bill, but had it
not been for the pig-headedness of Premier Tom
Bent, who blustered better than he knew, good
friends in the L ibor ranks would probably have
overlaid the infant measure, as the loving mother,
who will not be parted from her little darling,
suffocates it in the night. Five years ago,
a Boilers’ Inspection Bill, almost a replica of the
present measure, was introduced by Premier
Peacock. There was no hostility to it. At least
nobody was game to be openly hostile. All that
was needed was to sit still and call out “ Aye ” as
each clause was reached. But, unfortunately for
the measure, and still more unfortunately for 15
people who have been blown up since Peacock’s
time, one or two enthusiastic supporters had pre-
pared elaborate speeches on the subject in
anticipation of the Bill being opposed. That
there was no opposition made no difference.
The speeches were there, and the horny-
throated representatives of the people had to
get them into Hansard. They succeeded in
doing this, and at the same time they suc-
ceeded in killing the Bill. It was the
end of the season, other measures were crowding
round, and the Boilers’ Inspection Bill was edged
overboard in the scramble. If the constituencies
had any sense they would have passed out for life
the persons who sacrificed such an important
measure to gratify their personal vanity ; but
some of the offenders are still filling plinths as the
tribunes of the people. With other short-sighted
members of their party these persons very nearly
finished the same Bill in the third reading debate
last week. The present measure provides for in-
spection in cities, towns and boroughs, leaving to
the butter factory proprietor and the saw-miller
and the other good old primary producers the right
to blow up their employees as of old. This blot is
partly erased by another provision, that the Gover-
nor-in-Council may extend the Act to any shire or
any trade as may be deemed necessary. Just here
two things stuck out :
(1) To attempt to include the blessed primary producer
right off would furnish the House of Landlords with an
excuse, which it would almost certainly seize hold of, to
reject the whole thing.
(2) If the Bill passed in its present form, the next
step would be either to promptly beseige the Governor-
in-Council to extend its provisions to all trades, or, fail-
ing that, to try for a new Bill providing for the exten-
sion. In other words, the policy was to secure all the
boiler inspection now offering, and then demand more.
But some Laborites failed to see this, and, in their
honest but tactless enthusiasm, were pressing for
an extension which would probably have wrecked
the whole show in the House of Landlords, when
Bent came foaming to the rescue with aitchless
fury. Said Thomas: “I’ve ’ad enough of this
’ere waste o’ time. If you go on with this torkin’
I’ll withdraw the Bill. That’s the way to tune
you fellows up.” Tom’s solicitude for the practice
of blowing up farm employees by steam power had
its effect. The Laborites withdrew their amend-
ments before the froth was dry on Thomas’s
whiskers, and the result will probably show that
the rage of Thomas saved the measure. Whether
Thomas meant it to have that effect is another
question.
What Melbourne Eats.
One of the pet boasts of Melbourne City Council
has been the strictness and infallibity of its super-
vision of the city’s meat. Melbourne Board of
Public Health, presided over by Dr. Noiuus (who
doesn’t love the City Council) has lately taken the
public into its confidence on this matter, and
explained that a lot of the meat that goes into
consumption in Melbourne is unwholesome, and,
if not absolutely unfit for human consumption, it
is so close to it that it ought to be condemned.
The Melbourne City Council, has, of course, to
shoulder a lot of the responsibility for this ; but it
cheerfully passes on the most of the blame to
Tait, Commissioner of Railways. The meat in
question is brought into Melbourne dead. Beasts
are killed by farmers, and what the cocky can’t
eat is sewn up in a bag or a cal.co bandage, and
carted in the dirty old dray along a hot, dusty
road —the bag or calico embroidered with flies—to
the nearest railway station. There it is consigned
to some meat salesman in Melbourne, and every
Thursday one of Tait’s trains comes along to deal
with it. The meat is flung into Tait’s train and
rushed down to Spencer-street railway station.
There it is bumped out into the goods shed
along with rabbits, fowls, eggs, butter, fruit,
and all the other interesting varieties of goods
that are labelled “ perishable.” The perishable-
goods shed makes no special pretensions to speck-
less purity—indeed one side of it is the chaff shed,
in which all the chaff is unloaded. There are no
hooks to hang the meat on. It is dumped on the
floor of the shed, mixed up with all sorts of weird
objects. Most of the bag or calico that the
cocky sewed round it is worn off by
the time it gets to Melbourne, and it
becomes practically nude meat bounding
joyously on the naked floor. The sheds are
hot, and densely populated with flies. The
food remains in the perishable department until
Friday Inorning, when carts call and carry it off
to the sale-rooms. These carts are ordinary
carriers’ vans, and the meat is thrown into the
cart with a jumble of all sorts of articles.
It is dropped at the auctioneers’ rooms, and
inspected by the City Council inspector, and if it
has not gone glaringly bad, or contracted some
conspicuous disease on its journey, the “fit for
consumption ” brand is printed on it. Lots of
the meat is condemned as unfit; but the greater
portion of it is passed, and sold, and eaten. Yet
it is bruised and battered, and . covered with the
germs of Heaven only knows what diseases. This
is the cheap meat that is disposed of to the dealers
for a very moderate sum, and re-sold by them to
the consumer at the price of good meat. Appa-
rently it would not do to cut off from the cocky
the chance of disposing of his by-product by pro-
hibiting the sale of meat brought to the city in a
dead state, but a great deal can be done by a
rigorous system of inspection in the city, and a
great deal more by providing proper meat trucks
and meat sheds, so that the carcases and lumps of
carcases sent from the country may be handled
with the care and respect that is due to the
stomachs of the people.
«
The Naval Agreement With Britain.
The British Admiralty has neglected a fine
opportunity for doing a sensible thing. Alfred
the Affable, in an affable and singularly able
memorandum —a paper which deserves an honored
place in the Australian archives, even though it is
affable on a point about which many Australians
are more inclined to be angry—pointed out all the
disadvantages of the present Commonwealth naval
agreement with Britain, and invited the Admiralty
to take the initiative in bringing it to an end.
Wrote the Prime Minister :
The paramount importance of the navy to Australia may
be taken to be freely admitted. Nothing in this despatch
is intended to question it.
The present naval agreement is not, and never has
been, popular in the Commonwealth.
It has been approved in default of better means of in-
dicating our acceptance of Imperial responsibilities.
This attempt at joint naval action lias failed to elicit
a fraction of the supporb-that was spontaneously accorded
in all States when they despatched military contingents
to South Africa.
There is much truth in the customary interpretation
that its want of popularity is due to the fact that, ex-
cept to a small extent, none of our grant is applied to
any distinctly Australian purpose.
The squadron is not specially Australian, any more
than ifc‘is Anglp;lndian, or representative of the Straits
Settlements, to which it may be called at any time.
What is really required is that any defences, if they are to
be appreciated as Australian, must be distinctly of that
character.
No Commonwealth patriotism is aroused while we
merely supply funds that disappear in the general ex-
penditure of the Admiralty. The Imperial sentiment
languishes, too, since the squadron is rarely seen in most
of our ports, and then only by a small proportion of the
population.
In effect, then, he goes on to beg the Admiralty
to drop the agreement, offering that, in return,
Australia will spend the money thus saved, and
more, in a direction which will lead.to far more
real help to the Imperial navy in time of trouble.
But the British Admiralty refused to see it. That
Above Crow’s Nest (Sydney).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A blanket low and leaden,
Though rent across the west,
Whose darkness seems to deaden
The brightest and the best;
A sunset white and staring
On cloud-wrecks far away—
And haggard house-walls glaring
A farewell to the day.
A light on tower and steeple,
Where sun no longer shines—
My people, O my people !
Rise up and read the signs !
Low looms the nearer high-line
(No sign of star or moon),
The horseman on the skyline
Rode hard this afternoon !
(Is he —and who shall know it?—
The spectre of a scout ?
The spirit of a poet,
Whose truths were met with doubt ?
Who sought and who succeeded
In marking danger’s track —
Whose warnings were unheeded
Till all the sky was black ?)
It is a shameful story
For our young, generous home—
Without the rise and glory
We’d go as Greece and Rome.
Without the sacrifices
That make a nation’s name,
The elder nation’s vices
And luxuries we claim.
Grown vain without a conquest,
And sure without a fort,
And maddened in the one quest
For pleasure or for sport.
Self-blinded to our starkness
We’d fling the time away
To fight, half-armed, in darkness
Who should be armed to-day.
This song is for the city,
The city in its pride—
The coming time shall pity
And shield the countryside.
Shall we live in the present
Till fearful war-clouds loom,
And till the sullen peasant
Shall leave us to our doom ?
Cloud-fortresses titanic
Along the western sky—
The tirbd, bowed mechanic
And pallid clerk flit by.
Lit by a light unhealthy—
The ghastly after-glare—
The veiled and goggled wealthy
Drive fast—they know not where.
Night’s sullen spirit rouses,
The darkening gables lour
From ugly four-roomed houses
Verandah’d windows tower;
The last long day-stare dies on
The scrub-ridged western side.
And round the near horizon
The spectral horsemen ride.
N.S.Wi
HENRY LAWSON.


• w
Gaf&Kei
Belo/vgs no
no Trust or
Co/rvbirve
7*>APE in BELFAST
“ Sure , it takes
an Irishman to
fight the Tobacco
Trust , after all! ,i
the undignified agreement will one day—and that
soon—be ended is apparent. (If Deakin did not
make the fact apparent to the British Admiralty
it is more the fault of that body’s stupidity than
of Alfred’s affability). And it would be far better
if its denunciation came not from Australia, but
from Britain. Why has not the British person
more sense ?
♦
People tif Uneasy Virtue.
In Auckland (M.L.) the law, in the person of
-Kettle, magistrate, has decided that postcards
with pictures of “Psyche’s Bath” and “Psyche
at Nature’s Mirror,” are not indecent, and people
of uneasy virtue have had a bad set-back in con-
sequence. The evidence for the prosecution con-
sisted mostly of two Salvarmy adjutants and that
eminent art authority, the matron of the Door of
Hope, whose Salvation bonnet had been greatly
shocked and agitated by the works aforesaid.
Also, there were others who felt bad. On the
other hand, quite a number of citizens, including
teachers of art, journalists and clergymen, gave
evidence that the pictures had not a semblance of
indecency about them, and, after Kettle had
boiled down the facts of the case, he dismissed
the people of uneasy virtue. Morality of the un-
easy kind must be a dreadful thing to have about
If is necessary to be always thinking nude
thoughts, and considering the sins that the thinker
might commit if he weren’t much too good to dream
°f doing such a thing, before one is able to spot
alleged indecency with infallible accuracy. The
ordinary person never dreams that many things
he sees in passing are indecent, simply because
he isn t thinking of indecency. To be a really
dreadful moralist you have to be thinking of in-
decency all the time, and then you don’t pass
things by. The perfectly dreadful moralist doesn’t
read a beautiful poem in the ordinary way ; he
misses the beauty of it while running down the
initial letters to see if, possibly, there is an obscene
acrostic concealed in them ; and his first idea,
when he views a beautiful sunset, is to make sure
that the clouds don’t suggest by any chance a
nude figure, or something else that is reprehen-
sdile. These people miss a lot of the world’s
beauty; but, by way of compensation, they find
much garbage that the mere careless lover of
beauty overlooks. They miss the front of the
iaj Mahal or the Pantheon through hurrying
round to inspect fhe ash-barrel at the back ; but,
after all, they have their reward. They find ash-
barrels that other people overlook.
+ :
Briner, M.L. A., nearly obtained the opinion of
JM.o.W. Assembly the other night on an im-
portant subject, but was choked off, as usual, by
I arliamentary forms, ceremonies and gabble.
He proposed, simply, that Ministers should be
elected by the House to administer the various
departments for a fixed period. The idea has
much to recommend it, inasmuch as it would
abolish the daily scramble for office, and get rid
of the cumbrous fiction that the House must
approve of every important measure which the
Ministry proposes or else get rid of the Ministry.
Briner wanted the opinion of the House on the
matter. The House, probably, wanted its own
opinion as a matter of curiosity. But talk went
on till private members’ time was exhausted, and
“ the debate was adjourned.” It may get a
chance to come on again and be adjourned again,
or it may never come on again. Hansard is
full of fragments of debates which never came
to anything—all waste of time and gas.
Parliament is like a shop devoted to the
sale of half-books, or odd boots, or unfinished pic-
tures, and it is impossible to suppose that there
are not ways of clearing up those remnants. One
way would be to provide that, if a member
put his motion without any speech, no other
member should be allowed to speak either, thus
making it possible to get the definite opinion of
the House on any subject inside five minutes.
Another idea would be to have a call of the House
at the end of the session, when all the unsettled
questions on the business paper would be put to
the vote without debate. As things are, the
member who wants to get the opinion of the
Assembly on any subject has hardly a chance to do
it unless he circularises his collective fellow-
M.L.A. by postcard, or asks him his views in
the refreshment-room. Something should be done
to put the House of Odd Boots and Half-Books
and Unfinished Pictures on a more coherent basis
than this.
«
More cries for Socialism and State interference.
This is the S.M. Herald’s “ On the Land ” page,
calling out for Government enterprise and the
coddling of the farmer :
“ Inquirer,” a Shoalhaven dairyman, writing on Tues-
day, urged the Government to adopt the Victorian
system of building cheap tub silos for farmers on easv
terms. When a Shoalhaven man wants conserved fodder
it is a fair indication of the necessity in the State o-ener-
ally. This suggested initiative by'the Agricultural De-
partment cannot be too strongly advocated. In Victoria
the scheme has been all that was expected. . . . The
Government should at once give the question attention.
There is no new principle to be adopted. The urgency
of wire-netting to protect grasses and crops is no greater
than the urgency to conserve them when they are grown.
The success of the Southern system could be tested and
checked by an officer of the department in a few davs,
and we could without delay make an offer of the same’
sort to New South Wales farmers.
Again, the Associated Nurserymen and Seed
Merchants met in Sydney and cried out for the
State to regulate competition in their business
In the opinion of this conference it is desirable that
all nurseries should be licensed by the departments
of agriculture of each State where the nurseries are
located ; that Government examinations be compulsory ;
and that the definition of a nursery be a place where
plants are grown for sale, or for free distribution.
A lot of these anti-Socialists will be wanting to
be washed by the State soon.
The first batch of Kanakas was recently shipped
home to the islands from Queensland, under the
new no-nigger law. The poor, badly-used fellows
had had gallons of tears spilled over them; and
the people who love the niggers, and the parsons
who call them brothers, and whose “ hearts have
gone out to them” (vide almost any church-
conference report) overloaded them with atten-
tion and sympathy in their last moments in
Australia. Many of the sympathisers, believing
that the islanders are going back to certain
death, and that they will be hacked to pieces
and probably eaten, attended them with
as much pity and fervor as if they were
condemned men on the morning of execution.
There were, as might have been expected
under the circumstances, many touching farewells.
At least, all this ought to have happened if the
nigger-lover and the human cataracts who have
shed all these tears weren’t arrant humbugs. As
a matter of fact, all the attention the departing
contingent got was from the harpies, female and
male, and largely Jap, who fleeced them in their
last hours, at Cairns especially ; and the only
place where anyone came down to the coast to
see them off was at Lucinda Point, where their
religious teacher arrived as a matter of duty with
the batch from Ingham.
%
The importing mania has heard something about
itself within the last few days. Geelong (Vic.)
Harbor Board some time ago bought from the
Natal Government two dredges—the Walrus and
the Octopus. Both were aged and second-hand
drudges of the sea, but the Geelong Board reckoned
it had struck quite an idea when it obtained a pair
of venerable toilers which had cost £33,000 each
for £BOOO apiece. The Board spent a good many
thousands m equipping its craft for the voyage to
Australia. The Walrus left early in August, and
has never been heard of since. It had 16 people
aboard, and 650 tons of coal. It may have turned
turtle, or it may have been blown down round the
South Pole, or it may be still doing the exhausted
grampus act in the Indian Ocean. The Octopus left
Durban on October 13, and on October 14 the cheap
old bargain went down off the Tugela River, three
people being drowned. Geelong Harbor Board
will now, perhaps, have its dredges constructed in
Victoria, even if it pays a shade more. The dead
and bottomless dredge may cost very little, but it
is of very little use when it arrives, and it often
never arrives at all. Victoria has been putting up
something of a record of late, as the Juggins
State, which buys up broken sea-implements that
no one else will look at.
The Federal Arbitration Court gets fairly to work
in November under Justice O’Connor. It is a
marine case. The officers of the Union S.S. Co.
ask that on inter-State and South Sea Island
boats the brass-buttoned officials shall receive
from £2O a month for the chief buttoned person
down to £lO a month for a humble fourth officer,
with £1 less all round on coastal boats and £2 less
on cargo craft. Also, they ask for some con-
cessions as to hours, overtime work in port, and
so on. Looked at all round the demands seem
reasonable. Even the second officer of a cargo
boat is expected to bo infallible. A general may
lose a battle, and an archbishop may get mixed
up in his orthodoxy, and a doctor may muddle a
patient to death within reasonable limits, with-
out the general being reduced to a corpora], or the
archbishop to a curate, or the doctor being turned
into an apothecary’s boy. Even the editor who
runs into gross libel isn’t reduced to printer’s
devil. But the marine officer who blunders
his ship aground just once has a fair chance to
have his certificate hung up for 12 months, and if
he wants to follow the sea in the interval he has
to be a plain foremast hand. To be infallible at
rather less than £3 10s. a week seems moderate
enough. The only other person in all the world
of whom as much perfection is expected is the
Pope, and he gets a better salary, and is the sole
judge of his own infallibility. If there was a
Marine Board to sit on him every time he got on
a shoal, his certificate might also totter in the
balance at times—if a, Pope has a certificate.
Presumably he has, being the successor of Peter,
able seaman.
On a motion that the State, in Queensland, should
take up the business of iron smelting and steel
making, Premier Kidston said that Private
Enterprise would do it more profitably. Private
Enterprise could also run the post office more
profitably—by charging 3d. a letter. Also it
could run the water supply business more profit-
ably ; at Broken Hill, where it does run the
business, Private Enterprise pays anything up to
15 per cent, in dividends by the simple plan of
charging ss. per 1000 gallons for water. The real
(Question is, not who can make most money out of
it, but whether iron and steel are national neces-
saries; and since a nation can’t do without
them, and live in anything but the state
of our black brother Bill, they obviously are.
And, in that case, the nation’s business is to hand
them over, not to the party that wants to make
the most profit out of them for itself, but to the
authority that wants to make the least for
itself and leave the most for the com-
munity. And that authority certainly isn’t
Private Enterprise. Anyhow, Private Enter-
prise, even in Queensland, has had 60 years to do
it, and the thing isn’t done yet; and to wholly
trust to the same sort of enterprise to do it now
looks like blazing folly.
There has come to light a letter of
George Reid’s, written in 1875, to the Cobden
Club, in which he predicted the early abolition of
Protection in Australia. George is a deplorable
prophet, but, after 31 years of unvarying failure,
he is as ready with his prophecies as ever.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “ A Sailor’s Knot.”
Her Majesty's “ The Christian.”
Criterion* “ The Rake’s Wife.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
Town Hall Dolores.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Little Stranger.”
Her Majesty’s “The Belle of New Y*ork.”
Theatre Royal. “ The Lady Slavey.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall Leslie Harris.
Fitzgeralds’ Building.. Bostock and Wombwell’s Show.
Alexandra Avenue.... Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. Dreamland (opening Nov. 3).
♦
Show item by “ Spring ” :
Australia’s principal Gloomy Sunday Afternoon enter-
tainer commenced his brief season, at Sydney Lyceum,
under favorable weather conditions. In the morning the
glorious sunshine called the city to come out and play in
it; the birds begged for an audience to hear them
sing ; and the waters of the harbor enticed the people
to discard their garments and to come and be washed.
But in the afternoon there arose from the South, from
which direction Judkins hails, murky storm clouds like
the coat-tails of parsonical garments, and there were
dark, clammy gamps in the sky, and hags of sinister
aspect rode on the wind. The storm thundered and spat
sudden drops of moisture on the land, and seemed to
warn the people that cleanliness and sunshine were
unholy, and that the bird music was frivolous in
comparison with the groans of the church organ.
In short, the elements commanded the people to come
and hear Judkins and be gloomy. And the people rose up
in their wrath, and refused to hear Judkins. He fell flat.
Sydney churches don’t want Juddy encroaching on their
share of the limelight. Only the bobtail sects from ob-
scure Bethels hail him as a draw. His card announced that
“ JUDKINS (editor of Review of Reviews) will Hold Up
To PUBLIC SCORN those responsible for the Social Evil. ’’
Why drag in the poor old Review, unless it is that Juddy
follows the advice of the Ul-inade Son to his Badlv-
selected Parent, to get his goods before the public gaze
at any cost? The few people who occupied seats in the
al-ge theatre made manifest the number that didn’t. The
little audience apparently came to enthusiastically clap a
fair vocalist, who sat on the platform far removed
from Judkins, and out of the possible egg zone. She
had a pleasant Sunday afternoon hat, and a dream of a
brolly. And she sang a song to the Philistines, a beauti-
ful song with a sweet, far, far-away note in it, so that
one Philistine found himself longing to offer her his
hand, heart, and bullion, in order that they could go
where that sweet song came from—somewhere across a
big, deep sea, wherein they could drop Judkins with
a great “ plunk ” as they went.
*# * #
If Judkins on Sunday was only a mild
frost, Judkins on Monday, at Sydney Centenary
Hall, was a calamity. Juddy was feverish.
Jud lost his head, and saw an enemy in every
bush and a possible assassin behind every twig.
He commenced apparently with the assumption
that the meeting was a gathering of enemies,
hired at great expense by parties unknown, to
suppress and, possibly, slay Judkins. He was a
martyr defying the lion that wasn’t there. He
seemed to feel that he had only a few minutes in
which to denounce Sin before he died, and he
denounced it. As he assumed that his audience
was all Sin he addressed it as if it were a
pickpocket, and it grew resentful. Perfectly
peaceful citizens who asked perfectly respect-
ful questions were snapped at as if they
had poked borak at a lion. The meeting’
grew angrier and more turbulent, and Judkins
grew more irresponsible and more desperately
wound-up to face his impending death. He
became a whirling wind-mill of a Judkins, and
the end was confusion. Any old political veteran,
accustomed to handling audiences, could have
spoken Judkins’ piece to that crowd without any
trouble, but an audience objects to being hustled.
And Judkins hustled it in a weak, flustered way
that was wholly devoid of tact.
** # *
Charles Waldron will Storm and Ola
Humphrey will Quayle for the first time at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday. Judging by
“ The Squaw Man ” the Storm will he good, but
the Quayle will be better. Anyhow*, Sydney has
seen what Mr. Waldron can do, but “The Squaw
Man ” gave Miss Humphrey no chance; so it
awaits “The Christian ” with a good deal more
interest than when it awaited Mr. Judkins.
** * *
“A Sailors Knot” continues to unravel
its interesting story' at Sydney Royal, and to
bear up bravely against a rising thermometer.
As soon as the weather warms in Sydney there is
a strong temptation to the average citizen to take
his girl out where cool breezes blow over lovely
landscapes; and that interferes with theatrical
business. But the merits of the present show at
the Royal are strong enough to even counteract
that tendency.
* * *
“ The Fatal Wedding ” Breathes the Voice
over the lady who is cold meat for the last time
on Friday, and on Saturday “ The Rake’s Wife”
will be staged at Sydney Cri. It’s a title which
promises much, and the promise is, in a way,
heightened by the news that the host of little
children who gave so much attraction to “The
Fatal Wedding ” will appear also in this show.
Are they the evidences of the Rake’s giddy career
in the past or not ? For answer, apply at the box-
office. What is certain is that that slick infant,
Maisie Posner, has a star part and will be, pre-
sumably, as pert and pretty as usual.
** * #
“ The ‘ Dear ’ Doctor,” described as a fine
farce, starts at Sydney Palace for one week, com-
mencing Saturday next. Blandford Wright, who
is directing the show, has got together a company
which includes Misses Jean Maclurcan, Yera
Wallis, Gladys Eaton, Constance Butler, Greta
Koosachi and Constance Hadfield. Profits go to
charities. Also, “The Emperor,” an entirely origi-
nal comic opera—music by W. Arundel Orchard,
libretto by W. J. Curtis—will be staged at Sydney
Palace, on Nov. 7, for a brief season. Sydney
is one of the half-dozen cities of the world which
ought to.provide inspiration for writers of opera,
and its surroundings are cheerful enough to justify
that opera in being comic. The measure of success
won recently by “ The Coquette ” (from the same
authors) gives great hope for this, their more
matured work. “The Emperor ” will be presented
with a good cast and adorned by special scenery.
Seats may be booked now at Paling’s.
* * *
The departing and dimpled Dolores opens
a return and final season, in Sydney Town Hall,
this afternoon, with a matinee. Then she takes
her haunting smile to the Centenary Hall for
Saturday evening, and, by way of a last appear-
ance, she will beam next Tuesday evening at the
Town Hall. It is impossible to think of Dolores
without mentioning that radiant smile of hers.
** * *
The Tate “ Motoring ” comedy didn’t get
mildew or dry-rot or measles on the way from
Melbourne to the Tivoli, and the things that
were written by the Yarra-side about the break-
down, and the helpless owner of the car, and the
small boy who arrives to make suggestions stand
good for the Harbor-side also. It is a clever
sketch, built of new materials, handled in a new
way ; and it adds 22J per cent, to the strength of
a bill which was already pretty good.
* sfc * #
Possibly “ The Little Stranger,” intro-
duced at Melbourne Princess’s as the latest
humorous comedy from London, may appeal to
the public that takes kindly to “ The Fatal Wed-
ding.” The piece contains no suggestion of
reality, no touch of human nature, no grain of
literary merit, no anything save plain, un-
varnished nonsense. A commonplace domestic
circle, which is also a spiritualistic circle of the
old, familiar stage type, is invaded by a shrill-
voiced mannikin of some 10 years, or more,
who masquerades in the short frock of a two-
year-old baby, and is supposed to terrify
a number of people with his impish pre-
cocity. Such a broadly farcical conception
has no permissible place in Art outside the con-
fines of burnt-cork comedy. The supposititious
imp should be Will Whitburn, and the whole
presentation of the joke should be as black and
tumultuous as a ton of ccals falling downstairs.
But in “The Little Stranger” a seriously un-
pleasant effect is aimed at, and the audience is.
expected to laugh at the idea of the bogus baby
inflicting a horrible fraud upon the young
mother, and the nursemaid, and the drivelling
grand-parents of the real baby, who is.meanwhile
hidden away by two male conspirators, one of
them being the father of the child. A convincing
performance all round would excite sympathy’for
the characters of the mother and nurse, which are
well acted by Miss Violet Dene arid Miss Guild-
ford-Quin. The unconvincing performance is
mostly tiresome, sometimes irritating, and only
occasionally droll. One is weary of these re-
iterated satires on spiritualism. In this case
the satire is spread over three acts, and
the antics of the imp are continual for about
two hours. “Master’’ Willie Parke might
be the younger brother of Little Gulliver,
deceased. He is not likeable in his star part, but
he is very small and nimble, and intelligent
enough. The two principal ladies do good work,
as aforestated ; also Miss Florence Seymour helps
to strengthen the co. The co. has one painfully
amateur member in a Mr. Pultney Murray, who
might as well drop the Pultney and call himself
Murray, with a view to getting himself mistaken
for anybody else. Frank Hawthorne contributes
a good sketch of an awe-stricken butler, and James
Lindsay (formerly of Musgrove’s co.) is the same
Lindsay with the same assortment of facial ex-
pressions as before. He takes part with- a Mr.
Deverell (newly imported and warranted not to
bite) in a curtain-raiser called “ Wig and Gown ”
—a playlet of artificial misunderstandings—in
which Miss Dene shows brightly. The double
bill is booked to run three weeks, and the Cup
season is propitious to this undertaking.
£j£.
“The Belle of New York,” and the
prodigal son who repents in an ice-creamery, will
get the blessing of Bronson, senior, for the last time
on Friday night. “ The Shop Girl/’ which came
to light at the Princess’s a good many years back,
will be revived on Saturday with a mighty fine
chorus to push the business.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal a second week of
Widow O’Brien is giving that old, reliable relict
a further chance to fill the house. There are
other people than John Sheridan in “Fun on the
Bristol”—for instance. Miss Minnie Gray, who
has a charming voice—so the Widow seems less
obtrusively pre-eminent than of old, and it is
rather a matter for regret that she will be ousted
by “ The Lady Slavey ”on Saturday. One week
of that modernised version of “ Cinderella” ends
the season. On the following Saturday the
Anderson co. is to return to its easily-excited
admirers and give them “The Ladder of Life”
once again.
* * #- *
Fitzgeralds’ building, profusely decorated
for the occasion, is just now flying the flag of
Bostock and Wombwell. The Australian branch
of that ancient British firm presents the latest
edition of its variety show in a new bind-
ing or ‘ ‘ fit-up, ” and the programme looks all
the brighter for its festive surroundings. Also,
a horse with two manes and a tail of exceptional
fertility has been added to the menagerie, and the
grand old chimpanzee smiles at the claims of long
descent, and the lions lie down with the lamb at
feeding time when the caterer includes lamb in the
menu. On Monday night somebody was to be
buried alive under engagement to B. and W.,
which is about the silliest use a fellow-citizen can
put himself to.
** * *
“ La Moto Girl”—what a freak of designa-
tion !—is striking a note of interrogation at
Melbourne Opera House. La Girl furnishes the
management with an excuse for asking “Is She
Alive ? ” In the semblance of a mechanical toy
—like the heroine of “La Poupee”—the young
woman is produced from a cabinet by a pro-
fessor, who affects to set the figure’s arms
in motion, whilst he is really engaged in
pulling the audience’s leg. La Girl appears to be
a doll until you discover that she isn’t. If she
didn’t discontinue her dollishness, the entertain-
ment would be full of mystery as to where the fun
comes in. She adds very little to the gaietv of
nations by putting her humanity beyond doubt.
Compared with the Cabiacs and the Alaskas, this
effigy impersonatress is not worth wondering at.
* *- # *
If Worrall, Woodfull, or any like-minded
black-tailed bird of pray noted the crowd which
flocked into Wirth’s tent on Caulfield Cup night,
he might have been tempted to croak cheerlessly,
“ More horse—more horse ! ” How account for the
undying charm of a circus ? In Pompey’s time the
populace yelled, “ Bread and the circus ! ” But
then Pompey was in a position to bill a combat of
500 lions and 18 elephants, all of which* were killed
in five days. Nowadays, the hippodrome, though
no longer the home of sensation, still has subtle
power to draw. Some authorities ascribe its
fascination to blent magic of sights, scents, and
sounds—the glitter of lights, the odor of tan,
sawdust, and wild beasts, and the blare of the
band. At all events, it’s criminal to cabin a circus
within wooden walls, and the clean, white tenti-
ness of Wirth’s Canvas-town is a strong point in
its favor. And then a circus show has ever the
attraction of much pink tights and human form
divine.
* * * •
Trump-cards are the Flying Herberts,
whose method of conducting upper-air somersaults
and swoopings upon trapezes is deft, dainty and
daring. The stoutest acrobat of the party, who
pounces from his giddy perch like a hawk upon
its quarry, must feel quite contemptuous when
people sing “ Had I the wings of a dove to flee ! ”
knowing, as he does, that even a chubby citizen


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
mm
jy
m
firj n j,\h
William Fleming# equitable bp?, ceorcest.sydtiev.
‘(O' sfoyd+i&y/
/ftcfow fo) fitMufauu/ Wt/s
Ju/tfo&ul v-mdafttd' for uj
nave c&?n& foMy ufo £o uau/r
trtanuLkAfo&fowvwYjalcd-
faclitm. jht/ crrtiarmaiumr
um hand %cu/ murfor,m/mer
Truly l/ttm, iStmu.
Gets There Quickest
CURES INDIGESTION'
HEADACHE & NEURALGIA
FISHER’S
jffPHOSPHERIMEpII
Vm
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/6.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known,
i POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr ‘J l lu ma f ,T or^' th ’ of Asl 'field, writes and declares
Sntimnnt, o (lowing :—‘l l suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning- pain. My tongue
fr°n m a v hlCk COat ‘" g over ifc - and 1 instantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost
T consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
PHOSPHERTNF in three weeks FISHER’S
HHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Hoyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of
PHERINEaIw«v« e t dl '° PS 0f FISHE P’S PHOS-
RHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth
in regular order -
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three
before me, ’
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney
SPEEDIEST CURE FOB RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNESS.
can learn to dart and dive through the atmo-
sphere if he starts to practise betimes. The
elephant family (“family ” in theatrical parlance
doesn’t necessarily imply relationship) must be
commended asa star animal troupe, with thenative-
born baby —billed as “Jumbo,” but known in pri-
vate life as “ Cardie as an Infant Phenomenon.
A “turn” of special interest to women is a dis-
play of Ju-Jitsu. The woman who masters this
science may expostulate with her husband regard-
less of consequences. It’s a mere knack, and the
day will come when a girl of seventeen will think
it rather mean if she can’t get hold of a fellow and
bend him to her will. Wirth’s present programme
provides practically everything appropriate to cir-
cusdom. There are clever children, accomplished
animals, jugglers, clowns, comic camels, lady-
acrobats with hair of gold and teeth of iron,
dashing riders—male and female, high-jumping
horses, and “the only singing elephant in the
world.” The menagerie boasts a stuffed calf with
two heads, and a living three-legged horse. The
elephants bulk large in this part of the establish-
ment, and are on friendly terms with their stable-
mates, the camels. Sometimes Toby, Alice', little
Jumbo, and the other inmates of Elephantville take
the wandering sickness, and go forth to tear up
gardens and trample down cultivation-paddocks.
But the “jag” is of brief duration. At such
times the Wirth Brothers pay for the damage
done, and wait in sure and certain hope of the
return of the prodigals, with tears of repentance
running down their trunks.
** * *
Saturday night brought a sparse audience
to the Athenaeum to greet Leslie Harris’s return.
Which may be explained, on a race-night, by the
lack of girl in the show. After a good day, even
the most respectable citizens seem to prefer some-
thing legsome to a polite entertainment such as is
provided by Myself in black cloth and the Piano
in black lacquer. Leslie Harris compiled his
programme principally from last season’s reper-
toire, with the lately-acquired Maorilander, Miss
Rosina Buckman, to give him aid and occa-
sional breathing space. The comedian was most
interesting in scraps of pianoforte burlesque,
and some vignetted character sketches—one
of himself particularly. Apart from those
items, and his treatment of the piano, Myself
isn’t impressive. In his “humorous” intervals
he is often reminiscent of certain popular
comiques, who have shuffled across our stage.
The domestic wit of his monologue, and his songs
of Suburbia, anyhow, don’t offer much opportunity
to sparkle. In his serious moments, Mr. ’Arris
isn’t convincing, and the piano seems extraneous.
An arrangement of minor chords is an irrelevant
accompaniment toa tragedy like “ Devil-may-care.”
Miss Buckman, who is intended to fill the gap
made by Madam Titus’ departure, has a rather
strident soprano voice, and a great deal of melo-
dramatic power. She sang several songs rather
frantically, but successfully. The Piano, Rosina,
and Myself continue their season for some time,
offering manifold attractions to those citizens who
adore an entertainment which labels itself
“refined,” and which, by the way, suits them
much better than, say, “The Corpse in the Door-
way,” or “ The Madman’s Mother.”
** * *
With the laudable ambition of turning an
honest penny ere “Dreamland” comes to light
at St. Kilda, the Management of Princes Court
announces that the chutes and the skelter, and all
things thereabouts, will be open to the public on
Saturday next (27th). The official baptism of
Dreamland ” is fixed for the following Friday.
At the Town Hall newly-appointed organist-in-
ordinary (Dr. Price, from Belfast) gives recitals
twice a week, and at every other place in Mel-
bourne, where anybody can give anything in ex-
• change for gate money, the necessary something
is being made ready. The Feast of the Assover
is at hand.
* * * iff
Adelaide Royal has said good-bye to the
William Anderson tragedians; Miss Eugenie
Duggan farewelled in “Camille,” and there is
now an unoccupied interval. Also the ice-rink
closed, just as the weather approaches in
which it would be most appreciated. The Tivoli
has maiked its combative policv by dropping
melodrama the moment the “ shockers ” ceased at
the Royal, and going back to farcial comedv.
Amy Sherwin crowds the Town Hall as often as
she cares to ; and fairs and fetes and other fluffy
little things are everywhere.
The Bulletin’s new monthly illustrated
magazine, The Lone Hand, which will first
appear early in the New Year, confesses to
the modest aim of being one of the
biggest successes on earth. It will strive to be
polished till it shines like a star ; to contain
not a, single bad picture, nor a single dull line.
It will not be aimed merely at Australia, but
at the whole world. It will strive to hold the
attention of the man (who has never been in
Australia, and who has no thought of going there)
who sees it lying on a Naples or Port Said book-
stall, and, wondering what it is, picks it up for a
shilling; or equally to engage the interest of
the utter stranger, who buys it out of curiosity at
a San Francisco railway shop, and reads it on the
journey to Los Angeles. It will work day
and night to put two chickens into the pot of
every good Australian artist. It will pay gener-
ously for all literary and artistic work. The first
issue will be 50,000 copies. When The Bulletin
began it practically had behind it only a lone
hand, but The Lone Hand begins backed up by
The Bulletin ; and that means success. A
cheeky pronouncement, but let the man who
derides it paste it in his best scrap-book !
AT POVERTY POINT.
Marion Edwards, the woman who is nominally Bill, was
advertised to perform at Melbourne Cyclorama on Satur-
day night. She did. After failing to shoot at four resin
balls that were thrown up (resin is used because if even
a single pellet strikes the ball, it shatters it into frag-
ments ; but they are called glass balls), she followed one
down with her gun-muzzle till it was about level with the
audience, and then blazed away. Naturally she shot the
audience; at least one woman—a wire-walker, the wife
of Oapt. M'Cloud, director-general of the show—received
the whole contents of Bill-Marion’s gun in the leg.
Melbourne is morally excited just now, and two detec-
tives at once marched Marion-Bill off under the impres-
sion that she had been publishing the odds, or playing
two-up, or something, but the affair was so plainly an
accident that they soon let her go again. The moral is
that it isn’t safe to let a woman loose in a circus with a
gun merely because she has got a big advt. through
wearing man’s Clothes.
An old Sydney showman, William Larmour' died at
Ellis’ Coffee Palace, King-street, Sydney, through drinking
chloride of mercury, allegedly in mistake for gin. He
was aged about 60. Since giving up his old stand at
Coogee Aquarium he has been busy over something in the
way of a disinfectant.
“0.K.”: Remembering Annie Mayor as the young
Australian actress who played Nellie Denver in the Firm’s
famous production of “ The Silver King” some 20 years
ago, I was curious to see how she would look in her mono-
logue entertainment at Melbourne Athemeum Hall last
week. Time has been gracious enough to Miss Mayor
and her stage appearance in a series of costumes gives
the show a fair chance. Character impersonations are
introduced and linked tcgether with “ well chosen
remarks,” but the hard-working voice of the actress has
little Variation in it. The monologue is monotoned ; the
dramatic art has no striking characteristics, nor any
sense of humor. Even if the lady were more impressive
in her best bits of acting, the entertainment would fail
where a frivolous one-man show is likely to prosper
The successful monologuist in Australia must be mainly
a farcical musical comedian. All the same, Miss Mayor
might have had larger audiences at the Athenaeum Hall
if she had given her performances in the afternoon. She
didn’t appeal to the public that goes to the theatre at
night. There is another public quite capable of taking a
serious interest in Six Matinee Dramatic Recitals a'nd
this should have been Annie Mayor’s “ dart.”
St. Stead has been to a music-hall for the first time—
the London Pav. “ Imagine my surprise and delight ”
writes the good man, “ to find that the exhibition of La
Milo’’(which he had blistered previously on some local
Judkins’ say-so) “ was the only redeeming feature in the
long, monotonous succession of ugliness and vulgarity.
. . . Those who came to gloat over indecency were pretty
considerably sold,” for it was “a picture instinct
with a soul of beauty.” Also, on La Milo “the eye
dwelt restfully and lovingly.” Encouraged by a bene-
diction of this sort, The Bulletin has visions of the
boniest apparition in the Bible class posing as the
Velasquez Venus at the next bazaar in aid of the minis-
ter’s stipend fund.
“ Teddy ” M’Lean, with his wife and his three clever
youngsters, the Little Dartos, has returned to Sydney
after 12 months in Europe. The children were a great
success, especially in London, Dublin, and Belfast They
could have remained away for an indefinite period, being
rushed with offers of engagement from France and Ger-
many and elsewhere, but their parents couldn’t stand
the climate, hence the acceptance of an offer
Williamson for his forthcoming pantomime
Teddy ” reports that the English music-halls, if some-
what niore resplendent than formerly, are still, in many
ways, the same old thing. Smoking goes on everywhere
and drinks are procurable all over the house The
programme iniquity, which John Hollingshed tried to
crush at London Gaiety, still flourishes like the early
summer locust. Here the programme is thrown in with
the admission money; in London it is sold at anything
from Id. to 6d., and as much more as the freebooter who
sells it can get. The more you pay for admission the
more you pay for a programme; the bushranger is quite
capable of demanding half-a-crown. And everybody
from the, stage-manager downwards, expects to be tipped!
It is the land of tip and veiled beggary'or beggary that
is unveiled and clamorous and insistent, and demands
tuppence at the top of its voice.
An offensive sample of prudishness is the conduct of
the Melbourne A.N. A. regarding- dancing competitions at
their coming fete. The saints and dervishes argued hotly
about the propriety of allowing dancing at all, seeing that
when a girl dances, her stockings sometimes come into
view, and everybody knows that inside her stockings, but
invisible, are her legs, or props, or extremities—in fact,
the Things she walks with. There was long and bitter
discpssion about the young girl’s walking implements,
and the A.N.A. decided to permit dancing, but with this
reservation “ Any competitor who, in the opinion of
the judge, may be attired in improper costume, or in-
dulges in any vulgar display or high-kicking, shall be
immediately rung down, and shall not be permitted to
take any further part in the fancy dancing classes of these
competitions.” So one can picture the boss saint with
one hand on the curtain-rope, and the other eye fixed on
any possibility of the competitor’s legs, ready to save the
country at a moment’s notice. -
“0.K.”: A “Pov. Pointer ” gives Henry Irving credit
for having restored “ Romeo and Juliet ” to the stage in
its original Shakspearian form in place of the “happy
ending” version which David Garrick introduced. Here
the “P.P.” doth protest too much. Irving certainly
restored Shakspeare’s “ Richard the Third ” to the stage
in place of the version which Colley Gibber constructed,
taking part of it from “ Henry the Sixth,” and throwing
out such old familiar “ fake ” lines as “ Off with his head !
So much for Buckingham ! ” But, as for “ Romeo and
Juliet,” the restoration was effected long before Irving
had become a manager. Irving’s first (and only) pro-
duction of “Romeo and Juliet,” with himself absurdly
misplaced as the love-sick boy, happened in 1881 or
thereabouts, subsequent to the death of Adelaide Neilson,
the famous Juliet of the ’7o’s. Neilson, as Juliet, used to
commit suicide over the corpse of her Romeo, in accord-
ance with Shakspeare's text and stage directions. More-
over, there was another popular Juliet in the Ws—Miss
Wallis, a pupil of old Jack Ryder—who also died at the
finish. I remember a performance of the gruesome
tiagedy at Drury Lane, with Miss Wallis and the late
William Terriss in the name parts. The lady was not
content to let Romeo get ahead of her in the dying. She
had him standing up in his last agonies until she was
ready to expire, and then they fell dead together with
herself on top. She was a fine, handsome girl, and I used
to wish I was Terriss to receive the shock of the violent
climax, for I was very young in those days.
As the American mail left, Hilda Spong was about to
make her first appearance in New York as a Broadway
star, in a new comedy called “ Lady Jim.”
“ Num ” •' Fred Leslie’s businesslike methods as Blinky
Bill, in “The Belle of New York,”,, make me wonder
whether Australia did not lose a handy lightweight when
he took to the stage at the age of fpur or thereabouts.
His movements are like lightning, 'his footwork is a
dream, and his uppercuts are works of art. It seems a
pity that a promising pug should be lost to the world as
a mere actor. Hasn’t Leslie got any self-respect?
The bare and beauteous “Milo” tqlls a London inter-
viewer: “The clergy have been so kind. In a certain
Maoriland city, it is true, they opened a campaign against
me, but really they were so half-hearted, that it was
bound to fail. Over here there has not been the least
trouble. Would you believe it, I’ve had offers of marriage
from eighteen ministers of religion, several of them mem-
of the Church of England, holding livings in this
country? The vicar of a parish in the West of England
begged my manager only a few weeks ago for a pass be-
hind the scenes. He bought a complete set of my photo-
graph studies, and sent them to be autographed. So,
what can there be to complain of?”
Another example of the stinking fish spirit was evi-
denced in the Melbourne dailies’criticisms of the “Aus-
tralian Glee Maidens.” The G.M.’s are akin to two
popular organisations—the Welsh ladies’ choir and the
Western Star glee crowd, and have the highly desirable
merit of being a local production. These 20 odd lasses
were collected and trained by singer William Llewellyn,
who came to Australia a while ago with good credentials,
and remains to teach the embryo’ Melba the way she
should trill. He selected 30 untaught girls, and pro-
ceeded to show what may be done with Australian raw
material. The old gems of part music he taught to fresh
young voices—typical Australian voices, colorful and
melodious as a bush sunrise—and then asked the public
to give them a hearing. Those who ventured through
the rain to hear them the first ■ night, and formed
their own judgment, acclaimed the glee girls a
novel success. Impartial musicians admitted the
Uniform accuracy and bright tone of the singers,
and commended the interpretation of their judiciously
selected repertoire. But the German gentlemen who direct
the enthusiasms of musical Melbourne got to work* next
day. Where they didn’t openly disparage the home-
grown show, they damned it with faint praise. Those
authoritative critics will accord unmeasured approval to
a party of snuffy little choir-boys from over seas. They
will offer only praise to a students’ performance, planned
on Eastern Hill, superintended by foreigners, and sung
in bad Italian. But to a new and entirely Australian
combination, with greater qualifications, they give
scathing sympathy or derisive advice. Probably
Llewellyn, who put up the money to give the girls a
chance, to show their quality, imagines that “Australia
for the Australians” extends to musical matters. It
doesn’t; and never, while the arbiters are Germans and
Little Bethel clerics, will it be more than a windy phrase.
Confiding citizens who write to newspapers for items
of theatrical information “ to decide a wager.” are likely
to get the wildest of mis-statements in return. For
instance, a Melbourne publication informs a querist, that
“Mrs. Maestnore Morris made her first stage appearance
in Australia under Charles Hawtrey,” whereas she was
engaged by the Williamson and Musgrove firm, what
time Hawtrey had the stage management, whi h was
.tears before he became a manager on his own. The
beauteous Mrs. M. M. got her first show in an expensively
costumed walking-part in “The Prisoner of Zenda,” at
Melb. Princess’s, nearly ten years ago, but ere she left the
firm’s dramatic co. and went to England she was pro-
moted to the parts Miss Elliott Page had previously
played. In England her face soon got her an engagement.
She was sitting in a front stall at St. James’s Theatre
when she caught the eye of manager George Alexander
on the stage. He spotted the lovely stranger as one
looking for a “ shop,” made inquiries as to her identity,
and without having seen her act, decided that she would
do for a part in his next production.
“ Carpo ”: I was much grieved at the statement in
Sundry Shows” (B. 27/9/’O6) that no change of im-
portance had been made in the cast of “ The Great
Millionaire ” since its last production. I know an actor
who had allotted to him, in the first production of the
G.M.,” the duty of changing the placard (in the “ bread-
riot scene), and thus announcing tfie rise in the price of
bread from 3s. to ss. per loaf. He one night replaced the
3s. placard with another, displaying a beautiful blank,
and the starving orowd had to draw on its imagination
when it exclaimed, “Bread, ss. a loaf!” The remarks
addressed to the delinquent on that occasion were not
at all in accordance with the management’s usual
courteous demeanor, and the actor was so much upset
that he went and had a disagreement with another
impbrtant member of the co., and this caused the
management to further depart from its usual courtesy.
In the end there was an estrangement, and my friend did
not re-appear in his old part in the recent revival. Hence
my grief at The Bulletin’s statement that no important
change had taken place in the cast. I think that in well-
managed papers such gross errors might be avoided. If
your representative could not see that a different man
pasted up the bill, he is clearly unfit for his position.
The Inaugural Ode at the Christchurch Exhibition is to
be warbled bj’ Miss Amy Murphy, the Maoriland soprano.
Our old friend Carl Hertz, newly returned from
America has presented in England his “ latest sensa-
tion,” entitled “ The Bridal Chamber.” It is worked in
this wise. A sort of skeleton four-poster is placed in the
centre of the stage, in order that it may be draped with
curtains. But ere the draping takes place, “the world-
famous illusionist” demonstrates to kind friends in front
that the skeleton is entirely on its own, and unconnected
with the stage below, the flies above, or the wings at the
side. Also, that there is nothing behind the curtains
when these are closed in. Yet, in the twinkling of a bed-
post, so to speak, the curtains are withdrawn—and be-
hold, they disclose a charming little bedstead with a
charming little lady reposing thereon. She rises, she
trips down the steps on to the stage, and bows her thanks
for the applause.
Evidence of the Rev. Barrett, Congrega-
tional minister from S. Africa: “ The labor
available in South Africa was abundant. As far
as he knew the natives were always willing to go
to work in the mines. There was no need for
Chinese. If he had been at the back of the
natives, however, he would have advised them to
refuse to work under the conditions. There
had been a fearful state of things before the war,
and a worse state of things prevailed after the
war. Had the mine proprietors given to the
Kaffirs what they gave to the Chinese there would
have been no need to import one man, even if
100,000 had been wanted.”
A proposal has been made to N.S.W.
Premier Carruthers to give the Greater Sydney
scheme a chance, by remitting the question to a
popular convention, elected by the ratepayers,
after the principle of the Federal Convention.
The idea is prompted by a natural distrust
of the suburban mayors and aldermen. Car-
ruthers, whose first notion was that the suburban
mayors and aldermen should elect the whole con-
vention (which would have meant the killing of
the project) ultimately gave a half promise to
bring in a Bill to form a convention, half the
representatives to be elected by the ratepayers
and half by the suburban councils. Which is a very
half-and-half idea.
Lionel Terry, whose pronounced aversion
to Chows and other foreign lumber earned him
detention in Sunnyside Asylum (M.L.), has now
two escapes to his credit. The second breakage
and departure was made under difficulties, the
big man fleeing in his shirt only. The warders
had placed him in an upstairs bedroom, and
deprived him of his clothes and boots, but that
mattered little. He wrenched the window open
and let himself down per medium of tied sheets.
His experience wasn’t a pleasant one, as it was
cold and raining. By next morning, however, he
had obtained clothing from various people in the
country, as well as food, and was going strong
when captured. Terry is now kept strictly con-
fined to his little den upstairs, and is only brought
down at meal-times. He isn’t so lonesome, though;
the warders look in every few minutes to make
sure that he is still there. It seems to The
Bulletin that the Maoriland law might do a
great deal worse than release Terry, provided he
takes his solemn oath and affirmation that he will
kill no more Chows. Nobody seriously believes
that he is mad now, and to keep a man of his
intelligence and tree-felling capacity mouldering
uselessly in a house of shrieks and gibberings is
waste of brain and muscle, as well as cruelty.
A wail from Melbourne :
Under the combined influence of Judkins, Wren, and
other uproarious persons, Melbourne is becoming- more or
less hysterical in its daily life. T’other day a contractor
putting up an ordinary Queen Anne villa out Caultie d
way was staggered by a vist from three constables, who
straightly charged him to hand over certain treasure
trove, alleged to belong to Edward VII., or be gaoled
forthwith. The builder was a serious-minded person,
unappreciative of jokes, so he desired the Law to
go and sober up; but that entity assured him it
was in earnest, and if he didn’t “shell out”
there would be trouble. So he inquired among his
employees, and learned that two of them, who had been
digging foundations, were alleged to have unearthed a
secret hoard of some 4000 sovereigns. The rest of the
yarn was that they had thereupon bailed up a passing
baker boy, had commandeered his turn-out and departed
for distant lands. The tale further narrated that, years
ago, an eccentric old cuss had died in a dilapidated
shanty on that particular allotment, and that his
heirs were much disappointed at finding no per-
sonal property on the premises. Evidently he had
planted his hoardings, and they had lain undisturbed for
35 years—and now, according to the story, they were
gone, departed, evanesced, and the two workmen with
them. The two laborers assured their boss that, as far
as they knew, the only foundation for this circumstantial
narrative was the turning-up by them of some bottles
and household utensils. The contractor jeered the con-
stables off the premises, and proceeded with his house-
building, but for the next few days his life was made
a burden by hundreds of people calling, in carriages
and buggies, on bikes and on foot, all anxious for a
glimpse of the hole where a “ fortune ” had been found.
He left a foreman in charge, and went home for a rest.
The foreman was a man of resource, and promptly ran a
temporary fence round the block and charged sight-seers
Is. a_ head to “go in and look at any holes they had a
mmd to,” while an irresponsible small boy was put in
charge and allowed to fill them up with assorted narra-
tives. The amazing part of the hoax was that nine out
of every ten callers quite believed all the kid told them
Melbourne is getting itself ripe for a real big disaster!
with a lot of hard graft to follow.
A certain effect of bad drinking-water is
bowel trouble— Wolfe’s Schnapps will keep the
bowels in perfect order. Caution. —There is no
genuine aromatic Schnapps but “Wolfe’s.”
Call it by its full name.*
R IO GRANDE
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I will be your sweetheart,
If you will be mine.”
She was a dandy singer.
And she sang the chanty fine
In the hall of the Seamen’s Mission—
Lord ! how we let it go !
Some bloke asked her to sing us
“ Blow, my bully boys, blow ! ”
But Yankee Bill from his corner
Swore “ Shut up, you kid ” !
Watching her on the platform
In the dark where his eyes were hid.
I’ve heard old “ Rio ” shouted
Many a time and oft,
And I never knew a chanty
Would sound well warbled soft.
I guess that girl remembered
Some man she used to know,
For she sang “ I’ll be your sweetheart ”
Till hard hearts were aglow.
And Yankee Bill, the greaser
From the cow-boat in the stream,
Kept his eyes on the singer
Like a man lost in a dream.
“ All my life I’ll be ever
True to you, lover mine 1”
He was a lucky beggar
Who could make her sweet eyes shine.
There was many a man reminded
Of a girl he’d go back to
In a year, or in half-a-dozen,
And that song would keep him true.
For we’d never known the sweetness
In the haunting tune before —
And Yankee Bill, the greaser.
Was staring at the floor.
“ When I’m a man, my purpose
Will be to marry you.”
That’s how we’d all be happy
If only it all came true.
And Yankee Bill, the greaser
From the cow-boat in the bay,
Would be whacking the world to wind’ard
In a more respectable way.
It’s no good being a hero
If you come too late for the band—
We saw it plain that evening,
When a girl sang “ Rio Grande.”
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
IMMORTAL JUDKINS.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
Only last week a man had said to him (Judkins), “For
God’s sake keep your eyes about you. These fellows (the
gamblers) are making up their minds that if thev can’t
shut your mouth with slander they will do it by personal
violence.” (Sensation.) lie (Mr. Judkins) was not afraid.
He had his work to do. He believed that man was im-
mortal until his work was done.—Judkins, orating at
Wesley Church.
Ho, Vulcan, at thy flaming forge, thy mighty anvil smite,
Show’r down thy sparks on Earth promiscuously,
So we can weave a fadeless wreath of stars and comets
bright
For Judkins and his immortality.
Loud let the earth orchestra boom, and tell it to each
wind,
The news that thrilleth thro’ our veins like fizz,
That the Lord of Hosts has stooped at last, to crown the
master mind
Of Judkins. Immortality is his.
In vain the gambler fires his gun and brings his sandbag
down
With savage joy on brother Judkins’ pate.
The Great One simply smiles and readjusts his halo-
crown,
And says his say, and passes round the plate.
Fpr his is Life Eternal, when the gamblers all have gone,
And rot and rust in ghastly graveyard glooms ;
Immortal moral Judkins will be still this earth upon
Building temples from their tote-shops and their tombs.
When Bent and Reid are legends that are hoary-haired
with years,
And to-day’s affairs are perished pantomime,
Immortal Judkins still will steer this planet thro’ the
spheres,
And swap remarks with ancient Father Time.
When the Mouldy Mikes have moulded, and the Weary
Willies rest
(At the Great Beer Drought they all gave up the ghost),
Casting centuries behind him, flicking used years off his
vest,
Great Judkins will be standing at his post.
Aye ! the Lord can take things easy, on His laurels He
can rest,
Earth’s cares and pleasures Judkins will disburse.
The planetary system will revolve at his request—
He will run, in short, the blessed universe.
And when the Great One comes at last, to judge the souls
of men,
’Twill be Judkins who the heavenly hosts will meet.
He will show them to their places—he will be the M.C
then;
’Twill be Judkins who will dust the Judgment-seat.
When the last great Judgment’s ended, and Time folds up
its scroll,
And the last lap on its orbit Earth has run ;
When the good ones have their haloes and the bad their
crates of coal,
Then, and not till then, will Judkins’ work be done.
Not till the Lord blots out the sun, and with His strong
right hand
Smites earth to dust, and empties out the sea—
Not till the mighty haloed hosts have reached the pro-
mised land
Will Judkins shed his immortality.
VI °- Robert N. Crawford.
* * * *
A ymm-r lady who resides in a conspicuous ,
Melbourne street keeps
propped up in her
front window a copy
of a broad hint in
the shape of a
yellow-back novel
entitled. “A
Lonely Gr i r 1.”
Sympathisers
with loneliness
may usually see
the forlorn
damsel sitting
in the doorway.
l
,%8
Another effort is being made to find a use
for that £lOO,OOO-worth of empty desolation
known as Trial Bay Prison (N.S. W.) A year or
two ago a proposal was made to turn the place
into a seaside hash-house, but either the hash-lady
or the hash-consumer, or both, didn’t transpire,
and ruin took a fresh perch on the “permanent
and reproductive work.” Now the mouldy waste
is under notice again as a possible meat-tinning
foundry. What’s wrong with using Trial Bay for
the incorrigible drinker ?
The Congregational parsons of Victoria
last week protested against the sweating rates
paid them by the people who hire them to remon-
strate about their sins. The retiring president
(Rev. Warren Kerr) said that if a strike was ever
justified it was in the cases of many parsons, and
he told the Union that it might be a salutary
lesson to the congregations if the pulpits were
found empty as a protest against long preaching
and insufficient remuneration for the preacher.
In saying which Parson Kerr hit on the solid,
unblinkable fact that the average religious person
is an innate sweater of his fellows. The pillars
of the average church sweat their employees for
six days—as much as Factory Acts will let them—
and it is only to be expected that they should
sweat their parson on Sunday. The big, fat par-
son is as much to blame for this as anyone. The
man who draws £l5OO a year in a fashion-
able city church is always ready to uphold
sweating and low wages, as a general thing,
and he re-acts on his own class. He is
one cause of the low salaries paid to the rear-
guard of the parsons—those who are pruning in
the back-blocks of the vineyard, where the vines
are few and scraggy, and the water-hole a long
way off. After all, there is only a certain amount
of money that can be coaxed out of the public for
religious purposes, and when a few fat parsons in
the cities mop that up at the rate of from £BOO to
£l5OO a year each, there isn’t enough left to go
round the rest. Rev. Kerr suggests that each
denomination should elect a sort of Wages Board —
a committee that shall fix up the preaching busi-
ness on proper commercial lines—so much money
for so much hallelujah—and thus enable every
clergyman to secure a living wage, Thus the
parson is driven at last to admit that he is a sort
of commercial undertaking—a man with halle-
lujah to sell, and with a grievance when his com-
modity goes down in the market, like tallow or
hides.
The important Judkins broke out in Sydney
with strange stories about tinkling telephones
and weird, awful midnight visitors from the
’ouses of sin—as evidence of the flutter which he
believes he has caused there. Listen to this
I have a telephone on to my house, and, a’ little while
ago, we were frequently disturbed by gamblers ill the
middle of the night. Mind you, Ido not desire to magnify
myself, but rather to show you the kind of battle I am
fighting. At all hours of the night 1 have been rung up.
Now, all through this campaign, the police have been
very solicitous for my safety, and I owe them a great
deal. (Applause.) At this stage, 1 will tell you that I
am in constant communication with them—at their own
request. .. . The gambling party has been spreading lying
reports to the effect that they have been pulling my leg
Three men have been to my house during the last three
or four weeks. . . . One fellow came with a story that it
was known that someone from their place had been tell-
ing Mr. Judkins tales, and that it was suspected that he,
tiie story-teller, was the tale-bearer. (Laughter.) Sus-
picion rested on him, because he was the only one who
possessed decent relatives. (Laughter.)... Of course,
Mr. Judkins fell in head over heels. Oh, dear, no ! He
was too old a bird for that. There are those who Would,
under similar conditions, spring a revolver out and cry,
“ You are a scoundrel, and out of the door with you ! ”
Not so ; you might keep one hand in your pocket, while
you talked to the man, and you would talk very quietly.
I really had a very pleasant time with these men, and,
when the first one went, I said “ You will come again,
won’t you?” and he assured me lie would. Poor fellow,
he went down the steps coughing in a very bad
way. (Laughter.) I cried after him, “ You will
have to look after that cough, and not be
out so late in the nights.” (Laughter.)... Only
this week a man said to me : “ For God’s sake, keep
your eyes about you. These fellows are making up their
minds that if they can’t shut your mouth by slander,
they will do it by personal violence.” (Sensation.) He
(Mr. Judkins) was not afraid. He believed that man was
immortal until his work was done, and it would not
matter to him what happened when once his work was
completed. (Great applause.)
Juddy is evidently feverish.
* * * *
Latest Sydney publication is Protest, an
organ of the liquor interest, in the guidance of
which The Bulletin fancies it sees the magnilo-
buent hand of William Bede Melville, who was
so touched by a certain pathetic scene in “ Aus-
tralian domesticity.” Protest makes the fur fly
from the first. Some extracts :
The Licensed Victualler is legislated against as though
he were a common criminal for whom earth had no
refuge, and for whom hope of a blessed eternity was an
impossibility. The guiltiest ruffian who ever held up a
crimson hand of reddest crime in any court of justice
could not he denounced by the most Draconic of judges
in sterner terms than those flung with maleficent fury in
the wording of that Act. . . . With vigor, with honesty
and constancy of purpose publicans build up a connec-
tion. They fancy, poor men, that the future of a young
family, the well-being of a loved wife, are assured. Down
upon their devoted head falls this infamous Act. He is
thrown out in the street by the tender mercies and
ministrations of the Hate-to-let-others-live Brigade. He
is powerless to work, and to beg he is ashamed. More-
over, who in this obdurate world of push and stumble
would help him, even if he pleaded on bended and broken
knees? He is a ruined, maimed and miserable derelict
in life’s cruel battle—to please the Attorney-General, who
is active to please little cliques of Temperance faddists,
maniacs, puritans, who presumptuously put a finger in
every pie not of their own making, and impiously counsel
God on the conduct of His own universe.
It is a binding duty upon everybody in the community
to band themselves together in Vigilance Committees to
safe-guard the daughters of the Commonwealth from the
bestial assaults of the depraved and mentally unsound
teetotal and other faddists. . . The instinctive” murderer
is always a teetotaler.
Protest promises to add to the gaiety of Sydney,
and to be a beacon, and a voice crying in the
wilderness, and other interesting circumstances.
• • * ,
That faded fraud, Bua, the Maori “pro-
phet,” whose prediction that Jesus Christ and
Edward VII. would turn up at Poverty Bay didn’t
pan-out as per catalogue, has just been the ’cause of
the death of a widely-known native, Waata Tairoa.
Rua applied the term “ Matuku ” to Tairoa, and
denounced him as being the cause of recent native
calamities, unspecified. There are just enough
rags and tatters of prophecy still adhering to Rua
to gain credence for the yarn. Tairoa fell into
disrepute, and had to drink by himself, and,
getting tired at last of the flies for company, he
blew out his skull-contents. What the Maori
country much wants is a special gaol for prophets.
* * * *
Mrs. Jessie Lomas, Gladstone, Q., writes :
‘Mstrongiy advise every parent to keep a bottle
ot Chamberlain s Cough Remedy in the house
and I always make a point of telling my friends
of the recovery of my son. For 11 years he had
suffered from acute bronchitis, and though I had
him try a lot of things, nothing seemed to give
him permanent relief. A medical man advised
me to get Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and I
did so. A. decided improvement was noticed
before the first bottle was used, and I am pleased
to state that after he had taken four bottles, he
was completely cured, and is now enjoying’ the
best of health.”
“For years past,” says Mr. Catherine Weeks,
Bowral N.S W„ “I have made it a point to
always keep Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in my
home. Just as soon as any member of my family
shows symptoms of a cough or cold, I give them a
dose, and it invariably checks the complaint.”*
AN EXPERIENCED SAINT.
ARTIST: “ Well, now, I want to do a study of St. Cecilia. Do you think you can pose for it!”
MODEL: “ Rather! Why, I’ve been St. Monica, an’ St. Margaret, an’ Oh, I've been a
Saint ’most all me life,”
The Maofikttd itnti-gamblers are at least
consistent. They do not propose to “ minimise ”
betting by giving to a few score men a monopoly
of the business and the right to do as much as
they can, or all there is to do, at certain stated
periods of the year. They propose to cut at the
root, and really destroy the vice. Not only do
they propose to abolish horse-racing and prohibit
betting at any sport whatsoever, but they demand
the abolition of the Stock Exchange, the biggest
gambling den in every country. And The
Bulletin wishes them success. It would be a
most interesting sight to study through a long
telescope—that of a State, whose frontiers are the
everlasting ocean, given over absolutely to
Puritan Government. No pubs, no grog, no
horse racing (which any country could well do
without), no dancing halls or “academies,”
nothing but hard work and quiet, harmless
amusement. Beautiful !
• » * *
For some hidden reason the anti-Federal
State Frights party, which is mostly the Greid
party made up into another hash, regards
the Australian woman as its particular pro-
perty. But there isn’t any comparison be-
tween the treatment of women by the
Commonwealth and the States. Apart
from the fact that the former doesn’t
throw them out of the ballot-room
along with dogs, lunatics, and other
non-voters, as some of the States
do, and all of them did till the
other day, there isn’t one State
whose public service regulations
are as satisfactory to women as
those of the Commonwealth.
Under the Victorian Public
Service Act of 1900, females in
the fourth class, clerical division,
get £l4O ; males, in the same
class, doing the same work, get
£285. In other words, the State
fines one body of its work-people
£145 a year each for being born
female. In the Commonwealth
professional and general divisions
the salaries are fixed by regula-
tion, and the policy is to recog-
nise no sex distinctions. In the
clerical division, where the sala-
ries are fixed by the Act, the
Commonwealth pays the same
salary for the same class of work
whether man or woman does it;
and that is an act of bare justice for
which women still cry in vain to the
buzzing little insects that run most of
the States and allege that the dominant
parties in Commonwealth politics have designs
on the “ pewrity of the ’ome.”
m * # *
Melbourne City Council ought to adopt a
new motto —“Cows Before Kids.” It lately
closed most of Fawltner Park to children as their
playground, because the wealthy citizens want
grazing for their cows. Also, when it was pro-
posed to throw open a reserve in Carlton, it
weakly yielded to a petition by neighboring
landlords, declaring that their property would
thereby be depreciated, and stuck up the fence
once more. The landlord s pocket seems to be
much more to the City Council than the public’s
health. Apparently the order of things with it
is : (1) Cow ; (2) Landlord ; (3) the rising genera-
tion.
* » * ■*
At an inquest on a man, who died from
repeated overdoses of tanglefoot, the casual Mel-
bourne boarding-house keeper admitted that he
hadn’t inquired into the late lamented’s non-
appearance until his room began to call aloud for
investigation. The lodger had then been dead
two days. Another deceased was observed to be
carefully sawing at his throat with a razor, on a
vacant piece of land. A passer-by watched him
for a space, then desired another to go and tell
him to stop. The second person remarked negli-
gently that it was his own throat; whereupon the
first stranger departed thoughtfully to find a
constable, while the suicide sat down and com-
pleted the job. Melbourne is a casual city, and
one begins to understand why there are so few
inquiries after men who go a-missing there.
Melbourne Anglicanism Is again agitated
by the proposal to import a Hitiglish parson for
one of its fat parishes—St. Columb’s, Hawthorn.
The Synod argued the A ustralian-fcmfs-irn ported
question recently, and there Was an understanding
that the extraneous article in sin-shifters was to
be left alone, but there are now rumors of “a
young English clergyman of great promise.” The
billet of a parson is one,of little real importance,
but if a fat salary is to be paid to the tohunga,
it might as well be drawn by an Australian. The
last Melbourne parish that imported its prophet
and rain-maker now moans with a loud moan.
THE KID IS FATHER TO THE MAN.
KID: “ Can yer give us a match, Mister!’
GENT: “I hope you are not going to smoke.
KID: “ Oh, no! I give it up years ago, but
father’s startin’.”
A signed cheque marked “ N.5.F.,” re-
cently exhibited in a George-street (Sydney) shop
window, recalls a similar exhibition in a King-
street window, which led to the murder of one man
and the life imprisonment of another. Bartlett,
the King-street tailor, placed the unfinancial
cheque of Willoughby Andrew in his window,
with the idea of shaming the customer into making
the amount good. But Andrew called into the
shop with a revolver and shot Bartlett dead, ihe
plea of insanity was set up, but Andrew was sen-
tenced to death, the sentence h?ing later com-
muted to life imprisonment. He is still under
lock and key, and the cheque is still “ N.S.F.
* * * *
Enjoyment of the racing carnival, now
rampaging in Melb., is largely dependent upon
the brand of climate, and liquid refreshment on
top. The liquor, needless to say, should be D.C.L.
Whisky, the best of friends in sorrow or in joy,
and for its faithful adherents there is not much
sorrow at the races. D.C.L. helps make winner-,
by supplying a spirit of hopeful enterprise,
dashed with a quick discernment;*


,0
Aim
EDUCATIONAL
LEARN BY POST,
in your spare time,
Money- Earning
Subjects.
Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing-, Bookkeeping, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and
Civil Engineering,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study,” post free
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.
In New Greys
and
Mid Brown,
with
Unbound
Brimsc
'
SELLING RAPIDLY
'THIS is the very latest Soft Felt Hat
for summer wear. It has caught on
so well that our first shipment was quite
sold out. Our next supply
is now in, and we again
announce it.
The brim sets up or down
in front, and the crown
can be creased down or as
shown. Or, the brim can
be turned up or down, and
the crease in the crown
altered to a dent in front.
An IDEAL SOFT HAT for Summer Wear.
Price, 12/0 each,postage 9d extra
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
nEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
“ S.S.” writes :
When a parson of the Worrall type once attains for a
moment to a kind of notoriety the idea of dropping back
an-ain to be a mere item in the herd of threepenny
preachers is too dreadful for words. The Rev. Henry is
dropping, and he makes frantic clutches at the edge of
the precipice of oblivion as he goes over. On a recent
Sunday he addressed a great spread of Methodists at Col-
lingwood, and rehashed the story of M'Leod, the welsher
who broke his neck at Flemington, and who is now almost
as forgotten as Cain’s funeral. Worrall first leaped to the
gilded pinnacle of fame by accusing Sam Gillott of the
crime of M’Leod’s death ; this time he declared that the
ghost of the deceased was haunting Premier Bent. But Par-
liament won’t again make the mistake of calling Worrall to
the Bar of the House and giving him the advt. after which
his soul hungers, and the digging up a second time of
an old sensation shows poverty of intellect. There was
once (this is a case in point) a big, sensational drapery
firm with a brilliant advertising man. This man one day
hung the front of the premises with denunciations of the
perfidy of an imaginary Robinson who had broken faith
with the firm and committed awful crimes. The public
was interested, and signified the fact in the usual
manner. Later placards announced the extent of
Robinson’s defalcations, which were tremendous. Next
day’s bills told how the police, in hot pursuit of Robinson,
had missed him by a hair, but were again on his trail,
and stated that ti e criminal was armed. For a whole
week the public bought largely, and read the placards
detailing- the steals, forgeries anil adventures of Robinson,
till, after being On the verge of capture a dozen times, he
disappeared in the far distance. Then the advertising
man went out of town, and the wooden-headed boss, who
thought he bad now learned the whole art of advt., began
a new sensation on his own account by hanging out
placards about the huge defalcations of Brown, and the
public, instead cf responding, threw mud at him.
Worrall should make a note of this. He got one good
advt. out of M’Leod, bur there isn’t material in him for
another.
* * * *
Premier Carruthers, of N.S.W., discussing
the Jenolan Caves the other night, paid a hand-
some compliment to the Creator. He said the
caves are among the best things the Creator has
turned out, and that he will not stand in the way
of the public looking at them on Sunday. What
the Creator has left open on the Day of Rest
Joseph will not shut. “ I suppose,” said Joseph,
“He made some of them on Sunday.” This is
one of the brightest things Cairuthers has said,
and after these remarks Providence should feel
encouraged to go and make some more caves.
But it is a gloomy thing to reflect upon, that
there are in Australia people like Booth and
Bruntnell and Brunlcer, who would fain shut up
these glories of the Creator one day in seven, just
as if they were Bill Fillemup’s pub. at the corner.
IN DEFENCE OF HER SEX.
HE : "By Jove, she must have been anxious to
be married."
HER: “Not necessarily. Perhaps all she wanted
was to be widowed."
Tait is hustling things on Victoria’s rail-
ways more than ever lately. Last week, when
the train stopped at Cheviot, a swarm of car-
penters dashed out of it, and, while the engine
'“cd a few trucks, they suddenly built a seat.
T».. _ had just put the finishing touches on when
the whistle blew, and they had barely time to
dash back into the train again—in fact, they drove
the last nail after the train had started. At the
next station they did some other headlong repairs,
aqd so on. Now the people at Cheviot are wait-
ing for a painter to dash out of a train and slap
on a coat of paint, and then fly for his life.
Apparently, all repairs are to be done by flying
gangs, and they fly at such a rate that people
hardly know whether they are carpenters or vul-
tures. Very small repairs will simply be thrown
out as the train passes. Tait is a mighty swift
man in some things.
As an example of what can be done locally
in the way of ship-building, there has j ust occurred
the lengthening by 40ft. of Howard Smith’s boat
Peregrine. The additional space was not spliced
to its bow or stern, but was gracefully intruded as
a middle piece. And, after being comfortably
freighted with champagne and turkey at the in-
auguration of the Peregrine’s new career, the
building experts declared with one acclaim that
it is more difficult to thus enlarge a ship than
build a new one. The achievement was put up
by the Australian Engineering and Forge Co., of
Williamstown, at a cost of £20,000. The Pere-
grine, as a smart cargo and passenger craft and
fresh food refrigerating implement of commerce,
is something to regard with satisfaction. For
where a big steamship can be reconstructed the
building of a battle-shipis not an impossible under-
taking
* * * *
In Adelaide the Law plods along with a
steady hoof in the case of Charles Tucker, M.H.A.,
beauty man and hail-fellow-well-met, who is
charged with getting at the Customs for some
shuddersome amount. The accusation against the
gorgeous Tucker, who was a Customs agent, was
that he got a Customs officer’s seal made, and
simply stamped packages himself in a large,
wholesale way as having paid duty when they
hadn’t. The owners of the goods paid Tucker the
duty and the allegation is that Tucker kept it and
“did in” first the State Government and then
the Commonwealth with his little stamp. For-
wood, Tucker’s alleged pal, deputy, employee,
nephew, agent or fellow-conspirator (he is described
in all these ways), fled to‘Auckland when the
storm burst, and was found there in a very im-
pecunious state under a false name. It is alleged
that a woman in Adelaide knew of his place of
refuge, and that she got a boil, and thought she
was going to die, so she sent in haste for someone
in authority, and gave away the show. After
that the boil burst, and she recovered. Another
tale is that she hadn’t a boil, and gave Forwood
away merely for the reward.
* * *
S. Australia always wears proud rooster
feathers in its voice when it mentions that N.S.
Wales isn’t its Ma State, anyhow. And it isn’t—
but only in a manner of speaking. The South
Australian Co., which did the “colonising” of
the great sandy State, was formed in England ;
but it is alleged on pretty fair authority that the
suggestion to colonise it came from Captain
George Sutherland, who called round at
Kangaroo Island from Sydney in the
brig Macquarie after seal and kangaroo
skins. Sutherland must have done fine
business, for he painted the island a
bright red in his reports; but when
the S. Australian Co. landed its first
batch of “colonists” there about 16
years afterwards, all the bright red
had worn off, and it was a very dis-
gusted party that moved on to the
mainland as soon as it could get
shifted. As a matter of fact, how-
ever, the first S. Australian settlers
were run-away “ lags, ” mostly from
Tasmania, who established a harem
on the island ; but those unauthor-
ised beginnings are never mentioned
in the Adelaide churches.
* # *
“T.D.” (from London): The
Cohentingenter who journeyed on to
London after he had finished farm-
burning, in the expectation that
he’d get loads of glory and free every-
thing, is the most piteous spectacle
of all. There are quite a number
of Australia’s forgotten braves roam-
ing aimlessly about The Fog and
trying to borrow money from casual
people, or fighting street dogs for
stray bits of bread and cigarette
butts. Met one yesterday, the son
of a once-prominent politician. Said
he’d been drifting about England
since the end of the war, thinking
that the just-deceased Beit or some
of his pals would overflow with
gratitude towards him, especially as
he came furnished with influential
introductions from Australian offi-
cials. But the gratitude of Beit
didn’t amount to even the courtesy
of an interview. Since then misfor-
tune has heaped over the old man,
and the farm-burning son is rapidly
settling down to the cigarette-fag stage,
from which there is positively no regenera-
tion in this monstrous and cruel London. How
many other ex-Cohentingenters have already sunk
into the abyss, God knows !
There is a fine satire on Victorian betting-
law administration in a story which jovial old
James Cameron told in the Leg. Assembly, the
other day. An innocent constituent of his (he
represents part of Gippsland) was in Melbourne,
and wanted to put a dollar on Demas. He walked
—unsophisticated youth ! —into a Bourke-street
club which (he had read in the papers) was a
betting-shop. So it was. But the green youngster
wasn’t a member, and he was thrown violently
and with curses on the footpath. He told his tale
to a bobby. Bobby was a member. He took the
dollar, went into the club, and made the wager,
and, when Demas won, he collected the profits
for the joyful Gippslander.
**•**
A sad event is recorded by ’ome papers :
The elephant used by the Prince of Wales during his
last v sit to India, and also by Prince Albert Victor, has
died recently at Bangalore.
Pore beast. Wonder if it was measles !
* * * *
Some unregenerate person has written to
Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait, suggesting that
the church opposition to Sunday trains, other
than those conveying worshippers to the taber-
nacle, might be overcome by a surtax of 3d. per
ticket, the threepences to be afterwards divided
among the churches, according to the number of
their adherents.
Scene, Redfern Town Hall : Watson ad-
dressing women’s meeting. Enter Beauteous
Vision in white. “Is that Sir James Grah-am
speaking?” “No, Madame, that’s Mr. Watson,”
“Oh, what a feah-ful mistake! I hope no one
Will tell Pa.” Then she fled. So far there is no
reason to suppose that Pa has been informed, but
if he were he surely wouldn’t slap the Vision.
* * * *
The abandonment of the big steamer Port
Stephens, which lost its propeller when a few
days out from a Maoriland port en route to New-
castle (N.S.W.), is the most dramatic item in a
seafaring way for some time past. When aban-
doned to its fate the steamer was clawing its way
down to the south polar ice-fields, and hopes of
its rescue are faint. 111-luck is dogging the Port
line just now. The Port Chalmers is now at
Sydney, eating up its engines and its copper in
idleness while extensive repairs are being effected,
it having had a narrow escape of total shipwreck
in Torres Straits. Another “Port”—the Port
Victor —called at Sydney a few days ago to land
its captain, who was dangerously ill. Speaking of
captains, the Wellington (M.L. )MarineCourtspoke
severely to the commander of the Port Stephens
for not staying on board his ship and drifting
around with it. This looks pathetically illogical.
A tug has gone out to look for the derelict, but it
wouldn’t help it in the search if the captain were
on board, even supposing he stood on the deck
and hollered. If the captain, by staying on the
helpless ship, and being cold and miserable, and
eating up the provisions, could make it any easier
for the tug to find it, he probably should have
stayed. As it was, he wisely left—to get ashore
and interview a dunderheaded Marine Court.
* * * *
The end of the trouble over the British
army war stores scandal shows the profound
British deference to rank and place. Some half-
dozen colonels and majors, who were directly
responsible for muddling away over £1,000,000,
are almost severely spoken to. One or two who
got down to plain thieving and corruption are
retired from the service—that is to say, they pack
up and leave in a cab for the railway station.
Some luckless small fry, however—non-commis-
sioned officers and the like—were solemnly
paraded, had their sentences read out, lost their
stripes and decorations, were reduced to the
ranks, and were solemnly and publicly kicked
out. Then, presumably, they hoofed it to the
railway station.
This item was written about a fortnight
ago, but has lagged on the road. Therefore, the
statistics are probably not quite up to date :
The recently-finished Tailem Bend-Pinnaroo railway,
which was abandoned by the contractors, and completed
by the South Australian Government, is a monument of
cheap construction and obsolete ideas.
Nearly five trains have run over the line since it was
opened, and each one, so far, has left the track and
attempted to strike out across the desert in a direction
°f its own, and, the attempts proving abortive, has
brought up in the sand.
There is no trouble, no danger, no anxiety, no difficulty
about the matter whatever. Something must go off the
line. There is a glorious element of uncertainty' as to
the exact whereabouts, but either the engine, a truck,
the guard’s van, or a carriage, will go off somewhere. The
employees are philosophic. Something drops off, some-
thing is lifted on, and something starts again.
Painfully aware of defects, the authorities restricted
the speed of trains to a decimal of a mile an hour, so that
when the inevitable happens, it will not happen too
suddenly and damage something. I asked an engineer
why a train on a nice straight level track could not move
a little quicker, and he told me that it was in conse-
quence of the trailing wheels of the bunker tending to
lift through the centrifugal motion on a rigid wheel base,
and if they went faster the engine would jump the line
oftener. I thanked him, of course. So nice and lucid.
The guard of this desert express informed me, in ex-
planation of an hour’s delay, that it took five men to
turn the points at one of the new stopping places. A
pleasant situation truly, to have to rake up five men in
the middle of a Sahara to give the engine a drink.
The train, when it runs, inevitably drifts into Tailem
Bend a few hours later than it should according to the
time-table.
The population stands round and commiserates with the
trainmen. “Wot cher. Bill? Where’d she go off to-
day?”
* * * *
“ S.T.S.” : As to the trotting funeral
(B. 27/9/’O6). I claim to be the only cyclist who
has been paced by a hearse. It was coming back
from the grave, of course (George Darrell wrote
a drama with that title), and going up a long hill
against the wind, it took me along at a pleasant
rate. Please enter up to me the 'Australian
record: half-mile, uphill, hearse-paced, 3min.
28sec.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
WHEN THE BOARDERS SING TOGETHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Lord ! ’tis a wild and dreadful thing,
In the dark and wintry weather,
When the boarders get in a pack to si' g
All the old, old songs together !
Then the demons yell, and the shrieking gale
Lifts the roof from each trembling rafter,
When they leap at a note, and break, and fail
To the sound of crackling laughter.
And no gay archangel shall drag me back
At the end of my earthly tether,
If I hear the yells bn the starlit track
When the boarders sing together.
vie.
KODAK.
"In the Betting Paddock"
(for the bulletin)
*i IS the voice of the Juggins ! We hear
i him explain
To his friend, who is equally knowing:
“ I hacked it last week; I shall back it again;
For the money's all right, and it's GOING.”
Then he breathes in the car of poor Algy or Bert,
Lest his temper be lost in the babel:
“ A moral, a cert; you can put on your shirt —
The best thing they’ve had in the stable.”
O, beware of those lips as they fall from the lips
Of the punters, so green and confiding,
Who are deeply impressed by an animal's hips,
And the length and the strength of its striding;
Who’ve been told of a gallop it did in the dark.
And can swear to the truth of the fable.
The moral whereof is that same old remark :
“ The best thing they've had in the stable."
VIC.
EDMUND FISHER.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd* 424 Little Collins St, MELBOURNE
steel rails. steel trucks, tramway material.
ROBEY Portab,e Engine*, Tractions, Thrasher*, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BItUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’- Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRXER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The “ bank rate ” has gone to 6 per cent.; and
there is a slump in New York, and a brake on specula-
tion in London, and foreign Exchanges are alarmed, and
the prices of metals may fall, and a great many other
things may happen, according to the papers. What is it
all about ? What is this mysterious “ bank rate ” ? First
of all, one has to ask, what is the Bank of England?
Originally, it was established to finance the British
Government. Later on, it became the banker of British
banks—the holder of their cash reserves. It is, therefore,
the base of the credit system of Great Britain. Its
notes are legal tender anywhere in England out-
side the Bank of England itself. Any run upon
the gold it holds, therefore, affects the entire British
credit and commercial system. When the reserves are
threatened, they are protected by putting up the dis-
count rate. Speculation is at once cheeked ; when a
concern has to pay at the rate of 6 per cent, for accom-
modation, it is apt to go no further than its cash will
allow. This step is tantamount to putting up the price
of gold. The commonest “ bank rate ”is 3 per cent. ; for
some years prior to 1898 it stood oftenest at 2 per cent.
Down to this,year it had not since 1901 gone beyond 4
per cent. A movement to 6 per cent, is so extremely
unusual that it is supposed to be a sort of alarm-
bell. It is not merely the actual higher cost of
money that puts on the brake—it is the warn-
ing to bankers everywhere that dangerous conditions
prevail, and that extreme caution is called for. In the
present case, for instance, this will probably be taken as
a hint that the direct or indirect handling of metals at
their present prices is too risky to be countenanced.
Probably, as soon as the warning note has been heeded,
the rate will be reduced to 5 per cent. —it has never in
recent years been kept above that for more than a few
days.
■***•»
Copper has been ballooning this past week, and
just got beyond £lOO. As to the prospects of anything
of that sort being maintained, the best guide is in the
average prices of the past 25 years. Excluding last year,
when the present boom began, here are some figures:
In 25 years, £BO and over was only once averaged ; that
was in 1888. ft was such a fictitious price that in 1889
there was a slump which made the average for that year
only £49 14s. Bd. By 1894 the average had got down to
£4O 7s. 4d. In only two years in the 25 has the average
been between £7O and £74 ; it never got beyond £74
•except in the French Syndicate year mentioned just
now. After that boom the average for the next 10
years was £47 Ils. 9d.—which was a pretty long price to
pay for a very short boom. It is said that, on account
of the great increase in electrical traction, etc., there
won't be any slump now. Just the same thing was said
in 1888; also, it was mentioned then that vast quantities
of copper were being used to destroy phylloxera pests in
vineyards. In fact, there probably never was a boom
when the same thing wasn't said. The experienced
miyiing engineer who has to measure up a mine knows
better, though : he nearly always contents himself with
taking £55 as a basis. Still, it is some satisfaction to
know that, as a rule, the jump in copper hasn’t had the
same effect on copper-mining stocks as the spring in lead
has had on silver-lead stocks.
* * * *
One of the’Hirsehes, of Aron Hirsch and Sohn,
who have handled more Australian metal on German
account than qll the rest put together, is in Australia,
He has been through Queensland, with F. H. Snow, their
Australian ageiit, and has fixed up contracts with O.K
(3000 tons of,blister copper per annum), Mt. Molloy (2000
tons), and others. He doesn’t expect the markets will
stay where they are, but thinks the consumption so im-
proved-almost wholly in highly protected Germany and
the U.S.—that nb violent set-back need be dreaded.
•t •' * ' ' • * * *
• This is the silly season when the public gets it
whispered into its large ear that “there’s going to be a
mining boom,” and obligingly takes charge of the infant
that has been prepared for it. So prices creep up by
three-pences, and until the crash comes and stocks fail
50 per cent, the people with the receptive ears (and the
baby to nurse) never had an idea that the boom had
actually arrived before they woke up and looked in on the
game. Only a month ago Broken Hill Props were at
80s. 3d. ; they closed last week at 935. B.H. Souths a
month ago £5, rose to £6 3s. 6d. Others: B.H. North
675. to 825., Junction North, 225. to 31s. 6d., and some
more on about the same scale. And the boom that has
arrived and needn’t be waited for is not confined to
Barrier stocks : Chillagoe, ss. to 7s. 2d. ; Dalziells (tin)
Bs. to Its. 6d. : Mt. Elliott, 38s. to 525. 6d. (and they saw
58s. a day or two before that). Even gold stocks, as a
rule, are being swept along on top of the flood. The
public believes, however, that the boom is still comma-
in other words, that there’s plenty of time to look'up
somebody else to pass on the infant to, at, of course the
usual great profit.
* * * *
Cabled that British shipping is disturbed be-
cause six derelict mines are floating round the English
Channel. Six ! There must be six thousand, floated and
unfloated, lying round Australian share-brokers’ offices
mostly awaiting a “return of public confidence,” or another
£lo ; rise in the metal market, ora twist in the lode in the
next door claim, or something.
V * * • *
Last year’s output of coal in the world has now
been estimated 6r returned (mostly the figures are official
returns) at 929,622,648 metric tons (22041 b.). Principal
producers, with N.S. Wales and a few others of local inte-
rest added to the list :
Tons.
United States 352,694,110
United Kingdom .. .. 239,888,928
Germany 173,663,774
Japan .. 11,895,000
™ia •• 7,921,000
N.S. Wales 6,035,250
Considering the quality, size, and situation of its coal-
measures, and the fact that they have now been worked
for nearly 100 years, the output in N.S.W. appears almost
contemptible in such a comnarison. It is a scorching
reflection upon the State’s Freetrade fetish.,
* * »
A first estimate of this season’s N.S. Wales
wheat crop gives 25,000,000 bushels as the probable
figures. Last six seasons:—
Bushels.
1902 1,585,097
1 003 27,334,141
1904 16,464,415
1905 20,644,000
1906 25.000,000
The figures show what an erratic business it is for a coun-
try to trust its bread and butter to. Moreover, with a
good wheat crop comes almost always a good wool clip ‘
and when one fails both fail. Under the' circumstances’
it isn’t wonderful that N.S. Wales is either-in a stated
boom or burst, and is growing up to be a community of
gamblers.
• * ' * * «
Adelaide Register makes a rough forecast that
the S.A. wheat harvest will exceed last year’s—which
was the record—by 2,000,000 bushels. The unfortunate
point is that much of the extra crop is being won from
land outside of “Goyder’s line of rainfall,” and, as Soon
as these phenomenally good seasons fail, the farmers who
have been tempted to settle beyond the line are likely to
be ruined. Meanwhile, however, the Wheat State waxes
fat.
* • * •
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney in-
its average advances from £8,951,885 to
£9,460,672 in the last quarter. Previously this bank,
with the veteran T. A. Dibbs at its head, kept so tight a
hold on its advances that the latter represented only
75‘2 per cent, of its deposits ; they now represent 80'2
per cent, of them. This is a pretty good test of
what this bank thinks of the outlook. Four or
five months ago, with the season still uncertain,
it preferred to keep its money in its vaults ; recently
it has opened the doors wider. Generally speaking, heavy
advances have been made recently on station properties ;
the transactions are far greater than appear from bank-
ing figures, because in very many cases the properties
already figured as “ advances, &c.” To such an extent
have banks been able to unload foreclosed properties, that
at least four of them, whose cupboards a few years ago
seemed full of grinning skeletons, have practically cleared
the lot out. Whether they are gone for good, or whether
they are simply chained up outside with the new'
advances, to come back on the return of bad seasons,
. must be left for the future to say.
• • « *
In Queensland a question begins to crop up as
to what is to ultimately become of the central sugar
mills on which the State foreclosed. Nominally, though
the State put up all the money to build them, they
belonged to shareholders, who mortgaged their lands as
collateral security. When they got into default the
mortgagor shareholders were glad enough to see the mills
(into which they had put no money) taken over as long as
they could keep their own mortgaged lands. In other
words, the State forgave them the debt they owed it, and
released the securities, which any private creditor would
have seized remorselessly. Now, however, that the State
has got things ship-shape, and (helped by a couple
of good seasons and better than average prices)
shows a profit, the shareholders are beginning
to say that, of course, when things are in
good order again, the mills will be handed back
to them, to be their own private mills when the advance
is paid off. The impudence of this proposal is all the
more amazing because most of these shareholders do not
now themselves grow' cane, but are landlords. So long
as there is a possibility of these cormorants ever coming
in and running the mills, settlement will be checked, and
the mills (which want big supplies of cane to give the
best results) will be handicapped; wherefore the State
can’t too early announce that, having had the mills
thrown on its hands, it proposes to itself run them for
ever and a day, and hasn’t the smallest intention in
the world of merely pulling the chestnuts out of
the fire for the benefit of the bunglers who caused
all the trouble. The State built and paid for the
mills. It gave them to certain people on their assur-
ance that they would pay for them, and these people
pawned their lands as a guarantee of payment. They
didn’t pay, and the State let them off their liability and
took back its own mills, still unpaid for, somewhat worn,
and burdened with a debt incurred through the hideous
mismanagement of the defaulting persons who promised
to pay for them but didn’t. The demand of these people
that the State, after forgiving them their liabilities,
letting them off payment for depreciation, and paying off
the debts they heaped up, should again make them a
present of the mills when it has restored them to a pay-
ing condition is something incredible in the wav of
insolence.
* * * *
Colonial Bank of Australasia (Melbourne)
Dividends on To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Shares. serves, serves.
Mar., 1900 .. £11,472 4 p.c. = £6,081 £5391 £12,008
Sept., 1900 .. 12,019 4 „ „ 6,081 5938 17,946
Mar., 1901 .. 13,718 5 ~ ~ 7,601 6117 24,063
Sept., 1901 .. 15,069 5 ~ „ 7,601 7468 31,531
Divs. on all Shares.
Mar., 1902 .. 17,173 5 „ ~10,942 6231 37,762
Sept., 1902 .. 16,264 5 „ ~10,961 5303 43,065
Mar., 1903 .. 16,223 5 „ ~10,961 5262 48,327
Sept., 1903 17,251 5 „ ~10,965 6286 54,613
Mar., 1904 .. 19,117 5 ~ ~10,967 8150 62,763
Sept., 1904 .. 18,287 5 „ ~10,967 7320 70,083
Mar., 1905 .. 19,320 5 „ ~10,907 8353 78,436
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 „ ~10,977 7337 85,773
Mar., 1906 .. 19,405 5 „ ~10,982 8423 94,196
Sept., 1906 .. 19,578 6 „ ~13,178 6400 100,596
Previous to the first period shown above, this bank was
paying 3 per cent, on pref. shares only; so that things
have recently gone very well with this concern, as with
most other banks in a country which the anti-Federal,
Stinking Fish party will presently be at some pains to
vilify from a hundred platforms. Certainly there are ;
many banks which show a much larger grow th in profits
since 1902. The Colonial has not, however, increased its
deposits as much as some ; at September, 1902, it held
£2,206;631, and now'it holds £2,915,563, which isn’t any.
thing striking in the w'ay of an increase, comparatively
speaking. Meantime, advances have gone from £2,095,920
to £2,461,737, which almost maintains the old rate in propor-
tion to deposits, &c. For years the Colonial has been work-
ing on a low’er percentage of reserves in the way of liquid
assets than most banks, and even now, with so much
money available, it has only 31£ p.c. of its liabilities to
the public represented by liquid securities. But while
this is smaller than most, the Colonial’s capital is large,
considering the size of the business ; so that just upon 20
p.c. of advances, premises, &c., and other such property,
are covered by shareholders’ owm funds. Yet this is by
no means an excessive proportion, especially as the
bank appears to be pursuing a fairly liberal and ‘vigorous
lending policy, notwithstanding the present high values
of most securities. Further details are shown here-
under :
Sept., ’O5. Sept., ’O6.
Notes in Circulation .. £108,666 £111,035 Inc. £2,369
Bills in Circulation .. 96,059 131,726 Inc. Ss’667
Deposits at Interest .. 1,635,192 1,911,859 Inc. 27e’667
Free Deposits .. 866,711 1,003,763 Inc. 137’052
Liquid Assets .. 746,603 999,178 Inc. 252,575
Advances .. .. 2,246,845 2,461,737 Inc. 214 892
Premises, &c. .. 249,023 250,464 Inc. 1,441
Unless liberal provision is being made internally, im-
proved profits certainly ought to be shown on these com-
parisons and on earlier figures. On the basis of share-
holders’ total funds (capital and reserves) recent profits
have been as follows :
Mar., 1903 .. £6 14 9 p.c. Mar., 1905 .. £7 11 11 p.c
Sept., 1903 .. 7 1 8 „ Sept., 1905 ..7 1 6
Mar., 1904 .. 715 0 „ Mar., 1906 .. 7 711
Sept., 1904 .. 7 510 „ Sept., 1906 .. 7 6 9 „
With liquid assets equal to only 31'7 per cent, of its liabi-
lities to the public, this bank may not be able to increase
its earnings to the same extent as some other Australian
banks could do if more securities were made available,
except, of course, by increasing deposits and other liabili-
ties. Many other banks could safely increase their profits
if securities were available, without adding anything to
their liabilities.
• « *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1900.. £5,863 4 per cent. =£3ooo £2863 £16,121
Mar., 1901.. 6,488. 5 „ „ 3750 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901.. 6,700 5 „ „ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902.. 7,061 5 „ „ 3750 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902.. 7,095 5 „ „ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903.. 7,380 5 „ „ 3750 3630 32,095
Sept., 1903.. 6,819 6 „ „ 4500 2319 34 414
Mar., 1904.. 7,556 6 „ ~ 4500 3056 37,470
. Sept., 1904.. 7,333 6 „ „ 4500 2833 40 303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 „ „ 4500 3835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 ~ „ 4500 3738 47 876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 „ ~ 5250 4822 52 698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 „ „ 5250 4929 57^627
The very high rate of profit which this bank has recently-
been showing has been maintained ; and the safe and
sound policy of making large additions to the reserves
is still pursued. For the past half-year less than 52 per
cent, of the profit has been divided. Considering the
rapid growth of the business, any other policv would,
certainly, be most objectionable. Even now, the share-
holders’ interest in the business extends to only 26 per
cent, of the non-liquid assets; in other words," capital
and reserves are only sufficient to provide lor a slump in
advances, premises, etc., to the extent ol a shade above
one-fourth of their value on the books. Only seven years
ago the total deposits were £368,217; they are now
£1,155,642. This great increase in popular support,
without any increase in shareholders’ capital, has called
for a rapid expansion of reserves, to safeguard the
interests of both depositors and shareholders. Certainly,
the advances have not been increased at the same rate as
the deposits; seven years ago only 27 per cent, of the
deposits were represented by liquid assets, while to-day
the figure is 54'8 per cent. This, of course, lessens the
risks both for depositors and shareholders.
A comparison explains a good deal of the
improvement in profits :
Sept.,’os. Sept.,'o6.
Notes in circulation .. £B,OlB £12,062 Inc. £4,044
Bills in circulation, &c. 52,770 43,819 Dec. 8,951
Deposits at interest .. 699,167 887,303 Inc. 188,136
Free deposits .. .. 190,437 268,338 Inc. 77,901
Liquid assets .. .. 499,367 664,617 Inc. 165,250
Advances 576,805 687,072 Inc. 110,267
Premises, &c 76,597 72,711 Dec. 3,886
There is a good increase in advances ; and, though liquid
assets have also increased, the growth has been in pro-
ductive items—public stocks, bills, &c., in transit, and
money in London. Premises, &c., are being reduced,
through the disposal of real estate ; as this was severely
written down some years ago, the realisation probably
accounts foi a little of the profit now. On the basis of
total funds (capital and reserves) the recent record of
profit has been :
Mar., 1903 ..£8 5 5 p.c. Mar., 1905 ..£8 15 2 p.c.
Sept., 1903 .. 7 9 9 „ Sept., 1905 .. 8 9 9 ~
Mar., 1904 .. 8 311 ~ Mar., 1906 .. 10 3 7
Sept., 1904 .. 716 6 „ Sept., 1906 ..10 010 „
Unquestionably the chief factor in the larger profits has
been the use of more of the public’s money ; and the
directors’ moderation in the matter of dividends, and the
steady increase in the reserve of liquid assets, are strong
evidences that the bank deserves the confidence it has
got.
* • • •
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.):— •
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1898 £17,417
1899 .. £4978 7 per cent. = £2756 £2222 19,639
1900 .. 4403 7 „ „ 2756 1647 21,286
1901 .. 3793 7 „ „ 2756 1037 22,323
1902 .. 4541 7 „ „ 2756 1785 24,108
1903 .. 5894 8 „ ~ 3150 2744 26,852
1904 .. 5474 8 „ „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905 .. 3876 8 „ ~ 3150 726 29,902
1906 .. 3781 8 „ ~ 3150 631 30,533
In a small insurance concern it is little use taking one
year’s results alone ; its field isn’t large enough to turn
out a fair average in any 12 months. For two or three
years this office had remarkably good fortune ; for two
years past it has had the other sort. One or two good-
sized fires more or less made all the difference. Some
details :
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £4785 £1774 £2143 37 T p.c. 44'8p.c.
1903.. 6291 952 2394 15T „ 38'0 „
1904.. 5839 1087 2390 18‘6 „ 4DO
1905 . . 5844 2959 2248 50‘6 ~ 38 A „
1906 .. 6999 3270 2449 54'5 „ 40'8 „
For the past four years, taking aggregate figures, the
loss rate has been 34 - 5 p.c. of premiums, and the expense
rate 39 - 6 p.c. ; and shareholders at any rate have no cause
to complain of that. Even in the co.’s best years an ex-
cessive amount was paid in dividends; and the propor-
tion now shows up worse than ever. Almost all the co.’s
assets are loans on mortgage ; they yield a trifle over
5 p.c., and provide more than enough to pay the dividend
on the co.’s very modest capital. No doubt the co.
knows its risks, and it may he almost impossible for it to
be struck by heavy claims all at once ; but if it were, it
might find its present exclusive form of investment
very awkward.
* * * *
The Federal Building Society (Melbourne)
issues its second balance sheet. The old FeSeral put up
its shutters in 1892, owing, it was reported, £330,347 in
deposits, and £66,531 otherwise. After 12£ years it was
announced that the £389,939 of admitted debts had been
paid without interest, and that about £122,000 worth of
assets (book value) remained. The old society had a
capital of £200,000 ; the new society began with a capital
of £96,351 and nominal reserves of £26,488. Its proceed-
ings have been as follows :
Business Profit on Total Dividend Nominal
Sept., Profits. Sales. Profit. (4 p.c.). Reserves.
1904 £26,488
1905 .. £4323 £1495 £5BlB £3854 28,452
(4* p.c.)
1906 .. 4924 684 5608 4336 29,724
The society is going the pace again :
1904. 1905. 1906.
Overdraft, &c £1,682 £11,960
Advances and balances owing £63,160 92,870 109,415
Properties in possession .. 54,071 37,469 32,924
Cash balances 4,779
There is already an overdraft of £11,510 on the premises.
The average obtained for advances is just about 7 per
cent—on the mean of the advances for the year the
interest is slightly under 7 per cent.—and management
costs about 1 per cent. The overdraft probably costs
something more than 5 per oent. ; and whether the 1 per
cent, -which that leaves the society makes the risk worth
accepting is doubtful. Anyway, the process is shock-
ingly roundabout. First somebody lends to a bank, then
the bank lends to the society, finally the society
lends to the public. Either the public can’t get
reasonably cheap money that .way or the inter-
mediaries can’t make reasonable profits in view of
the risks they take. The properties in possession,
which look like the sediment of the'old assets, returned
£llls. per cent, after paying rates and up-keep ; even
excluding the £9135 worth (paper value) of vacant land,
the net return was only £2 Is. 6d. per cent. ; and that is
so low as to raise grave doubts about the reserve. There
was certainly nothing in the year’s experience, as far as
appears in the accounts, to justify the increase of divi-
dend ; and that, and the rush for an overdraft, and other
things don’t inspire much confidence.
The Newcastle Building and Investment Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.), which, taking over the Newcastle
Permanent Investment and Building Society’s boom-built
business in 1896, transferred a large amount of capital to
contingency account (reckoned in with the reserves in the
table that follows): —
Written off
(Including
Losses on To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Realisation), serves, serves.
1899 £4911 4 p.c. = £3356 £390 £1165 £53,368
1900.. 5322 5 „ „ 4195 2256 52,239
1901.. 5159 6 „ „ 5033 1900 50,465
1902.. 6084 6 „ „ 5033 424 627 51,092
1903.. 5736 6„ ~ 5033 226 477 51,569
1904.. 5765 6 „ „ 5033 209 523 52,092
1905.. 5250 6„ „ 5033 90 127 52,219
1906.. 5539 6,, „ 5033 266 240 52,459
Since 1899 the following progress has been made in realis-
ing properties:—
Total Sold Total Sold
in during in during
Hand. Year. Hand. Year,
1899 .. £108,576 1903 .. £73,941 £4,236
1900 .. 101,243 £7,333 1904 .. 71,737 2,204
1901 .. 83,756 17,487 1905 .. -70,084 1,653
1902 .. 78,177 5,579 1906 .. -68,163 1,921
So in seven years properties of the book-value of £40,413
have been sold, apparently at a loss of £5372, though
possibly a very little of this loss has been on the newer
properties acquired. As to what the Yemaining pro-
perties taken over from the old society may be worth
one can’t even guess, as the rents from old and new pro-
perties (the latter now total £51,628) are lumped together.
On the past seven years’ realisations, however, they might
be judged to be worth £59,500, instead of their
paper value of £68,163. As money is got in it is
mostly put into other properties or used in paying off
deposits, which have now been reduced to £10,199. In
1899, £108,575 of old properties and £5382 of new ones—
total £ll4,2s7—brought in £3575 in rent, or £3 2s 6d. per
cent. Last year £68,163 of old and £51,628 of new
properties—total £ll9,79l—brought in £5395, or £4 10s.
Id. per cent. If the £68,163 of old proprieties brought
in the old average rate of £3 2s. 6d. per ceht., then the
new ones would be responsible for £3265, or £6 6s. per
cent. Either, then, the old properties that are left over are
above the average in the matter of productiveness, or the
new properties are very extra profitable. Whichever way
it is looked at, the position has improved substantially.
The South Australian Gas‘Co. (Adelaide): —
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1897 £31,963 12 p.e. =£30,000 £1963 £76,192
1898 32,362 12 „,, 30,000 2362 78,654
1899 33,636 12 „ „ 30,000 3636 82.19 C
1900 33,498 12 „ „ 30,000 3498 85,688
1901 37,299 12 „ „ 30,000 7299 92,987
1902 33,466 12 „ „ 30,000 3466 96,453
1903 31,278 12 „ „ 30,000 1278 97,731
1904 30,922 12 „ „ 30,000 922 98,653
1905 32,431 12 ~ „ 30,000 2431 101,084
Premiums on Bonds sold .. 84 101,168
1906 35,543 12 „ „ 30,000 5543 106,711
Partly through larger sales, and partly through cheaper
coal, the year’s results take a turn for the better. As for
the larger sales, however, it is to be noted that the
capital sunk in works and plant in use is now £342,804 as
against £327,617 in 1904. The extra money thus repre-
sented has been raised on bonds, of which £30,000 worth
are now outstanding; the balance of this new capital
has been used to reduce “ sundry creditors.” This item
has been brought down from £29,930 in 1904 to £10,731
in 1906. Some further details:—
1901. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Sales .. .. £90,617 £90,320 £96,759 £99,032
Interest received 345
Interest paid .. 342 809 1,191
Coal, labor, &c... 38,992 45,227 45,868 44,050
Salaries, fees .. 5,283 6,667 5,976 6,395
Written off .. 7,315 5,269 7,740 7,859
The amount written off is at the rate of 2 per cent, on
fixed investments (works, plant, &c.) ; and, in addition,
repairs are charged direct to profit and loss. The co.,
which thus appears to be prudently managed, has almost
a monopoly of gas-lighting in S. Australia; for it has
works at Port Adelaide, Glenelg, Port Pirie, Gawler,
Kapunda, and Strathalbyn, as well as in the city. On
shareholders’ capital and reserves it shows a return of
£lO 2s. sd. per cent. From the shareholders’point of
view, little better could be desired ; whether the public,
which provides this return for the supply of such a neces-
sity as lighting, has the same reason to be perfectly
satisfied is another matter.
• * * *
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus-
tralasia (Melbourne): —
Dividends. Nomi-
Pref. Def. Ord. Total Written nal Re-
July, Profit. p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. off. serves.
1900 £18,554 7 7* 6 £11,300 £5,518 £1,741
1901 14,583 7 74 44 10,250 2,995 3,079
1902 10,414 7 74 1 7,800 1,873 3,820
1903 17,304 7 74 Nil 7,100 7,860 6,164
1904 21,770 7 74 5 10,600 8,661 8,673
1905 17,578 7 74 5 13,200 3,712 9,339
1906 26,131 7 74 5 16,780 4,445 14,245
In 1900 this co. had 80,000 cumulative 7 per cent, pre-
ference shares, and 20,000 non-cumulative preference
shares, as against 70,000 ordinary shares. Now, however,
as against 90,000 ordinary shares, there are no less than
168,000 cumulative pref. shares. The preference
now absorbs £18,260 a year. The position of
the ordinary shares (issued in the first place
to the vendors) is not, therefore, what it was.
During the past year £28,000 of cumulative pref. capital
has been subscribed, mainly to reduce some of the float-
ing liabilities. In July, 1905, overdrafts and other liabili-
ties amounted to £89,773 ; the total has now been reduced
to £69,674. The balance of the new money is represented
by “ shares in other cos.,” freeholds, and “ sundry
debtors.” This last item has grown from £37,120 to
£44,194 in the year. Though the usual claim is made
that bad and doubtful debts have been provided for, an
increase in this item is almost always an unsatisfactory
feature of accounts—on the principle that a bird in the
bank is worth two in the books. In the table printed
above the reserves are described as nominal. When the
co. was formed £125,000 of the £170,000 capital repre-
sented goodwill items; since, then other goodwill items
have been accumulated, and so far only £13,716 has been
written off all this tremendous load of paper. It is an
appalling weight for even so vigorous a concern as the
Dunlop Co. to make headway under. The only redeem-
ing feature is that £90,000 of it is represented either by
ordinary or non-cumulative pref. shares.
■*•***
Wright, Heaton & Co., Ltd. (Sydney), carriers,
produce dealers, etc., from the time £4oou of reserves
was applied to buy up the special rights of “ B ” share-
holders :
Net Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves. serves.
July, 1901 £7,288 344 p.c. = £9,519 £5,082
Jan., 1902 9,165 44 „ „ 33,269 978
Julv, 1902 18,089 10 „ „ 3,395 £14,694 15,672
Jan., 1903 12,926 30 „ „ 10,185 2,741 18,413
Julv 1903/ 5,610 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2,1101 90 <593
J uly, 19031 Une xp la ine d addition 8,000/
Jan., 1904 2,840 10 p.c.= 3,500 27,863
t„,„ i oru J 2,911 10 » .. 3,500 \
Jull, 1 004 /Written off, £13,000 } 14, “' 4
Jan., 1905 5,052 74p.c.= 2,626 2,427 16,701
July, 1905 6,254 74 ~ „ 2,625 3,629 20,330
Jan., 1906 6,593 74 „ „ 2,625 3,968 24,298
July, 1906 6,311 10 „ „ 3,500 2,811 27,109
The profits shown for some of the earlier half-years in
the table have to be regarded with the eye of cold sus-
picion, in view of the writing-off of £13,000 in 1904.
Still it is a business in which trouble is liable to occur
swiftly and almost at any time. Of the total assets of
£152,231, stock on hand accounts for £41,315, and debts
due to the co. amount to another £76,702 ; and both
these look as though they might be liable to heavy de-
preciation. Four years ago stock stood at £10,517 and
debts due at £44,769 ; and both items were subsequently
found to need severe overhauling. They are very much
larger now ; but probably under an almost entirely new
control, a stricter eye is kept upon them. In the past
half-year the (Queensland connection has been unprofit-
able, owing to heavy losses on produce transactions,
which again suggests the risks in the business ; and pre-
sumably some at least of the stock is of the same class of
goods over which the losses have been made in the past.
Still there are big earnings to counterbalance the risks ;
accepting the last year’s figures as they stand, the profits
show over 14 per cent, on capital and reserves. A co.
can’t reasonably expect 14 percent. without an occasional
kick from Fortune.
* * * •
The position of Great Fingall (W.A.) doesn’t
improve the more it is looked at, and its past improves
even less. On Jan. 1, 1905, ore reserves were estimated
at 621,200 tons, worth 87s. 6d. per ton, or £2,717,700;
but the succeeding half-year’s returns panned out at
only 84,300 tons, worth £313,400, or 745. 4d. per ton.
Share values, based on the old estimates, were therefore
ridiculous. On July 1, 1905, reserves were estimated at
657,000 tons, worth 795. ; but, up to June, 1905, the
108,900 tons treated only averaged 60s. 9d. per ton,
which was another disappointment; On Jan. 1, 1906,
reserves were estimated at 753,000 tons, worth 555. 6d. per
ton, or £2,089,000 ; but subsequent returns show a return
of 119,800 tons for £278,800 only, or 465. 6d. per ton. The
latest official estimate says that there are 677,500 tons in
sight, worth 455. 9d., but against that it is announced
that returns will be reduced to 325. per ton, Showing a
profit of possibly £ll,OOO per month. Bewick, Moreing
and Co.’s estimates have hitherto not proved much
better than other people’s, and sometimes not as good,
and there seems something wrong with this estimate,
else why' the difference between 455. 9d. and 325. ? The
lowest level of the mine up to about 550 ft. north is a
duffer, and the reef splits at about 600 ft. north, and is
then no good. Altogether the firm’s handling of this
mine will take a lot of justifying.
» * * «
During September the ore treated at the
Hainault, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), only yielded a profit of about
£l6OO, and that was more than swamped by the new
plant. This plant is designed to increased the monthly
profit to about £3OOO ; but returns must very materially
improve to allow it to do this. However, under Manager
Moss, anything may happen. At present he is trying to
get Brookman’s Boulder for the Hainault, and the North
Kalgurli for the Kalgurli—possibly for dumping grounds,
though there are people who still think that the North
Kalgurli has possibilities in spite of its inglorious career.
* » * •
Chaffers, Kalgoorlie, is to have another try to
locate payable values, as Manager Fred. Cape failed to
find another prope ty during his travels through the
Eastern States. It may be renumbered that, a couple of
ye.rsago, a crosscut was put in right across the lea e,
the 1400 ft. level of the Boulder Main Reef, with very
disappointing results. Prior to that a borehole was put
down, which pierced a 4ft. lode at 1700 ft., worth 35dwt.
per ton. Boreholes, so far, have proved very untrust-
worthy : but, should a crosscut confirm the drill,
Chaffers may yet become a payable mine, though the
surf-ce is a regular gridiron of railways and roadways.


Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), has at length
managed to hold a statutory half-yearly meeting. The
mine appears to have little hope of ever coming to the
front again. The crosscourse, near the southern
boundary of the lease, dips rather flat to the north, and
cuts off reef and values wherever it occurs. The
incline winze at 400 ft. meets this crosscourse, and there
is no likelihood of anything payable being found below it.
• * * *
Waihi, Davyhurst (W.A.), now controlled by
Davenport Cleland, formerly of Bayley’s, is looking sick.
Cleland reports high assays, but, on the other hand, one
has to consider the very high costs incurred in rooting
out stone from short shoots. For instance, during Sep-
tember, 250 tons of ore were got out for a return of 775.
6d. per ton, at a cost of 107 s. 6d., which means a loss of
30s. per ton.
• • * •
Whitford’s Reward, Gregory Hills (W.A.), is
not quite the duffer Andrew Wilson designated it. There
are two shoots of gold-bearing ore on the property, and
Whitford foolishly put down a shaft between the two,
and so is somewhere about 200 ft. from each shoot. In
addition to making this initial mistake, Whitford started
sinking a shaft, 12ft. x 4ft., instead of putting down two
shafts on the gold shoots to prove the ground. In spite
of Andrew Wilson’s condemnatory report, the find is a
goldfield; but it is 100 miles from Laverton, and, conse-
quently, very severely handicapped.
« * * *
Westralia’s first mining co. is just being wound
up. It was formed at a meeting held in Perth, on Sept.
16.1846, “for the purpose of discovering, leasing, buying,
selling and working mineral lands,” was called the
Western Australian Mining Co., and was in 10,000 shares
of £2 each, of which, so far as can be' made out, 9s. was
called up. It seems somebody had found something
about 35 miles from Fremantle which somebody else said
resembled coal, and that was the start of it. Then some-
body found something that was alleged to be copper, and
tin was also unearthed; but in particular coal was
wanted. Everybody was discovering something, and a
boom started—as usual, ahead of the pick. The co. tried
the Murray district first, and found blanks every
time; and next year Dr. F. Von Sommer, visiting Swan
River, was commissioned to make a report. He
threw such a vast wet blanket over the Murray district
that the co. curled up and tried to forget that it had ever
been alive. After a while somebody else reported a
copp r find, 16 miles from Perth. Off went the co. and
bought a 250-acre block with some green streaks on it.
But the green streaks turned out to be moss, or some-
thing ; anyway, there was no payable copper there ; and
the co. tried harder than ever to forget that it had once
lived and made a fool of itself. Nothing more was ever
done in the way of mining. Still the co. held the land,
for the simple reason that it hadn’t enough energy left to
let go, and did nothing with it with great energy until
nearly 60 years afterwards, somebody suggested selling it
and dividing the proceeds. Three surviving shareholders
turned up, the order for burial was made by the court
H. R. Coombs was appointed official undertaker, the land
brought £3 15s. an acre (which is another nail to hang a
land-tax sermon upon some day), and so a first and final
dividend of Bs. 9d. per share in Westralia’s first mining
co. is now payable.
• • * ,
Broken Hill South pays a div. of 3s. Gd., making
a total of 12s. per share (£120,000) for the year. This Is
by far the best this co. has ever done. Only two others
the B.H. Prop, and Block 10, have done better at any
time. Block 10’s star is a very poor twinkler compared
with what it was in 1892, when it paid £275 000 The
South’s recovery has been one of the sensational things of
the Barrier. Twelve years ago, when the oxidised ores
of which it never had much, gave out, it was close up to
being abandoned. T. J. Greenway induced the directors
to start concentrating the sulphides, and that was the
beginning of a new life for the field. Metallurgist Green-
wa! 8 services in that matter have never been recognised
as they deserve. “
* * * *
The remarkably fine developments in the lower
levels of the South, Broken Hill, have firmed the market
for almost all Barrier stocks. Which is as absurd as many
other present market movements. This development in
the South strengthens the theory that the main Broken
Hill ore body is in the shape of an up-ended V the apex
in the north end of the B.H. Prop. The South is at one
end of theV; the Junction North and North at the
other end. If there is anything in this well-supported
theory, then so far from the good finds in the South help-
ingsome the others—Block 14, B.H. Prop., and Block
10 especially—they distinctly cast doubts upon the value
of these last three mines’ deep levels.
• » * »
The repair of the shaft at the Junction North
Broken Hill, is now almost finished. Originally there
were two proposals for straightening it up after the fire
and the flood. One was to build a sollar, or staging
across the shaft below the place where it had burst so as
to give it a false bottom. Mullock was then to have been
poured down until the shaft was filled up to the point
where the bad break started. The shaftmen would sink
through this and securely timber. But this system
would be slow and expensive, so the engineering skill of
the Barrier put a wet towel round its head and
hatched columns of calculations, with the result
that the packing scheme was discarded to make
room for the simpler one of hanging the necessary tim-
bers in the shaft. So-far this process has proved a sue-
cess, but whether it will long remain so depends very
much on the vagaries of the neighboring Junction creep
ground. Strong timbers have been put into what is now
solid ground on each side of the shaft, and from these
supporting beams the shaft timbers, set after set, have been
suspended. The north end of the Junction, down to the
675 ft. level, is crushed in, and may subside further yet
There are cavities here and also on the Junction North
side, which will now be filled in. A continuation of the
movement in the lower levels may start that fill-
ing on the run, and then there will be nothing
left to support the ground to which the shaft tim-
bers are hung. Still, it was worth while taking the
nsk; the remarkable piece of shaft engineering, upon
which manager T. H. Palmer has hopefully pit the
finishing touches, may long survive. But it is an uncer-
tain asset, and will always have to be counted as such in
reckoning up the value of the mine.
• » * *
The slice of ground which was sold by the B.H.
Junction to the B.H. British shortly before the fire, and
which turned out to contain about the only sixpence in
the Junction’s pudding, so far as that pudding has been
cut and probed, is about to be exploited from Marsh
shaft. The ore in this 490 ft. stope of the Junction is par-
ticularly good, and when the British gets its crosscut in
from the 500 ft. level of Marsh’s shaft, the bulk assay-value
of the ore from that far northern end of the British leases
will go up a bit. As usual at this time of the year, railway
trucks are at a premium, and for a week past the British
has had a glut of ore at M‘lntyre’s bins (where the ore from
Marsh’s is trucked), not sufficient trucks being available
to take it away to the mill. A few score bags of native
silver-bearing ore have been quietly scooped from the
200 ft. level of Marsh’s, and some of it is wonderfully rich.
In every age the problem of civilised man has
been to make provision for his wife and children when we
shall be dead, and having- made that provision to
ensure it being always available for their use. States-
-1 have devised laws to protect their widow
and the orphan, and religion has made them
her special care. The most terrible punishments
have been dealt out to the defaulting trustee,
and every system of religion has laid its heaviest
and most sincere curse on the man who robbed the help-
less wife and children of the dead. And yet, the literature
of every nation teems with stories of women and children
brought to beggary, either by the guardian who stole
their money or just lost it through incompetency. To
make sufficient in life to keep them in comfort till the
children were grown up and the widow had gone to j'oin
her husband beyond the veil was not the hardest part of
the problem. The difficulty was to ensure that it would
be safely invested, honestly managed, and that there
would be a fund m the event of these two things not
being done, out of which they could be recompensed. No
private individual could possibly meet such a requirement,
to *1 fc , h ~ wanfc and supply these conditions
that the Perpetual Trustee Company was formed. Prom
the day of its inception thoughtful people realised the
advantage of leaving their affairs in the hands of an
organisation of this kind, an organisation, moreover, that
would still employ the solicitors in whom the testator had
had faith during his life. It is a safe concern: For the
person who leaves his affairs in the hands ofc this institu-
tion, whose offices are at 2,4, and 6 Spring-street,
Sydney, has securitiesi totalling to £1,027,000 put down as
a guarantee for the faithful and energetic management of
his affairs. To rely upon the private trustee when such
an excellent and absolutely safe institution as this is
available is not a blunder—it is an absolute crime.*
That shockingly over-capitalised show at the
end of the White Leads plain, the Australian Broken Hill
Consols, is still st rug’ll in# heroically with a hopelessly
poor lode at the 300 ft. level. The make of carbonates and
galena (mostly the latter) at the upper level is made to
cover a multitude of shortcomings in other parts of the
mine. Still, the A.B.H.C. is productive; the rod of
Moses could scarcely have produced a finer flow of water
than that which pours from the rock at the bottom level.
* • # *
The Broken Hill Prop., which for years never
had a thought about any other mine but the one that it
has made the millions out of, is now collaring all the
available shows round about the Pinnacles, and where it
can’t collar outright it secures options. This is about
six miles from Broken Hill. Possibly it is looking for
something to counterbalance its own barren deep
northern ground.
* * » •
J. Bull is no prospector. Not only does he
want “ developed mines," but he quits at a ridiculous
sacrifice when a blank happens. After buying into
Lloyd’s (N.S. W.) at big prices, he threw the shares out at
a few shillings, and is now steadily pushing them up
again with heavy purchases. And, for once in a way, he
doesn’t seem to be paying too much to get in again.
* * • #
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), notwithstanding that
contributing shareholders have had to pay up a first call,
and in spite of the diamond-drill “revelations," is
developing fairly well. Just 12 months ago the public
made a rush to grab shares at £B, which to-day are offer-
ing at about 305.; but the drills hadn’t then operated.
Now G. H. Blakemore is glad that, in spite of opposition,
he got in early with the machines, and led the public out
of further temptation. Blakemore is still a large holder,
and doesn’t squeak—and this shouldn’t be forgotten in
his favor. He wanted to know, when the public only
wanted shares at any price.
* * » •
Budgery, Hermidale (N. S.W.) strike of
whose lode the directors and management still haven’t
any doubt of being from 17 to 20 degrees west of north—
continues to interest the Stock Exchange; and the
semblance of a wall, or an intrusive “ horse ” of mullock,
or anything that is likely to cast the shadow of doubt on
the bearings of the body, is greedily rushed on ’Change
for market purposes. Fact of wall being met last week
in the drive was just the simple inevitable happening,
seeing that the drive went in 37 degrees west of north,
instead of 17 degrees west asintended. Manager Thomas
started his drive only a few feet east of the footwall on
the black oxides in the crosscut; hence, as the lode has
a 20 degrees trend, and the drive went in at 37 degrees, it
looked impossible that it could get further than 12ft. in
without bumping into the wall. All these bogeys
help to funk weak holders, but as the market
is about £lOOO, it has not been much broken. A crosscut
is now being shoved out on to the hanging wall; and,
meanwhile, to facilitate the raising of ore to keep the pot
boiling, and the sinking of the main shaft at the same
time, a winch is being erected and means of working
generally improved.
* • • •
Some difference has occurred as to the value of
the first parcel of ore (50 tons) sent from Budgerv to the
smelters at Lithgow. Latter make the bulk 17j p.c.
copper. The mine sampling made it22J p.c. Metallurgist
Helms, of Sydney, is to be called in to adjust the matter.
* * * #
Mt. Budgery, a mile and a half west of Budgery,
has had no trouble in raising £4OOO Jn 800 contributing
shares of £5 each. The fact of thejeases being abandoned
years ago, and the neighborhood being Budgery, helped
the thing along ; but, outside that, the manager of Bud-
gery, who reported on the show, spoke highly of its
chances. There is a big ironstone and gossan formation,
carrying free gold in the panning ; and-as gold values
in the ironstone in the Oobar district seem to persis-
tently precede copper values at lower levels, Mt. Budgery
is a good gamble.
* *
Mt. Boppy South, consisting of Mt. Boppy
southern leases and an area of useless outside country
lying to the south-west of the lode and kndwn as Bake-
well’s blocks, gets into the embrace of J. Bull, who finds
10,000 shares for the South Boppy holders, 10,000 shares
for Bake well’s, and a working capital of £60,000 in a co.
of 150,000 shares at £l. Conditions don’t look enticing
to the South holders, as there is practically nothing but
the South on which any reliance can be placed to make
the concern profitable. At one time it looked as if South
people would refuse ; but as there isn’t much free gold
in their stone, and cyaniding and filter process are an
essential in the treatment, South directors took the
chance of getting in the necessary capital.
Mt. Boppy North (N.S.W.), whose shaft was
supposed to have knocked off at 3Soft. in a big mineral-
ised lode, hasn’t reconstructed as easily as it tjiought it
would. Presumably, however, as there isn’t much com-
pany-forming in London after this month,- either the
scheme of reconstruction will shortly be announced, or
the thing will be hung up for three months. The North
has given six months’ option, of which three are gone.
* * * *
Shares in Mt. Boppy Blocks, near Mt. Boppy,
on which £25 has been paid, were marketable during last
few weeks at £3O to £36. The shaft is still in lode
formation at about 130 ft., but the huge gossan outcrop
which borders on the shaft has not yet been cut ; and
there are, so far, only very small values in the sinking.
Show has undoubted possibilities; moreover, ironstone
gossans are fashionable just now in Cobar, and Mt.
Boppy Blocks probably carries the biggest outcrop there-
abouts.
* * * *
North Nymagee and Girilambone (N.S.W.),
two old Sunday Times pet shows that periodically come
up without a blush and ask a trusting public to have
faith some more, again move, with copper at £lOO or so.
The number of times the public has rushed each show
and fallen blindly over the precipice is now beyond count;
and as there isn’t anything except the same old precipice
to rush over, barring an inflated copper market, specula-
tors might do well to sit down and think over past ex-
periences.
* * * *
The persistence of the rich sulphide ore in the
True Blue, VVyalong (N.S.W.), at a depth of over 1100 ft.,
and along the ore channel, goes to prove that the fissure
is permanent. The channels are well defined, and the ore
is well distributed between hard granite walls from 18in.
to 3ft. apart. An important development has also taken
place at the Shamrock, where sulphide ore. has been
struck at the 400 ft., assaying as high as 50oz. gold to the
ton. The Barrier treated 80 tons at Cockle Creek for
120 oz. gold. Since January of this vear the Golden
Fleece has treated 1529 tons of ore for £9871.
* * * *
Canbelego copper mine, six miles south of
Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.), and from which 78 tons of picked
ore is credited with yielding 28 per cent, of copper, is to
be given a chance. New co. is in 100 shares of £2O each.
So far, mine has simply been pottered with. There are
four shafts on the' line of lode, but as original
owner stuck to the policy of gouging out the
rich ore, the deepest working is only 90ft. There
is 9 per cent, copper ore across the bottom of this
shaft, and 7£ per cent, across 4ft. in another shaft 35ft.
deep, and 3’15 per cent, is the average sampling of the
dump after it had been picked for shipping. Owners
accepted 35 shares and £5O, which was dirt cheap on
prospects. Already the 65 shares which the public
rushed at £2 10s. on application and £2 10s. on
allotment are at £5 premium. If the lode opens up as
it promises to do, Canbelego copper mine will be heard
of.
* • * *
A week or two more will see the beginning of
the end of the old misplaced Dapto (N.S. W.) smelting
works. What is worth shifting the Australian Smelting
Corporation will cart to Kembla, where A. E. Savage will
superintend the erection of the new plant.
* * * •
Brilliant Central, Charters Towers (Q.), hangs
out signals of distress, and has to bustle along its de-
velopment work. Only one paltry dividend has been
paid for the six months. Profits went into exploration
which returned nothing for the amount spent upon it!
If development (if is actually prospecting—just imagine
“ developing ” a 2in. reef !) had been carried on while the
ore reserves were strong, the mine would have been in a
better position to stand the shock. As it is, whenever a
stope gives out (and they have contracted’ that habit)
the co. gets a nasty bump. Receipts from all sources for
the six months were £22,475. The output reached 9986
tons ; average, £2 4s. Bd. per ton. Expenditure ran to
£23,153, showing a loss of £678 for the term. At what
stage the loss happened the report does not tell; in fact
the report is chiefly remarkable for what it doesn’t
mention. The one dividend and the tax claimed £2625,
so that the co. is £3303 worse off than it was six months
ago. A nice position for the third best mine on the
field ! When the payable stone in the deep workings gave
out, attention was attracted to the shallower ground, as
the straight shaft had passed through some formations.
One was at 1318 ft., vertical depth. This was tested by a
crosscut and level. So far, it shows from Ift. to 2ft. of
stone in patches for the 40ft. that the level is in. At
1440 ft. another crosscut and level were put in, but show
no stone. Yet these are the pillars that the mine was
depending upon. They ware the reefs that were being
worked by Kelly’s when that co. was turning out £9-a-
ton stuff ; but now that Kelly’s returns have slipped back
to £3 a ton, the Central reckons that it has yet to dis-
cover Kelly’s reef.
• • * •
It’s a pity shafts are not portable, as it would
save the Queen Central, Charters Towers, a lot of trouble.
The co. deserted its No. 1 shaft and scooted out across
the gully to punch a hole in the earth, so as to intersect
the golden stone that was spreading out like a mushroom
from the Queen Cross lease. Hard luck followed the
Central’s backers, for the stone was not flattened out
sufficiently to reach their ground in any quantity. Now,
after rushing up an expensive plant to push down an
expensive hole, they are rushing back to the old love,
and decking it out in fine style. The attraction is some-
thingthat the New Queen has got, though the battery
does not report favorably upon it. Marshall’s have also
got something, but it has not risen to the dignity of a
reef yet. The Central’s No. 1 shaft is at one corner of a
triangle, and the New Queen and Queen Cross shafts are
at the other corners. The Cross has a bit of stone that
is supposed to be the same as Marshall’s and the
Punter’s Delight ” are working. It is eitherthat or the
reef from Kelly’s that the directors are looking 1 for ; they
are not certain which. From the No. 2 shaft 1488 tons
were turned out in the six months for £5560, equal to £3
14s. 9d. a ton. Expenses took £3855, leaving a profit of
£l7OO. Lumped with mining expenditure is the cost of
setting up the No. 1 shaft. The co. should be above calls
for a w'hile, with £3OOO in hand.
* * * •
Lips are down at Charters Towers when the
Columbia is mentioned. This was a reconstructed affair,
formed to hunt for the eastern stone worked by the
Brilliant Extended ; and to give it some sort of connec-
tion with that mine it was christened the Brilliant North.
The co. now wants a reef. The formation that it was
following with an underlie has been lost in the footwall.
To equalise matters, a crosscut has been started into the
hanging-wall. Directors report that “the strictest
economy,” &c., &c. So it should be, for the public nurses
the contributing pups.
* * * *
Rogers’ Millchester Block is the newest Charters
Towers float—£32,soo in 130,000 shares of 55., of which
vendors and promoters take 50,000 paid. The best of the
ground was given up as a bad job bv the Millchester Ex-
tended about 20 years ago. Though it got a small make
of mineral stone, the co. could see no profit in it; and
nobody else has been able to see things in a better light
since then. Under which circumstances, the 50,000 paids
are a big mouthful. Still, Millican being behind it, there
was no need to invite the public to come in, and the paids
and the contribs. go for the most part into the same
pockets. The arrangement will only have its advantages
—for the promoters—when the puliiic nibbles at the bait
that the mine is sure to yield, even if it yields nothing
more.
* * * *
Cloncurry (Q.) district is so immense, and the
copper mines so scattered, that to give them much hope
there must be branch railways to bringthem in touch w'ith
smelting works. Townsville still thinks the smelting
will be done nearer the coast, and coal is being prospected
for at Blantyre, near Bullock Creek, on the Hughenden
line. Abore showed 4ft. of coal; and a shaft is being sunk.
Bowen doesn’t seem to assert itself these times; a large
seam of coal is known to exist near that sleepy litlle
place, which has a fair harbor, and the fag end of’a rail-
way. Metallurgist Weinberg is to make a report on
Cloncurry, and to balance freight on coke to the copper,
against freight on ore and concentrates to the coal, or to
a port where coal is cheap. There are other considera-
tions, such as fire-clay and fluxes. Whatever happens
Australia should see that neither ore nor matte is shipped
to feed foreign furnaces.
■* • * *
London buying orders for shares in Mt. Elliott,
Cloncurry (Q.), came in with an unexpected rush last
week, found the market almost bare of scrip (the bulk of
it is in a few hands), and there was a wild scramble up
from 40s. to 5Ss. Then the enthusiasts satdown in a cool
place to think, comforting themselves with the fact that
the mine is still 12 months away from dividends, and
there was the usual thud. That 12 months will, it is
almost certain, see some market monkey-tricks.
* * * *
Location means much to a copper mine.
O.K. mine/ (N.Q.) is 47 miles from the terminus
of the Ohillagoe line, and carting costs £2 10s
Mount Molloy is 17 miles from Biboohra station,
and has its smelter two miles' from the mine’
in order to get permanent water. Even that 17
miles produces transport difficulties. To lessen the
Molloy down traffic, matte (50 per cent, metal) has lately
been converted into copper. Converting requires coke,
so the loading is decreased in one direction and increased
in the other, and trouble breaks out in that way. O.K.
converts its matte into metal, and there is now’ no diffi-
culty in taking the copper away ; but the up-loading
accumulates at Mungana—Boo tons of coke consigned to
O.K. is waiting for teams, and coke and other material
may be wanted to tide over the w'et season, when the
road becomes a bog in places. The larger O.K. furnace,
to be ready in six or eight weeks, will eat more coke, so
transport trouble will still be more than possible. Basic
ore may help the situation ; but it is unsafe to assume
that it is there in quantity until development proves it.
* * * *
The old Mt. Shamrock, near Degilbo (Q.),
which made a stir during the Mt. Perry boom, has been
resurrected, and Wilcocks is said to have inclined his ear
that way. Ore is plentiful but refractory, and the nrofit
will have to come from the cyanide plant, where an
extraction of about 14s. a ton has recefitlv been obtained.
The lode contains small veins of telluride of bismuth,
which assay up to £720 per ton, but these, as a general
thing, are only about half an inch thick. Present pro-
ceedings are being carried on with a whim which will
only pull 16 tons a day, a battery which crushes 60 tons a
week, and a cyanide plant to match. It is pretty safe to
sav that if the battery doesn’t arrive the mine won’t
either.
* * * *
Catherine United, Bendigo, is the puzzle of the
Melbourne market, and Adelaide would be almost as glad
to know the answer to the riddle. During the week it
was whispered that manager Coakes, the game old backer
of the claim, was retiring, but he only eases off, taking a
sort of supervising general-managership. The market
picked up on the news that the deeper ground is to be
tested at once—a job which Coakes has wanted to under-
take and about which he has no fears.
* * * *
Bent is an easy-going Cohen. Chalk’s No. 3
has now got round him to let it pay divs. before refund-
ing the £5OOO with which the State put it on its feet.
The State is to get a bite, and then the shareholders, and
soon, turn and turn about. But the State’s turns will
stop at £5OOO. In the anti-Socialistic creed it isn’t sinful
for the State to put in £5OOO ; it is onlv sinful to suggest
that it should take out more than £5OOO, and so help pay
for the next £5OOO that it will never see the color of
again.
*
Captain “Teddy” Miles, ex-Tasmanian Minis-
ter for Works and other things, having given politics
best, has lately been chasing tin in Siam ; and the first
proof of it will be a prospectus, to come out next month,
of a big co. to dredge some Siamese harbor which is said
to be silted up with tin drift. One fly in the oint-
ment, however, is that the Siamese Government royalties
on tin run, at present price, to from £24 to £26 per ton.
It will do the Australian Fatman good to put his money
into foreign specs, and find out how other States treat
the mining adventurer. Afterwards the Stinking Fish
cry may ease off a bit. -
* » * *
Broken Hill Water Supply shares have been
again knocked down by a word that some of the mining
cos. and the municipal council are combining to carry
through the Umber umberka scheme. The South and the
Sulphide Corporation are, as hitherto, the cos. con-
cerned ; the present Water Co. has enough influence on
the boards of most of the other mining- cos, to restrain
them. The co.’s rights run out in about 12 years, when
the works have to be handed over to the State ; and the
State Parliament may hesitate to agree "15" a scheme
which will deprive it of some of its own best prospective
customers. Meantime, the fact remains that the present
supply is far too uncertain for a great town and industry
to hang upon ; and if anything like a respectable rate
had been levied upon the mines, a better supply would
not only long since have been provided by the corpora-
tion, but paid for as well,
• * • »
The Cairns-Atherton (N.Q.) Dairy and Ice Co.
made a loss of £6OB on its first year’s.work, but isn’t dis-
couraged, and looks forward to another but smaller loss
this current year. The experiment is one of much more
than local interest. If dairy-farming and butter-making-
can be made to pay at Cairns or thereabouts, the ques-
tion of labor for the canefields will be just about solved,
lhe trouble now is to keep the labor handy by providing
it with something to do in the off-season. Mixed dairy-
farming and cane-growing with white labor have boomed
the North Coast districts of N.S. W.; and a fine, patriotic
struggle is being made by a few battlers in the north of
(Queensland to reproduce the same conditions there.
* * * *
Another factor in reducing the mining coats,
especially in large mines, is the general use of the “Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill, and other N.S.W. Mines, also
Westralian Mines, use them extensively. The managers
favor these drills for their great strength and simplicity,
having only one working part; also for economy in air
consumption, as they require only about 25 feet of free
air per minute. In some of the hardest lodes at the
Barrier, “ Wonder” Drills bore over ljin. per minute, and
in softer country as,much as sin. and 6in. per minute.
Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney,
have descriptive catalogues for those interested.*
* * . .
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [b]
• ■» * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per hag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • •
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record (Melbourne), of 20th June, 1905, wrote with
reference to t,he Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society'
Limited : —“ The transactions of the society are on a large
scale, the income approaching half-a-inillion sterling.
Each year the addition of the funds is of considerable
magnitude, and the total for the last three years exceeds
£324,000.”*
* • * ■*
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Oobar Stock Exchange.*
■ » * •
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
* « * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
*** * °
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* • * •
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties forpurchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * ■*
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * tr m
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
Sipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
ew Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works’
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * • •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo .(Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm 11. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent ‘Safety 'Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop Upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share. Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents everj'-
where.*
* * # *
The Rea veil Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor-design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* « * m
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
ion on the field.*
* • • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-3treet, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide,* -


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
POSTCARDS.
A RT,B JS» &c,, are invited to
submit Designs or Ideas sui table for Reproduc-
tion as Post Cards to HARDING & BILLING
T •. , 250 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
Local Postcards—Every storekeeper should stock
postcards of his own locality. Write for samples and
prices. A splendid line for Christmas.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
PUBLIC SYMPATHY.—A NEW WAY TO
RAISE THE WIND.
London papers by the last mail record the
doings of the “ Legion of Frontiersmen,” the silly
persons who even received a line in the cable
news a month ago. The alleged “Frontiersmen”
represent (so they say) the hardy pioneers from
every outback part of the Hempire, and their
little show on Sept. 6 was a journey from London
to .Brighton with pack-horses carrying 1201 b.
each. It was said to be a test between Australian
and Canadian methods of packing. The “ teams ”
were commanded by “Captain Best, of Queens-
land, aged 70 years” (who is he?), and “Roger
Pocock, of Western Canada.” The umpire and
judge was (draw your breath !) “ Lieut. Colonel
Commandant Herrera de Hora.” LC2H2 fol-
lowed the teams in a motor-car, and you bet he
didn’t let her go all she knew, for the first seven
miles took two hours and a half. The fool ride
hadn t ended when the papers left. What sort of
idiots do these “Frontiersmen” make their
countrymen appear, anyway ?
Sawyer ” : I have been reading an ac-
count of a strange happening to the people of the
barque Elginshire. They were fishing with a
D £>i hbe at sea, and a large fish was hooked.
vnile hauling it in the tension was sudddenly
slackened, and it was thought that the prey had
escaped, but it hadn’t all escaped ; the head and
shoulders were found attached to the line, but the
balance had been cut away as if by a knife. This
is, no doubt, strange, but not inexplicable. It is
a common occurrence with schnapper fishers to
hook a 101 b. or 121 b. schnapper, and to find that,
by the time he is brought to the surface, he has
lost weight to the tune of about 81b. It is the
work of the sea-lawyer, Mr. Shark. That marine
solicitor, seeing the schnapper in difficulties, helps
himself to what he fancies, religiously rejecting
the part containing the hook, for which he
has no use as he has nothing to hang on it.
the itlginshire business, however, was evidently
done by a more skilful workman in the same
trade. there is only one denizen of the deep who
carries the tools requisite for clean carpentering
and disjoining ; that is the sawfish (not swordfish)
I his artist is fitted out with the newest pattern of
crosscut saw, two-edged, double-action, and war-
ranted to separate a ship’s cable. His work is
quite different from the blackguard grab of the
marine solicitor. He leaves no jagged edges, nor
tell-tale finger-prints. One lightning-like pass of
his formidable saw severs any ordinary fish as
clean.y as a circular saw does a piece of scantling,
tie lias but one dangerous rival, the swordfish,
who operates on the ram principle, and if he gets
hrst knock, is a fearsome opponent. But Saw is
the tidy executioner of the high seas. One stroke
tiom him will put out of action almost anything
that swims. "
’ ; Re cotton grown by Dr.
1 horn at us, of North Queensland (8., 4/10/’O6).
1 his is a special variety (known as Caravonica,
the name of the place, near Cairns, where it is
giownj, which the doctor has produced, by cross-
ing a long-stapled fine Mexico-Brazilian. He has
obtained thus all the cardinal virtues in cotton-
length, strength, and regular staple. He claims
it to be the champion cotton of the world, and the
claim has good foundations. In 1903, or there-
abouts, it was awarded by the British Cotton-
Giowing Association the highest price among
cottons grown m the British dominions. The next
sample was from the West Indies, priced at 25
percent, lower. Other samples came from Borneo,
Zambesi. ISyassaland, British East and Central
Africa, boudan, Egypt, Gambia. Sierra Leone,
Lagos, Nigeria, Rhodesia, African West Coast
Guiana, Honduras, Jamaica, Trinidad, Mont-
serrat, and the Bahamas. Recently, at the
lourcoing International Textile Exhibition
( ranee), Caravonica cotton was awarded the silver
medal, the highest distinction obtainable. It was
examined by numerous experts, and as a conse-
Wn k T, pre ?? nfc 4tandmg crop (at Cairns) has
been purchased by French and Belgian spinners,
oome excellent cotton is also grown at Ashfield
Pnv«rn’ J ? hn Mills ‘ About 1862 the
■ grants of land to anyone
wilin g to father this industry. Mills took a block
and has been cropping pretty well ever since
though, of course, on a small scale. Both these
gentlemen are satisfied that there is a good thing
in cotton growing here if farmers could be induced
w i UP ‘ With local looms and spindles also,
it would be a good thing for Australia!^
* * * .
p, “ p ulla ” : D % papers’ news item that
wasbS« n t r ’ a W T°° (N -S-W.) shearer, who
was bitten by a wood adder, recovered after being
ofThlmn tar P« ntl ne, is rather vague. If ont
ot the little bulbous-tailed lizards, which inhabit
I lC Ji Wo ,° d . and squeak when poked with a stick
did the biting, Bob needn’t have worried, as they
are not venomous despite their vernacular name
adder. Probably recovery from the
ettects of the dose of turpentine was meant On
the authority of Ross, B.Sc., Sydney Technical
College, no legged reptile is poisonous—barring
perhaps, a rather scarce Mexican lizard. It (the
Gila monster) is supposed to be venomous enough
for six. b
“ Gi P ”•’ One of the oddest sights I have
seen lately was a thriving lamb being “mothered”
by a half-bred collie. The lamb had been picked
up by some blacks, and, as no ewe was in sight
they annexed it. “Took me for his mother’’’
laughed one of the gins in irreproachable English
but I gave it to Biddy.” Biddy and her two
pups have taken quite kindly to the lamb, and a
lamb, of course, will take to anything Met
one, the other day, on its little lonesome, and
hve miles from anywhere. It looked about 20
nnnutes old, and was not an attractive lamb. But
the beastie insisted on my adopting it. Armed
with determination it pursued me, looking up
appealingly and sobbing baby baas. I left it
there, and ran my hardest. It was a dirty little
lamb, and I d five miles to go. But its infantile
baas haunt me still; it was an inhuman thing
to do. B
■* * * »*
“Goolwa ” meets with the backbone of the
country:—
I was on my way from Warrnambool (Vic.) to Mel-
bourne, and he boarded the train at Colac. He wasa
thin, gaunt, hungry-looking man, with a sprinkling of
Wesleyan whiskers, and he made himself S omelv neht
away. Was I going down to the Show ?” Oh yes ' He
was. He was sent for. Produced a notice from the Farmers’
League, or something, asking him to attend a Convention
in Melbourne. They were going to kick Socialism fair in
the “weskit." No he didn’t know how they were to
conduct their %ht, or, for the matter of that, what
Socialism was but he had no fear for the final result
Tl re and sinew of the country would show them.
It didn t take long to find out he was a dairy farmer
He looked one. J
m didn’t believe in any Co-operative Butter Society.
The good old agency firms were good enough for him
reve?a U tions’’— 1 " after the Butter
r ‘‘ Look h ere, mister they wos all readied up by the
Labor party. I don t believe any of it. My dealers are
are ’ and ffive me w hat’s honest, anyhow ”
Talkin about honesty,” he went on. “I’ve had a
man milkin forme eight years. Got ’im when he was 17.
He does his 30, day and night. T’other day he picks up a
purse containing a fair sum, out at Corangamite, and
finding the owner, gives it to him. He was a farmer near
me, a,nd, though he shouted for Ted (that’s my man) I
would sooner he d given him the sixpence. No. I don’t
believe in drink. Anyhow, I gave him a rise of half-a-
crown, and now he’s getting 12s. 6d. a week-straight if
I was never to move ” 8 ’
I was looking incredulous.
“Does he—a—get his—a—keep as well?” I asked
Tins which brought a general laugh, was too much for
the teat-puller. He just said that, when we gpt to Gee-
long, hed jolly soon show me. He was a man of bone
and muscle and money, so, at my request, we parted on
speaking- terms. v
PUSH PATRIOTISM.
“I promisc yer, Smacker, if ever Germany fights England she’ll meet her Woolloomooloo!”
Hexham ” : With regard to “ M.G ” on
pnekly pear (20/9/’O6). Have known good jam
and vinegar made from it, and at one stage of the
fermentation the liquor tastes like third-rate
champagne. The fruit was, however, better and
larger than that found between Toowoomba and
Warwick and in northern N.S. Wales As to
manufacturing alcohol out of the pest, this is quite
practicable—have myself distilled real kill-at-ten-
paces from waste peaches. But am doubtful about
subsequent result if small distilling plants spring
up in all directions, as “ M.G.” suggests. Spirits
are so much cheaper around the River Plate than
here that there is not the same temptation to drink
the raw stuff (aguardiente) as there would be
m Australia. When Tommy Atkins and the
Rathr can get away with Natal rum, it is hard to
say what men will not swallow, so long as it is
something that will borrow away their brains.
Methylated spirit is said to be largely consumed
in the North of Ireland, and 1 once met in gaol a
half-cracked Irishman, who, being employed to
fill and trim the lamps, made “ iligant ” punch
out of kerosene, sugar, and hot water.
“F H.Il ”; A wet day on the plains.
Dismal . I know. I can hear some croakers
saying we should never grumble at wet weather
in this country—we don t get enough of it.
That’s right ; but they haven’t got to walk
three miles into the station for rations. I
have. I’m sft. Biin. when I start. Three
yards and I’m 6ft. Sometimes a clod falls
off my boot, and a burden is off my sole. In
the middle of the plain I’m 7ft. 6in., and
drag my feet wearily, vainly looking for
a stick or stump to scrape on. I kick ; a
clod as big as Peak Hill falls off, but
Ive wrenched my knee doing it. Then
an idea strikes me. (These ideas will
bo the death of me yet.) I’ll jump in
the air and clap my feet together.
Alas! I can’t rise two inches. Then
I do the only sensible thing so far. I
take my boots off. No use carrying
them to the homestead, I think ; I’ll
leave them here till I come back, for the
tucker will be heavy enough without the
bluchers. That’s how I lose my boots.
The rain washes out the tracks, and any- ‘
thing that could wash them out would
have no difficulty in washing out a pair of
boots.
“Dux”: The stolidity of the Maori is
remarkable. The Waitara (M.L.) tribe had a
large tanyi last month, devoured large bullocks
large pigs, large fish ; in fact, large every-
thing; and the natural consequence was that
the vast majority had a large pain under its pinny
for some time afterwards. Amongst the sufferers
was a picanmny, about three years of age, and
the dusky progenitors of the youngster harnessed
the broken-down racehorse, and made dust
towards the pakeha chemist’s establishment In
the course of diagnosis the question of diet arcse,
and the old-man Maori, who constantly referred
to his missus ”as “ him,” testified as follows
Him give m the dry shark, the mussel, oh yes ;
him give m the pi pi, the pig, yes ; the periwinkle,
the ginger-peer; the bullock,, the cucumber, oh
yes; the carrot; him give’m the dog-fish, the
stingaree but here the horrified chemist
managed to gasp, “You give’m the tin-tacksV'
Ihe dusky father s brow. puckered. He thought
for a while, then referred to “the missus.” She
jabbered and gesticulated for a space. Then
they both pondered for a while—more jabber, more
gesticulation, and the old-man Maori announced
gravely, No, pboss, him ’n’ ni no give’m the
tin-tacks. Ihe “ pboss,” heaving a sigh of relief,
passed the word along, “The black draught and
the blue pill.”
Quan : Be Gabo being only a black-
Wi f l ,y, .9* pronouncing Cape Howe (B.
ivr « \\t ‘ , n , s ls st:a t e< J in Taylor’s Geography of
iN.o. VV., which also contains the information that
IJfawarra is an early colonist’s corruption of
Alowrie, the aboriginal name for the district, and
*2™. '-1 omong (Range) is a local corruption of the
official name Munyang, the aboriginal word for the
large, white, edible mountain moths, found in
great numbers in the locality at particular seasons.
“Fin.”: “The Hack” (B. 29,/9/’O6) is
partly right, and partly wrong. It isn’t the heat.
w ho ever heard of ill results from sitting over, or
around, our glorious log fires? When people use
wood no ill results follow ; but the trouble is
caused by the fumes and gas arising from coal
fires, Sometimes the lungs are affected, causing
asthma, bronchitis, &c. ; sometimes the stomach,
causing and its attendant disorders.
Hack will never find these results from sitting
by tires of bush logs pure and white from the
forests. It is the black elements in nature that
are so injurious to mankind. Black, like the
devil, they bring evil in their train, be it l.kck
coal, clothes, or looks.
FAIR PLAY’S A JEWEL.
THE REV. PETER: “ Never be angry, boy, because
I question you about your soul. Ask me
anything, and I will only be too glad to
answer.”
CHRISTOPHER : “Well, then, how — how —how long
is it since you ’ad a barf?"
N.S.W. school children are still reading,
under the serious instruction of ignorant teachers,
about the siroccos, alligators, and the awful egg-
boiling heat of North Queensland, to the absolute
mortification of Truth, which occasionally puts its
head out of its well, and then retires again in
disgust. A suburban teacher, the other day, in-
formed her pupils that the “ Australian Header’s'’
account of the northern State was under-estimated,
for no white people could live in the North.
B. B. O Conor, if he refuses to withdraw this
book of errors from use, might at least tell the
teachers by circular that the lesson referring to
North Queensland is a fabrication, and that quite
a lot of white men are doing well there.
* * * *
For the Federal elections, read “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
SACKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By a thousand names they call it, when you get the word
to go:
You may be “kicked out,” or “fired," when the times
are getting slow ;
Or, be “ booted from your billet,” when the boss thinks
work is slack—
By whatever name they call it, it’s the simple, bloomin'
sack.
You’ve been milking forty tough’uns since July, or
maybe June ;
And from jackass until jackass you have played the same
old tune—
Milking, feeding pigs and poddies, carting water, cutting
wood,
Yill you curse the worn-out engine, and you’d “ bust ”
her if you could ;
But the grass is dry and scanty, and the flow is failing
quick,
And each day brings you nearer to the day you’ll “get
the kick.”
Or perhaps you’re working constant for the best part of a
year,
Goi,l E straight and running steady, and you’re keeping
oti the beer,
When you chance across a comrade whom you hadn’t
thought to meet,
And you finish up by slipping in the gutter in the street;
As you wander home at daybreak, with a thirst thatc n’t
be quenched,
i ou can bet your bottom dollar that you’re going to be
“retrenched.”
Temporary hands are wanted ! ” reads the notice on the
gate,
And the golden prospect tempts you—there’s been little
luck of late.
So you drop “ Matilda ” gladly, over-eager for a job,
Just to earn a bit of tucker, and put up a few spare bob
But it’s very temporary, for “we don’t want swagmen
here ! ”
And before you get the billet you will find you’ve “got
the spear.”
1 erhaps you grumble freely (when the super isn’t near)
At the hours you work, from daylight till the evening
stars appear ;
And the tucker doesn’t suit you—corned beef, morning,
noon, and night,
With a rabbit now and then, won’t satisfy your appetite.
But a “boss’s man ” is listening, and the super don’t like
whine—
Next morning, you’re requested quite politely to “ resign.”
Every bullet has its billet ” is a proverb far from new ;
“ Every billet has its bullet ” is a proverb just as true.
And when Life’s long job is ending with its meed of toil
and sweat.
And you’re grumbling at the thought that you must bear
the Durden yet;
As you’re rolling up “Matilda” for a fairer, brighter
clime
Aou may hear The Super calling, “ Joe, come in and get
your time ! ”
N.S.W.
VELDT.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES;
WE MAKE EXQUISITE
DIAMOND...
JEWELLERY
We show two photos, of some
just finished.
Look at the finish and artistic
perfection.
As Makers, as Setters, as
Finishers.
34 Exquisite Diamonds and 1 Pearl,
beautifully finished as a Brooch, £22.
NO HOUSE CAN GIVE BETTER VALUE.
47 Selected Diamonds in
Exquisite Setting as
Pendant and Brooch, £24.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.
The Maori is keeping abreast of the times,
and Cold Tea. At the tangi, at Waikanae, on
Wi Parata, one of the wealthiest of the North
Island natives and a former M.H.R., no liquor was
allowed, and the proceedings passed off with the
dullness of a Scotchbyterian bun-battle. Hun-
dreds of Maoris arrived at Waikanae in anticipa-
tion of a few weeks on the jag, but the absence of
waipiro threw a damper on their wailing, and the
roast bullock was voted stodgy. Sad to say,
several genial brown souls reached the scene in a
state of intoxication, but the Press Association
man triumphantly asserts that “they were at
once ordered away.” This reform among the
Maoris is principally due to Dr. Mani Pomare,
Native Health Officer, who has also done good in
explaining sanitary matters to the natives and in
abolishing much of the rotten shark diet from the
kamgas. Dr. Pomare, who is a full-blooded
Maori, received his medical education in America
and the Ma Country, and is tackling his Herculean
job with energy.
* * * *
“Philo : “Paul Cupid” errs when he
says that snake-bite affects all animals alike.
Have bad ocular proof that the pig is not fatally
affected by snake poison. Once saw a tiger snake
and a pig get into holts, and the lat*ter secured a
fall within 30 seconds. The pig discovered the
snake in his sleeping apartments, and, resenting
this breech of etiquette, bore down on him with
an evil intention in his eye. The snake eluded
his assailant with some good footwork, and punc-
tured the pig in the hindquarters. But the quick-
ness of the snake was no match for the
superior weight of his opponent. The hog suc-
ceeded in getting his fine, open countenance on
either side of the snake, and slew that misguided
reptile right there. Then he leisurely ate him
with great relish. He was not in the least affected
by the bite. Also, I have heard of other cases
where pigs have been severely bitten, and the
poison has not proved fatal. Mostly the row ends
by the pig eating the snake. [Theory is that the
snake fang doesn’t penetrate through the skin and
fat of the pig to get to its blood circulation.]
FOR FUTURE USE.
JIG ( who is shouting): “ But why have your
beer in that? You'll get no more."
JAG: “ Even if I don't, Mister, yeh see it flavors
the billy."
Kitchen and Sons, of Cairns (North
Queensland), are preparing 60 acres of land for
cotton, and it looks as though Dr. Thomatis’
success will put the business on its feet. Already
the State has provided a small ginning plant at
-Kamerunga State nursery, and growers have the
thJre 11 *^ 6 ° f many yearS ' cultural experiments
AT SECOND HAND.
COMMERCIAL (to District Court Magistrate): “ But have you ever tried any of our whisky?"
MAGISTRATE : “ No, sir, hut I tried a man, the other day, who had been trying it .”
“San Remo”: “ Prooshan ” has nomin-
ated August Eicliborn for the snake-catching
championship (B. 13/9/’O6). I wish to enter a
Rockhampton lad, Phillips. Phillips just lived
amongst snakes, so to speak. It wasn’t safe even
to talk to him for fear of a snake looking at you
out of his pocket. He always had snakes about
him ; if he took off his hat to a lady two gener-
ally dropped out. And they were genuine
snakes, too, for he didn’t
drink. Used to say it
wasn’t safe, because how
was a man to distin-
guish a poisonous from
a non-poisonous snake
if he had beer-leaves
in his hair. Phil-
lips was a com-
positor by trade.
For the easy
manipulation of
type, likewise
snakes, he allowed
the nail of his in-
dex finger (right
hand) to grow to
an abnormal
length, like a
claw. He grabbed
his snakes with
his thumb and
finger. His me-
thod of quieting
a vicious snake
was just the same
as Eichborn’s—
repeated drop-
ping and turning
of him about with
his foot. He said
anyone could kill
a snake with his
boot in safety
upon a clear piece
of ground. By
always keeping
In front of the
footless beast you
confuse the snake
and he can’t strike
you. A snake
always strikes
backwards; while
in the act of run-
ning away from
you he doubles
upon his tail and
does the evil deed.
Snakes, said Phillips,
are not at all dangerous when you understand
them. They won’t bite unless alarmed, and, if
you handle them gently, you can pack them away
anywhere about you. Never heard Phillips say
anything about an antidote, and never knew him
to be bitten by a snake.
* * * *
A drover, who has been travelling along
the Flinders River and Eastern Creek stock
routes, says that cattle from that quarter are
swarming with ticks till they get on to the open
downs and bore water, when the pests drop off.
The crow thereabouts is a useful companion. He
extracts ticks from the cattle on the dinner
camps; and when the mob has moved on, the
ground is covered with him and his relations,
picking up the dropped insects.
“ Janor ” : “ Paul Cupid’s ” astonishment
at the horse-power a snake can develop in a tug-
of-war (B. 27/9/’O6) is justified, but, when the
“go.” puts his weight into the collar, the snake is
a blank on the page of history. Met a “go.”
when on the way to Zulu Creek rush. It was at
midnight. Had camped in an old hut on the
bank of the Mitta Mitta River. Was awakened
suddenly by a heavy, loathsome body crawling
over the part I eat with. Made a grab, and
caught in both hands something thick and round
and scaly. Thought it was a big carpet-snake
until it scooted up the wall at the bunk-head,
dragging me first into a sitting position and then
upright. Felt sure, then, it was the devil, and
that I had his Nibs by the tail. Woke mate up,
and told him so. He struck a match. “Yer
fool,” he said, drowsily, “it’s only an old
goanner. Watcher ’aidin' on ter’im for?” and
he went to sleep again, leaving me in darkness.
By this time the reptilian steam-crane had me up
to the ridge. Thinking I was far enough out of
bed, and feeling no desire to prolong my adorn-
ment of a tail, I allowed the reptile to depart
alone, and descended on the “ nap ” with celerity
and emphasis. Pull ! my oath, they can puli.
Knew a chap once who tried to catch “ go’s ” with
big fishhooks wired on to posts, but he failed. He
got plenty of heads, though. When hooked, the
“ go.” would back into the breeching and pull his
head off, and go home to his missis with a fairy
tale in his mouth.
* * * *
“ G-ilrooney ” : Re slow railway travelling.
The train from Gundagai to Tumut (N.S.W.)is
just about the bitterest satire on undue rapidity
that could be conceived. The distance is some
30 miles, and the up-trip occupies anything from
three to four hours ! The line is unfenced, and
the passive sheep and the bewildered ox infest
the track, and baa and moo at the tottering public
vehicle. The fireman amuses himself by shying
lumps of coal at the trespassers. But yet, withal,
it is a pleasant enough journey—provided time is
no object, and what is time at Tumut?
* * * »
“A.H.F.”: Re bush-dances. “Gip”(B.
4/10/’of>) has never been quite behind the scenes,
or he would not ascribe the planting behind the
scrub on the part of the he’s wholly to the influ-
ence of the whisky bottle. On the darnce night,
every room in the house, except the darnce-room
and the kitchen, is full of girl dis- and re-robing
for the conquest. The “boys ”of the family have
to clamber into their best togs early in the after-
n®ol1 > a nd then, before the roll-up commences,
they take the bit of shaving-mirror down to the
edge of the scrub and extemporise a dressing-room
for the other “boys.” They have to wash their
hands m the race after removing saddles, and so
on, and to put on their pumps ; and half of them
bring their best ties in their pockets, wrapped in
tissue-paper in a tin tobacco-box. Also, the more
economical bring their most cherished pants
done up in brown paper—strapped on the saddle
in front of them, and the “dressing-room” is
mainly for the convenience of these economists.
THE CURLEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The late moon lifts her dreary light
Till every limb shows dark and white
Where thro’ the rustling creaking gums
The ghostly night-wind goes and comes.
Dim is the silvered night—but, hark !
A voice is given to the dark —
(To hearts that needs must waking lie
There comes a sudden strange dismay)
Far down the night the curlews cry.
“ Away!" chey pipe. “ Away ! Away ! ”
Up from the gully hid below
Where half-hushed bickering waters go,
Creeps the long mist-wreath white and slow ;
Hides the brown paddock, wraps the hill,
Dulls the wan light—and all the still
Pale night grows shudderingly chill.
Then comes to hearts, that fain would lie
Lapt in warm dreams, a cold dismay—
Faint, far, the drifting curlews cry
Down the dim night—“ Away ! Away I ”
QUEENSLAND.
A. W.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under •
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted t whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
D.J.C.: “What would The Bulletin sug-
gest.''" Well, first of all, it would suggest that the
Federal Labor party as a whole should find a strong,
definite fiscal policy, so that people can be quite sure, in
voting for it, that they aien’t giving a vote which may
yet count on the side of the anti-Australian importing
push. Then many good Australians would vote for
Labor without that sinking sensation in the stomach
that they have now. For the sake of keeping three
or four useless Freetraders in the party the whole
party allows itself to be reduced to a state of
paralysis on the most urgent question of the day....
S. O’Donahoo : Don’t know of any rule bearing on the
case, but it seems justifiable as a matter of common
sense....W. P. Swifi : Attempt to rhyme “furbelows”
with “young fellows” settled its fate Hemu: De-
clined. “My Own Folk ”is the better of the two, but
even it doesn’t arrive Prospice: Rather a dreary col-
lection— “Death” and “Fate,” and some verses
about a lady who pegged out Pam: “Funeral”
too sordid.... Bianca: Onions as a destroyer of love’s
young dream have been written up too often
Judex: Of course there are greedy doctors. Making a
man a doctor doesn’t canonise him. But, as your town-
ship found out, there are easy ways of iretting even with
the greedy one ; and, anyhow, his occasional happening
doesn’t justify the sweating of lodge doctors generally...
Wang : We get too much of what may be called “ knock-
about humor”—the dog, or the monkey, or the cat that
does marvellous breakage and damage under funny cir-
cumstances. The yarns seldom seem real, and are not
always humorous Justitia : Incident old ; verse rather
feeble. Glad to get items. .A. E.H. : Rather poor quality..
O.S.G. : Don’t see any particular point. That may be our
stupidity, but probably not B. K. (and a dozen others):
For heaven’s sake don’t send any more paragraphs about
that eternal dead body in Albert Park Lagoon
Bob 8.A.: Fair idea, but workmanship no g00d... .F.R. :
“Pilot” is well-meant, but the verse steers badly, and
the tail-shaft is broken, and the mast is gone overboard.
B.W. : Both jokes have seen their best days.. ..R.S.:
Many thanks for letter. Have passed it on to Mr. Dor-
rington... .8.E.C.: That story about the swift newchum
who drove in a hare thinking it was a small sheep dates
from 1832.. . .Cliibur : You say the remark about a great
number of Brisbane streets being named after women is
“ foolish.” Well, the streets are so named, aren’t they ?....
V. : Thanks. .But isn’t it rather splitting a straw? Of
course, abortion, as such, is never legal. But a medical
man may always abort to save the mother’s life, and, as a
matter of practical precaution, he, if he can do so, gets
the support of a second opinion to warrant, the operation.
~..Vil Dik : Story of doctor who pickled the corpse in
formalin and carbolic too loathsome W.A.L. : (I) The
Bulletin has no particular grudge against Kelly, M.H.R.,
any more than against any other Freetrade anti-Sosh
nuisance. He gets a lot of notice because Little Bill is
good copy'. (2) Seeing the consistent way The Bulletin
has barracked for the W. A. railway, absurd to allege that
it has a “ down ”on W.A. That State evidently doesn’t
think so, judging by the circulation of The Bulletin there.
... .B. : Will try to trace, and, if we succeed, will notify
you.. . .Jay ,Pee : All judicial stories belong to many
Judges. They become a tradition, so to speak, and are
handed down like leading cases E.M.J. : Too girly-
girly.. .Howard C. : No use digging up Boer war yarns
now... .H.E.W. : The defective metre would have blocked
it in any case Roy : Not deftly enough treated.. ..
W. : Too scrappy' and inconsecutive....N.E.D.S. :An
obviously juvenile production... .Ty'po: Inclined to be
dull Vulcan: If you would be less slovenly in your
style your stuff would be more acceptable. Just came
across this line of yours : “ Elegibiiity for a loan is simply
that applicant be in receipt of not more than £2OO a year.”
That is a splendid specimen of the art of lazily slinging
things together... .R.F.M. : Matter so modestly proffered
is seldom very' bad, but .vours isn’t quite good enough
D.M.M. : You lack the terse paragraphic touch
Carrier: Your hand is too heavy. Such a subject needs
an airy touch... .Faddist: Great lack of literary finish.
.. ..W.M.M. : Treatment too loose and slovenly....M.S. :
Too jerky and discontinuous Bianca : Not quite quality
enough... .J.H. : “Thoughts” are neither new nor
specially well presented... .Mary : Not absolutely bad.
. ...D.A.R. : Crude and cramped and creaky C.F.S.:
Has no freshness or spirit about it....W.F. : Trite re-
flections in indifferent verse... .W.W.R. :It didn’t catch
on.... Mint: Absolutely nothing in it....KrysW. : Pro-
mising, but rather thin in places Balf: Posted un-
stamped, 4d. to pay, and none of them any good
W.H. (Vic.): Your stuff also no good, and cost usBd.,
short postage W.G. : Booran and lolaire, having both
the same sire (Grafton), are half brothers... .C.T.: You
also fail to mention who Saharet is... .Lover of America,
the Land of the Free : Well, in the first place, Jack
O’Brien didn’t stay away on account of our legislation.
He was just about to sail for Australia when he got an
offer from Los Angeles with more cash in it, and, being
apparently a person whose word was of no value, he broke
his engagement. The cable was a little joke got up to
advertise a certain person here. Boxing matches are
still going on in Melbourne, and athletes aren’t outlaws.
Also, O’Brien would be arrested if he tried to fight in his
own city of Philadelphia. But, in a sense, the U.S. is the
land of the free. There are more murders there than in
any other land on earth, and most of the assassins go free....
Kelpie: Please send address for payment re “Ten Mile
Hole.” (P.S. Mention the Hole when writing. Some-
times we have three or four things on hand minus name
and address, and when we appeal to the writers through
this column a letter comes saying simply “My name is
John Smith, 13 street.”)... . W.W.R. : “ Goulburn
Valley ” rather erratic metre Midas: Good ideas but
not enough skill in treatment of them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Val. M.C.N.: Can only say that we like the sort we
publish. Sometimes a picture will get in, not on its
drawing merits, but on the humor and force of its idea.
Unsuitable, G.E.K Siab : So far, your know-
ledge of drawing is not nearly good enough
H.W.T. : Joke rather feeble. Drawing hints at promise,
but isn’t up to the mark A.M. : Idea trite and hack-
neyed, and drawing crude Unsuitable: W. Page, The
Eager.
❖
Apropos of that thrice-accursed Socialism.
The Socialistic Postal Department will take a
letter in Melbourne (Vic.) on Wednesday evening,
and deliver it in Longreach (Q.), about 1932 miles
away, next Sunday at midday. From Sydney
(N.S.W.) to Longreach, 1540 miles, is done
between Thursday evening and Sunday noon.
Socialistic railways hump the letter most of the
way, and the Socialistic stamp that pays for it
only costs 2d.


*¥t™ is A 1 +b 1>«
before our public men csn 'ltfinK
Co*'t'in6 y >'fWiy. (A|t)
% IndpM
■■ T °lFJznW
v,%°*
*0 4r ec^'
"Tire. > \S*§p
iocutV)l?ency j<> 'N.
l S+iH 6e«i>o "b^wKed
A found . >
M Wj?) xto
Too 'fVue Da,ve > your* little
Vif <*««er
°5 e
l>eikr W "«*••’ mi,>ct (
V i <w«s*y y° all CotY,e j
\in Way Svfoi'c <
W ! " ii
Tee
li«r€ is
[Cdv'der wf|o TVirowij on 'h<2- u vs i»•
one wt?o lu,v1 u,v Vi®
onßco^
iL a
1 17 View oj Wie long
Wrs
of- S on l®- n 7inis'fer^ >
n Would be.
lesson k
"fo
sfirul pulfrit~
Sook
S, (fie S i«ie»»T
||® Co »gregaiflo«e>(
"JosKcei, I SWs^^jE
&r w«f<
SwOKr, in ( p v | y &U^
lgc^oHlg c^oH1 Wk—
f itT<J *^«"-)S«l ve S
in dk moil*
-Tangle 1 ." (Age)
i^Z^TorT,
Dcmmiif"! Vin .
goo-r <>
Repaired
K YiH'Lt
m ya^-h
WA~
A
gist} +' >
ggg 1 ,5? Hrr»e
~The fo 1 ice. o|j^*>ccs
Aft )\ 70W JB&
bc«n© resoled wg
& heeled “ 'wi
„ f A $ e ' \
l
-A £>oo^\
Cobbler - ?lf I donf get so*,e ifv>
Cold tas "Vecb
fA}>«rj
Slo „!’
THE POLITICAL TANGLE, AND OTHER MATTERS.


Making It ’ot for a would-be strike-breaking bishop.
Great Demonstration by the
newly formed Sln-Shllters
Union.
Like all strikes, the consequences fall most heavily upon
the heads of Innocent women,
flother In Israel: “ I say it’s too bad. There never was
such a lot ot novelties in head-gear and sich, as this
spring, and no church open to show ’em off I”
Peaceful Picketing (Scene: Sunday morning): “Go back
home I Work In your garden I Oo fishing! Oet
\ drunk! Anything; but don’t go In thereto hear
r' j that blackleg preach 1 ”
Reverend Agitator; “ Stand firm,
brethren, for a minimum contri-
bution of thruppence, and let
your motto be: "* No half-crowns
here, no whole crowns here-
vafter.’ ”
Scene : The Domain. Mother of One: “ A clergyman, and
out of a Job, eh? Well, l’H tell yer wot; if you’ll step
over to the. founting yonder, and christen my kid for
me, I’ll give ye ’arf-a-crbwn. There ye are I ”
Unemployed Sin-Shifter : “ Madame, I cannot —dare not.
I should have the Union down upon me like one
o’clock for scabbing.” . .
k t vl, T*
police Interference and Righteous behavior.
’ DEPUTATION OF UNEMPLOYED SKY-PILOTS TO MR. WADE.^ S^
Spokesman; “We have come to ask the Government to proceed at once with
Relief Works In the form of chapels to give employment to our deserving
body- If so, you may depend upon our prayers for your continuance in
power as a Ood-fearlng fllnistry.” Several voices; “ God bless Brother
Wade!” 4ttd “Amen!”
A CLERICAL STRIKE.
"Speaking at the annual meeting of the Congregational Union of Victoria, Rev. W. W. Kerr, referring to the stipends paid to their ministers
said if ever a strike was justified it would be justified by the case of some of their ministers. He did not know whether it would not be a salutary
esson to congregations to find on a certain Sunday every pulpit empty on account of the long hours and insufficient remuneration of ministers.”
News item.


■'mm
OfcFofi
: &
1 «<;
>••••.
W’fc
BeMiEmei
<} '
:/:
Og&S
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The will of George Marsden Waterhouse,
one time Premier of youth Australia and Maori-
land, has been proved at £61,104.
High Court Judges : Griffith 61, Barton
57, O’Connor 55, Isaacs 51. Higgins is .36 so far
as Australia is concerned, and was a lad of about
15 when he arrived.
Thus Prime Minister Deakin :
I am an Australian born. I have visited the mother
country, and love and revere the land, but Australia is
my own country. I will seek no office outside it. 1 will
l.ve here and die here. (Loud cheers.)
New High Court Justice Isaacs is an ex-
ample of Socialistic education. As a boy, Isaacs
attended the Beechworth state school. He
became a pupil teacher in the same institution,
and eventually secured a clerkship in the Crown
Law Department. There he served his articles
to the State, attending lectures at the State-sub-
sidised University in his spare time, and qualified
as a full-fledged barrister without ever having
known any other employer than the Government
of Victoria.
It is doubtful if there is another Bench in
the world packed tighter with erudition than that
of the Australian High Court. Griffith, Barton,
Higgins and O’Connor—each earned his M.A. ;
and Isaacs is an LL.M. Higgins has a law
degree also. Barton was Sydney University
Medallist for Classics, Griffiths took first-class
honors in both classics and mathematics, Isaacs
won first-class honors, and Higgins was Univer-
sity Scholar in Languages and Logic and History
and Political Economy.
S. Australian Premier Price is ill. Re-
markable that all the good Labor Premiers have
found the responsibilities of office a heavy weight.
Watson, when Federal Prime Minister, wore him-
self haggard. Office has made Kidston, in Queens-
land, a sick man. Now Price suffers from taking
too faithful a grip of his work. The Tory is built
on different lines. Reid never wore himself out
on the public treadmill! And Duncan Gillies
was Premier of Victoria for years, and spent
most of the time selecting flowers for his coat.
The Marquis of Townshend—he’s related
to Royalty, which may account for his weak-
mindedness—who was recently declared in an
English High Court “of unsound mind, so as to
be incapable of managing his affairs,” belongs to
the House of Lords; but, so far, he hasn’t been
adjudged incapable of assisting to manage the
affairs of the nation, nor is there any legal process
by which he can be so adjudged. The hereditary
legislator, the nominee legislator, and the legisla-
tor elected on a Proputty basis, would be all right
if they were harmless. But so would the devil
and snakes.
A BUSINESS-LIKE EXPLANATION.
THE SHEPHERD : My dear young man, why is
it that I have not of late seen you in the
house of worship? ”
MATTER-OF FACT YOUTH : “ Expect it’s because I
haven't been there.”
Not many strike a harder vein of luck than
Ames Hellicar, of the Bank of Australasia. Forty
years ago, he set out to become general manager ;
and the goal was reached six or eight months ago
—just after the death of the wife who had en-
couraged his ambitions for nearly 30 years. He
bent to the huge job of mastering the work (all
the greater because he had for years been out of
the head office), and had just got into smooth
water, when a stroke of paralysis ended it all.
Two months have passed and he has to some
extent recovered, but there is little hope that he
Will ever be equal to the superintendent’s work.
Mi's. Lukin, wife of Gresley Lukin, editor
of Wellington (M.L.) Evening Post, an old Aus-
tralian pressman and the friend of everyone on
the Inky Way, died, at the residence of her son-
in-law, on the North Shore line (Sydney), on Fri-
day. Everyone who has ever spilt ink on the
Australian, or Maoriland, or Tasmanian press
will extend sympathy to the bereaved veteran.
One of the first brains given to the sugar
business in Australia ceased to worry about
vacuum pans and evaporators in Melbourne the
other day ; and it had been worrying over them
for nearly 60 years. C. G. Preston, born in
Demerara, learned the business of making sugar-
machinery in Glasgow, then went back to his
native country to run the machinery. He came
to Australia 36 years ago, and built many of the
early mills in Queensland, introduced the vacuum
pan, and did all that one unobtrusive man could
do to make brains in the business take the place
of cheap nigger.
Marion Edwards alias Bill Edwards, the
male impersonator, now at large on bail in Mel-
bourne, persists in wearing man’s habiliments
and consorting with the whiskered sex. She
turned up at the big pugilistic encounter, Cripps
v. Williams, the other night, and had a con-
spicuous seat close up to the ring. The only
marked feminine characteristic of Bill-Marion
Edwards isa head twosizes too large for her body
a noticeable feature in «iine out of ten women in
trousers, the sex, as a rule, looking top-heavy
without the broad base of petticoats. (Or possi-
bly only the big-headed woman longs to load her-
self into pants.) A little older, and decorated
with a discolored clay pipe, Marion Edwards
would pass for a twin sister of the original of the
tough woman in Edward Dyson’s old-time Bulle-
tin story, “ The Washerwoman of Jacker’s Elat.”
“ N.M.L.” : I don’t see why the lady re-
porters should have it all their own way with
dress descriptions, so I venture to forward
a (possibly inadequate) summary of the
glories of Anglican Archbishop Clarke’s
new robes. His Grace has blossomed
forth in a geranium -colored sleeveless
overdress, with train of a little more
than kangaroo length, which may
be carried over the arm when the
train-bearing acolytes are late
through stopping on the road to
barrack at a dog-fight or play
alleys. The dainty underskirt,
which reveals a fascinating
glimpse of a dark petticoat below
it, is of white. The full white
lawn sleeves are caught into the
wrists with sweet Toby frills and
chic wristlets of scarlet. Alto-
gether the novel wrist-adorn-
ments resemble a superior kind
of pie-collar. A pleasing note
of black is introduced by the
presence of His Grace’s boots.
Their size is apparently some-
where about 10. The Archbishop
has evidently escaped the craze
for ostrich-feather boas, as his
boa is of similar material to the
skirt. A delightfully simple
pendant completes a costume
which will probably remain
superior to anything displayed
on the lawn at Flemington or
Caulfield spring racing season,
in spite of the frenzied efforts of
Melbourne’s smartest frockers.
H. G. Baye, whom thou-
sands of Australians looked to
for their mining news, died a few
days back in Adelaide. For 15
years or more he was the Argus-
S.M. Herald syndicate’s man at
Broken Hill, and in a rather dull
but strictly honest way, kept
those papers advised about the state of the claws
of the newest wild-cats. Latterly his mind was
clouded, and he had to retire to a hospital in S.A.
Captain Robertson Clark, A.D.C. to
Governor Rawson, takes more agreeably to the
courtier business than did his grandfather, Jack
Robertson. Old Jack, when a mere youth, worked
his passage from Sydney to London, and, owing
to the fact that he knew something about the con-
vict relatives of Britain s nobility, he was invited
to meet Lord Palmerston. The Prime Minister
appreciated the youth, and, proposing to advance
him, offered him letters to Sir Richard Bourke at
that time N.S.W. Governor, which letters meant
a pass direct to official employment. Jack, whose
people were farming on the Hunter, gruffly told
the famous statesman that he wanted nothing
from any Governor. Grandson Robertson Clark
has just escaped successfully from an operation in
a bydney private hospital.
Miss Florence Rodway, the dis-
tinguish Tasmanian artist, whose work,
both in black-and-white and in oils, has
excited so much interest in Sydney, is
one of a remarkable family. Her
father, amongst other accomplishments,
is Tasmanian Government Botanist (he
botanises, of course, for nopence per
annum, Tasmania not wasting any
money on scientific folk), a certificated
marine engineer, an excellent dentist,
and ex-two-mile amateur champion of
England. But all this doesn’t bring in
any money, and all Hobart has yet
done for the author of the beautifully
idealistic charcoal head now in N.S.W.
National Gallery is to paragraph her
in the Mercury, and to allow her to
“instruct” in the so-called Technical
School. Miss Rodway is the most pro-
mising woman artist who has ever
appeared on the Australasian horizon,
and she should be sent to Paris to asso-
ciate with the great portrait-painters, in
whose ranks it may, from present in-
dications, be confidently predicted that
she will be ultimately enrolled.
Townsend. jMcDermotfcj 64 Father of the
Australian Bar,” now living at Ballarat, is to
have a pension of £1 per week for life, com-
mencing on November 1. The books dealing
with notable Australians seem all to omit the date
of his birth, but he graduated at Trinity College,
Dublin, G 6 years ago, and was Solicitor-General in
a Yic. Ministry (Kerferd’s) 32 years ago. The
lonesome “quid” a week suggests that things
have gone hard of late with the Methusaleh of
the law
As “ Spring ” sees him :
Ramsay MacDonald, the visiting English Labor
member, flaunted a brilliant red tie over an expanse
of white shirt at the Sydney Protestant Hall. He
has a dark, keen, delicate face. His once black hair
has been greyed by a little time and a great deal
of worry. His form is thin and his style dra-
rnatic, earnest, and highly attractive. I was anxious
to see if the representative of the new British political
force approximated to the disastrous Ben Tillet, who
once visited us for our sins, or the calamitous Tom Mann,
of the Beer-and-Water Hotel, who came amongst us
before the Undesirable Immigrants’ legislation was
in force. MacDonald, apart from his extraordinary
tie, would be a credit to any party. A noticeable feature
of his address was that it was almost too academical,
although highly interesting. He has evidently been used
to combating the arguments of scholarly, well-primed,
and earnest opponents. In Australia the Anti-Soshers
are neither scholarly nor well laden with arguments. Go
Crook the renegade, snarls, and Greid raises the loud
laugh that proclaims the mind that is to let, and the rest
is mostly plain lying. The Australian Democrat is so
busily picking the lies off himself that he has no time for
profound addresses.
“ SID ” KIDMAN, THE CATTLE KING.
The funeral of Ebenezer Vickery, M.L.C.,
took place at Waverley, Sydney, on Monday.
No less than seven Methody clergymen saw the
old man off. The Methodist “plate” will miss
E. Vickery.
THE SELLING MANIA.
Mr. Bent intends to sell or lease the south frontages to
Flinders-street East, and spoil Melbourne’s view of the
Yarra valley.— News.
One of these days there'll be a big fluster. Tommy
will go to sell his soul , and find he's left it
at home
It s all very well to whoop about the
heroism of the soldier-man, who dies bidding
somebody to keep the Hag flying. A plain milk-
man did as much at Lilydale ( Vic.) the other day.
At the railway platform his cart tipped over the
edge, and he smashed his head on the iron rail.
Then (newspaper report) “the injured man spoke
only once, saying. ‘Save the cans,’ and died
shortly afterwards.” It is glorious to die for the
Flag. To die for the Milkcan is burlesque.
Ileid alleges that he invented the phrase
“ White Australia,” and reproaches others for
appropriating it. It recalls the favorite political
trick of Hairy Parkes, Parkes used to scan the
horizon for subjects that were just appearing over
the rim of the future, and mention them in a
speech. Probably he would also mention them in
the programme laid before Parliament —for in-
stance, he included Local Government in his
Parliamentary programme at least six times, and
did nothing with it. So, whenever anybody else
did anything, Parkes stated indignantly that he
had mentioned that same thing long ago, and his
attitude was that of a deeply-injured man. Parkes
was the champion mentioner and the boss alluder
of Australia.
A derelict interrupted proceedings at the
swearing-in of High Court Justices Isaacs
and Higgins. It was a one-time barrister
whose career ends regularly at the city lock-
up. The sweet speeches of all the big guns
of the Bar had ended, when he stood up
and offered his congratulations to “ Henry Bournes
Higgins, a man of fine dialectic habit of mind.”
When people asked “Who is it?” the unhappy
old chap replied, with melancholy: “It’s poor
old , not quite a statesman, not quite
a lawyer, and not quite a gentleman.” Writer
would not have used the last phrase of the
quotation. His experience of the mournful old
remnant is that he can borrow a shilling,
or a pair of boots, in a manner worthy of a peer
with Norman ancestry. And the bobbies at the
lock-up declare him “ as nice and gentlemanly an
old fellow as you could meet.” Who should know
better than they ?
N.S.W. Mines Minister Moore is such a
small man that it doesn’t take much to cover him
with confusion. The other night, Wood, the
aggressive Chairman of Committees, was laying
down the law about the foolishness of a certain
clause which prohibits Mines Ministers and
officials to have any monetary interest in mines,
when Moore meekly remarked that “the Minister
must be like Caesar’s wife.” Wood gasped,
staggered, looked appealingly at the House, and
then, in a dark, suspicious voice, asked Moore if he
knew anything wrong about the lady he mentioned.
Moore didn’t know anything personally. To
relieve the tension someone whispered, “ She was
above suspicion.” “Oh ! She was above suspi-
cion, was she?’ bellowed Wood, glaring at the
embarrassed Moore. And he said it in such a
dreadful voice that the little Minister really
thought he had inadvertently alluded to Mrs.
Cmsar’s underclothing, and fled blushing into the
recesses of a large document.
Angelo Tornaghi, a citizen of Sydney for
over half-a-century, died last week at the age of
83. In 1848 he was, together with every Italian
man, woman, and child in his native city of
Milan, fighting during the five heroic days, known
as the Cinque Giornate , when the Austrian garri-
son was driven outside the city walls, and, for
some time, kept there. When the Austrians
returned to Milan, Tornaghi moved to London,
and shortly afterwards to Sydney. He was an
expert clockmaker, and specimens of his work are
to be found all over the city even now. It was
arranged that he should construct the new clock
in the present Sydney Post Office, and, in conse-
quence, he jiaid a visit to Europe. There he was
impressed with the possibilities of the cylinder-
shaped chimes, then superseding the old campani-
form, and procured a set. While in Rome he was
permitted to peep through a hole and view the
Pope airing himself in the Vatican gardens. He
used to say that he never had any luck afterwards.
At any rate, when he returned to Sydney, the
then ruling powers would have none of his
cylinders, regarding them as a flight in the face
of Providence, and the job was given to somebody
else.
THE UNFORTUNATE KING OF ANNAM!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say he’s taken many lives
Of daughters and of mothers,
And that he’s murdered thirty wives
And killed and eaten others !
These stories may, of course, be true,
But still there’s no denying
That women are (give him his due !)
At times extremely trying !
n s.w.
W. T. GOODCE.
Q. H. REID WHEN HE WAS GOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y Y~ down the shell,
r — -m And shut his eyes,
A A. Under the spell
Of its harmonies.
With folded hands
On his pinafore
He thought of the sands
And the ocean roar.
Dear little mite !
Would he like to go
Where the wares arc. white ?
P'raps YES—and NO.
D.


The Choicest Creations
Send for SPRING and SUMMER
FASHION PORTFOLIO,
Post Free Anywhere*
No.
46— Crinoline or Tuscan Hat, trimmed
Roses and Fancy Chiffon Veil, 42/-
urn
m
- ■
-
MM
I
No. 47 — Chip Straw Hat, any color, trimmed
Wreath of Tulle and Flowers, Cluster of
Roses and Osprey, Choux of Tulle on
Bandeau, 30/-
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Green Room
No. 50— Fancy Straw Hat, Black or Colors,
trimmed Ribbon, Marguerite Crown, Ribbon
on Bandeau, 25/-
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
It’S Worry Tfrat Kills
fdg
df
But no Photographer who uses a KODAK
need ever worry about results. For Con-
venience in carrying, simplicity and comfort
in use,
THE*. *
“EASTMAN KODAK”
STANDS ALONE*
It may be used either with PLATES or
Films, and the Films can be developed in
Daylight with absolute success.
OLL and SEE This DEMONSTRATED.
Light Weight, Small Space, No Waste,
and the certainty of Perfect Photo-
graphs are the distinguishing character-
istics of “ EASTMAN KODAKS ”
all over the world.
PRICES fron,
6S. to £2O
We are the Sole Australian Agents
for Kodak Limited, and for all
Dealers' Supplies.
BAKER*ROUSE Propy
USSBBbm. LIMITED,
375 & 377 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Bloch,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane ; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE - - MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIRTY-SEVENTH REPORT, Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 31st Oct., 19C6.
TPHE Directors have pleasure in placing- before Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts
for the half-year ending 29th September, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (after payment of income tax', £347 6s. 4d., and including £2698 11s. sd. brought
from last half-year) amount to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£12,876 19 11
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz. :— *
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per aunum £5,250 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £55,000) 5,000 0 0
and to carry forward the balance 2,626 19 11
£12,876 19 11
The Directors are pleased to be able to congratulate the Shareholders on another satisfactory half-year. The
season has been favorable, and the producing interests are doing well ; trade is healthy, and the business continues
to steadily improve.
The Branch at Bendigo shows satisfactory progress and a Branch has lately been opened at Ballarat, from which
favorable results are anticipated in due time.
The Directors, in thanking Shareholders who have brought business to the Bank, trust that they will continue
to avail themselves of every opportunity of introducing new- accounts.
By Order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
BALANCE SHEET of THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 29th SEPTEMBER, 1906.
Dr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital Subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares £600,000 0 0
Capital paid up
Reserve fund ..
Profit and loss account
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation ..
Government deposits
Other Deposits—rebate
and interest accrued—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
£150,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
12,876 19 11
Nil
£212,876 19 11
12,062 0 0
43,303 9 11
£268,338 2 8
887,303 9 11
£1,155,641 12 7
Balance due to other banks .. .. 515 5 6
£1,424,399 7 11
Contingent liabilities as per contra .. 284,469 0 0
£1,708,868 7 11
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers ..
Money at call and
short notice
Notes and bills of other
banks
Balances due from
other banks
Bills and remittances
in transit, and pay-
able in London
Government, municipal
and other public
stocks, debentures
and funds
Stamps
£214,061 8 1
20,000 0 0
313 4 11
7,918 6 2
167,387 14 8
254,195 0 0
740 19 2
Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises
Other real estate at cost to bank
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery, &c.
£664,616 13 0
55,000 0 0
15,965 „2 11
687,072 2 0
1,745 0 0
T . ....... £1,424,399 7 11
Liabilities and secunties of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities as per contra .. . 284,469 0 0
£1,708,868 7 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent and other charges.. .. £5,288 11 10
Income tax paid 347 6 4
Balance 12,876 19 11
£18,512 18 1
By Balance 31st March, 1906 £12,948 11 6
Less dividend declared 27th
April, 1906 #6,250 0 0
Carried to reserve fund . 5,000 0 0
10,260 0 0
Balance carried down 2 698 11 5
Profits for the half-year flter deducting ’
interest accrued on deposits and re-
bate on bills current, less reserves for
bad and doubtful d&hts 15 814 6 8
£18,612 18 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT,
To Balance ..450,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
By Balance at 31st March, 1906 .. ..£45,000 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss account .. 6,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0


A Perfect Complexion.— Not all the silken
fabrics of the East can match the radiant complexion of
a woman with whom Valtfze is a daily habit. That
brilliant smoothness, that delicate skin texture that
follows the use of Valaze is won by alliance with the
working's of nature. Valaze extracts the foreign sub-
stances that clog the activity of the skin pores, and, by
nourishing the exquisite network of tissues that underlie
the skin enable it to bloom with a beauty that seldom
unaided extends beyond the years of childhood. Wrinkles,
crowsfeet, blotches, tan, sallowness, freckles and all such
facial imperfections disappear with the use of Valaze,
giving place to a clear, soft and dainty complexion.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of liair. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar (containing 3 times as much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap—compounded from almonds and rare
herbs —greatly assists the beautifying action of Valaze—
feeds as well as cleanses, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure—prepared by Dr. Lykuski,
the Russian Skin Specialist as discoverer of Valaze.
Unfailingly cures the most obstinate cases—2s. 6d., posted
3s. Rusmo Hair Killer—a sure remover of superfluous
hairs—will not harm the most sensative skin, ss. postage
3d. “Guide to Beauty ” a new edition of this charming
Brochure on the care of the skin and complexion for-
warded anywhere for 3d. in stamps or free with the pur-
chase of any Valaze preparation. Ladies who are visiting
Melbourne or Sydney should make a point of visiting the
Valaze Massage Institute. Here the exquisite processes
of Pace Massage are practised under Mile. Rubinstein’s
personal supervision. Also birth marks, moles, disfiguring
growths red noses, double chins and such like blemishes
are successfully treated whilst the permanent removal of
superfluous hairs is made a speciality of. All Valaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading chemists or direct from
Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne,
and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
During our long and warm summer there is no home
comfort more necessary than a plentiful supply of good
reading, and when the best books are available to every
subscriber of our up-to-date library, what family should
be without that comfort? Our rates are reasonable, all
volumes are clean and neatly covered in a green cloth ;
large quantities of every book of note, published in
London or America, whether it be fiction, travel, history,
biography, light science, reminiscence or belles lettres,
are added to the stock immediately upon arrival in
Sydney. Members get the books they ask for ; there is
no delay or disappointment in not being able to procure
the works that are being discussed among readers, at the
height of their popularity. For £2 2s. per annum, or 255.
for six months, a resident in city or suburbs may change
two volumes and two of the latest magazines at a time as
often as desired ; for 21s. per annum, or 12s. 6d. for six
months, one volume and one magazine are allowed. To
residents in the country we send a parcel of eight volumes
at a time as often as required, for the sum of £2 12s. 6d.
per annum, or £1 Us. 6d. for six months. Special pro-
portionate rates are quoted for larger exchanges and for
shorter periods. Write or call for our catalogues, which
are published periodically, giving full particulars of
terms, etc., at Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating
Library, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
You Want to Eat.
It is not pleasant to look on food you would like to eat
but dare not on account of the pain you would be called
upon to undergo afterwards. When people have this
feeling they don’t take the food they require. That’s not
pleasant either. There is no need to have any such feel-
ing. You can eat what you like with perfect safety and
pleasure, too, if you take Seniors Digestive Dinner
Tablets after eating. They assist the stomach to digest
the food. Medicines that artificially digest the food soon
put the stomach out of business. The stomach only re-
quires a little assistance to enable it to recoup and per-
form it’s functions unaided. Senior’s Digestive Dinner
Tablets render all the assistance necessary. You need
only try them to be convinced. They cure the worst
cases of indigestion quickly, and give immediate relief at
all times in all forms of indigestion. They are palatable
lozenges which dissolve in the mouth, not a compressed
tablet one has to rely on the stomach dissolving. Sold
at Is. and 2s. 6d. per box, and Is. Id. and 2s. 6d.
post free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street,
Sydney.*
Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
I -■
FINEST EXTRA Q*
tfiat
sCtbfttAs-
oj'^my
m
“ Goutez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
gdf
“e^Av’rriETTrs
fty lish
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
R/\l IN COATS .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Ootobeb 23, 1906.
Mt Drar Arini, —
A bazaar, in aid of the North Shore Hospital,
broke out with great violence in the local School
of Arts on Saturday last. The opening ceremony,
which was to have been performed by Lady
Fawkes at 3o’clock, was on time, but her ladyship
wasn’t, she having, unfortunately, sprained her
ankle. You can’t open anything in comfort with
a sprained ankle. Mrs. Carter, Mayoress of
North Sydney, happened to be passing at the
time, and to be “sound in wind and limb,” as the
horse-dealers say, and the committee handed her
the key, or the cork-screw, or hairpin, or whatever
it is that one opens bazaars with, and she put it
through without a hitch, and was presented with
an exquisite bouquet of orchids. These lovely
flowers came from Mr. Hay’s hot-houses at Crow’s
Nest. Mrs. Newmarch, whose front name (Lily)
fits her as paper fits a wall, also acquired some-
thing unique in the floral world, her gift being
a stalk of beautiful scented Japanese lilies,
grown by Mr. Shand. Mrs. Newmarch wore
a cool white linen dress with cape bolero, and
straw sailor trimmed with marguerites. Mrs.
Hav beamed on all in black silk voile, trimmed
with twine-colored lace motifs, and mauve straw
bonnet with lilac, and was a generous buyer.
Mrs. Carter, Mayoress, wore green and white
organdi, with curly little frills, edged with black
lace, like notes of interrogation, on the skirt. She
had a sailor hat trimmed with mignonette tulle,
mauve and green ribbon, hyacinths, roses, and
mignonette—only that!
These be great times for the little milliners.
“Ze hat ees small, but ze trimming is of ze
most ex-pen-sive ! ” as one of them remarked to
me the other day.
We’ve had a busy time celebrating the anni-
versary of Trafalgar, and that sea-battle can’t
claim to be a neglected affair this year. Celebra-
tion number one came off at the Palace Theatre,
and, when I got there, the applause which
followed Miss Seaton's recitation could be heard
on the front steps. I was just in time for the
one-armed Nelson’s birthday party, and four girls
who were ladies of title (on the stage) were getting
through a gavotte, aided and abetted by four
male humans in knee breeches. There would
have been betting in the circle, only it’s not
allowed, as to which girl would rise most grace-
fully from the curtsey, which is a tricky business.
It’s easy enough to get down, but to rise with-
out looking as though you had the blind staggers
is another matter. Music came from unexpected
places. The Feldwick quartet went into a box
on the prompt side and sang “ When the Empire
Calls.” The Empire seemed to call a little out of
tune. Perhaps it’s the troubles in Canada and
S’Africa. “Larboard Watch” came from some-
where behind the scenes. It was a relief when
Mr. Kilburn-Heron came out and faced the
music of the “Death of Nelson,” where we coulcl
see it was a man and not a gramaphone.
The tableau of Nelson’s death on board the
Victory was marred by several anachronisms.
Naval men didn’t wear four-inch turnover linen
collars and cuffs in Nelson’s day, and the inci-
dental music (Chopin’s “Funeral March ”) wasn't
written, because the composer wasn’t born. Ju-
jitsu exercises followed, but the sight of an
under-sized Jap., throwing a callow Australian
youth over his shoulder, was too much for me, so
X missed the final tableau—a mix-up of Queens
Boadicea, Elizabeth, and Victoria, with Khodes,
Parkes, and King Teddie, which finished the
show.
By-the-bye, the programme stated that “Boa-
dicea, revolting against the Komans, was scourged
by them. This revolt made a great impression
on the Komans.” But that could have been
nothing to the impression the Komans made on
Boadicea. They were good scourgers the
Komans.
One of the features of the Christchurch Exhi-
bition will be a Maori pah, and a court which will
trace the history of that interesting race back-
wards from the present date to where it becomes
merely a shadow seen dimly through the mists of
antiquity. Of late, the Maorilander has learned
a lot about the brown pioneer who went before
and wiped out the moa-hunters. It is now
generally believed that, in the remote past,
Maoriiand was thickly populated. The Maori is
not an industrious individual—never was; and
yet to have constructed all the pahs, the vast
systems of fortifications that mark almost every
headland, every lake shore and strategic hill-top,
anything like the present aboriginal population
must have toiled about 18 hours out of the 24. The
secret of the decline appears to have dated from
the extinction of the moa. As long as that vast
bird walked abroad in considerable numbers there
was plenty of flesh food, but the Maori made no
attempts to preserve him, and butchered him
gaily and ruthlessly in and out of season till, from
being comparatively scarce, he became altogether
extinct. Then the hunger for “ long pig ” smote
the Maori where he lived, and started a long
period of internecine war, which reduced the
natives to the comparatively smail numbers
of the days of Captain Cook. Within the histori-
cal period the great mass of the Maoris have
dwelt in the North Island ; down (South they were
very sparse. Keeent excavations and explora-
tions, which the Exhibition will disclose, have
made it apparent that at some time the South
Island, especially the northern portion of it,
carried an equally large population. Where they
went, and why, is not known, but the inference
is that in some curious way the food supply failed,
and an awful tragedy commenced. The historical
court will be by far the most interesting depart-
ment of the great show that is to open on
November 1.
A friend sends me this letter:—
Dear Woman’s Letter.—l think your forecast (11/10/’O6)
of three-column tales with “ all the power and fullness of
(say) ‘ Vanity Fair ’ ” might be helped towards fulfilment
if more meaning were packed into a signature. The
meaningful heading has long been cultivated, but few
seem to have seen the possibilities of the significant signa-
ture. Whistler and Shakspeare did. Note how Whistler
rung the changes on his barbed butterfly signature in
“The Gentle Art of Making Enemies.” Some people
think Shakspeare wrote his name in about 230 diffeient
waj's because he couldn’t spell, but that’s all fluff. If we
had his original manuscripts we would probably find that
the Toby Belch kind of horseplay was Mgned “Bill
Chugsbeer,” while a dainty fairy scene would purport to
be produced by “ Will Shakespray,” Beatrice and Bene-
dick badinage by “ Willie Chuckspear," and so on. People
have been too busy worrying about Bacon-Shakspeare
ciphers to see the depth of this device of William’s. Un-
fortunately, we have not all names of the adaptability of
Shuckbro’s, though I could wax eloquent regarding
varied spellings of “ Akenehi ” if the matter were not too
personal.—Yours crankfully, T. O’F.
Thus an Australienne from Bremen (Germany):
A wonderful thing is the influence of the Nord
Deutscher Lloyd in this place. It is Bremen. Remove
the co. and its works, and the town would go back to
what it was before the N.D.L. made it one of the biggest
outlets of Europe—a little fishing village. What aren’t
N.D.L. offices are big hotels, and sometimes you can’t get
a bed for affection or loot. Head offices, stores, cellars
and huge laundries occupy a handsome block of buildings
that has taken years to erect, and will not be com-
plete for a couple more years yet. Other different
departments are dotted all over the town, and the railway
station is principally N.D.L. goods sheds, and N.D.L.
passengers’ entrance. Bremen is rather unique in the
way of cellars. The Rathaus keller is filled with historical
vats, magnificently carved, containing the best wine of
the land. Some of it is worth its weight in diamonds, but
you can always get a glass of real nectar for about thrip-
pence. And the Blei keller at the Cathedral is filled with
leathery, well-preserved corpses, hundreds of years old,
that you may inspect for sixpence if you’re disposed to
gruesomeness—l’d rather have two glasses of wine at the
price. Besides these, there are many other interesting
things, and the whole place breathes of vigorous com-
mercial life and prosperity.
In a big country town up North a dance was
given last week in honor of the eldest Miss who
that day attained her voting age. The invited
guests, not wishing each to take a small present,
struck on the brilliant idea of selecting a treasurer,
and each giving two half-crowns to buy something
handsome. Mrs. Malaprop (whom the canvassers
had overlooked) headed the van on party night,
and offered her ss. to the hostess as she entered.
Hostess, who looked perplexed, tried to smile her
dovvn, but it was no use. Mrs. ’Prop would ex-
plain, and the hostess was blushing audibly when
the arrival of more guests propelled Mrs. ’Prop
into the hall with the coin still held fast, and
breathing hard.
Amongst the Melbourne Cuppers will be the
Spencer Bruntons, some of the Marks family, the
(medical) Kenna pair (who wouldn’t miss a Grand
Neigh on any account), the Burdekins, Mr. Owen
Cox, the Oswald Watts, and J. C. Williamson.
Marie Narelle, smiling and plump as ever, re-
ceived an enthusiastic welcome at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday. Several bouquets and a
flower-filled toy motor-car were handed up.
The same edifice was rather empty at the first
recital given by organist Mason on his return
from abroad. Elgar’s “Salut d’Amour ” was
tenderly played, and the “Concert Adagio”
(Mozart) was soothing.
Miss Rawson has been busy all the week open-
ing fetes and sales of work, and entertaining
youngsters at “Cranbrook,” but has found time
to be photographed in between, while His Ex.
has had the country press on his hands. So
many committees call at “Cranbrook” asking for
patronage for dull ceremonies that our Governor
and his lass must often feel inclined to bolt the
door.
Sydney Mail editor Charlton, who was to have
been married in the second week of the current
month, is down with appendicitis, and the post-
poned Voice is not expected to breathe o’er his
Eden for another five months.
Philip Fysh, of Van Diemen’s Land (Van Fysh
for short), and his wife celebrated their golden
wedding at Hobart a few Sundays ago, and the
occasion was made an excuse for a gathering of
the clan. Four of the finny tribe journeyed all
the way from London to be present at the wedding
breakfast, which was attended by no less than 40
Fyshes.
A lady librarian in Adelaide tells as solemn
fact that a feminine subscriber came in asking for
“ that book that everybody is talking about ” ;
and this was the conversation that ensued :
“ Whom is it by?” “I don’t know.” “Well,
what is it about?” “I don’t know.” “Well,
then, how do you come to know of it at all ? ”
“All I know is that it has a red cover, and a
gentleman in the tram had it with him, and he
told another gentleman that it wasn't a fit book to
be in any decent house ! ”
The parrot cry that lovely woman doesn’t hand
out much cash to hospital collectors might be met
with the remark that she hasn’t got it. In the
matter of the Thirlmere collection the cry is more
ear-piercing than ever, the collectors having
fondly hoped that, as the day’s results were to be
used solely for woman’s benefit, she would pass
out more coin. But have you ever noticed the
“it’s-no-use-asking-you ” manner with which col-
lectors approach their own sex with a money-
box ? Yet the male bird is ogled and gushed over
even though he only drops a gilt ’alfpenny into
the slot. Besides, a man sometimes gives more
than he can afford, and then goes home and
borrows a few shillings from the missus.
A great rush of decollete and diamonds to the
upper surface was apparent about the audience
that assembled to greet Miss Violet Balmain, at
Sydney Y.M.C.A., last week. The pianiste,
modestly clad in a school-girly frock which suited
her name, presented a rather ambitious pro-
gramme to an audience which, judging by the
ready habit of applause, was mostly made up of
friends. You can generally tell an audience of
friends. It applauds violently the accidental
squeaking of a door under the idea that it’s the
first note of a violin sonata. The lady was at her
best in the concerted items, though four short
Chopin numbers were daintily played.
Just here I want to say that I don’t like having
short musical barks fired at me. It has become
the fashion to play or sing a few bars, and then,
just as things get going, the performer stops, and
lets a wan smile flicker across the front of his
head till he raises some sort of applause.
Miss Balmain didn’t warm her audience—at
least, not so that you would notice it in a
draughty place like the Y.M.C.A. hall, which
always seems so chilly that you expect to see
walruses in it and polar bears just leaving. Miss
Lily Seaton, in pale blue under white, with
twinkling effects about the shoulders, sang an
excerpt from “La Boheme.” As she is far from
being a full-blown lily yet, there is time to urge
her not to force her voice in the upper register.
If she takes this kindly advice, she may yet sing
“ Mimi ” so that the hall shall rise up as one
human being and ask her to do it again. “ Spring
Flowers,” which is, by the way, rather a morbid
ditty, was much better sung, though it sent a
creep through the premises.
Those who like to sport with Amaryllis in the
shade have been visiting Sydney Botanic Gar-
dens to see the lovely flowers, of which that lady
is the prototype, in all their glory. Sydney folk
are proud of their gardens, but think them too
far away. You cannot drop out of a tram right
at the gate as you do at most places hereabouts.
So, when anything especially good is “out,” Mr.
Maiden publishes the news, and for the next few
days a steady stream of visitors flows through the
hot-houses. That stream remarks, “ How per-
fectly sweet! ” or “ Ain’t they bosker ?” and then
goes away for another month or two.
I looked on at an amusing comedy played in a
fashionable florist’s the other day. In or.e corner
a frantic society person called into the telephone,
while in another, behind a bank of flowers, a girl
sat reading. They looked the most flurried female
and the calmest female on record. Now and again
the excited one would ring off and dash round
the shop, knocking over vases and scattering
devastation generally. She seemed to want
something. Then she would rush back to the
’phone, with azaleas hanging from her draperies
and a trail of overturned pot-plants in her wake,
almost drag the ear off the instrument, and call
for the number again. The girl still sat reading,
and the terrified attendants, knowing the flurried
woman as one of their best-paying customers, did
not dare t.o remonstrate, but endeavored to place
the more perishable blooms out of harm’s way.
After several other vain attempts, during which the
calm girl read on, the almost maddened lady fell
into a chair in such a definite way that she
shook a bowl of peonies off its perch. The noise
made the studious girl look up. She lifted two
baby blue eyes full on to the panting lady,
uttered a cry of delight, rushed to her side and
said, “Have you been looking for me?” When
I left they were cooing together over a teapot,
while the attendants were gloomily clearing up
the wreckage.
Misses Ethel Stephens and Alice Norton opened
a nice little show of pictures in Bull’s Chambers
last Thursday, with the result that for a couple
of days there was standing room only in the lift.
The red label on many pictures spoke of apprecia-
tive visitors. One lady became so enamored of
her purchase that Miss Stephens was obliged to
remove it from the wall after the sale was effected
and let her take it away before the show was
over. Otherwise, the buyer would have slept on
the premises to be near her property. It was
roses, roses all the way round the green-draped
walls, and if the grouping of the flowers became
a trifle monotonous some were so good that you
forgot it. A portrait of a smiling old lady and an
urchin in a red cap comprised the human interest.
Several landscapes and flower groups were suffi-
ciently charming to tear anyone away from the
few guineas asked.
“A Grey Day” and “The Store,” by Miss
Norton, and a group of stocks were cleverly done.
Miss Stephens’ “Dahlias” would lighten up a
dark corner splendidly. A design for a photo,
frame by the latter, with a full moon shining on
the water, is more suited to a pair of lovers than
the youngster who fills it. A child’s face goes
with the morning.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Amy Sherwin’s bird-trills have been enthralling the
Holy Oity for the last week or two. The Nightingale’s
notes are less marvellous than of yore, and show the
wear-and-tear of years, but she can still charm the multi-
tude and give it points in the matter of voice-production
and stage-deportment. Amy Sherwin echoes the verdict
of other great warblers about the deportment (or want of
it) of the average young aspirant for noisy honors, who
goes with uneven strides on board the steamer for
England. She says that “ presence ”is a neglected art.
She herself has her room fitted round with long mirrors,
that she may note every movement of her pupils
and the}' can see themselves. Adelaide came out with
its usual lavish display of garden produce to hurl at the
popular Amy, and proved a fairly good shot. The night
before her first concert, the populace went out in great
force to serenade her, and the local Milton wrote an ode
in which “haunting” was made to rhyme with “en-
chanting.” The thing was sung to her. More generous
than most artists in a like case, Miss Sherwin climbed on
a chair on the hotel balcony and warbled a verse of
“ Home, Sweet Home.” But 'hen the audience called for
more gratis music, she wisely gave her business address
at the Town Hall.
Romantic yarns have been flying round Adelaide re-
cently in connection with a prominent Government
official who has been for a lengthy scoot through the
British specks. He is known to be very susceptible to the
charms of the frocky sex, and the rumors concern a
Countess, or something eminent in the peerage, whom he
is supposed to have met in the tangled forests of London.
About a month ago some clever person arose and an-
nounced that the supposed Countess was merely a well-
known Adelaide lady, who is also travelling afar. Then
Society decided that all was settled between them, and
went out hastily and bought the wedding present—a
cruet. Just here the lady’s friends explained that the
pair had never even met on their travels, and that the lie
was untrue. Now Society is wondering whether the
official will bring back the alleged peeress with him, or
whether it is burdened with a premature cruet.
S.A. Field Naturalists’ Society, which goes camping
out in the wilds every fortnight looking for grandijlora
ichthyosaurus and dichlamyderons dictyledons (1 found
these abusive expressions in a botany book), achieved a
lecture on Australian aborigines t’other evening. Coroner
Ramsay Smith committed it, and the members of the
society gathered-in their spectacled acquaintances and
took them in a learned body to the ’Varsity. I never
saw such a galaxy of beauty and frocks in my
life. Here it is the lady of learned leanings who
wears the best garments and the most glorious
back-hair. Dr. Ramsay Smith gave an interesting ac-
count of a jaunt through the Philippines and Northern
Territory; and implicit instructions as to how some bad
black people sing a person dead—a form of murder that
commends itself to me. I shall certainly sing somebody
dead as soon as I have selected my victim.
Election fever is abroad in the land. T’other
week a bit of military force went down to North
Terrace with its gun in its hand, and stood and
gazed fixedly at Parliament House. Then people knew
there was a dissolution. Since then all the well-dressed
women have been bolding political meetings, and
inspecting the clothes of candidates. Some of them
prefer a light grey candidate with a straw hat, and others
think the country gets on better under the guidance of a
dark candidate with a bell-topper. Personally I have
some leanings towards a brown candidate with a faint
stripe, but I want to see him in a better light before I
make up my mind to vote for him.
The stalwart defenders of our country committed a
military concert in the Town Hall, t’other evening, for
the purpose of sending some of the Army Medical Corps
to Maoriland to compete in some warlike events at the
Christchurch Exhibition. I wish some kind person
would give a concert to send me to Maoriland —or even
Bulgaria would do. lam a much more deserving object
than any old corps.
All, or nearly all, the Tortoise-town Bowling Clubs
arose and opened their season on October 13th. The
Adelaide Club, in its snug quarters on the banks of the
mighty Torrens, scored most marks for frilliness in the
guest line. The Bruces (Mayor and -ess), with a daughter
in tow, performed the opening ceremony, amid the usual
compliments and bows and scrapes. The first bowl of
Adelaide Oval Club meanwhile was being duly chucked
by Edwin Smith, a little way up the road ; and a hilarious
afternoon was got through.
A notable feature of the three days’ fair lately
perpetrated in aid of weak-minded children, was a
spectacular dance by some 50 bright young daughters,
under the tutelage of Miss Shiela Deeley. This
blessed demoiselle teaches most of Adelaide’s youth
and beauty to skim lightly as if on air, and to come down
on the butterfly with both feet without damage to the in.
sect. She is about the most graceful sassiety girl in this
village, and quite the bestdancer, and more than lives up
to the light fantastic toe of her creed.
Adelaide’s last matrimonial venturers caused a sensa-
tion in their choice of a honeymoon resort. The usual
mystery as to the cooing-place was kept up with even
more gloom than ever, and speculation rose to fever-heat
and stayed there. Then the delinquents suddenly
emerged and announced they had been at their own
house all the time. And now the number of clever folk
who guessed it from the first is quite astonishing. It
looked simple enough when we were all told ; but, as a
solemn matter of fact, we would almost as soon have
looked for them at the police-station.
The polite residents of an Adelaide suburb lately arose
and refused to be shepherded by a certain parson because
his wife “ was not a lady." Further inquiry revealed that
there was no complaint against the dame personally, but
a relative of hers once kept a milk walk. Yet if it had
been a sheep run, these same polite lunatics would have
fallen on the lady’s neck and wept down her collar.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKNEHI.


I
%
Driving
is doubly enjoyable when the
vehicle is fitted wilh
DunlopKelly
Rubber Tyres
NO NOISE. NO RATTLING
AND
NO REPAIR BILLS
** ~ ai.’
Send for lllntlrticd Prlct Lft*
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH, BRISBANE AMR
CHRISTCHURCH. N. 2.
DUNLOP;
CARDEN HOSE
Docs not Kink or Durst.
Lasts for - Years.
Manufactured by
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC
TYRE CO., of AUS. LTD..
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth,
Brisbane, d Christchurch N.Z.
gtockjnel
(Dress
JffIELDS
TTTEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
•IV. necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris* London* or New York.
PD
Oistinctm of SMPC,
mi
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 23, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The Ladies’ Needle Association —“Ladies,”
if you please—had the two Government House
dignitaries as interested viewers and purchasers
at its annual lace-spread last week. It was a day
when this dust-centre, for once, lay serenely under
the glamor of sunshine. Personally, it was with
reluctance that Tryphena passed from the outdoor
glory to the gloom of a stuffy building, where
women congregated about tables of lace exhibits,
and the atmosphere was heavy with the assorted
extract of All the scented blooms and most of the
chemical nostrums in creation. Lady Northcote
had the Italian-featured aide with the black
moustache and the hyphen, and he was called upon
to greatly exercise his ready-reckoning talent, for
the lady “could not be stopped ’’ —to quote the
staccato speech of M' s Robert Harper—“ from
buying.” Lady Talbot rushed not into rash
purchases, but selected quaint meshes and Irish
web of finished skill, and passed an elegant word
of praise to the designers. This association extends
its support only to the needy and needled gentry.
One must be a reduced rustler to earn its
sympathy.
What an amount of stitchery is accumulated
by the Talbot Dame ! At last week’s show of
handicrafts, several samples of her tireless indus-
try were on view. Most impressive of all was a
panel of embroidered foliage, wrought in lovely
brown and green tones. It was a bold tropical
branch with sprawling leaves and an air of almost
sensuous green languor.
To talk more stitchery ! Dame Talbot had lent
a wonderful tablecloth (embroidered in linen floss
by the peasant women of France) to be copied
for some additional napery. The elect toilers
copied it with fair success.
Mrs. George Chirnside, as the presiding Grace
of a recent show, garbed herself in bereavement
black. (With a great clan like the Chirnsides
mourning is ever as the sword of Damocles, or the
ruinous white elephant of Siam which is liable to
arrive on'the premises at any moment.) Of late,
home employments and a tirod feeling have kept
the lady from starring in the greater cake-walks.
However, she grows the sweeter for seclusion.
The ex-queen who doesn't sour for lack of applause
has personality and wisdom rare in her sex.
Recollections of Mrs. Hill—the widow of money-
lender Lewis—are revived by the cabled an-
nouncement of her demise. Two years ago, Mrs.
Hill and her Captain spouse toured ’Eoo-land
with a colossal pyramid of luggage and an air-
cushion. The pair, with valets and attendants,
put up at the Grand, where they helped on the
year’s dividend by a distribution of gold unparal-
leled in hotel records. The deceased lady was an
over-ripe, stout, asthmatical-looking matron, with
a gorgeous taste in jewels. Her diamonds were
as large as hen-eggs—provided, of course, the
eggs weren’t larger than the diamonds. But she
had good nature of vast extent. Her kindness
was greater than any egg. The air-cushion was
carried round by the Captain, whose youthful
face bore an indelible expression of duty ; as the
large lady shifted from place to place at the Cup
meetings the air-bag had to be in readiness every
time. Mrs. Hill talked freely of her first hus-
band’s wealth and generosity, and her inquiries
as to affairs political in Australia showed that,
despite her excessive show and the air-bag, her
intelligence was, like Hoggenheimer’s heart, in
the right place. And now 7 the youthful Captain
is free !
A gentle bachelor, with faint, refined, innocent
views of life in general and the designing sex in
particular, relates that the A.N.A. strum and
elocuting proceedings in the City of Statues
just now are provocative of much unpleasant re-
flection. He eyed a trio at a hotel board one
morning, after a competitive bout or prize distri-
bution, and, by the law of deduction, he made the
trio out to be Pa, Ma, and the kid. Pa was pasty-
faced and had weak eyes. He said nothing.
Even his scrambled egg he ate apologetically.
Ma was rather pretty in a cheap, dolly, Christmas-
card style, and foolish. Even over the breakfast egg
she employed “ party ” airs and shook the pepper-
castor as if it were a public distribution of ambrosia
by a god. The kid predominated. She talked
and laughed with the loud pedal on, yawned with
the vastness of a Great Australian Bite, lolled on
her chair, turned up her nose at her fried bacon,
and generally behaved like a cad in his cups.
On inquiry the shocked Chesterfield found the
young person was an A.N.A. prize-winner.
She had Pa and Ma up as a special favor, to bask
in her reflected brilliance. They weren’t Mr. and
Mrs. Smith any longer—only Kid Smith’s parents,
whom she allowed to be on her globe, and she
tolerated them as persons who ought to be mighty
glad that she had arrived to lift the Smith family
into eminence.
Every garter firm in this Bent city is at present
chorusing a dirge on the need of more dress-hands.
The spring seems to have attracted the usual tape-
measure sisterhood to the sea-shore, or inland
towards the green hills, for they’re not to be had
in the city shops. Attractive ads. in the dailies,
inviting the superfluous sex to come and make
merry at the sewing-machine, have proved fruit-
less this season. The result is that firms are
refusing countless orders for Cup raiment. An
authority in the chiffon trade tells me that the
automatic two-guinea rig has been a big boom.
It is the ready-made garb which the sex, in its
horror of the no-dress prospect, snaps up without
waiting to get a gusset out or a pleat in or a sup-
plementary tuck fastened on. Many a feminine,
quoth this George Washington, didn’t even wait
to have the ready-rigged outfit sent home per
carrier. She had it parcelled up on the spot, and
walked off with the huge cardboard box under her
funny-bone (which is the bone of retention).
There is positive need of the machine that will
turn out a creation to match the complexion of
the fair customer by the pressing of a high-price
button.
A Miss of high degree and long line has dumped
herself down at the G.-G. mansion for a term of
gaiety. Though merely styled Miss Greville,
with much Virginian creeper and floral nomen-
clature before her label (Violet and Lily are
two samples), she owns Lord Greville for a
father.
The £. £. Lewis couple are to circulate at
Flemington in all the pride of Paris-stamped
clothes. He, from report en route, is still flourish-
ing his long random moustaches. No Bond-street
fashions could bring about a shearing of those.
Mrs. Lewis (the Miss Rosa Dunn of long ago),
who shines as an apt quoter of the Imperishable
Bard, spent a winter in Italy, which brought the
bloom back to her spirits and repaired her health.
Captain Vallange comes back to his chubby
half. The term of the grass-widow’s loneliness
has been rendered tolerable by much “Stoning-
ton ” favor.
A lone globe-trotter, who has lent her moral
support to the Cup junkets, is Mr. T. Keenan,
the old moneyed bachelor whose r6le as
defendant in a breach of-vow suit, a summer
or two ago, left him a little lighter in pocket
and heavier in heart. It must be hurtful to a
bachelor’s fair dreams of the sex to have philan-
derings terminate in Costs instead of cuddle.
It never occurs to a mulcted he-person that the
rest of the sex regard with kindly and admiring
interest the male whom a charmer desperately
fights_ for with heavy legal guns. When a
feminine person races after him and gets the
hounds of the law on his track, the majority of
spinsters confide safely to themselves or each other
that he must be ‘“nice.”
The final nightingale chirp of Madame Blanche
Arral was notable for a pretty incident. A
golden canary, in a cage to match his opulent
plumage, was handed over the footlights, and the
fetching little star twittered her “ Oiseaux ’’ gem-
air to the presentation bird at close quarters.
Bird and singer kept up some pretty play toge-
ther. It was a night rich in dress and song. The
bill was an ideal one for displaying the i inge,
quality, and endurance of Madame Arral’s voice,
and even the seventh encore was sprinkled with
refreshing smiles and a spirit that knew no fatigue.
When the crowd hustled for a thrown rose fi’om
Blanche Arral on her farewell night, a little com-
plaining pout shot from the favorite. “You
geeve me so much pretty flower, and you take
away again. It ees not joost.”
' The lawn party of the Northcotes comes off on
Tuesday next, and sets the Carnival ball rolling.
The President Wrixons will farewell Parlia-
mentarians for the session. It’s been an ill-behaved
Parliament of late. But the lamb will browse on
the lawn with the lion on Monday next under the
amiable auspices of the President and his dame.
The smart girl hereabouts has a far-seeing eye
and a sense of self-provision that amounts to
genius: “ I have a lovely man for the Cup,” one
murmured, with a thoughtful smile. “Por the
Cup?” She nodded. “You see, ” was her ex-
planation, “ the town boys are too slippery at a
wild, exciting time like Cup week. They know
too many, want to be everywhere, and to be
bothered by no one. Oh, I’ve experienced two or
three Cups and a few gross of sporting boy-friends.
Now I secure, months beforehand, a nice Ballarat
or Bendigo hoy, or squatter-pal, and nurse the
friendship along solidly till November, when one
or other comes along, and I am dead sure of the
very best and most steady Cup attentions. It’s
a good idea.” “ And after the Cup ? ” queried I,
in a small, awed voice. She shrugged. “Trust
me for getting out of a flirtation gracefully ! ”
She looked so cute, so wicked, so shameless, that
I asked no more. Oh, it’s a terrible sex to
belong to 1
Mr. Ernest Brooks dashed about so much on
arrival in this Yarra centre, that the town took it
he had returned from gadding alone. He hasn’t.
Mrs. Brooks with a Kosciusko pile of baggage, a
baby and a bib-attendant came along too. For
which the Tooraketty quarter returns thanks.
Even with a novel pram-interest, the young dame
is too good a sport to be without.
The large rally crowding the Caulfield course on
Saturday was instructive, as presenting the very
first hot-season samples of dress. Looking at a
large crop of returned gadders, decked out in the
latest rigs, it struck the acute intelligence of frill-
experts that the Australienne had nothing to
learn and the globe-trotter a few things to forget.
Dozens of our stay-at-home charmers easily beat
the returned flutterers in chic. An imported
notability on Saturday expressed that opinion
emphatically.
The two batches of vice-regals had nothing to
say in the shining of this Caulfield Cup flock.
Dame Northcote had extinguished herself in a
yellowish-apricot garb, with a hat encoring the
hue. The “Stonington” Grace was dressed
in clinging black. A large random head-gear
uttered a single sentence of hope and cheer in the
shape of a lengthy white fall of chiffon.
Mrs. Jack Fisken on the Terrace flaunted an
outfit that pleased at all points. It was of soft
cornflower cripe de chine, scissored beautifully to
the figure. Its top accompaniment was a pic-
turesque crinoline supporting two gorgeous corn-
flower-toned plumes. It was an opulent get-up,
but rectified by taste. The whole outfit glad-
dened the eye. In magpie tones, with a pro-
fusion of fine lace, Mrs. R. Grice’s rig was
distinguished. Mrs. Ernest Brooks was an
animated dream in a valuable lace oover, boned
close to the line of Nature, and continued coyly
from skirt-hem to the line of the heart without a
stop. The unbroken waist parallel of latitude is
a temptatious thing. Miss Edie Smith, Miss
Prowes and Miss Jackson were a noticeable,
saucy trio.
Theatrical interests were well represented. The
300-guinea lace garb of so much fame got its first
airing. Miss Florence Young rose to the oc-
casion of her best looks to set the rare thing off.
The she-sports forgot to notice the scratchings,
being fully employed in staring at the dress
luxury and its owner. Even a vice-regal lor-
gnette was fastened on Miss Young’s clothes.
What more can a woman want ?
By way of a casual side issue, Garters won a
pony handicap at Richmond the other day, with
Pretty Girl second, and Stockings third. The
only other starter was Gal tee Lass.
Miss Olive Morrell, the newly-risen Williamson
star, is a social personage. She has an air—a lazy
grace (a panto, boy with a lazy grace !) and a very
soft Kissable countenance. She has a mouth
that’s too pretty to be the vehicle of clever speech.
There’s a nose to match. Miss Morrell is alto-
gether an alluring charmer. At the Cup, she
wore nothing of interest, and a brown fly-catcher
net swung from her large garden hat. But she
was in the midst of the Cream and couldn’t find
room to yawn for the swarm of fashionable males
hem tiling her in. A toney panto, boy is a naive
sort of novelty.
The Princess’ pens were jammed on Saturday
night. Mrs. Norman Menzies and Mrs. Ernest
Raleigh showed fluffy thatches of honey hue from
two boxes. A Geelong brunette—Miss Wilson-
starred in a third. A Burne-Jones head, in the
company of Rupert Clarke, fixed opera-glasses on
fourth. Away back in the circle sat Manager
J. C. Williamson, studying “The Little Stranger”
with a knowing eye. Mr. G. Tallis sat alongside
m fraternal consultation.
. Th f volume promised by Rupert Clarke’s chick
is to hand. It is styled “Two Stories” on the
nice leaf-green cover, and contains a portrait of
the authoress—who seems a plump, soft-eyed,
kissable Miss, midway in her teens —and a
preface of much charm. It’s a naive, winning in-
troduction to the romantic war and love yarns
that follow. _ Tryphena hasn’t, up to date, got
beyond the ingratiating preface, but she will
hasten to bury herself in the volume. Even if
“Phyllis Clarke, of Rupertswood,” fails as an
authoress, she’s a nice girl, with a childishly ex-
pressed wholesome patriotism for ’Roo-land, and
a cherished love of our brown boronia that savors
of good and sweet sentiment.
Pathetic to note, week after week, the dauber
who, after an expressive look over the face of
Europe, returns hereabouts with a few sketches of
the Seine, a London Bridge view, a Moonlight on
the Danube impression, and a crowd of insignifi-
cant or feebly-effective daubs. The knowledge of
other skies, other atmospheric effects, and a mul-
titude of character types seems to do little towards
improving the talent of the ordinary art student.
He or she drifts along with a weary look in the eye
and a consignment of unsold sketches in the hand.
I have encountered three of these artists, one
having gained even a little glory in the Big Smoke
by an exhibition of three paintings at the Academy.
But, if nothing was doing abroad, less is doing
here. After an exhibition, at which all therelatives,
a few friends, and a patron or two have looked in,
the returned roamer settles down to hard times.
A ’Varsity don who avers, with Keats, that
“all charms fly at the mere touch of cold philo-
sophy,” is yet so charming a lecturer on the poets,
that some of the most delightful Graces of his
circle eagerly sit at his feet absorbing his dis-
sertations.
An arri val that calls for interest is that of Mrs.
Skey—wife of the Cerberus surgeon, and daughter
of Mrs. Tom Smith, one of the expensive dwellers
of Toorak. The young dame has not long finished
honeymooning, but returns to take up a perma-
nent perch in Sydney. As Miss Beatrice Smith,
no cuter frocker aired a frill.
Signora Volenti or something (Miss Nora
Dane) has swept down upon this town, after a
long absence. Her great height, her showy
figure, and her elaborate frills are such as to
make the city gasp. And her personality is even
stronger than her exterior greatness. It sweeps
over you embracingly. For a minute her abun-
dant Celtic spirits almost smother. Then you
take a breast stroke, as it were, and rise
strengthened from the spray. Withal, she is
charming, generous, and so full of splendid
vitality that one wants to applaud her very pre-
sence.
Mrs. Ernest Raleigh goes presently to Colombo
for health and a pinch of variety in pleasure.
The leisured She of the land has to change her
scene now and then. Continual enjoyment in the
same environment palls. It’s the same pleasure
all the time, but the wall-paper or the sky-view
(whichever matters most) differs. That is the
spice of life.
. Who can question the justness of the warship’s
title —the Powerful—now ? Tt was thundering
signals, a few weeks ago, in the blue bay, with the
result that 150 chicks in one fowlery in the Aspen-
dale beach neighborhood were bowled over; the
shock of the discharge killed them.
From Brisbane :
Invitations are out for a musical evening at Govern-
ment House on 9th November.
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth J. Edwards, daughter of
Queensland’s only anti-Sosh Representative, and Mr.
J. G. M. Ewan, took place last Saturday with much
brocade and sparkling wine. The bridal dress, built upon
the most severe lines, proved somewhat overwhelming to
the fragile little contractor; but Mamma, in a flowery
confection of grey silk and biscuit lace, and a bonnet
decked in blue roses, was the most imposing feature of
the afternoon.
There was a swagger show at “ Bishopsbourne ” on
Saturday afternoon. All the nice good people who go to
church, and make their servants stay at home to have a
hot meal ready on their return, were there to drink tea,
and listen to the denunciation of the Government for re-
fusing to legislate for Bible in State schools.
A big roll-up of rowing enthusiasts decorated the
North Quav on Saturday, where, under the shadow of a
marquee, the Queensland Rowing Association entertained
a crowd of visitors at tea. The Milton reach buzzed
with motor boats.
Lemare’s organ recitals at Brisbane have been deferred
a week, and the first takes place on 3rd November. Mrs.
Lemare was forbidden by the doctor to 1 ave Wellington
(M.L.) till next Saturday. H. N. Southwell goes to the
Northern capital to make smooth the pathway of the
“ Paderewski of the organ.”
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Solly, M.L.A., tells the Yictorian Parlia-
ment about tvvo-up:—
I could take members to a certain place in Bourke-
gtreet, where they will be going at it now (2 a.m.).
Dozens of young fellows meet there on Saturday after,
noon, and they never see home till Monday morning.
Not only do the men who run these schools ring in the
two-headed penny (sometimes they are badly im ired
because they have done so), but they are so skilful in
throwing the pennies to a certain height with a certain
twist of the wrist that they can make them fall heads
over and over again. I have known a school in Adelaide
where a man has headed them 30 times in succession
Rev. Stephenson to the Victorian Congre-
gagational Union :
Our Sunday-schools are gettingto be largely managed
by an American syndicate, and Americans are grossly
behind in education compared with the English and
Scotoh ; yet Americans are allowed to manipulate our
schools, and unless we are very careful we shall And the
gulf I speak of increasing.
Why not appeal to Bill Lyne and the Anti-Trust
Act for relief against American dumped religion ?


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5,
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris,
Fine
London.
France
fdg
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr«d. Hagei)> Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Cratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
n
a
Ws
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 GeorgreSt.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
What a sturdy race are the Boers! Robbed
of their country, decimated with fire and sword,
the remnant celebrates the anniversary of the day
when Kruger threw down the fatal gauntlet.
Sydney Telegraph, last week, came out
with a leader pointing out that the Labor party
wasn’t really in favor of abolishing marriage.
The fact seems to be that there was danger of the
Fat Tories stampeding to the Labor party if they
thought its platform really was Free Love and
Free Drinks.
G. H. Reid, stroking the fat landlords of
Victoria in the anti-Sosh interest, said : “Surely,
if I lend a man my boat and lines and bait, and
he catches two fish, lam entitled to one.” But
the fat landlord doesn't lend anything of the sort.
He just stands on the beach and says: “That’s
my sea, and you’ll pay me half what you get (or
more) for the right to fish in it.”
One seat for which it is to be hoped the
N.S.W. • Protectionists will not nominate a
candidate is New England. Foster, Labor man
and Protectionist, is out for the seat, and if it is a
square fight between him and the insufferable
Lonsdale, the latter will almost certainly go down.
If another man comes in Longtail will win on a
split vote, and that calamity is too dreadful to be
contemplated.
The re-arrangement of portfolios con-
sequent on Isaacs’ retirement leaves the Australian
Government composed .of eight bona fide Ministers:
three N.S.W. men (Lyne, Chapman and Ewing),
one Victorian (Deakin); one Westralian (Forrest),
one Queenslander (Groom), one S. Australian
(Playford), and one Tasmanian (Keating). Also,
Mauger, of Victoria, has the barren honor of being
honorary Minister without portfolio.
CLEARING THE POLITICAL FAIRWAY.
This is how the (caucus) machine grips.— Argus.
A terrible strain on the apparatus.
That conference of State Premiers and
politicians which met to Fix Everything Up, and
to show the Australian Parliament exactly How
To Do It, becomes a bigger joke than ever. It
carried a few resolutions, but it wasn’t unanimous
about anything. The one big financial question
it really met to discuss was postponed. And now
that earnest parochialist, Treasurer Peake, of
S.A., objects to some of the few resolutions that
were arrived at, and suggests wholesale altera-
tions ; and that frantic parochialist, Premier
Newton Moore, of Westralia, rises to repudiate
the results of the conference bodily. And that
conference met together at its own invitation to
Fix Things Up.
Business-like amendment suggested by
Anstey, M.L. A., in Vic. Gaming Bill, touching on
the law’s decision that a racecourse is not a
“place”:— >
“ Place ” means anything, everything, anywhere, every-
where, any time, all time, and such a place as no place
shall not exist, either in law or in fact.
Which covers the possibilities fairly well.
Senator Dawson, of Queensland, seems to
be an undecided man. He was nominated to
stand for re-election on the Labor ticket, along
with Senator Higgs, and a new man—Lundager.
Subsequently Dawson withdrew. Next he wanted
to withdraw his withdrawal; but another new
man—Griffith, of Townsville—had by this time
got the nomination, and now ex-Premier Ander-
son Dawson may probably regard himself as a
back number.
Crawford, the auti-Sosh candidate for
Calare (N.S. W.), gets a curious advt. in the
Orange Leader. A correspondent of that paper
alleges that a few weeks ago Crawford was orating
at Li t hgo w and Portland, along wi th Cann, M. L. A.,
on behalf of the Labor party ; that he offered to
hold forth in the Labor interest at Bathurst,
Orange, Cowra, and elsewhere; and that at the
very time when he accepted the anti-Sosh nomi-
nation he was president of the Political Labor
League at Grenfell. If these things are correct,
the anti-Sosh Crawford is a gentleman of wonder-
ful variety, and can beat Joe Cook for suddenness.
There was a day when the Scottish leaven
in the Maoriland community made for demo-
cracy. Apparently all that has changed. The
secretary of the Scottish Society has rushed into
print to prove that his organisation is a most
important one, with no less than 19 dukes, earls,
barons and other creatures whom a breath has
made on its honorary list. They do not even pay
their subscription fees. They are hon.
Wife beating lias become such a popular
form of manly sport in Melbourne that it has
actually evoked a sensible suggestion from a mem-
ber of the House of Rich Landlords. Embling,
M.L.C., the other day, wanted to know if the
Government could not devise some means of
punishing wife-maltreaters without at the same
time penalising the ill-used wife and her children.
At present the law cannot do anything but fine
or gaol, and payment of the fine injures the wife
more than the husband. What is wanted is an
amendment of the law so that the brute husband
shall be sent to gaol without the option
of a fine, and, in gaol, made to work for
the benefit of the wife and children outside.
That, of course, opens up the whole question of
prison labor. A step forward is the decision to
instal wire-netting manufacture in all the leading
gaols. When the gaols can do productive work
the criminal of all sorts can be dealt with far more
effectively.
Horace Tozer excited deep suspicion by
asking would-be immigrants to Queensland to pay
him the amount of their fares out, and in return
accept his assurance that they would receive
credit for that sum when they purchased land after
arrival. Though a great deal of money was spent
in advertising the precious scheme, and Horace
constituted himself “Commissioner of the Land
Court ' in London, only one man with a hoe
called, and that one apparently suspected a confi-
dence trick when the passage money was de-
manded, and refused to deal. He thought Tozer
was his uncle in Fiji.
Ignoring for the moment the absurdity of
the Groper Secesh “movement.” what do the
Seceshers hope to gain by it ? The cause of the
row seems to be the postponement of the railway.
Secession would put that line about 20 years
further away. If they could secede, the only tem-
porary advantage they could capture would be a
slight Protection against the other States, and
apparently they don’t want that, for out of 11
delegates to the first Australian Parliament
Westralia sent nine Foreign-traders, and it sent
five to the second Parliament. In short, what is
the idiocy all about ?
News comes by cable of the successful
speed trials of the famous Dreadnought. But the
much-advertised monster nearly went down im-
mediately after it was launched because some of
the rivet-holes had no rivets in them, and it spent
the end of August and beginning of September in
dry dock, getting its leaks stopped. On top of
that come stories of the shockingly bad rivetting
of the nearly new battleship Montagu, lately
wrecked. It is said that in consequence of some
unspecified nevv evidence that has cropped up, the
sentences passed on the captain and navigating
lieutenant of that ship are to be reviewed.
“ S.S.” writes :
Isaacs and Higgins have accepted High Court Judge-
ships, and many people are congratulating them —
especially their enemies. Australian democrats can find
no occasion for congratulation, as these appointments
rob the Commonwealth of a couple of its best politicians,
and the electors who have thinking material in their
heads are convinced that two sterling democrats in Par-
liament making laws are worth a dozen practically wasted
on the task of administering them. Of course, the
advantage of having sound men, whose hearts are in
sympathy with the people, as Judges, is not to be
despised, but I cannot help thinking two less courageous
democrats could better have been spared for these billets.
Isaac Isaacs and Henry Higgins are, bar Kingston, the
most advanced and most consistent constructive politi-
cians the Liberal party has produced. They have always
done the right thing, and have always done it well, and
I find a lot of significance in the delight with which Con-
servatives accept the announcement that they have been
sent to court. The Tories could not be better pleased
had they been sent to gaol.
One electorate in Melbourne suburbs is
threatened by, among others, two candidates
named Roy Yernon and Jabez Coon ; and about
18 “leagues” and “federations” have been formed
to take a hand in the shindy. The Bulletin gets
from Jabez and Roy and these 18 leagues an idea
of a brand-new Reform : Every candidate should
have the right to be as many different candidates
as he pleases. Anyhow, he might have the right
to call himself as many names as he fancies. He
might call himself Roy Vernon, or Ferdinand
Feversham, when seeking the suffrages of the
Federation of Frilly Fowls. The Good Templars’
lodges should know him as Jabez Judkins. To
the Society of Suppressed Saints he would appeal
iu the name of Joseph Jones or Ebenezer Chappie.
The Order of Butting Buffaloes would take Billy
Coon to their bosoms. The Bulletin hasn’t,
however, made up its mind yet whether the can-
didate should count all the votes polled in his
favor, or whether he should have to “declare” on
the night before the ballot which name he was
going to stand by.
THE SHADE OF EBENEZER.
To tax for the object of breaking
up the large estates is an outrage on
the moral sense of the community.
AGE.
EHENZKR SYME'S GHOST : “ What
a falling off is here! The
Age was primarily devoted
to the unlocking of the
squatters' lands.”
Bent, of Victoria, is growing a Federal
spirit. On the debts question at the recent
conference :
He would be one to say “hand the whole lot over to
the Commonwealth right off.'’ Suppose they included
also the municipal debts. He should be inclined to pool
the lot. In the true Federal spirit he should not
make it a material point whether Victoria had to pay a
few pounds more or less.
Which was, on the whole, the most statesmanlike
utterance of the conference.
Public interest in the Seddon memorial-
fund came to a dead stop the day that Maoriland
Parliament unanimously granted to the late
Premier’s widow £6OOO and the use of the Minis-
terial residence. Apparently, the public gene-
rally believed that Mrs. Seddon, being an affluent
woman in her own right, ought not to have
accepted the money. The Liberal press has raged
bitterly, and blown its trumpet in the public ear,
but all to no purpose. The meetings called to
discuss memorials are not attended, and the
subscription-lists are empty. After all, it is
doubtful if the working-classes are not committing
a tactical blunder. Already, the Tory is point-
ing the warning finger. “Put not your trust in
Democracies—they forget quicker than princes !”
is the burden of his scorn.
The present-day craving to import men
from abroad to fill the best-paid posts in Aus-
tralia strangely reverses a determination come to
by the old N.S.W. Legislature—before the advent
of Responsible Government.
Bi-itain then used to send out
all the big men for important
billets, leaving N.S.W. to pay
the salaries. But the Legisla-
ture passed and forwarded to
England a resolution stating
that N.S.W. would in future
insist on filling all vacant public
billets save that of Governor
from its own people. It is a
pity there was such a falling away from that idea
in later years.
“In the interests of economy,” Henry
Dobson, the funereal Senator from a somnolent
island, moved for the omission of the item of £5OO
voted by the Reps, towards an “ Australian Men
of Letters Fund.” If we must have economy,
why doesn’t somebody move for the omission of
Dobson ?
An amendment by Holman to the N.S.W.
Local Government Extension Bill, allowing muni-
cipalities to acquire and run public-houses, was
only lost through being ruled out as beyond the
order of leave. It is an extension of Municipal
Socialism which has everything in its favor, and
against which there is not a single valid argu-
ment. The surest remedy for liquor abuses is
public ownership of public-houses.
Moate, the Transcontinental Land Job
Railway syndicate’s representative in Adelaide,
has contributed a long-winded epistle to the press.
It is bathetic and irrelevant. Floate draws a
harrowing picture of the starving millions of dear
ole England, and weeps greatly over their plight,
and seems to imply that he is dying to spend
millions of his own, in order that their collective
hollowness may be filled with food. Goate quotes
Lord Rosebery as if he and Bloate had wept to-
gether over the matter. The brassy syndicator
accuses Premier Price of having made the Trans-
continental Railway question a political issue,
which is just what the Labor Premier refused to
do, while Skite knows perfectly well that he and
his tender were bustled along by the Tories for
the sole purpose of providing a counterblast to
franchise reform at the election. Meanwhile,
Blight keeps strictly dark as to the identity of
the people who are to build the railway, and that
is much more to the point than the alleged
weepings of Rosebery.
At a luncheon given to English Labor
Member Ramsay MacDonald, the other day, the
wife of Queensland Minister Digby Denham was
wedged in among a lot of leaders of the Labor
movement. At a certain stage in the proceedings
she excused herself, as she “had to attend a
Eolitical meeting.” MacDonald casually asked
is neighbor what the meeting was, and collapsed
when told that the lady was to preside at the
Anti-Sosh Association !
T. C. Beirne was recently given a seat in
the Brisbane Fossil Chamber as a Democrat.
When the Amending Factories and Shops Bill
came along, the other day, Beirne stated that he
was in favor of Wages Boards, of improving the
condition of the workers, and of other useful pro-
visions ; but he regretted he would have to vote
against the Bill. Beirne is one of the boss
drapers of Queensland, and the rag-trade is the
same kind of sweater now that it was when the
“Song of the Shirt” was written, and any
Government which sends a draper anywhere
(except to perdition) under thd impression that
he is a reliable Democrat, is apt to fall in.
BETTING
ITEM.
A deputation of recognised turf agents interviewed the
Attorney-General on Saturday requesting an exemption
from the Gaming Act until the conclusion of the Mel-
bourne Cup meeting.
MR. WADE : “I am very sorry, gentlemen, but
this is just one of those difficulties which admits
of no solution.”
CHORUS : “ Solution! Why, bless my heart, I'll
give you five to one on her.”
Thus “S.S.” :
The Vic. Old Age Pension Act works out mainly as a
reliable guarantee for landlords. In dozens of cases of
destitution handled by Melbourne charities it is found
that the unfortunate objects are barred from help by
reason of being old age pensioners, although the pension
—a paltry ss. or 6s. a week —is always ear-marked to pay
rent. The other day an old woman was found gathering
scraps of bread in the gutter and was locked up by a well-
meaning policeman. She deposed in court that her
husband had the old age pension—6s. a week —but it was
only sufficient to pay their rent. This development pro-
bably accounts for the fact that the House of Happy
Landlords is not now opposed to the old age pension, but
it would fight any attempt to raise the allowance, as ss.
or 6s. is quite sufficient to pay the rent, and according to
your landlord rent is the only actual necessity of life.
INFORMATION WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Messrs. Knox, Irvine, andFairbairn are coming forward
as moderate Protectionists.
I’ve been thinking hard about this matter lately,
This sweet word moderation,
And though I never was at all suspicious,
1 seek for information.
It seems but recent since the name of Irvine
Was mixed up with coercion,
So surely he can give his reasons now to
Account for his conversion.
That Knox, who has for five long years shone out as
A huge mass of obstruction,
Has seen lie’s acted foolish and repented,
Is but a fair deduction.
I don’t know much of Fairbairn or his doings,
Except he owns a station ;
He’ll not support a graduated land-tax
P’raps that’s his moderation.
At least, it’s up to Irvine, Knox, and Fairbairn
To make some explanation
Of where they’ve hid their Freetrade for the present.
I want this information /
Vic.
GOOLWA.


fdg
fd
gfd
OUR NEW
EXTENDED
CATALOGUE,
JUST PUBLISHED.
Send for a Post Free Copy To-day.
OUR.
• ••
€€
Economy ’ Boot
In BlacK-lOs. Od.j Post Free, 17s. 6d.
In Tan—lBs. 6d.; Post Free, 19s. 6d.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.,
SYDNEY.
WORTH CONSIDERING!
T H iSit Ve T° h £ d 6 z ® nitJl of our ambition in the publishing H ne We
1 o.iei° s &£/v'r tsrM Mrt* f±,° f
ate presents to send to absent friends and “ The Old Folk at Home ” appropn-
CALENDARS FOR 1907.
O** tlxe I*ai\d. —Size 9§-x 6J inches, printed
in colors, embossed with gold. Each calendar
illustrated with a beautiful view of Australian
scenery by Hutchins, 7d., post free.
Heart of Australia.— Size 9x 7i inches.
A three sheet calendar tied with silk, printed in
colors, embossed with gold, with three different
views, depicting life in the Interior, by Hutchins
10d., post free. ’
With each Calendar an envelope is provided.
Life.—Size 9£ x 7£ inches, A three-
sheet calendar tied with silk, printed in colors
and embossed with gold. A very artistic series,
' vlt j l three different views of ltusli Life by
Hutchins, 10d., post free. J
Australian Rivers.— Size 11x8 inbhes.
A single card calendar, printed in colors and
embossed with gold, containing a beautiful view
of Australian river scenery by Dr. Riches, lOd
post free. * *
The Latest—GEMS FROM AUSTRALIAN POETS, Ulus., Mo „, n post
*“ wmoXl 0 ' 1 . 0 ’'!"-' =-
Victor J. Daley, Henry Lawson, and Rorlerio Quinn. The book i’s illustrated In' me.ir fH Kendall,
by Leah. Beard. The whole printed In color,A very ohoice tSSSSS^
VIEW BOOKS.
No-I—Sydney, Descriptive and lllustra-
— 36 views and panorama of Sydney and
Harbor, tafcen expressly for this publication.
ii«ach illustration size 7in. x sin. ; the whole
printed on art paper, and enclosed in g-old
embossed cover. Price Is.
No. 2 Country Scenes and Pleasure
Resorts in N.S. Wales—36 views illus-
trative of Beauty Spots of N.S.W. Size of each
picture, 7in. x sin. Printed on art paper, and
enclosed in a gold embossed cover. Price Is.
Nos. 1 and 2— Are also on sale with extra pictures
added bound in cloth, gold lettered, printed on
one side of the paper only. 100 views in all.
Price 3s 6d, post free 9d extra. A lovely book
suitable as a gift.
No. 3—Sydney and Harbor.—2o photo-
graphic views, size sJin. x 3£in., printed on art
paper, enclosed in gold embossed cover. Price
6d, post free 2d extra. Selling in large
numbers; °
No 4—Combined View Boo*.— Cloth bound,
gold lettering, printed on art paper. Contains
250 illustrations and 10 large panoramas. The
series comprises views of Svdney, Melbourne
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Tasmania. A lovely
book. The only thing of its kind published in
Australasia. Price 6s, post free Is extra.
No. s—Melbourne, Illustrative and De-
scriptive. 36 view, 7in.xsin., and panorama,
printed on art paper, and enclosed in gold em-
bossed cover, Is.
No. 6—Adel aide, Illustrative ana De-
scriptive. 36 views and 2 panoramas. A
lovely collection of pictures. Price Is.
No. 7 Brisbane, Illustrative ana Dc-
scrmt.ve—36 views and panorama. All up-
to-date views. Price Is. 1
No. 8— Tasmania, Illustrative ana Dc-
Views and 2 P ano ramas, illus-
trating the beauty spots of this lovely tourist
resort. Price Is.
No. 3-West Australia, Illustrative ana
5 > f S ?^ /P Tf l/ ?' 36 Vlews and Panorama. A
splendid collection of views depicting the Citv
and Gold Mines. Price Is*
No. 10— Sunny New South Wales 12
pictures printed in colors. A pretty little booklet
Price 6a, post free 2a extra.
No. 11—Australian Biras, by Neville
Cayley, the celebrated Bird painter.—//
pmtures printed in colors, on art paper. Price
No. 12—Australian Wiia Flowers bv
Margaret Flockton—l2 pictures printed
in colors. A dainty little production. Price Is.
N°. 13—Newcastle ana Ptest Maitland.
Illustrative and Descriptive. 24
views, 7in. x sin., and large panorama, printed on
art paper, enclosed in gold embossed cover
Price Is.
Also a Large Collection of Post Cards, imported from all parts of the world, and Choice Australian Subjects
Just Published The ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S ANNUAL 1906
C ° m c'loth and mofu^elvllh.^ 6 , ot lhe Council, by H. M. Somer. Handsomely bound in
eiotn, ana profusely illustrated from interesting photographs. Price, 35., post free.
The above Calendars and Booklets may be obtained by the Trade from any Wholesale House in Australia
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
UP-TO-DATE
PUBLISHERS, BOOKSELLERS
STATIONERS, &c.
476 GEORGE ST.,
AND ALL BRANCHES.
SYDNEY
'£LmC
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St.,
Sydney
MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE
NOT THE same as others.
YOU’VE SEEN
an old house, built without any damp-
course, with the walls stained and spoilt
x>y damp, and you know the advantages
of a good dampcourse. There is
NO BETTER
dampcou rs e on the market to-day than
Malthoid. It s made of a high-grade
wool-felt saturated and coated with a
pure mineral, Won’t rot or squeeze out
‘lfit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it
not *”—Marcus Aorelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & 00., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Yic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD,, Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic,
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercareill Nz"
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
t
gf
Unrivalled for the Complexion. *
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & 80HN
Grand Prlx, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE. *
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S
Sole Agents : LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne
and Sydney.
I’ll Try It.”
fl BIG MOUSTACHE PROPOSITION.
Would you like a big Moustache ? Then
grow one by using
CAPILLARINE
Tlxe Australian . . .
Moustache Producer.
It covers “ downy ” lips with a beautiful coating- of strong,
wavy, thick hair—and wastes no time about it either.'
Wo will post a JAR of CAPILLARINE to any address
(in Plain Paper Packet) for the sum of
10s 6d.
A.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
-•*
5^
) V Vv-V
%
\h
U
ER
2S
2*o
WATER)
e£k FLAT 3PRIN OS
L c ~:
g§§IiWLANDo
||||3sasEt£>oUßNE- tS
5/* CO ■*
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
“I give you ‘KOOMAH
SPA'! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water. |
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.”


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade np TP IJJ |
American ... ft I ■ » 1*
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLON lAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading? Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
BLOOD POISONING-.
The Wonderful Blood Purifying and Healing
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills Exemplified.
Mr. John Cummins, of Cummins Bros., cabinet-
makers, &c., 9 Queen’s Court, Queen’s Place,
Sydney, relates in the following letter how,
having contracted barber’s rash, he took a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills and was perfect-
ly cured in a few days. He says : —“ I may state
Mr. John Cummins.
(From a photo.)
that Dr. Morse’slndian
Root Pills have been
our family medicine
for years, and their
valuable curative
properties for all
common ailments and
disorders of the blood
need no further com-
ment than to say that
we have always found
them most satisfactory.
A short time since I
contracted bar b e r’s
rash, which in a couple
of days completely
covered my chin and
even reached my ears.
I was advised by a
friend, a barber, to
apply carbolic oil to
the face and use Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills regularly until all
traces had disappeared. In less than ten days
my skin was quite clear again and perfectly
healed. I still take a pill or two occasionally,
which keeps my system in a healthy condition,
and at home we are never without a supply. I
may mention that I subsequently saw my friend
and asked him why he had recommended Dr-
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. He replied that be
and his family had been using them for some
time, and he reckoned that they were the best
blood medicine on the market.” Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier,
and a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL
NO PRESERVATIVES.
RCILL & CO., t® Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Bbewert and Offices :
DOWLING ST., BEDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Poseidon’s performance in the Eclipse Stakes
having: made him a first favorite and an unquestionable
“ tip ” for the Caulfield Cup, his victory in the big event
was surprising only on account of the remarkable adroit-
ness shown by horse and rider in getting through the
field. More than half-a-mile from home the purple colors
of the favorite were flashing conspicuously as though cer-
tain to come to the front, bar accidents. Nothing hap-
pened to interfere with the colt’s forward movement.
Almost as soon as he was round the corner into the straight
he dashed into the lead—his second or third sprint
during the race—and with Clayton putting the whip
on him for encouragement, Poseidon ran home a
winner by two or three lengths, travelling faster
than any of them at the finish. There was nothing lucky
about the win. It was just a businesslike assertion of
supremacy at the weights. Solution showed the way
into the straight, and had the mare been worth the £4OOO
lately paid for her she would have given, the 3-year-old a
tight race. Hut she made no show against his challenge.
Moreover, Simoda, Booran and Demas passed Solution
what time Poseidon was improving his advantage. Of
all the little lot that had a chance left in them half-a-mile
from the winning post, Solution was the most decidedly
beaten, it seemed.
•* * * *
Saturday’s race was the first Caulfield Cup in
which two of the placed nags have been 3-year-olds.
Also, it was the only Cup, bar one, in which nothing
weighted higher than 7.7 l)as secured a “shop.” Demas,
who got the barren honor of being numbered fourth on
the board, was the only middle-weight that performed
respectably. Starting badly, Demas ran a good honest
race, and was more forward at the finish than he had been
at any previous point. His Melbourne Cup chance is
worth considering in its “ outside ” aspect. He will have
21b. off his back, and the extra distance should suit him
in his present nuggetty condition.
* * ♦ *
Four horses started at odds of less than 10 to 1
for the Caulfield Cup, and all of them got into the front
rank. But for Simoda chipping in, the favorites would
have had the finish to themselves.
«r * * m
Poseidon, all going well with him in the mean-
time, will be the nearest possible approach to a certainty
—as racing “certs" go—for the V.R.G. Derby. If he
comes fit to the post for Melbourne Cup he will have
nothing to fear from any he has met this season, except,
perhaps, Demas, Noreen, kittle Toy, and Simoda. Taking
Booran, Oollarit, and lolaire, as being the best of the
Derby candidates bar the odds-on favorite —it now
Ipoks as though the fine strapping lolaire may
get nearest to Poseidon on Saturday week.
But his Toorak Handicap win has earned him a
penalty which leaves him with no apparent hope for the
Cup as long as the champion three-year-old keeps right.
At every turn of calculation one is “stuck up ” by the
superiority of this great colt and trustworthy battler.
Amberite of yore won the A.J.O. Derby and Caulfield
Cup, yet was nowhere in the Melbourne Cup. This pre-
cedent, however, can’t be quoted against Poseidon, for
Amberite had two inglorious defeats before winning the
Caulfield event, and he was not even the best colt of his
year. Aurum was a lot better.
» * » •
Without considering what he might or might
not do in the big race at Caulfield, the admirers of
Poseidon voted him a real good thing for the Melbourne
Cup, after he had putup hisadmirableperformance iii the
Eclipse Stakes, on the middle day of the Caulfield meet-
ing. Here was evidently a stout, plucky 3-year-old of
exceptional merit, with enough meat on him to admit of
his being considerably improved within the next three
weeks. Poseidon got badly placed during the 11 fur-
longs’ run for the Eclipse Stakes, and when he re-
turned to the “ bird-cage,” hot and flustered, it was
said that the colt had been baulked in three or
four attempts ere he got through his field. When he did
get through he had to outpace the speedy lolaire (in
receipt of Xslb.), and it was the determined effort of the
Toorak Handicap winner which put Poseidon’s powers
beyond question. The pair came clean away from the
field, and Poseidon won by a length, giving one the im-
pression that stamina is his speciality. Without a doubt
he is the stuff that Derby and Cup winners are made of.
He may strike a “ snag ” in the two miles handicap, but,
given.an uninterrupted preparation and fair luck in the
running, the Positano colt will be there or thereabouts.
• * * *
Punters, of course, will be mostly disposed to
expect a better performance from the sensational mare
in the Melbourne Cup, where her weight will be only
8.4 —or 151 b. less than she carried last Saturday. But
the Maoriland records of Solution give no suggestion of
her ability to stay two miles, and to this scribe’s way of
thinking she is not better worth backing for Melbourne
Cup than any of the horses that beat her at Caulfield—
leaving Poseidon out of the question.
* * * *
Denias’s masterly way of winning the Coongy
Handicap was suggestive of a Melb. Cup chance for that
queer-tempered customer. Under Phil Heywood’s care
Demas seems to have put on muscle, and he is now “a
stayer all over ”in appearance. But the man on his back
is thought to be an all-important consideration. In the
Coongy Handicap he was ridden by Lewis, who always
contrived to get a good race out of him when he was in
Seobie’s stable. For other jockeys he has sometimes
refused to struggle. All the same, Demas is remarkably
well in health just now, and the horse that feels very fit
is likely to do himself justice without indulging his pre-
judices re the rider.
* * • *
“0.K.” : After the Hunter’s Cup at Caulfield
the other afternoon, I happened upon the performance
of a little drama in the outer bird-cage. A dozen or two
of the very horsiest sort of men and boys were looking
at a dejected animal that had been led to this unfre-
quented spot by a rueful rouseabout. Somebody re-
marked in a loud whisper: ” The ’orse can ’ardly ’old
’isself up, and the bloke is cryin’ a treat.” The horse
seemingly had received an irreparable injury, and was
now awaiting execution whilst its caretaker —a ginger-
whiskered Dick—was furtively wiping his eyes with the
hand that held the bridle. Doubtless he had lost his
little bit by the downfall of his four-legged friend, but it
wasn’t his own misfortune that troubled him. A tall,
spry young man c one along, bearing an ominous little
box, and as he was taking a deadly implement therefrom
he glanced at his intended victim—and at Dick, who had
a tear trickling down his nose. A man standing beside the
brisk vet. said “ Don’t make a fool of yourself, Dick. You’d
better let somebody else hold the horse.” So somebody
stepped cheerfully forward and took the bridle from Dick,
who slunk out of the enclosure with his chin against his
chest. When the vet put his implement of destruction
to the forehead of the apathetic victim, and struck the
blow that fired “ the friendly bullet.” Dick—poor bloke
—was round the corner sobbing like a child. It reminded
me of the “ Dead Ass ” episode in Sterne’s “ Sentimental
Journey.” “ Shame on the w»orld ! said Ito myself. Did
we love each other as the poor soul loved his ass—’twould
be something.”
* • • *
The way of the punter in M.L. is “ dead easy.”
On every course are gentlemen who come up and offer to
put you on to all the “dead birds,” whilst the daily
papers abound with advts. such as the following :
A GREAT SURPRISE FOR THE CUP.
/"IJ.ENTLEMEN, —Don’t back anything for the above
race before you have written for my outsider. I
have information about a horse which has been
specially kept ; will not be dreamt of by the cutest
of men, yet it will win, from the rise of the Barrier
to the “ Judge’s Box.” Send at once to . En-
close 2s. 6d. ; worth £lO.
As the winners are “gu ranteed ” it is, of course, quite
impossible to go wrong. The only reason why the adver-
tiser gives away a sure £lO for 2s. 6d. (thereby making
the applicant a present of £9 17s. 6d.) instead of taking
all the available money himself and buying a sheep
station with the proceeds, is his foolish philanthropy.
Saturday saw an enormous crowd at Moorefield
(Syd.) racecourse. And every bookmaker who held a license
seemed to be there also. But he was not betting on the
Moorefield events, which were very small potatoes. It
was the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups that he was raking
in the sovereigns over, so already a huge hole begins to
gape in the Act whereby Charles Gregory Wade was
going to reduce gambling. Wade quite forgot to specify
that betting on a racecourse must only apply to the races
run there. So the course becomes a betting-shop in
exactly the same sense that the old shop was. The only
difference is the open air, and the grass, and some meat
running round in a circle.
• • • •
People who desire to eliminate the unneces-
sarily dangerous and brutal from our national outdoor
pastimes can find another argument in the death of
jockey P. Regan at Moorefield on Saturday. He was
riding Royal Standard in the Steeplechase, and at the
logs his mount toppled, shooting the rider to the earth,
and then rolling on him. Regan’s skull was crushed like
an egg-shell, and he was dead when the ambulance
arrived. The ghastly side of the business is that this
man’s death served no useful purpose. He did not perish
in a manly, elevating sport that makes people who follow
it hardy, self-reliant, and better physically and mentally.
He died to make the betting—the betting which Wade’s
Anti-Gambling Act encourages—more flukey, and the
gamble more uncertain, and to increase Christian Moses’
chance of a skinner. Racing produces a class of horses
that are, as a rule, of little value except for racing; a
quantity of dwarfs to ride them ; a crowd of onlookers
who are wasting the holiday that might be devoted to
healthy exercise ; and Christian Moses. Then the club
puts up hurdles for the parties most concerned to break
their necks over, and the sum-total of these things is
Sport.
« » * *
Sydney’s second round of grade cricket started
on Saturday, in burning heat, a light nor’-easter, and on
wickets conducive to heavy smiting. Nevertheless, only
one man, S. J. Redgrave, of North Sydney, managed to
knock up a century. He gathered together 149 against
Burwood’s bowling, making eight sixes and 16 fours.
After that the best scores were those of M. 11. Blaxland,
of Balmain, 93 ; F. A. Iredale, of Gordon, 73 ; and W. E.
Pite, of Sydney District, 69. Among the bowlers, Bow-
den, of Glebe, took five Paddington wickets for 10 runs;
Allan, of University, five of Middle Harbor’s for 33;
Stack, of the same club, took the other five for 34 ; Keele,
of Waverle.v, bagged four of Gordon’s for 33 ; and Carty,
of Paddington, knocked down four of Glebe's for 83. All
the rest were in the lower strata of mediocrities.
* * * -ft
Victor Trumper and M. A. Noble are, so far,
anything but howling successes, and hardly worth risk-
ing the existence of the Paddington club over. On
Saturday last, Trumper was bowled by Cotter for nine,
and Noble took one wicket for 37 runs. The previous
Saturday, Trumper did get up some energy and slogged
54 before leaving, but Noble made only a modest 23. At
bowling, M. A.N. also failed, having 36 knocked off him for
no wickets.
* • • •
O’Connor and M'Beth, the S.A. importations
from Sydney, failed to pull the weaker clubs, to which
they are temporarily attached, through their opening
engagements. Adelaide wickets have nil been water-
soaked thus far, and on the sodden turf Travers, Wright,
Hanson, Rees, and Waters proved quite as effective as the
imported coaches.
* * # #
Said that efforts are being made to find a
gilded berth for cricketer Mackay, whose offer from
Johannesburg is said to be heavily plated. With Mcßeth
and O’Connor gone to Adelaide, and Mackay about to de-
part for Africa, the old order is melting away very rapidly
indeed, and therewill.be quite a crowd of openings for
new and rising players. Also, the supply of rising
men does not fail. Like the oil and flour in the widow’s
cruse it is always equal to the depletion. G. Gallagher,
playing second grade with Glebe, put together 123 (not
out) against University Second, and followed that up with
175 against North Sydney Second on Saturday. Last
season he piled up 734, at an average of 104 per innings.
Again, Blaxland and Dean, the two schoolboys recently
promoted to first grade, are both shaping excellently.
Blaxland, as already remarked, banged 93 for Balmain
against Redfern, and Dean carried his bat for 29. E. L.
Waddy, brother of the reverend, although he failed to
score on Saturday last, recently created something like a
scare in Newcastle district by compiling the pyramidal
score of 203. Under these circumstances, this paper
declines to see any cause for anxiety. lif the whole of the
late players are bought up by other States, N.S.W.’s
teeming fountain of crack cricketers can still make good
the loss.
* * * *
Such a good judge as Abel tells London Ex-
press that Alan Marshall, of Brisbane, is “another
Trumper.” Marshall, who is only 23, and easily the tallest
cricketer this country has produced since the days when
Bonnor knocked his head against the sky, has been
playing for two seasons with W. G. Grace’s Crystal
Palace teams, and will be qualified for Surrey next year.
No wonder that Kent and other counties, which rely on
local talent, are wanting the qualification period ex-
tended to five years. H. L. Simms, who plays for Surrey,
is one of the wealthy Adelaide family, settled in
England with his people. Dr. Poidevin presum-
ably pleases himself. But Trott, Tarrant, Ker-
mode, Cuffe, and Dwyer are all Australian youths
bought up by English counties that can afford to pur-
chase job lots of cricketers. Vogler and Llewellyn from
South Africa, and Ollivierre from the West Indies are
other valuable importations. The time must come when
an “English” team will consist of John Smith, Jean
Bourgeois, Schw-artzkopf, Saroli, Stephanopoulous, King
Billy, Flying Cloud, Wun Lung, Myoung San, Kishikama,
and Ranjitsinghi, with Calderon and Abdul Hamid for
emergencies. *
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. is a fine insti-
tution, and consists of as nice a crowd of people as one
could wish to meet in a lifetime. But, so far, it is merely
a body of gentlemen who all own their boats individually.
The club itself has no boats. There is no reason why it
should not have; just as every rowing club has its own
boats. The primary object of a club is to give the mem-
bers, through co-operation, luxuries and benefits that are
beyond them individually. With an annual subscription
of anything between £5 and £lO, the club would have
an enormous membership if it had a few boats which
members could hire. Even at the present time it
badly wants a good-sized launch of its own in which it
could take members, guests and passengers to w'atch the
races and displays, and which could act as flagship. In
England, France, Italy, and America there are clubs
which own quite a little flotilla of boats, which members
can hire for holidays and Saturda.vs-till-Mondays and in
the evenings, when there are no races or other functions
on. Some of the best motor-boat men have been
trained in these schools. The idea of extending tb
membership and usefulness of the club on these lines
might be worthy of consideration. #
Charles Relph, owner, designer, and supervising
builder of Australasia’s fastest motor-boat, The Invincible,
is willing to meet any motor-boat over any distance for a
stake to he mutually agreed upon. Some English visitors
who make their crust by going down to the sea in snips,
and who saw the Napier-Yarrow boat before its departure
for Monaco, saw the Sydney boat rushing through the
waves on its wav to Manly. They told a Bulletin man
that the crack English boat was not in the same street
as the Australian one in troubled waters ; and in smooth
water The Invincible has never been let go to its full
power Every race it has competed in has been on a
circular course ; but if somebody will bring along a rival
a match can be arranged outside the Heads, some day
when the ocean is asleep, over a straight-away course,
and the Australasian champion will then go for all it is
worth.
• * • *
Prince Alfred Yacht Club opened its season on
Saturday with a perfect cyclone of hospitality. Commo-
dore Dempster was on board his flagship, the Bobbie
Burns, and Bobbie simply staggered under the load of
good things. The original Bobbie never managed to get
within gunshot of such a cargo. Had he done so, he
would have died happy. The Commodore led a huge
fleet in double line to Tivoli Bay, just under Steel Point,
where the yachts anchored and dressed ship, while
the motor-boats buzzed round in the manner pecu-
liar to them. The steamer Narrabeen was crowded with
ladies, who put in the afternoon sipping tea and
munching cake and other items. There was a number
of dinghy races, but till the 8-footers got going no one
was interested in them. Three of the little craft filled up
and went under right in front of the ladies’ steamer, in a
way that suggested excellent stage management. Then
the Commodore signalled “ Come on board ” —and they
came. When they left it was noticed that the Bobbie
Burns was floating several inches higher in the water.
Altogether, it was a charming afternoon.
Sydney Dinghy Club’s opening on Saturday
was a double event. A 10s. sweepstake occupied 11
18-footers, and a handicap for 10-footers drew 10 com-
petitors. The 18-footer struggle was a fine race. On the
way down the Harbor to the Lightship the boats led in
turns. In Taylor Bay they bumped and crashed
together like a mob of boxed sheep, and out of
the melee Donnelly was the first cruft to emerge and
dash away. Theiice onward there was nothing in it
but Holmes’ boat, which won easily with over a minute
to spare from Chris. Webb and W. Dunn in the Australian
and Acme respectively. The 10-footer handicap was a
run-away race. Petherbridge’s Ensign was never troubled,
and won by linin. 40sec. from the new boat, N.S.W.
Planet was third. The new boat N.S.W. represents an-
other development of the awful initial habit, which ought
to be put down. Perhaps the best way to put it down
would be for someone to name his boat or his horse the
whole alphabet—from A right along to Z.
« * ft *
The Pioneer Motor Cycle Club is up against the
horse-power problem. In the 26-mile road-race on Satur-
day the men Were handicapped according to the horse-
power of their machihes, but, in the multitude of makes
and amid their various ways of reckoning what is a horse-
power, the handicapper came to grief, and the limit men
had it practically all their own way. There will be no
satisfaction in any of these contests till the automobile,
motor-cycle, and motor-boat clubs of Australia hold a
congress and adopt a common formula for deciding
the horse-power. As it was, Forest Finlay simply ran
away from the field ; the only one who could get near
him was J. D. Elliott, one of the most reckless riders in
Australasia.
* • • •
Proposed in Victoria to form a Motor Defence
Union to protect the individual from the illegal assaults
of officious policemen. So far, there has been no persecu-
tion of the motor-car men in this country, and the best
way to prevent it would be for the recognised auto-
mobile clubs to assist in bringing to justice any specimens
of the hog in the car that may get loose. In Sydney on
Saturday evening a ear knocked a little boy across a
crowded street, and inflicted severe injuries. The hog
that was driving never stopped, but fled on at an in-
creased pace. This sort of thing eventually does the
motorist more harm than anyone else, for it gets the
decent driver saddled with all sorts of harassing regula-
tions, and the indecent one shot at sight, as he was in
France a few years back. So perhaps it might be as well
to form that association to protect the motorist from the
effects of the vagaries of the hog in the car.
« * * Hr
Now that the V.R.C. and its tenure of Fleming-
ton racecourse are much in evidence through the Vic.
Gambling Bill, its opponents ought to look up the provi-
sions of its leasehold regarding grazing. It would sur-
prise most people to learn what the V.R.C. derives
annually from the right to graze sheep and cattle on the
course, and it is questionable whether it has any right to
get anything. It pays nothing for the land, and there is no
reason why this arrogant institution should he treated
differently from any other squatter, when it carries on
the business of a pastoralist. Judkins might do worse
than peg out 320 acres in one corner, including the lawn
and the stewards’ stand, and file an application with the
Lands Department to have it gazetted as a selection.
* 7 * * *
As far as can be gathered at present, the
alleged Anti-Gaming Act of N.S.W. Attorney-General
Wade allows unlimited betting at pigeon-shooting and
coursing matches. Both these barbarous sports are a
disgrace to the community', and both depend entirely on
the betting. Take away the wagering on them, and they
die instantly; yet that great and good man, Charles
Gregory Wade, who is shocked at the idea of men betting
on an open boat race, took no steps to make his social
reform law cover these cruel games.
* * » «
Football broke out with great violence in
Britain on September Ist, the first day on which
“ Soccer ” authorities allow it to be played. Fortunately
it was a Saturday, and by the Monday many of the clubs
had got through two matches, the long English evenings
allowing a game to begin as late as 5.15. All the leading
clubs have to play 38 League games between September
and April, besides all the Cup ties and “ friendlies,” so
that one match a week wouldn’t clear the list. The
weather on the opening day was 90 in the shade, and
many of the players collapsed ; but the ten ordinary
League games averaged a 20,000 gate, and one meeting at
Newcastle drew 60,000 people.
* • » *
“Bon”: Have often felt curious as to whether
it is the bowls editor or the spring poet that is let loose
to scoff at baseball. Here’s at him, anyhow. Personally,
I have played most things—not excepting the giddy
garden goat—and will back 'ball to be easily the most
brainy of all field sports. In issue of 20/9/’O6 it is scoffed
at as the rounders championship. Granted it has evolved
from that simple source, it’s not to be supposed that
there was an excess of science in cricket as the cave-
dweller played it, and of the two games’ball has advanced
the furthest from its origin. As to the fetish of football,
even to-day its main features are fervor and fight; while
bowls, well the curve of the ball in the game is only ex-
celled by the subsequent bend of the player’s elbow at the
bar. Concerning cricket: frequently everything hinges on
one man —one big score and the rest not worthy of mention
in the evening sheets. Take fielding in cricket again, do
your darndest and you can dispose of one man, and one
only, at a time, but, in the Game, the existence—for
that innings—of the whole batting side often depends on
the action of the man who first fields the ball in getting
his brain to work quickly and deciding in a flash
to which base he will rock it in. Have seen a man
deliberately drop a catch by which he would have
disposed of one man only, and while the fool
crowd was advising him to “ get a bag,” he set to work a
combination that disposed of three in place of one. Like
chess, it’s the intelligent combination of moves that gives
the game its greatest charm. Further, there’s no tired
feeling about it. You’re either hustling in the field, or
scooting round bases, and scooting fast at that, or
coaching, or rooting, or something. You are alive all the
time. But cricket—posted out in the country, with
never a ball to field in an hour, or loafing round the
pavilion bar, having one, while the other fellow’s at the
crease for the afternoon, swinging about with a young
window-shutcer—oh, gimme a hammock 1 (Am quite
prepared to be told that baseballer and blasphemer are
synonymous terms.)
John Wren seems to have made a revival in foot-
racing ; his November carnival on Melbourne Exhibition
Oval during Cup week is about the biggest foot-race affair
in the world. For the £5OO event, the Wren llandicap, no
less than 127 have entered. The distance is 120vds., and
among the competitors are B. R. Day, champion of
England, M. Whittingham, of New York, and our own
champion A. B. Postle—all together on scratch. The limit
man has 15yds., and the field stretches out behind him
over various distances from 12Jyds. to 3yds. in front of
the scratch men. Besides this mammoth event there are
the following spins ; Ladies’ Bracelet of 100yds., for £6O;
Murmur Handicap of 220yds. for £4O ; the Richmond
Half-Mile, also for £4O ; the Ascot Mile for £5O; the
Exhibition Hurdles of 300yds. for £5O ; and the Handicap
Walk of two miles for £25. With good management and
a stern suppression of fakes and stiffs foot-racing ought to
boom once more.
* * • *
Alfred Deakin’s picture of a three-party Parlia-
ment as a cricket game of three elevens may not be the
monster it looks after all. An English football authority
is at present advocating a three-goaled football game,
and maintains that for variety', surprises, and unflagging
interest, it beats the old two-goal idea all to pieces. He
shows how one party can successively combine with
either of the others, striking off when the tactical
moment comes, and carrying the plunder (i.e., the ball)
with it; and then how a sudden combination of the
other two may upset its device, scheme, and apple-cart
at the last moment. The idea sounds brilliant and ex-
citing ; it reads like frenzied guerilla warfare as com-
pared with a pitched battle conducted on woodenlv
scientific principles. But the proposer quite forgets to
mention the probable fate of the umpire.
• » • *
Strange how even the most scientific boxers
are occasionally seized by an uncontrollable desire to get
right down to the rough-and-tumble. Apparently Joseph
Walcott and Matthew Mitchie were both taken that way
on Saturday night, at Sydney Gaiety Club, for they threw
science to the winds and clawed and scrapped like a pair
of drunken washerwomen. It was an unedifying spec-
tacle, and in the seventh round the referee decided that
Mitchie had fouled Walcott.
* » • *
Mike Williams, the bulky man from South
Africa, who lost a whole gunnysack of championships to
Bill Smith in Melbourne a while back, is to have a chance
at Squires after all. He meets Billy M’Coll in Sydney in
November, and if he succeeds in whipping M’Coll—as lie
may do, since he has beaten Cripps and Murphy, and
both Cripps and Murphy have beaten M‘Coll—he is to be
given first turn with the winner of Peter Kling verm
Bill Squires, which is Jacky Wren’s Cup season fixture in
Bentridge. And most people take it for granted that
that winner will be Bill Squires.
• * * *
Arthur Cripps, of Sydney, versus Ed. Williams,
of Melbourne, was a big battle at Melbourne Cyclorama,
the other Monday night. This was the second meeting
of these experts ; in the first encounter, Cripps won on a
foul when Williams was well ahead on points. The second
battle was a change of scene. For sixteen rounds the
long Victorian put his miraculous left up against Arthur
with monotonous regularity, Arthur having to fish indus-
triously for his own openings, and be content with an
occasional good punch in the bustling and a fair amount
of rattling body w< rk when he got inside Ed.’s long
arms. Up to the tenth round Willi ms was easily a
winner. Cripps, the general, knew it, and realised that
if he wanted to retain middle-weight honors and grab the
bulky end of a great gate, he must get out after the
youngster with all the hustle left in him. He got out,
and the seventeenth was disastrous to Williams. Cri) ps
charged him like a fighting mill at top pressure, ai d
before Ed. quite understood what had broken loose in
his vicinity, he was a beaten man. The Victorian
kept awake to the end, but only to hear the
referee declare for the Sydneysider, and Cripps had
scored his fifth big win in Melbourne. During four
months or so he must have bagged at least £7OO in purses
and gate money alone in that city. If he backed himself
he might easily have doubled it. Ed. Williams makes a
good, clever fight, but the lad has no devil in him, and
devil is a thing that can’t be bought in a shop.


KUGELMANN\S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
7 SAMPLE
cent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Vi
%
m
e
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
CUP v?
DERBY DAY-Nov. 3* CUP DAY—Nov. 6.
OAKS DAY-Nov. 8. STEEPLECHASE DAY-Nov. 10.
WEEK
LARGE ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
IFfOU WISH TO BUY, SELL, OR HIRE
A MOTOR LAUNCH,
A MOTOR CAR,
Or fIARINE ENGINE,
|M or write for List and Booklet.
m MOTOR LAUNCH & GAR SALE AGENCY, LTD.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. Tel. 1760.
Wanted.
OOD TAPPERS required for lead blast
furnaces. Applications to be accompanied
by references, and all particulars.
TASMANIAN SMELTING CO.. Ltd.,
Zeehan,
Tasmania.
E. T. WALSH,
Solicits a Trial Order from any part of the Common-
wealth. / pay special attention to all Country Orders,
and to show that distance is no object, / have sent
suits this week to—
Mr. A. E. PEARCE, 1049 Noe Street, San Francisco.
~ E. UNTHANK, c/o. Burns, Philp & Co., Port Moresby, British New Guinea.
„ A. GORDON, Zeehan, Tasmania.
~ T. BEACHAM, King William Street, Adelaide.
„ C. HADLEY, Subiaco, Western Australia.
Dr. CLAUDE SMITH, Melbourne.
Samples and Measure Forms sent to any address.
359 GEORGE ST., opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY,
A Wonderful
FAN * *
GOE.V BY CLOCKWORK.
Splendid for Sick Rooms, Hospitals, Offices, etc.
One winding 1 is sufficient to make you as cool
as a cucumber.
It’s a strong little machine, with gunmetal case.
The fan is plated, and it is absolutely noiseless.
It is made to stand on a table or hang on a
wall.
It is so simple that a child can easily use it.
The VERY LATEST THING TO KEEP YOU COOL.
CARRIAGE FREE ANYWHERE
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
“My
Opticians,”
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 CEORCE ST.,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
A3NCIIAS
r^r
HUTCHISON’S INVENTIONS FOR THE DEAF.
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the only Gold Madal awarded by the International Jury at the World’s
Fair, St. Louis (U.S.A.), to any exhibit
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
and for which the Inventor has received a similar medal from Her Most Gracious Majesty
Queen Alexandra (a photograph of which may be seen at the undermentioned addresses')
MAY BE INSPECTED FREE OF CHARGE, '
AT THE OFFICES OF THE “ ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED ”
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE’
Catalogue No. 1, containing all particulars, will be forwarded Free by Post on application.
POLLoCK, Sydney Manager.
THe Clothes We Live In
TWO-THIRDS of our life is passed in our clothes. So much comfort or discomfort is dependent on our Clothing that, apart from its
outward effect, it is a subject that every man must consider. Where to buy the best goods at least money is a frequently recurring
thought to the man who leads a strenuous life, and has to consider the ways and means of existence.
Those who send a Post Card will receive our New Catalogue of Men’s Clothing ; here we faithfully illustrate the goods we have
to sell, and show clearly the advantage we offer for Shopping by Mail. We pay carriage on all goods, with the exception of Furniture and
Floor Covering, to any Post Office or Railway Station in the Commonwealth.
We send goods on approval, paying the forward carriage. A remittance is necessary in the case of a new customer, the money
being refunded if the goods are returned—provided they are in good order when received.
'V> ::
No. 68.
Riding'
Trousers
Ready to 'Wear
AX 9/0
These Trousers have been
specially designed and made
by us to meet the needs of
men who spend days in the
saddle. They are cut with a
clean fork and roomy seat,
and are calculated to give the
maximum of comfort when
seated on a horse.
In WHite and Colored
Canton Mole, 9/0
Saddle Twist Tweed in
Grey (St Fawn, 18/0
Bedford Cord, 18/0
WHITE MAT TENNIS
SHIRTS With Pocket and Collar
as illustrated,
3s 9d to 5s 9d.
No. 78.
Please quote numbers when ordering.
A 2-Piece
Flannel
Suit From
27/6
Consists of Coat and Trousers.
These Goods are soap and
water shrunk by the manufac-
turers before being made up.
We make them in all sizes; the
coats have movable buttons
and the trousers are carefully
cut. These Suits are both
000 l and comfortable.
Other Prices—
30s. 355.
37s 6d.
No. 88.
David Jones ®. Co.
Opposite G.P.0.,
Sydney.


OUT-OF-TOWN SERVICE.
Our Mail Orders are handled by trained men, whose
experience and knowledge of -what is most in favour at
the moment assure careful selection. All Goods are
delivered CARRIAGE FREE anywhere in Australasia.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue, that makes MAIL
BUYING EASY. It’s free fr >r the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
Richly Embossed, JOs 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, Ss Bd, 10a> fid,
12s fid. 15s, 20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH.
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP. Pure Silver-Plated.
Richly Embossed, Gilt Lined, 20s.
Other Styles, 6s Cd, 13s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CHAIN PURSE,
Sin., 22s 6d; 3|in., 255; 3iin., 27s Cd
4in., 32s 6d; sin.. 455.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
AUTOMATIC RAZOR STROP.
Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Embossed, 13s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH, Buckskin,
Pure Silver Shield,
Rubber Lining, 4s 6d.
Other .Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od.
A. SAUNDERS.
Zylonite HAIR ®RUSH,
Extra Long Fine White Bristles, 5s Gd.
Other Styles, 6s Cd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A Guide to RIGHT BUYING.
Our illustrated Catalogue is the largest of its kind pub-
lished. It illustrates oyer 3000 designs of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather and Optical Goods. Let us
send it to you- It will COST YOU NOTHING, and will show
you the difference between HONEST GOODS and the mass
of shoddy goods shown in most stores-
SHAVING BRUSH. Highly Bur-
nished Nickel, Badger Bristles,
5s 6d. Other Style's, 3s, 3s 6d,
4s, 7s (VI, 10s Bd, 12s 6d, 15s.
FIELD or MARINE GLASS,
Large Field, Sharp Definition, 255.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, to £lO.
fso>r>
rl I
m
SMS
rflD*
UVS/W'W
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CIGAR CUTTER,
Richly Engraved, 5s fid.
Plain, 4s fid.
Black Morocco Leather STRAP PURSE and CARD
CASE, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s 20s.
With Solid Silver Chain attached, Ss 6d extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-Plated, Richly Pierced,
and Embossed, Silk Lined, 255.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Seal Leather,
Green, Black, and Brown,
Pure Silver Mounts,
Calf Lined, 16s 6d.
Other Stvles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING SET, Polished Nickel
Bevelled Glass Mirror,
Glass Base, 255.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SHAVING ROLL, comprising 5 Articles,
Finest Sheffield Steel, in Leather Case, 12s Bd.
Other Styles, 15s, 21s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver
SEWING COMPANION,
6 Articles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s fid,
15s, and 18s 6d,
All Goods
Sent
Carriage
Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
Solid Silver Mounted,
7in. long, in Silk Lined Case, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Long Bristles, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s or Gent.’s TRAVELLING ROLL, Fitted with
every Convenience, Leather Roll, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s (id, 15s 6d, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Tan Leather WRIST BAG,
Fitted with Perfume Bottle
and Purse. 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
“Pearl,” or
“Garden of the Soul”
PRAYER BOOK,
Pure Silver-Mounted, 7s 6d.
Heavier Mounts, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
HI
, -
■ In !
A. SAUNDERS.
INK STAND, Polished Nickel, Crystal Glass Bottle,
Wooden Base, 7s 6d; Glass Base,- 12s 6d;
Nickel Base, 15s. Larger, 17s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s -od, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK,
Tinted Enamel Dial, Onyx Base,
First"-Class Timekeeper
-12 in. High, £2 ss.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
WASSL
wm
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE JAR,
Pure Silver-Mounted
Cut Glass, in 4 Sizes,
5s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver WAIST BELT BUCKLE,
Handsomely Pierced and Engraved, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
Finest French rsilIAR PIPES,
Seymour System,
Vulcanite and Amber Mouthpieces,
Pure Silver-Mounted, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Comprises 10 Useful Articles,
Pearl Mounted, Velvet Lined Case,
12s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, los 6d,
16s 6d, 21s.
Sydney’s Leading 1 Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st„
Opposite New
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


66
Westward Ho!” Series. No. 1.
“ When all things were made, none was made better than Tobacco; to be a Lone Man's Companion, a
Bachelor's Friend, a Hungry Man's Food, a Sad Man's Cordial, a Wakeful Man's Sleep, and a Chilly
Man's Fire. There's no Herb like it under the canopy of Heaven." — Kingsley’s “ Westward Ho ! ”
?§
■
V
r
s#.
m
u
If I
r
iiti
■ %
m
m
K\r
? V
iMWi
%
•AM
mm. \
m i
in
as
RV <=*»
SWfl
•1
. , .. ** «
W ' 1
. i !%•*
#
V :
%' 4*C
t I
!(3W
ii
IA M .
ff W . ■ 0
• $» %Wm
€
,
L *# ; ?
✓
’ .
•I
#
■T
*r * ■-*
* vur i
i
.. i
af
f ■
j *
?!**«>•/ "JTv/f'rU
'
'.;>* * I ■ •««
»,-■ I
'
“ When all thing's were made, none was made better than
Tobacco ” —and no Tobacco has surpassed HAVELOCK!
(To be continued.)


BALL WELCH Pty. Ltd
180-188 Flinders Street, Melbourne
LINEN MESH CO., BELFAST, THEIR STOCK OF
HAVING PURCHASED FROfl THE IRISH
KNEIPP
LINEN
MESH
Underwear,
MEN’S UNDERSHIRTS, Short Sleeves.
Slender Hen's, 34-inch chest 3s 11d
Men's - - 36 „ „ 4s 6d
Popes - - 38 „ » • • 4s 11d
Out-Size, Men's 40 ,, 5s 6d
Full O.S., Men’s, 42 „ „ 5s 11d
Extra O.S. Hen’s, 44 ,, „ 6s 6d
Held in their Warehouse, Silkeborg, Denmark, at a very heavy discount, we have marked them at nearly half
their Regular Prices, as under:—
MEN’S UNDERPANTS.
THESE Garments are made on the most Scientific and Hygienic Principles, and the Fabric is woven with a Cellular Mesh, being
1 porous and open in texture, which at once absorbs the perspiration and radiates it as quickly away, and therefore the body is
never encased in cold and clammy garments. Nothing but the Best Irish Flax is used, it being specially prepared, so as to be
soft and pleasant to the touch, and it never shrinks in the washing*
it is necessary that Customers requiring any of the above should order early, as in the
event of sizes being sold out the regular goods would be nearly double the price .
Extract From The “Lancet.”
“This is an interesting Material intended for ordinary underwear, and made entirely, it is stated, from Pure Irish Linen Yarn
a statement which is confirmed by Microscopic examination, which we have made. Linen is a well-known, clean, and healthy
material, but its use as underwear has been somewhat limited, owing to the chilly feeling which is
sl-in The Kneimj Linen Underwear is free from this disadvantage however, it is a Knitted Elastic Material, which while protecting
Sbod?i 3d i,“jallSwTrfthe escape of perspiration. It is particularly soil suited for Sommer wear, cool yet proteottve
Unlike Woollen Garments it is not stained tiy the perspiration from the Axilla, a proof that the perspiration passes fiee y g
the Material.
CATALOGUES will be sent to any Address on receipt of card.
2\\\W
935
Former Price, 24s
Former Price, 16s
m
Si
888
y
Former Price, 16s
938
Former Price, 14s
868
Former Price, 18s
908
Former Price, 16s
Former Price, 18s
ANOTHER SHIPMENT JUST RECEIVED
And Every Article Must be Sold"9k
PER R. M. S. ORONTES
REGARDLESS OF COST OR
FORMER SELLING PR r CE.
COUNTRY RESIDENTS please remember this
is your last chance to remit Postal Notes or Cheques for any
of our Fashionable Designs in Rings, Brooches, Earrings, Pendants,
Lockets, Chains, Scarf Pins, Tiaras, Hair Ornaments, &c. Seven (7)
days from the date of this advertisement is allowed for Country Resi-
dents to send for Goods or Illustrated Catalogue.
DON’T DELAY ! Write at Once!
IT IS YOUR ONLY CHANCE!
MAIL ORDERS
Promptly and carefully executed. Any article forwarded to any
address upon receipt of money order or currency, with the distinct un-
derstanding that money will be returned if goods are not as represented.
4s.
Each
RE.MEMBE.R, this is absolutely your
last opportunity to get BARRIOS
DIAMOND JEWELLERY, which were
formerly sold at Bs., lOs.,
125., 145., 165., (SL 18s. each
FOR
EACH.
This is the chance of a lifetime, and you should avail yourselves
immediately of our Wonderful Offer.
Every Stone is Guaranteed to retain its Brilliancy for Ever.
THE BARRIOS DIAMOND CO
52 Swanston St., Melbourne. 100 King St., Sydney.
* « i
871
Former Price, 16s
936
Former Price 14s.
Former thrice, 14s
714
Former Price
910
Former Price, 16s
Former Price *24s
Former Price, 14s


Cood Digestion
GIVES VIGOR
Try
Grape-Nuts
“There’s a Reason'*
A CERTAIN WAY
TO IMPROVE
YOUR MEMORY.
'T'HE PELMAN-FOSTER Memory System
1 means to the brain what modern business
methods mean to commercial life. We show
you how to train the brain to think and
remember—we help you to make the brain a
well-ordered house of mental treasures, where
every fact is accessible—where every scrap of
knowledge comes readily to mind when you
require it.
There is no mystery about Memory training.
Write to-day for our free booklet, “ Memory,
and How to Improve It,” and learn what a
simple thing it is to train your memory to serve
you faithfully.
Address the Secretary:
The Pelman School of Memory,
G.P.O. BOX, 402, MELBOURNE.
London: 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.C.
America: 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany : Braunerstr, 13 Munich.
Amusements.
THEATRE
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
m Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, 00T. 25, & FRIDAY, OOT. 26, Last TWO
Performances of FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 27,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
after 3 years’ absence, in
THE LADY SLAVEY.
For SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices—-35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
BOSTOCK & WOMRWELL’S
NOVEL CIRCUS & HENAOERIE.
THE TALK OF THE TOWN!
FITZGERALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING, MELBOURNE,
CROWDED NIGHTLY with DELIGHTED
AUDIENCES.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.,
The Most Perfect Arenic Entertainment in the World.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, AND
ALL HOLIDAYS.
Prices—3s, 2s, and Is. Reserved Seats at Allan’s, 4s.
Children’s £3O Prize Essay Competition Now On.
Proprietor, MR. E. H. BOSTOCK. Under the direction
of DOUGLAS BOSTOCK.
ALEC. VERNE, Airent.
BLANCHE ARRAL
OPENING,
THEATRE ROYAL, ADELAIDE,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31st.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
Nigglr n “cred 1I p o ii°hi > /i Wal ’^ atrlotlc ' Comic, Coon.
Irellnd Scotland& iZIIT of England *
Npw and Aid time* ’ . a, *® B » America, Germany, etc.
“hire Mo a d tCL^l?f ,teaand^' Ularts not t 0 be found else.
tetwMntte^er™ f ® U °? S ,°<> u ec«°n ever bound together
«stamOTonlver«.n„ „ n^ bo ,°, k „ Price onl V 2/6, Posted 2/10
stamps only are enclosed add So. extra List of Sone* forsUmn
A. J. SMITH & CO.i 14 Hunter St., Sydney.
Amusements.
-pOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
MATINEE THURSDAY NEXT,
And TUESDAY EVENING, 30th.
CENTENARY HALL, SATURDAY EVENING, 27th.
DOLORES
DOLORES DOLORES.
FRANZ WELLS .. .. .. Pianist.
J. EDWARD SYKES Accompanist.
BOX PLAN NOW OPEN AT PALING’S.
Reserved Chairs, ss. Reserved Balcony, 4s.
Second Seats, 3s. Third Seats, 2s.
LYCEUM H~alTl, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
The Greatest Array' of “ Living’ Pictures” ever
seen in Sydney.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales, “The White Rose.”
CRITER iTTn THE A T RE, ~S Y D~N EY.
Sole Direction of Messrs. CLYDE MEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
NINTH WEEK and LAST NIGHTS of the Famous
Musical Plav,
THE FATAL WEDOINC.
SATURDAY NEXT—THE RAKE’S WIFE.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS.
PRICES-POPULAR. Plan, Elvy’s.
Her maj esty’s theatre, Sydney.
Under the Direction of J.'C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of CHARLES WALDRON, OLA HUMPHREY and
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s New Dramatic Company in
THE SQUAW MAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 27—THE CHRISTIAN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
TH EAT R E ROYAL, SYDN EY.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
BLAND HOLT’S Picturesque Nautical and Spectacular
Drama,
A SAILOR’S KNOT.
Produced in honor of the Anniversary of the BATTLE
OF TRAFALGAR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PAL A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. BLANDFORD WRIGHT.
First Production in Austral)■> of the World’s Greatest
Rib-tickler, in Three Acts,
THE “DEAR” DOCTOR,
By a Specially-Selected & Magnificent Cast of Comedians.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
|>JOW TOURING NEW SOUTH WA LES,
THE FAMOUS
“ ALL BLACKS,”
ALL ONE FAMILY OF EXTRAORDINARY MUSICAL
ABILITY,
who have just concluded a triumphal tour of New
Zealand and the South Seas.
ALL ARTISTS, ALL TALENTED, ALL CLEVER.
TIV O LI THEATRE, SYD .4 £Y.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success Of HARRY TATE’S COMPANY.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, the Talking, Singing
and Musical Moving Picture Machine.
DUNCAN and GODFREY, in their -original Coster
Romance,”ME AND ’ER.”
AGUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers.
Miss CASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentrique and
Dancer, in her Latest Impersonations.
CASSELLI and JAMES, England's leading Banjoists.
OPERA HOU S E, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LA MOTO GIRL, a Mystifying Novelty, a World’s Wonder.
MISS MAUD FAN.ING.in New and Novel Specialty,
“ JACKSONVILLE.”
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
THE ALASKAS, Comedy Acrobatic Artists.
LES OABIACS, French Acrobats.
FLORRIE HENDERSON and her Performing Dogs and
Monkeys.
Plan at Allan’s. jar PRICES—?s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, OCT. 25, & FRIDAY, OCT. 26, Last TWO
Performances of THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 27,
Mr. J. G. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Finest and Best of Musical Comedy Triumphs,
THE SHOP GIRL.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, GREAT SUCCESS of
MEYNELL, GUNN and VARNA’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY, under the direction of ALLAN
HAMILTON.
First production in Australia of
THE LITTLE STRANGER.
A Farcical Comedy in Three Acts, by Michael Morton.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Direction of ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING.
Return to Melbourne, for a Short Farewell Season, of
LESLIE HARRIS,
The BRILLIANT ENGLISH SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
in an Entirely New Repertoire of Musical Monologues!
Sketches and Stories.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
-|«HE GIANT OF ALL GREAT SHOWS.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
A STUPENDOUS TRIUMPH of the NEW
IMPORTED ARTISTS.
THE CREAM OF THE WORLD’S MOST ASTONISHING
FEATURES.
RECORD ATTENDANCES.
FAIRY AVENUE Beseiged Nightly by Thousands of
Eager Sensation Seekers.
7 HUGE SHOWS FOR ONE TICKET 1
PRICES—-3s, 2s, and Is. Reserved Chairs Is extra.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and Grand Hotel.
GRAND OFFICIAL OPENING of
ESPLANADE <C O REAM LAN D”sT. KILDA
A Brilliant and
Impressive
Ceremony,-^^
FRIDAY EVENING, NOV. 2,
At 8 o’clock.
ADRIAN & CO., Late
WILL BNPRBPE™ BOOKS
Stationery, Conjuring Apparatus, Tricks,
AND ANY OTHER ARTICLE YOU MAY REQUIRE (at Regular Rates).
Send to us, whom you may rely on for promptness and attention.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is.; post, Is.
3d. BOOK OF NATURE ami Illustrated Marriage
Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1004 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. Donklly’s Art ok Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Danck, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
kor thk Spoil ; and all Zola's, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron ok Boccaccio, Hkptamkron. and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride ok the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise: Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits ok Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
Howto Make, Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s.
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s Gd posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover's Letter Whiter, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s Gd. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l>y Dr.
Warren Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
And any book you want, at regular rates.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
NOTE.—A SPLENDID LINE OF 6 POSTCARDS for 6d., posted 8d; depicting all
Towns in Great Britain (something special and British Make). We won’t
disappoint you. Send a set.
ONLY
ADDRESS,
508 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
inss
M///-OS7.
wi
■
MW.
tA>») (f*
m
US
/r
39
'•'wm'trz
■»'
-JV>>;
N
■ f 'V|
m
g'j,
m
W.<
' k\\
Pi
I limmM
,1 liM
II
iK-ii
M-/JZ,
sk
m/iwWm
grgg
CONTINENTAL
THE MUSICAL CANARY.
SINGS and THRILLS
and WHISTLES
WITH MUCH
FEELING and
EXPRESSION.
g
The only ARTIFICIAL
CANARY IN THE
WORLD WHICH
PERFECTLY
IMITATES THE
NATURAL MUSIC of
A LIVE CANARY.
yoti Have a Canary which won’t whistle, yon
can teach it with the wonderful Musical Canary.
** h l di l e^ nS f °, r usin^. iC are very simple. You have simply to dip the Canary in water for a second
and P , a - y *. You J nust _ h !: ar J fc to believe. The price is very cheap for such a splendid
w?rhm?f tert f nln ? lnstrument > 2t *> P° st free anywhere ; and if you order four, we will (rive you
sepLtely, wTllcostTo-ArPOSt PI very thing for the children, and which, ordered
A. d. SMITH& CO., Martin Chambers, 6 Moore St., Sycfney.
“ Caber ” writes :
Joseph Cook lately had the amazing gall to try and justify
his position by impeaching the men who hauled him out of
the coal-pit. He blathered away about “Comrade”
Watson, “Comrade” Hughes, “Comrade” Holman, and
several more whom he brazenly termed “ comrades.
Imagine the feelings of a straight-going Democrat to be
called comrade by Joseph Cook. Just try and calculate
how the old Apostles would have felt had Judas lived
long enough to spoil some yards of papyrus writing
about Comrade Peter, Comrade Matthew, or Comrade
John !
The swearing -in of Norman Bayles,
Toorak’s choicest bloom, was turned into quite a
social function in Vic. Assembly. The galleries
looked like a Cup-day lawn, and crowds of gaily-
decorated damsels, born of the Very Best People,
were there an hour before starting time to get
good seats. Then the members floated in and a
timid young man with a Viking moustache, who
was manifestly overcome with the importance of
the occasion, announced “ New member ! ” There
was a waft of subtle perfume, and in walked the
great Bayles with his fellow Tory, M'Cutcheon,
from St. Kilda, holding his right arm, and
Cameron, the Gippsland farmer (who works
his holding with Hindu labor), on the left. The
progress to the Speaker was distinctly suggestive
of the condemned wretch being hustled across the
scaffold towards the dull, sickening thud. Then
Bayles repeated the oath after the clerk—or,
ratlier. tried to, for he said, “Ay do sinceahly
promise and' swaiah ” —and kissed the book.
When he turned to the fluttering assemblage he
looked like Helena Rubenstein’s favorite patient.
He wore a frock coat of chaste design, a pink
shirt, a white;Collar, a tie of undefined hue, and
in his button-hole was the blue flower of Tory-
dom. Bayles sat down for five minutes; then
walked out, and the whole of onlooking Toorak
rose and followed him to the refreshment room,
where afternoon tea was handed round and every-
body said how Naice everything was. On the
whole, it was an epoch-making occasion in Vic.
politics, and made stout Tom Bent yawn smile-
fully into his beard.
The big majority scored by Tory tennis-
player Bayles over his fellow Tory Holmes for
Toorak (Vic.) was largely accounted for by the
fact that Bayles is an Anti-Puritan, while
Holmes has long been a leading light in Snuffle-
dom. Holmes’s candidature was vigorously
supported by Judkins and co., who worked like
niggers all over Toorak on election day. A leaflet
which gave the final blow to Holmes’ chances ran
“Rotten-Egg Dolly Judkins and his army of
Wowsers Support Holmes. Enough Said. Liberty-
loving Workers, Vote for Bayles.” What is a
“wowser,” by the way? It it any relation to
Towzer, or to bow-wow ? The dictionary gives
“wowe,” “wowf” and “wowke,” but not
“wowser.”


r FLIES
CARRY
DISEASE
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
z
'/
/
SM
<S>
/ EvferyTlyis ix
M&3\ Killer
dX Heaa-t ”
IT’S hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having' its orig'in in
tilth, it bring's with it the bacteria
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling' over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicK to
the lips of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
The high mortality among children in the congested
districts o f a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
I NSE(TI DANE
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES ®, other Insedts.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy,
SYDNEY.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms, and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,280,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Qlutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. 0. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
ODAIITC FID A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
ulfnN I O IUIHr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bank of florth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Cltn Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Bauking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000, 000
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £ 165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA—Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
axr. r>. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
♦PRINZ SICISMU.ND, 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
SANDAKAN, 1800 tons . . .. 22nd NOVEMBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
r r amtwrk *
LIMITKI).
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £16 Os to £20 Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £31 10s.. £13 13s to £17 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £115.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 30th OCTOBER,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and
PERSIC to follow.
FARES—-Capetown or Durban
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 0
fg
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O CEA.KTIC S.S. Co. A.. & A.. LIISTB (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE—FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S SONOMA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, at 1 p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire for fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHJLP and CO.. Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
9 HOLIPAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fdg
CRUISES. S
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR. INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
txt.s. "w.
f|jontdepieteO.^|.Co.,[t(l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Usq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOIUtOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Gkimwadb,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Oct. 29, Nov. 26, Dec. 24.
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
Thence by Rail
to
Any Part of
Canada or United States.
THE MOST INTERESTING ROUTE
to
EUROPE.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superioi
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
• • •
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
®«- SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL—£I,9OO,OOO. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Sblppln;
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, •*
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Coolgardie, Oct. 26.
.S.S. Yongala, Oct. 81.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 2.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Oairns. j
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 27.
S.S. Coolgardie, Nov. 3.
nest and Cheapest Route to Goldfield*.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Iviessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingand passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Principal Agent.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wi find every omior and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
'IiHE Largest and Lesc-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. ftoderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale's Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERfIS MODERATE.
Henry Skinner,
OlarendoH-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to —JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.


m
I
k k
df
Hair Worries.
That ever falling hair is worrying you—it’s
no use trying to delude yourself into believing
that it isn’t. You know where it is leading
you to—don’t you —?
There can be no mistaking the ultimate end
of it all, it MUST mean baldness.
Take the matter in hand NOW, use
CAPILLA
I know that you have tried almost every other hair restorer. I know' that
you are disgusted with the strenuous efforts wasted. Ido ask you not to class
“ CAPILLA ” with the preparations you have been using. It is different from
them all in composition and its power to produce hair. It is at once a
medicinal and antiseptic Hair Food that will do your hair positive good. It
is unequalled in its power to make the scalp clean and healthy, and to produce
a luxurious growth of “ nature’s chief adornment.”
AH Chemists sell “ CAPILLA,” Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle. Full c:urse
(6 bottles), posted direct, 17s. 6d., from
W. O. RICHARDS, Inventor, \2 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
EASTERN MAGIC.
JAPANESE WATER FLOWERS.
A COLLECTION of these wonderful Eastern Novelties, which appear to be merely pieces of dried stick but
on being: dropped into water, develop in a fe>v seconds into beautiful colored plants, resembling the water
lily growths of tropica streams, and various other formations, amazing and interesting alike to old and young.
3 dozen, post free, for One Shilling',
obtainable only from
SWAIN & CO.,
16 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opp. Government Savings Bank.
"POR the Federal Elections, read “A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,” by
1 James Edmond, price 6d., post free ; and “ON THE TRAIL OF THE TRUST,”
by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated, price Is., post free.
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
•»K
' '
Edison Phonographs
As the “ British Preferential Tariff Bill ”
has been abandoned by the Federal Govern-
ment, the prices of Edison Phonographs, etc.,
are now altered to what they were before
the extra 10 per cent, duty was imposed.
Those who bought Edison Phonographs at
the advanced price should obtain a rebate
from their dealer.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
WEST? 178 2
PHCENIX
Assurance Company of London
\\ 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers)*
LTD.
ROBERT WALTER MARTIN, Manager.
A RECORD.
All LOAN A WINES
In competition
against all . . .
Australia at. .
1904 CHA MPJON CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP—SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH : ANGEL PLACE, PITT BT.
%
A CLOSE SHAVE!
“ Once over, please, my face
won’t stand being: shaved
close—much as I would like it.” Said that pretty often to
your hairdresser, haven’t you ————?
PLUM RAZORS
are so keen and sharp, and so well set that you can shave
yourself as close and often as you like without fear of a sore
and tender face. Plenty of good soap and hot water and a
PLUM RAZOR, and your shaving troubles are at an end.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6. Razoleo Lightning Sharpener,
6d. Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d. Single Razor in
Leather Case, 10/6. Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-. Single
Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-. Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free Anywhere In the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
£6 15s
""
3^55
*
MV?:
mm
©
THe Postal Typewriter.
A Practical Writing Machine at a Low Price.
THE construction of the POSTAL is so simple and strong, that not
only has the number of parts been brought down to about one-third
of what it is in the high-priced machines, but, what is far more im-
portant, the number of accurate adjustments has been reduced to the
proportion of 1 to 28, compared with other type-wheel machines, and 1
to 76 in type-bar machines.
The Scientific American referred to it as one of the most original
and practical things brought out in the typewriter art in many years.
The
POSTAL
has
Universal
Keyboard.
IN some of the lower and medium priced writing machines keyboards
arranged to suit the construction of the machines have to be em-
ployed, each of such keyboards being accompanied with ample explana-
tions as to why it was superior to the Universal Keyboard. As the
Universal Keyboard is used on all the high-priced standard machines it
must be the best. Anyone who can operate the Universal Keyboard can
operate on any typewriter having it. The advantage of the Universal
Keyboard is therefore evident. The Postal has the Universal Keyboard,
of course, as there is nothing in the construction of the Postal that can
make it undesirable or impracticable.
Interchangeable Type.
The POSTAL offers the advantage of changing in a few seconds from
one style of type to another, or from one language to another.
PRICE £6 155.; with Oak Case, £7 lOs.
OSBORN &. JERDAN, Ltd
I MY OPTICIANiS,” Opticians and
Electricians* 393 GEORGE ST.
(Facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.


lends the charm of a
brilliant polish to well-
dressed feet in every corner of
life’s stage.
It puts a permanent, waterproof shine on
' boots and shoes a bright, clear shine that'
fwill resist dampness and can only be effaced^
' by continuous daily wear.
1 Unequaled for ladies’ and children’s shoes.\
| Contains no acid. Applied in a moment.'
Shines at once. Used by millions of people.
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN 8. DEED & SONS, Ltd., London, Eng.
/
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
THIS MEN’S
‘Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
7(6
7/6
m
/
S=S
/
T HIS a splendid Watch for country use. You
w„„n a fc et a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.’’
lewJu^ P M ished Steel blinder Keyless Watch with
either^Nir? < ? Vem p nt - Y °. U Can haVe the CaSes in
either Kickei or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
lass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
inmSn 1 t 6 C i aSe '», Every Wafcch is guaranteed
n wnting for Ivvelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
wilf stinli 7/ i 6 ' Slt down and write for it to-day. It
worsl for it “aL 0 k " ockin / about, and be none the
fulh ThnsJrafeH n f , to Send you FREK our Be auti-
Plated Good& d Catalogue of batches, Jewellery and
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Learn to Swim
BY ONE
TRIAL.
Price, 1/6 & 2/6. Great Sport in the Water.
A person weighing from 50 to 2501 b. can float on them
A l th ,°.i Ut Inquire of anyone who has used
Ay v ad s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those'who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal Easily adjusted. Take no more room than t
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, A. Moreau & C 0.,. 82a Pitt-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
nianufacturers' Ayvad Manuf’g. Co.,"Hoboken, N.J.
« E w . dU w tlonal De P t '- London County Council, classi-
a^er "^ in^S k°°ks, & c -> as necessary school
FITS CURED
t rom the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices; i/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc*
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIEARFTTFS
ETTeI. INWAN CIGAR "
BRAND TOUR
SHEEP
WITH
%
3/.
/
mnim
PftTEWI
SHEEPBRAWDI WGLIQtJin
BLACK, RED C&L BLUE
4s- Per Gallon.
(In 8-Gallon Cases).
1-Gallon Tins,
4s. 6d. each.
. . Kempton, Tasmania, sth September, 1905.
Dear Sirs, —It is preferable to any I have ever used; the longer it stands on the
sheep, the more plainly it shows. (Signed) JAMES HADDON, Senr.
“ Cloorawong,” via Coonamble, N.S.W., 16th May, 1905.
Dear Sirs, —I have been using “Kemp’s Sheep Branding Liquid ” for a number of
years. I find “ Kemp’s ”is the best. I will continue using it.
(Signed) A. J. HOWARD.
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
m » SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.).
„ ADELAIDE (D. & J. Fowler Ltd.).
»* »» KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.).
»» »» ROCKHAMPTON (New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ TOWNSVILLE (Australian Estates and
Mortgage Co. Ltd.).
>» »» FREMANTLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
»» » HOBART (Win. Crosby & Co.).
»• »» LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co, 0 Ltd,),
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of ‘ ‘ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
THE FIRST SUB DIVISIONAL
SALE (3,000 acres) of ...
The Section includes 7 5 Choice
Dairy and Agricultural Farms
from 7 05 to 38 7 acres.
The Normanby Estate
Will take place at
HARRISVILLE
At 2 p.m. on ...
( 20,000 acres)
Fassifern Railway, 46 miles from Brisbane, Queensland
SATURDAY, 17th November next.
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES:
The Cressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk Factory (11 miles
away) pays sd. per gallon for milk.
l<ainfall—36 66 inches; average for 18 years.
Close to Market and Railway Station (J-mile).
Sgttlers can visit Brisbane and return same day.
No Survey Fees or residential conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land— Eidges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, level roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks.
The Normanby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and large lucerne fattening paddocks
and has been used for many years past as a
“ Topping 99 Run for fat stock travelling to
Brisbane markets. r
TERMS:
One third Cash ; One-third in 3
years; One-third in 6 years,
at 5 per cent.
Plans and Particulars from
Isles, Love & Co ~ Auctioneers,
BRISBANE.
N.B.—Conveyance meets train every morning.
OUR NEW STOCK OF
SPRING SUITINGS
Has arrived, of which we cordially invite
an inspection.
DAVID BRAKAM& GO.,
94 KING ST. (between George & Pitt Sts.),
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING
in all its branches, including' Ladies’ Work.
HATTERS <SL MERCERS.
Stocking .only the products of the Leading
Manufacturers— and Sole Agents in N S.W.
for the well-known
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS AND NIGHTWEAR,
And Underclothing of every kind for both Ladies
and Gentlemen.
Call and inspect, or write for Samples, Price Lists,
&c., post free.
The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World
For over 50 Years
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
SfDismfectingl
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRASRANT,
nc^i-po:sdnous.
1/a
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable in all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “ SANITAS ” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
WEAREVErT/
ALUMINUM
Cooking Utensils,
The Celebrated
WEAR-EVER Brand.
Silvery, Bright, Clean. Do
not Rust nor Chip. Not
liable to burn the food.
Practically Everlasting-.
«» rom Sole Ausfcra ’ian Agents,
nn YOR K, IMPORT CO., Block Place, Melbourne:
20 Barrack-st., Sydney; 34 King William-st., and
150 Rundle-st., Adelaide; MULLER & WILSON, 98
Elizabeth-st., Brisbane, and Leading Stores.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
'V>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional brder,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy tor. Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the. common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down " < r “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy ana aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
# # V
■I


Missing Friends.
X\7 ANTED. Whereabouts of A. STEWART,
» * who left Hopetoun, August 4th, went to
Echuca, and supposed to have crossed to N.S.
Wales, shearing. Wire address to
HUGH CAMERON, Terang, Vic.
JOHN DEMPSTER MILLER, Ship’s
Steward, last heard of in 1886, in Brisbane.
Communicate with JOSEPH ELLERY,
IRVINEBANK, N. QUEENSLAND.
Business Announcements.
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS’ BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting 1 of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high,
GROUND FLOOR
Three divisions, 57 x2Bft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIRST FLOOR-
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 36f£.', 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A Very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICKOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
T ▼ BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Britisb-flustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
PfMf’P tfSfl POST FREE, £1 per year,
n ILC ”'-l * in advance, all over the world.
Managing' Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
(2X7)
“Svea”
Cream
Separator
ill Bfel
No Better
Separator
Ever
Made. . .
Complete
Stocks
of . . .
Repairs
Carried
in . . .
Each
State
This Adv. is Worth
£2-0-0
iXs>£ to You. XeXa
Cut It out. and post it to
us with your order for a 44
gallon “Svea ” Separator,
and your cheque for £2»
We will ship the Separ-
ator. and send you back a
receipt for £4; also p/ns
for £3-15-0 each, due re-
spectively In 4, S, 12 and 16
months from date of ship-
ment of the Separator.
These p/ns you are to
execute and return to us
promptly, thus completing
settlement for the Sep-
arator.
By this means you se-
cure for jE77 a first-class
Separator (always sold for
£l9), and get remarkably
easy terms besides.
We place the Separator
on board trucks or steamer
tree of charge at any of the below mentioned cities, and
send an expert to start It for you free of cost.
We are prepared to supply other sizes of Separators on
similar terms. Write us for full particulars and names and
addresses of satisfied buyers.
Each Separator Is fully warranted, and in such a manner
as to Insure you the prompt return of your money and p/ns
If the Separator does not do good work.
We reserve the right to decline any order.
THIS SPECIAL OFFER ONLY APPLIES TO ORDERS
RECEIVED PRIOR TO NOV. 15th. 1906.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Launceston
and Christchurch.
Agents throughout Australasia*
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual) Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE FOR N.S.W.-
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
gdf
gdf
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH’S
TRUE HAIR GROWER
ASTOUNDS AUSTRALIANS.
GREAT DEMAND FOR TRIAL BOXES.
THE STORY OF JOHN CRAVEN-
BURLEIGH, THE ENGLISH
MERCHANT WHO DISCOV-
ERED THE MOST FAMOUS
HAIR REMEDY IN THE
WORLD,
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh, the English
merchant, who, a few years ago, retired from
his former business to exploit the merits of a
hair preparation, is making it interesting for
Australian men and women who have vainly
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
sought healthy scalps and plentiful hair.
He starts the hair before asking you to buy.
The phenomenal success of this wonderful
preparation has astonished the world. People
have written in, saying “Hair has grown
where there was never hair before,” or
“ After being bald for years, your True Hair
Grower has produced long, thick hair.”
This great hair producing formula was
discovered by accident. The story goes—
that a few years ago, while travelling in
Switzerland, Mr. Craven-Burleigh met a
noted Swiss savant who made the science of
hair growing a life study, This learned
savant was induced by Mr. Craven-Burleigh
to permit the latter personally to try out a
preparation that the savant had just perfected.
The result was astonishing. At the end of
forty days, after having been very bald for
several years, Mr. Craven-Burleigh’s head was
covered with a thick, healthy growth of hair.
Exclusive permission was immediately
obtained for Mr. Craven-Burleigh to manu-
facture and sell the preparation to the public.
At first, further experiments were made in
and around London with astonishing results.
Then the countries of Holland, Germany,
France, Italy and Bussia were taken up.
In all 700,000 cafees have been treated
during the past five years with a wonderful
record of success.
In advertising to the Australian people,
Mr. Craven-Burleigh felt that the seriousness
of his apparently extravagant claims might
be doubted, so he decided to demonstrate in
advance of his request to purchase, that his
“ True Hair Grower” will not only stop hair
losses and permanently cure dandruff, but
will actually grow hair where latent hair
roots e^ist.
All you have to do is to send a sixpenny
stamp for a large trial box. It comes to you
postpaid by return.
In one of his circulars to prospective
customers he says “I AM A BUSINESS
MAN, and can frankly state I am not con-
ducting a charitable enterprise.” “I KNOW
what my preparation will do and will send
you a Large Trial Box for 6d. only to let you
prove it for yourself. When you are satisfied
by using the Large Trial Box, that it will do
all I say, I will be pleased to supply you with
a further quantity at a moderate price.”
Address as followsJOHN CRAVEN-
BURLEIGH, 196 a Craven House, Opposite
British Museum, London, England.
Professions, Etc.,
The Treasury, New South Wales,
10th October, 1906.
Applications required by the Government of
New South Wales for the Chief Commissioner-
ship for Railways and Tramways, and the
Assistant Commissionership of Railways, and
the Assistant Commissionership of Tramways,
created by the “ Railway Commissioners Ap-
pointment Act, 1906.”
Applications are invited up to i9th
November, 1906, from persons fit and quali-
fied for, and desirous of obtaining, the following
positions under the Government of the State of
New South Wales, created by the “Railway Com-
missioners Appointment Act, 1906,” viz. :
Chief Commissioner for Railways and
Tramways ; salary, £3OOO per annum.
Assistant Commissioner of Railways ;
salary, not exceeding £l5OO per annum.
Assistant Commissioner of Tramways ;
salary, not exceeding £l5OO per annum.
The appointment in each case will be for a
period of seven (7) years, and the Chief Com-
missioner will have supreme authority in the
management of both railways and tramways.
The duties devolving upon the Commissioners are
indicated in the “Government Railways Act,
1901,” and the “ Railway Commissioners Appoint-
ment Act, 1906,” previously mentioned —copies of
both of which may be obtained from the Govern-
ment Printer, Sydney, on application.
Applicants should state age, qualifications, and
experience, and also particulars of positions pre-
viously held, and furnish copies of testimonials.
Applications should be addressed to —
“The Colonial Treasurer and Minister of
Railways, The Treasury, Sydney,”
and be endorsed “Application for Chief Com-
missionership for Railways and Tramways,” or
“Assistant Commissionership of Railways,” or
“Assistant Commissionership of Tramways,” as
the case may be. No personal application will be
entertained.
J. H. CARRUTHERS,
Colonial Treasurer and Minister of Railways
2a3. i for the State of New South Wales.
For Sale.
Unlocking the Land.
the midland railway company of
WESTERN AUSTRALIA LIMITED
are continuing: the unlocking of their Great Concession ol
2,500,000 acres
of Splendid
Agricultural & Grazing Lands
and announce their
SECOND GREAT SALE
OF
80,000 ACRES OF MAGNIFICENT AGRI
CULTURAL AND GRAZING LANDS IN
THE FAR-FAMED BERKSHIRE VALLEY,
UNEQUALLED FOR FERTILITY IN THE
STATE.
Subdivided into 120 Farms
from 250 to 1000 acres
will be held in
THE QUEEN’S HALL,
PERTH, W.A.
on
FRIDAY, November 16th
at 2.30 p.m,
by
JAMES GARDINER, AUCTIONEER.
THE FARMS
are Situated only from 106 to 120 Miles from Perth,
and only l| to 12 Miles from the Coomber-
dale and Moora Railway Stations.
Magnificent Agricultural and
Grazing Land,
Average Yields for the Surrounding Districts:
20f Bushels Wheat; 30fcwt. hay.
And the PASTURE LAND is justly famed for
its FATTENING QUALITIES.
Splendidly Watered by the Moore River.
Permanent Pools, Wells at Shallow Depths,
and Dams that Hold like a Bottle.
RAINFALL: For 20 years 19J to 22 Inches.
DROUGHTS ARE UNKNOWN.
£1,500,000 worth of what can be produced
on this Property Imported into the
State Last Year.
LIGHTLY TIMBERED, AND CLEARING NOT
EXPENSIVE.
SPLENDID MARKETS FOR ALL FARM PRODUCTS.
Upsets , Upsets.
7/6 to 45/, at which price,
if no higher bid, they will be sold.
Terms. Terms.
Magnificently Easy.
Ten per cent, deposit, and the balance by
Fifteen Equal Annual Payments by Promis-
sory Notes, bf aring interest at the rate of
£4 per centum per annum, with the right to
pay the whole or any one of ' the promissory
notes at any time, with an allowance of
interest at the rate charged, or tha Pur-
chaser can pay cash.
Possession the day after sale.
Upon payment of the Whole of the purchase money
the Western Australian Government will issue to the
purchaser a title for the land bought.
TO THOSE DESIROUS OF INSPECTING.
If outside the State, send a letter or wire, stating by
what steamer you will arrive, to the Company’s office,
293 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A. when you will be
met.
YOU PAY YOUR OWN RAILWAY FARE, WHICH
IS REFUNDED SHOULD YOU PURCHASE.
Horses and traps are provided free of charge to enable
the closest inspection to be made.
If within the State, wire or write either to the
Company’s Office, 293 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.,
or the Auctioneer, JAMES GARDINER, HALESBURY
CHAMBERS, HOWARD ST., PERTH.
“Onlooker” : The relations between the
aborigines and the motley horde of colored aliens
that infest the Johnstone River (Q.) district are
not always the happiest. Micky, an aboriginal
resident of Chow-infested Liverpool Creek, put in
his time pleasantly, meandering among the Chows’
banana gardens, bartering his Mary, smoking
opium charcoal, and taking things easily. But
the action of the Australian Government with
regard to opium gave Micky a rude shock. The
price of charcoal increased so much that, though
he traded his gin with the fury of a cheap-jack
and a Salvation band, enough charcoal could not
be earned to satisfy his craving. So Micky, like
the man with the goose that laid the golden eggs,
sold his gin outright to a Kanaka, who held a
stock of opium charcoal. Then Micky set to
work to smoke the proceeds, and, after a few days
of glorious satisfaction, he awoke one morning to
the d isagreeable knowledge that all the charcoal
was smoked, and his Mary sold. After some con-
sideration, Micky came to the conclusion that, as
all the charcoal was smoked, he had a right to
get his Mary back again. So he proceeded,
armed with an old crosscut saw, to put his views
of the case before the Kanaka. He found the
Kanaka hoeing in a Chow’s banana garden, with
Mary by his side. The Kanaka treated Micky’s
reasonings with derision ; so Micky smote him
with the crosscut implement, and almost severed
three of the Kanaka’s claws. The Kanaka, driven
to desperation by the prospect of losing the Mary
that had cost him so much charcoal, fought des-
perately, and a battle royal raged among the
bananas. Micky made savage onslaughts with
his saw, while the Kanaka, armed with his hoe,
fought on the defensive. But Mary turned the
tide of battle. She appeared on Micky’s flank
armed with an axe, thus enabling the Kanaka to
take the offensive, and Micky was driven from
the field in grv t disorder. The Kanaka had to
retire to Geral, on for repairs, and Micky was
doctored by som, of his tribe up the creek.


Consumption
Gan Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption*
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman. Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundieds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery—
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless < f cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself iffcctive and speedy in curing t atarrh, Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles. ,
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
writing the Derk I'. Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
6f)B Dixson Buildings, Sydney. Send no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return of
post, carriage paid,
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don't wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis,
asthma, pains in your chest, a cold ori vour lungs, or
any throat or lung troub.e. write to-day for the free
trial treatment and book of instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
MULGRAVE CENTRAL MILL
CAIRNS, QUEENSLAND.
CO., LTD.,
WANTED— RELIABLE CANE CUTTERS, FOR CUTTING CANE, UP TO THE
END OF DECEMBER.
The following table will show the average weekly earnings of 13 gangs now working for the
above company for 7 weeks.
gdf
The above makes no allowance for lost time by individual members of gangs, but is an average,
based on the assumption that the whole gang often worked full time. If only the actual number of
days worked was considered, the individual earnings would be proportionately greater.
■ S. W. DAVIDS, General Manager.
OSTRICH PLUMES
mm
Mi
3/.',uS)
BSK
m
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 10£ inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
BLACK
3 for 10 -
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Money
Order payable to John Mim.hr. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6. Length, 1\ yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.l
Also cit Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, IS.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boot D.y De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of .Life,
10s lid. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.:, Is post.
Rosario, :2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Tiie Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
H
1
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of 3'oung- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play , Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d,
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French* Self Taught,
Is 3d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 'ss 6‘d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron, of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne* Is posted.
AN these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I*F" Established SO years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Hanuiiook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, lie}' to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. , Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The, Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus. , leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing* Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tub Secrets ok Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
FRANZ JOSEF
Leads for a Pure and Wholesome Drink."^g§
KEEP THE NAME
BEFORE YOU
FRANZ JOSEF .
5
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS.
“ I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
H FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family. M
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’’
ft
*
FOOD
For INFAHTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED .
BENGEE’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Nowadays the black labor, anti-Australian,
Foreign-trade lie that Australia is the only coun-
try on earth which refuses to allow its territory to
be exploited at the sweet will of the alien—that
is, the colored alien—is a jest and byword, and it
is old, and blear-eyed, and baggy at the knees.
Still, a few remarks by an English mining man in
Japan are interesting :
Broadly speakina", the Japanese do not want us here.
As regards the island of Formosa, foreigners are altoge-
ther excluded. Regulations read thus Mining shall
be permitted to Japanese subjects only, and none but
Japanese subjects can become members or shareholders
of any mining company. No persons, other than subjects
of the Empire, can become mine-owners, or partners of a
firm, or members of a corporation engaged in alluvial
mining. No persons, other than subjects of the Empire,
or companies duly formed in accordance with the law
thereof, may engage in mining in Japan.”
Here in Australia foreigners not only pre-empt
vast metalliferous areas just as they please, but
they have the unspeakable hide to howl about
their “ hardships ” when a somewhat tardy law
requires them to work the areas granted to them,
or else give them up and let someone else do so.
A salutary change is coming over the retail
Australian wine trade in Sydney. Up to a recent
date, the business was mostly in the hands of a
frowsy set of women, who sold raw claret which
had been uncorked for a week, and called their
customers “Ducky” at the slightest provocation,
or without provocation at all. Now there are
established quite a number of respectable shops
where you can get. in addition to snacks of the
German dclikatcSscn hancUunr/ order (which are
charged for extra), good, honest, decently-matured
wine for 3d. per half-pint. These shops, almost
needless to say, are exclusively in the hands of
men, and you rarely see a woman in the place,
unless it is the wife of some foreigner who comes
in with her husband. The Bulletin hopes to see
the vignerons encourage the establishment of
wine-shops where one can get something to eat as
well as to drink.
“ Stony .1 heard words. Then a fem-
inine voice replied, quitely rudely, in the very
impurest English. Two men and two women
passed me, going towards the station to catch the
last train for Newtown. They talked as they
went, and what they said seemed to imply that
the garment of friendship was frayed, and the
bowl of harmony had dropped from a great height
on to something hard. One of the women stopped
and bent down. I saw a high, laced boot, yellow
in the electric light, and thought she was about
to tie up her laces. “Woss niarrer?” demanded
her Boy, over his shoulder. The woman looked
up, with her chin on her knee. “W’y, I go.t ter
git me ticket!” she snapped, fiercely. “Oh,”
said the Boy, and lounged slowly on towards the
station.


TIRED OF LIFE
AWFUL SUFFERING
From Dreadful Pains From Wound
on Foot—System All Run Down
After Six Months’ Agony —Not
Able to Work—Completely Cured
in Two Weeks.
MIRACULOUS CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Words cannot speak highly enough
for the Cuticura Remedies. I am now
seventy-two years of age. My system
had been all run
down. My blood
was so bad that
blood poisoning
had set in. I had
several doctors
attending me, so
finally I went to
the hospital, where
I was laid up for
two months. My
foot arid ankle were
almost beyond
recognition. Dark
blood flowed out of wounds in many
F laces, and I was so disheartened that
thought surely my last chance was
slowly leaving me. As the foot did
not improve, you can readily imagine
how I felt. I was simply disgusted
and tired of life. I stood this pain,
which was dreadful, for six months,
and during this time I was not able to
wear a shoe and not able to work.
“Some one spoke to me about Cuti-
cura. I bought a set of the Cuticura
Remedies ana the praise that I gave
after the second application is beyond
description ; it seemed a miracle,
for the Cuticura Remedies took
effect immediately. I washed the foot
with the Cuticura Soap before applying
the Ointment and I took the Resolvent
at the same time. After two weeks’ treat-
ment my foot 'Was healed completely.
People who had seen my foot during my
illness and who have seen it since the
cure, can hardly believe their own eyes.”
Robert Schoenhauer,
Aug. 21, 1905. Newburgh, N. Y.
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation
Reference: R Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60),
may be had of all druggists A single set often cures the
most distressing and torturing humours. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Poston, U. S. A.
•BT* Mailed Free, “ The Great Skin Book.’*
Address, R. Tywps £- Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
EN
•f®}
/
DRUNKARDS
Also Tobacco and Drug Slaves
Permanently cured at their own homes with the
“ANALEPPIO” Home Remedy. A'o detention
from daily routine work. Endorsed by the High-
est Medical Profession, Clergy and Temperance
Societies. Can be given secretly, if necessary.
Full particulars absolutely FREE'and confiidential,
in plain sealed envelope. Call or write at once.
The “ANALEPTIC” Co., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
1 iff
ri
Up-to-date Office S.ystems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building-,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Aoenoiks :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Winders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
fOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
For Sunburn
or Sore Eyes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
RODS
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Kdw. NORTON.. 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
100,000
“THE WAYBAGK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
f MOTHER
Seidels Syrup
The world-wide popularity of Mother
Seigel's Syrup is based on the recommend-
ation of countless thousands of men and
women whom it has cured of indigestion,
biliousness, constipation, headaches, dizzi-
ness, sleeplessness, flatulence, nervous de-
pression, anaemia, general debility and
various disorders of the stomach, liver and
kidneys.
Compounded of roots and herbs, Mother
Seigel’s Syrup contains digestive stimulants
and tonics for the stomach, liver and kidneys
that tender it invaluable to all who by
veason of sedentary occupation, worry,
overwork _ or. climatic changes, lack the
vigour, vitality and strength which can
alone be obtained from good food, well
digested.
Cures CONSTIPATION
“ I was very constipated, and though I took the usual purgatives thev only gave temporary
relief. Soon I was as bad as ever, if not worse. Medical treatment quite failed, but Mother
Seigel’s Syrup cured me thoroughly.”—From Mrs. J. Johnson, 2, Cathedral Place, Woolloomooloo,
Sydney, New South Wales. November 23rd, 1905.
BILIOUSNESS
After a restless night I would commence my day's work with a bad headache, and a sick '
bilious feeling. Breakfast was a mere pretence, and I felt so weak and drowsy that after an
hour s work 1 would have to leave off and rest. I went quite dizzy at times, while my eyesight
became so dim that I could hardly see. Mother Seigel’s Syrup alone cured me.”—From
Mr. T. Elms, 145, Ramsden Street, Clifton Hill, near Melbourne.—April 3rd, 1906.
and INDIGESTION
IN EVERY POSSIBLE FORM. r
L
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anosmia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body of urinary and biliary poisons, due
to ineffective! action of the kidneys and liver. A realisation of the work performed by these vital
organs enables us to understand why, when they fail, we necessarily suffer.
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the excess of water from the blood in the form
of urine. The kidneys of the average man filter and extract about three pints of urine every day. In
this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. NoW all
these are solid matter, which, when the kidneys are working healthily, is dissolved in urine and leaves
the body in complete solution. When the kidneys fail, a proportion of the solid matter remains in
the blood, and, becoming actively poisonous, produces the various disorders due to urinary poisoning,
such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, Sciatica. Gravel, Stone and Bladder
Troubles. Sick Headache and Anaemia are also generally attributable to the same cause.
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely related. It is almost impossible for the
kidneys to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, and vice versa. In the liver various
substances are actually made from the blood. 1 Two or three pounds of bile are thus made from the
blood daily. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so
as to be able to supply it again to the blood as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric
acid, which is insoluable, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the
blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or
diseased, the blood becomes laden with biliary and urinary poisons to such an extent that it is not in
a condition to take up nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no longer formed, and it is
these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. . In other words the blood is vitiated and starved, and
we are bound to suffer in consequence. Indigestion, Biliousness, Neuralgia, Anaemia, Sick
Headache, and Blood Disorders are but Nature’s signs that the liver is not doing its duty.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
hyer, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so
intimately associated jnremoving the waste products of the body. Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the liver,
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of all
urinary ami biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure is taken as directed. ! Even Bright’s Disease yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A Simple Test to make is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust like
sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, and
no time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity wul result. [2]
FREE!
MAKE
BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
CtiLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size-Miall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts tvith this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formula; printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to-anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Col7o Ash St., Sydney
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
£lOO
a WceK
Given
Away
Free
<lllllll
Post Free 6d. from
Bulletin ”
The
Office.
Business, Robbery, etc.
THE CHIME OF THRIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Iii boyhood’s time of wanton joy,
And in the years of callow youth,
When eye met eye of maiden coy
Ere yet was grown the wisdom tooth ;
In homily and lecture dry
These words were seared upon the mind
(Words awful to us younger fry),
“ Be saving and to pleasure blind.”
Thus man becomes the pillar of
The church, and guards the parson’s plate,
And notes the lack of siller of
Vile spendthrifts unregenerate.
’Tis he who, reared on stingy pap,
Adds wealth to wealth in worldly way,
And drinks of riches from the tap
Turned on by fools and spenders gay.
The mottoes writ for younger folk
Speak oft of thrift in accents brave,
And warn the kids that “ stony broke '
Will be their lot unless they save.
Let me indite a maxim quaint—
And may it live beyond my time —
“ The spender is an earthly saint,
And thrift is little more than crime."
If thrift be good, then make it law ;
Ordain that each shall niggard be,
And punish those who seek to draw
Upon their funds for luxuree.
Methinks I see a nation mad.
With works and trade and commerce dead,
Each sitting tight, with features sad,
On sixpence grabbed in fear and dread.
To counsel thrift is foolish talk,
If all be thrifty, all are mean ;
’Twere then a case of hawk eat hawk,
Or starving Jew in Aberdeen.
Uive me the thriftless, big-souled man,
Whose poorness is his surbty
That, spending, he incurred the ban
Of hunger and obscurity.
This world of cant and snufBedom
Crawls slowly to the gilded shod,
And turns in horror from the slum
Whose people Fat has stooped to rob.
I’d make a law, if I were boss,
And gaol the man with riches great.
These he has gained at someone’s loss,
And, thriftful, lends at Shylock rate.
Maori r. and. MuitU.
» • * *
Dear Bulletin.—In connection with the recent
shindy that the so-called opticians of Sydney have been
raising in the press over proposed legislation, I write to
give you a little experience of my own in a large up-
country town. This town is a very conservative one, and
prides itself on that fact and also on its ’ 4 culchaw.”
That it has some grounds for the latter apprehension is
proved by the fact that it is one of the happiest hunting-
grounds of the charlatan and quack in the Common-
wealth.
I accidentally blew into the village one day not long'
ago, and found at their various stands three full-blown
travelling “opticians,” and two of them, at least, were
raking in the shekels in a way to make a Tatt’s sweep
chance look like 30 cents. The night of my arrival I
chanced to be present at a quiet little game of stud
poker—this was before. Wade developed into a roarer,
and also before my fall from grace—and when a halt was
called to cool a hot box, I was introduced to a very flash
gentleman, who informed me he was an optician. I
found that we were old acquaintances-although he
didn’t know it. On several occasions I had tipped him a
shilling for holding a horse at the hotel in Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, where he was boots.
taking a stroll the next morning, I met in the main
street another old acquaintance, who, when I first
knew him, was working as a Hebrew boundary-rider on
a station near Tibooburra. If you don’t believe there
are Hebrew boundary-riders, you don’t know much.
He looked so natty in his little spike-tailed coat and
white vest, that 1 took him into a private bar and asked
where the fire had eventuated.
“ Mum’s the vord,” whispered he. “Say notting, but
I am now a bonzer optician.”
“ Do not worry, Aaron,” I replied. “ I am not draw-
ing a salary just now as public benefactor, and, anyway,
a man who has lived through three years of Tibooburra
ought to know-at least as much about eye troubles as an
ex-hotel boots.”
That afternoon I called on the third visiting optician
who was advertising over the name of a first-class man’
and to whom a friend and I took a victim.
“ Arh you Mr. ?” queried the local medico. The
frock-coated apparition in the reception-room rose and
bowed in the.affirmative. “ Well,” said my friend, “ we
have brought y’ou this lady for examination, and ”
“ Pardon me,” I murmured ; “ but let me play this
hand on my little ace. First, as it is not courtesy to call
a man a lfar in the presence of a lady, you will please go
home to your ma, Miss Patient, and then I will speak my
little piece.”
The lady departed, and then I told that dirty robber
just how many kinds of thug I deemed him, and that a
charge of obtaining money under false pretences should
certainly be laid. The fact was, however, that this speci-
men was a man who partly knew his business, and he
was in the employ' of an advertising optician whose name,
gained; whilst partner with a much better man, was being
used to decoy people to consult the understrapper under
the impression that they were'-ehjoying the services of
his boss. His clients got a good opinion at third hand, so
to speak. It was this way : Jones was a first-class man.
Jones took Brown, who was a failure, as his partner!
Brown set up for himself on Jones’ reputation, when
Jones got rid of him; and sent Smith travelling in his
name, though .11 the name Brown had to len i Smith was
the name Brown had borrowed from Jopes. Conse-
quently, Smith was travelling on a slender capital.
My friend Aaron (pardon these tears) has vanished into
the dust of the woolly west, and the last time I heard his
name mentioned was by a burly policeman, who in-
formed me that he “ wanted ” the Sheenv for malfeasance
in office, or some crime against the rights of proputty.
“ The villain still pursues her” in the persons of the two
other frauds mentioned.—Medi Cuss.
* * * »
“ J. Shay ” : A form of industry that flourishes
in Sydney is horse and trap faking. Speculators there
are who will buy any four-legged substance in the dim
resemblance of a horse, or any wreck on wheels. The
crippled horses are fed and physicked, fired, fomented
bandaged, and carefully nursed till a mug turns up’
The mug sees a shiny thing, bursting with sudden
victuals, prance round a bit, and buys at ten times its
value. If he wants a trap of any sort, it is there. It,
too, is shiny with varnish and gay with paint. But all
the ingenuity of the seller has been devoted to wedging
it together, to puttying up the cracks, bad joints and
flaws, and disguising its wrecked condition. A vamped-
up set of harness is almost sure to be on offer also. After
a day or two’s work, the horse goes lame ; in a week the
trap begins to rattle and fall asunder; and the first time
a decent saddler views the harness his verdict is “ Not
worth the cost of repairing.”
* ♦ * *
“'There wag a couple of bad ’uns in the half-
dozen lemmings I traded off on him—six a penny it were ”
said the Waverley hawker ruefully, “an’ the bloke spotted
the speckles. Talk of witherin’ sarcasm, an’ ’igh morility
an’ the rest of it! I thought he wor takin’ a fit while
eapin up the agony about dishonesty, attempts to obtain
money by false pertences, an* the whole bloomin’ wicked-
ness o’ my way o’ livin’. I was sure he’d draw the perlice
before I could get shut of him. So I takes away the two
bad ’uns, an’, to make amends, gives him three good ’uns
instead, an’ when he tips me a shillin’ I, with the tail o’
one eye open for the perlice, rapped him back ten pence
with a hurried, but nervous ’and, an’ ooked it round the
corner as fast as I knoo ’ow. What d’ye think ? When I
come to my next sale I finds the gent’s shillin’ wor
bad. There ye are 1 The next man as lectures me on
the wickedness o’ my way o’ livin’ comes up agin a
motor-car. Ye see, he threw me off me axis by the elo-
quence o’ his ’orror at my little fraud so’s to get in his
swindle.”


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS'*
WEST. AUSTRAL! A
i
3955*397 HaySX Perm
QUEENSLAND .
> Queen & Edward St? B risbane
NEW ZEALAND
H6B-14S QueenS!. Auckland.
18-3 LambtonQuay.Wellington
2368-235 High S'; Christchurch. 1
Princes 8- DowlingS* DunedinjJ
t
g
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
31 /fit's from
Stewart Dawson
its good.
Write the ~
store nearesn
you- I
STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.** Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
No. Eo6Bo—9et. Gold .. £1 17s 6d.
Size Larger ~ .. £2 ss.
Size Smaller ~ £1 7s 6d.
mm
No. F9sss—Handsome 9ofc. Gold Plain and Fancy
Rope Twist Bangle, £2 ss.
,iiiiiu»Hiiimoiuii'i<Minnuj|i»nuwM'm>ii!Mi'ii!iiuii!nmiin> t ~i
,'Sr
mi
No. GB47o—lsct. Gold Bangle, Set 1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires or Rubies, £8 10s.
No. G 5023—:
!3—Exceptionally Pretty Cinnamon Brown Topaz
and Peari Bracelet, Oct. Gold, £2 7s 6d.
No. FsBll—lsct. Gold and Fine Pearl and Ruby Bangle, £'9 10c
No. G 2639 —9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bracelet, 2 Sapphires
and 1 Rose Diamond in Centre, £3 3s.
No. F4553—15ct. Gold and Fine Quality Pearl Bracelet, £lO 10s
If with Diamonds and Sapphires, £lB 10s.
3
No. G2Blo—9ct. Gold New Style Knot Bangle, £2.
as
No. F6B3 —9ct. Gold Engraved Band Bracelet, £-•
No. 137—9 ct. Gold Boat Set, Pearl and Sapphire Doublet
Bangle, with Fancy Wire Edging, £3.
No. G 4861 —9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £2 15s.
No. 142—9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in Morocco
Case, £3 10s. ; Massive 15ct. Gold, £6 6s. ; Extra Heavy,
£7 10s., £8 10s. ; Extra Heavy, £7 55., £8 10s., £lO 10s.
No. 143.—0 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle,
in Morocco Case, £2 155.; 15ct. Gold, £5.
No. 144—9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in
Morocco Case, £2 ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
No. 134A—15ct. Gold and Fine Opal Half-Hoop Blacelet,
£lO 10s. ; a Cheaper Style, £6 10s.
No. G264l—Oct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £3 10s.
No. F7642—Tlie Latest Style in Loose Link Bangles ; 9ct. Gold, Three Bow,
£3 10s. ; Four Bow, as shown here, £4 4s.
m
r ,
No. EB24s—9ct. Gold Curb
Chain and Padlock
Bracelet, in Case.
£3.
No. E966B—9ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, £2los.
No. G 3284 —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bangle, £2 ss.
Larger Sizes for 555. and 635.
No. P9ss4—Very Strong and Handsome Plaited
Gold Bangle, 9ct., £2 10s.
No. GB437—9ct. Gold Bracelet, Set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3 3s.
No. 149A—15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond Set Band Bangle, £5.
n. n
No. 794—9 et. Gold Trellis Work Bangle, £2 7s 6d.
No. Gl722—Fine Gold Bangle, Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Diamonds and Sapphires, £2l.
The Ever-Popular Nellie Stewart Bangle, made in four sizes.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 4s, £5 ;
15ct. Gold, £4, £5 10s„ £6. IQs, £7 IQs.
iiiiiiiiiiniiii
si
No. 02619—15 ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll and Circl
Bracelet, with 3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. F9ssB—New and Stylish 9ct. Gold Bangle, with
Safety Chain, £1 15s.
& 1
No. F9557—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Bracelet, £2.


URIC ACID AILMENTS ERADICATED.
kKU^NOW^Pi
II- £ POWDER
On
fei
HirjchoiofirufljJ, or Oetr Leap.
/ « 9MHUMpONROAO.ee.
lIMIWO »«M m*tm
,y--\ 1 ■ -yz
The Real Value
of Elimination.
If you are suffering from physical ills, ask yourself if
it is not your own fault. Nearly all of us at times eat
and drink more than is necessary, and a corrective then
becomes indispensable. Sometimes we take too little
exercise, and dwell on the worries and small annoyances
of life. This sort of living upsets the digestive organs and
starts a train of ailments, all of which conduce to make
life miserable. Our advice to the ailing is to get good
health, to be cheerful, calm, and contented. To do this
you must get rid of the surplus uric acid, you must
neutralise the acidity of the stomach—you must flush the
kidneys and clear the bowels. This is the secret of
happiness, and it can only be perfectly accomplished by
means of a health-draught of Kutnow’s Powder.
Extract from the
%
Medical Journal.
“ Regardless of diet, rich and poor suffer alike from
the accumulation of uric acid, which sometimes occurs with-
out any apparent failure in health ; but more often are
the kidneys and bladder affected, and the digestive
organs impaired; hence excessive uric acid is frequently
responsible for heartburn, flatulence, and liver trouble.
Lithia has been tried and found useless, for when taken
by the mouth it chemically combines with the phosphates
in its progress through the stomach and there forms
insoluble compounds. The best remedy we know possess-
ing a solvent action and eliminative properties is Ivutnow’s
Powder, which is largely used by the Medical Profession,
and has always given the highest satisfaction wherever it
has been tried.”— October, 1904.
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
says :
“It is gentle, efferves-
cent, and is a very
efficient and agreeable
aperient.”
An Important Letter on
Uric Acid.
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels
and kidneys. A dessertspoonful in a tumbler of water taken
immediately on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels, acts
as a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way. Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no better
eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children and Hygjene,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and College of Physicians Surgeons).
How to Detect Fraudulent Imitations.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently cause
irreparable injury. The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is
strongly recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach, liver,
kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which you can
obtain at all conscientious chemists throughout the world. Examine
the package (shown in the reduced illustration) and see that it bears
the fac-simile signature “ 9. Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap.” You will then
avoid imitations, and know
How to secure Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S POWDER ELIMINATES URIC ACID
'• i a .
Sole Proprietors! S. KUTNOW <SL CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
The Horny-Handed. Democrat.
Thk Labor political movement in England is a
generation behind that of Australia in its intel-
lectual standard. It seems to have two wings.
One, led by Keie Habdie, about represents what
an Australian party led by Ton Mann would be
—if such a grotesque thing can be imagined.
Ihe other, composed of “ old-fashioned trades-
unionists,” displays its mental calibre in the
speech of R. Bell, cabled recently. Bell
is a prominent trade-unionist, and a leading
man in Labor politics. Speaking at Cardiff,
he pleaded for a horny-handed democracy,
scorned the notion of a “capitalist” being a
Democrat, and instanced as one of the noxious
capitalists falsely masquerading as Labor men a
Socialist journalist who, he said, earned £l5OO or
£2lOO a year. How, he asked, could such a man
be a friend of Labor ? And, in asking such a ques-
tion, he condemned himself as a fool. Such an
attitude, as Australian Labor leader Watson has
pointed out, is “essentially narrow and short-
sighted.” The democratic movement wants the
help of all the brains it can attract, and, for-
tunately, it attracts, as a rule, the best brains,
llie educated man is rarely anything but a Demo-
crat by conviction. It is with most minds a
natural result of education. Sometimes the edu-
cated man has to dissemble his feelings because
he makes a living from the patronage of the
propertied classes, but the backbone of the Radical
party has always been, not the manual worker,
but the “ professional ” man, and often the rich
professional man. The Tory party recruits its
phalanx from :
(1) Men of hereditary wealth. They are the best of
Tories, when, with their wealth, they have inherited no
brains.
(2) Successful business men. These have often no in-
tellectual powers at all, except the business faculty of
making money. In very many cases they are promoted
manual laborers. They are seldom Democrats, because
they seldom have any capacity to understand philo-
sophy.
(3) The vassals and parasites of the above—the manual
and brain workers who rely on them wholly or in part for
a living, and follow their ideas blindly.
Confine the democratic Labor movement to the
horny-handed working-man, and you at once
doom it to impotence. The Australian Labor
party has always recognised this, and welcomes
into its ranks navvy and doctor, journalist and
carpenter, mechanic and capitalist—so long as
they are sincere Radicals. It is a poor look-out
for the British party until it can adopt the same
policy.
C. E. Russell, the Yankee author, who wrote
“The Greatest Trust in the World,” and who
lately visited the Commonwealth, has been giving
his views on Australian affairs in the September
number of Evkkybody’s Magazine. Under the
heading of “ Soldiers of the Common Good,” he
gives an account of the work of the Labor party,
which was described tp him as being composed of
“low, common people,” and of which he heard
nothing but calumny from the time of his leaving
London till his arrival at Adelaide. After deal-
ing with the work of the Laborites in bringing
about the abolition of Kanaka labor, he sums up
the prospects of the sugar industry under white
labor conditions thus :
This year will see the departure from Queensland soil
of the last of the Kanaka “recruits.” Will their going
ruin any sugar industry, or bankrupt any planters, or
precipitate any panics, or produce any other disasters ?
Kot in the least, good friends. The sugar-planter will
make his good profits, the marvellous country will con-
tinue to grow in prosperity and wealth, the mills will
revolve, the banks will declare their dividends, the land
will laugh with plenty just as before. But the prosperity
will be a prosperity of small farmers, not of great estates
and monstrous plantations. Slave-labor requiring large
capital restricted the sugar business to a few hands.
Freedom throws it open to all upon equal terms. Nothing
in the world is so wasteful as cheap labor ; nothing builds
prosperity like the advancing-wage scale. The Govern-
ment of Queensland, now in the hands of low, common
people, is helping and insuring the Common Good and
welfare by building and operating public cane-mills.
These cut the heart out of the cane-grinding monopoly
and assure the profits to the small grower. Days are
dark ahead for the Sugar Trust and the refinery corpora-
tions ; for the producers and consumers they have never
been so bright.
4
“ Turo ” writes from Korumburra (Vic.): —
If the farmer would only take a few moments and think
the matter over for himself, he would see how nicely his
leg is being pulled re the Federal Labor party’s land-tax.
Iceberg Irvins says he is against the fearsome thing, but
is in favor of a betterment tax on land to pay the cost of
railway construction. Let us see how the two taxes
would compare in this part of the Flinders electorate.
Within, say, 10 miles of Korumburra there are hundreds
of small farmers. The great majority of them howl for
Irvink. Nearly all of them have their own farms of up
to 100, 200, and 300 acres ; a few are over 300 acres.
Some of the farms contiguous to the town have a special
value of, say, up to £3O per acre, but, leaving these out
of the question, the rest are selling at from £8 to £lB per
acre. For example, take a farm of 300 acres, actual value
£l2 per acre—£3ooo. Its unimproved value is £6 per
acre—£lBoo. This farm is wholly exempt from
taxation under the Federal Labor party’s scheme,
which taxes nothing under £5OOO. Of the unim-
proved value of £6 per acre at least £4 is due to
the presence of a railway, so that there is an amount of
£l2OO suhject to Irvine’s betterment tax of, say—at the
very low rate of Id. in the £—£s per annum. I know of
one estate, five miles from here, of about 1600 acres. It
is the largest in the district owned by one man. Let us
see how this pans out. Sixteen hundred acres at actual
value of £loper acre, is £lO,OOO. Unimproved value is
£5 per acre, or £8000; Labor land-tax exemption is
£5OOO, leaving for taxation £3000; at £d. in the £ =
£6 ss. Irvine’s betterment tax—at least £3 out of the
£5 per acre of the unimproved value is due to the presence
of railways, and would be subject to betterment tax —
means 1600 acres at £3, or £4BOO. And the betterment
tax on that, at Id. in the £, would be £2O per annum.
Yet that owner is hollering for Irvine and his £2O tax
rather than the Labor party’s £6 6s. tax —simply, it
would seem, because it is the fashion to holler for Irvine
on general principles and ask no questions.
From an American :
It begins to look as if the supporters of the Monroe
Doctrine had, in the American vernacular, “ bitten off
more than they can chew” in the present Cuban disturb-
ance. The U.S.A. Government has, confessedly, made it-
self responsible for law and order in the South American
republics, and, incidentally, in Cuba. In any of these
swiftly-revolving communities the party that has last
secured control of the Customs—the one source of public
revenue—may issue bonds, repudiate debts, and otherwise
arrange matters to its own financial advantage, and no
outside Power must interfere, under penalty of being shot
at by Uncle Sam. In return for their protection, the
Americans are more deeply hated by their proteges than
anybody else. The handful of capitalists who had loaded
themselves up with barrow-loads of Cuban bonds that
would be worthless if Spanish rule continued ; the yellow
journals ; and a coterie of conspirators in Congress,
foisted the Spanish-American war on the country. The
shibboleth “Cuba Libre” was invented; the Chicago
packing-houses disposed of hundreds of tons of em-
balmed beef to the army, thereby enriching themselves
and killing off hundreds of the rank-and-file. The yellow
papers had the time of their life landing crews from
steamers named “The Gussie,” or “The Cholly,” or
“ The Chappie,” liberating languishing Cuban patriots of
the female gender, and getting Cuban male ruffians out
of well-earned quod, while dashing young millionaire
Bough Riders were leading their commands into
gory ambuscade, and seeing them mowed down
on San Juan Hill. It was a fitting conclusion to
the whole business that the United States should
have presented Spain with 20,000,000 dollars lor being
thrashed. Even before the war was oyer the Cuban
patriots had turned against their allies, and the
spectacle of 5000 American troops landed on Cuban soil
to prevent the liberated patriots from cutting each
other’s throats is edifying. One is forced to suggest that,
before undertaking to right the wrongs of the world,
Americans might find a little strenuous labor in cleaning
out their own Augean stables. For instance, life is not
safe after dark in the streets of Chicago. Why not reform
Chicago before Cuba ?
A correspondent explains to London Out-
look exactly why Germany is beating England in
the matter of chemical manufacture :
If to-morrow a chemist discovered a method of making
quinine by a synthetic process—at, say, Is. 3d. an ounce—
and he took his invention to an}' body of capitalists, they
undoubtedly w'ould start the works for making the quinine
in Germany rather than in England, for two reasons : (1)
That under the German patent laws a patent is only valid
for two years unless the article is made in Germany ; (2)
If the works are in Germany the manufacturer has
an open market of sixty millions in Germany, and forty
millions in the British Isles ; while if the works are erected
in England he only has an open market of forty millions,
the sixty millions in Germany being closed to him by the
tariff.
Practical arguments like that against Cobdenism
will soak through even John Bull’s thick, dry head
one of these days.
Physicians who sniff the medicine bottle in
the patient’s bedroom and pull a face, sometimes
start an invalid on a line of disturbing conjec-
tures. Was the face pulled because the chemist
who compounded the prescription had omitted the
highly-priced drugs or used inferior ones? Or
because the medico smelt poison in the dish ? Or
why was it pulled ? A rehabilitated patient told
his chemist about the face-pulling business which
had occurred during the crisis of his case, and the
pill-builder, a Sydney man, demanded explana-
tions and apologies from the sniffing medico,
threatening the vengeance of N.S.W. law if
enough satisfaction were not forthcoming. The
medico asserts he will sniff where and when he
likes, as to do so is one of the rights of a Briton,
and as long as it is his own face he pulls he de-
clines to explain or apologise to anybody.
Now and then the “confidential chat”
columns of women’s papers contain an interesting
item. This appeared in the Woman at Home
a while back, in a page of “Annie S. Swan’s
Answers ” :
In reply to “ Osesar’s Wife,” I can only say that her
present position is impossible. It cannot go on. She is
on the edge of a volcano. Something must be done, and
that immediately. There seems to me no course left
except to tell her husband or leave the island.
Now, that is interesting. The lady is obviously
on a small island because there isn’t room on it
for her and the sin, or whatever it may be. She
can’t escape by going to the other side of the
island, or the middle of it. Yet the island isn’t
so small that she can take it with her; she is told
to leave it. On that island there is a volcano,
and the lady occupies an untenable position on
the edge of the volcano, with her feet hanging
down the flue, and her skirt liable to take fire at
any moment. The volcano cannot go on, and the
lady is advised either to tell her husband of the
crater, or else fly and leave him and the burning
mountain together. Writer would gladly owe two-
Eence to know where that island is, and what has
appened on it.
What time N.S.W. was abolishing schoo]
fees, a reactionary Government on the other side
of Australia weighed in with a set of charges
designed to draft youngsters off to the office and
the factory, and to make of them cheap laborers
for Fat, at the age of 14. But Westralia has a
very vivid recollection of what things were like
when education wasn’t free and compulsory, and
the result was a howl that forced Tory Treasurer
Wilson to hastily back down. It is noteworthy
that the Secesh crowd was behind Wilson to an
old hen. “ Secesh and Dear Schooling ” ought to
make a good rallying cry when Monger sets out
to besiege Sydney.
No European Power is in a position to
contend with a really awakened China in Eastern
or South-Eastern Asia. The Germans at Kiao-
chow have nothing like the necessary force, either
in men or ships. Nor have the French in Tonquin.
The British, in India, have for years nursed the
fear of a Russian invasion from Turkestan, -when
a Chinese invasion from Thibet is infinitely more
likely—at any rate, more feasible. The passes of
the Himalaya, which separate Thibet from India,
are by no means difficult, as mountain passes go.
Towards the end of the 18th century, the Ghoor-
kas of Nipaul started on what they meant to be a
career of conquest, and invaded Thibet. China
asked the Indian Government to interfere, but
the tired authority at Calcutta said it could do
nothing. Pekin then sent an army under General
Sund Fo, who gave the Ghoorkas a gorgeous
hiding, and recovered all their plunder at a place
just above the passes. He chased them down the
passes, and came up to the remains of their array,
28,000 strong, within 20 miles of their capital,
Katmandu ; drove the whole crowd into a roaring
torrent, and utterly destroyed them. From that
day to this Nipaul has paid tribute to China.
Sund Fo reported that he had seen Sepoys in
British uniform among the Ghoorkas, and the
report was the cause of much bad feeling between
the Chinese and Indian Governments.
Anti-Sosh has a nut to crack in the shrink-
age of deaths from typhoid in Melbourne.
Totalling the figures in five-year periods, these
are the results :
1886-1890 ... 256 I 1896-1900 .. 99
1891-1895 ..108 I 1901-1905 .. 30
In those 20 years there has been a rapid growth
of that “interference with private enterprise”
which Anti-Sosh says is so deadly. Still, the
more deadly interference there has been, the
fewer people seem to have died.
The Commonwealth Public Service Com-
missioner is finding out some of the careful,
economical ways of those States that are yelling
the loudest about “ Federal extravagance.” A
while ago he discovered that for many years past
four messengers had been engaged at two city
telegraph offices to hang round the corridors,
make tea for the officers, run out to buy their
lunch for them, and fetch word whether anything
better than 5 to 1 was offering about Dead Bird.
These “attendants” were paid by the careful,
economical States up to £llO a year. The extra-
vagant Australian Government promptly put
them at work where they would have a chance to
earn their pay.
For the Federal elections, read “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.


Soap Perfection
The Evils of Highly Perfumed Adulterated Soaps.
S~ TOAPS, roughly speaking, are made by combining certain alkalies, such as soda or potash
with certain oils or fats. The soda is there to dissolve the dirt and greasy waste out
of the skin, the fat to counteract any irritating tendency on the part of the soda.
But there are soaps and soaps. Many toilet soaps are more suited for laundry use than
for use upon such a delicate and complex thing as the human skin.
Eew people can tell good soap from bad because with the help of heavy scents, mineral
coloring matter and dainty packing, the common quality may be made to look
just as good as the best brand.
A well-known authority says : —“ The manufacturer of toilet soap generally
takes care to present his wares in convenient form and of agreeable appearance
and smell : the more weighty duty of having them free from uncombined alkali is in
many cases entirely overlooked.”
Are not the widespread use of common harmful soaps, and the great prevalence
of skin trouble two significant facts ? A skin that is not properly cleansed, robbed of
its natural oil gets sore and blotchy, and skin discomfort is but one step removed from
acute skin disease. Not that all common soaps promote actual skin disease, but many
of them are its indirect cause.
Because of certain special claims ZAM=BUK fIEDICINAL TOILET SOAP
comes as a blessing and a boon to the Australian housewife, who has duties that soil
her hands—to the daughter jealous of her complexion —to the breadwinner begrimed
with smoke and dirt, and to the mother’s little darling blessed by Nature with a
delicate and sensitive skin.
In the first place Zam-Buk Soap is prepared by the most perfected methods of
the day from materials of the highest standard of purity and refinement, materials
that have been carefully selected, often at great trouble and cost. Hence Zam-Buk
Soap can be said to contain no free alkali, but is a perfectly pure soap—the perfection
of the soap-maker’s art.
Zam-Buk soap does not and cannot rob the skin of its natural oil. Instead it
imparts a new degree of softness, tone and flexibility which is alike the ambition
of both sexes. It cleanses and invigorates the tiny pores in the skin, and keeps
disease distant.
What is of even greater value, Zam-Buk Soap is impregnated by similar medicinal
essences which have already made Zam-Buk (the great healing balm and skin cure)
famous the world over.
These essences are unequalled for the treatment of eczema, scalp disease, ringworm,
sore or inflated patches, and all skin disorders. They kill disease germs and keep
disease distant all the time. Hence Zam-Buk Soap is far superior to ordinary
medicinal soaps.
The great point in a medicated soap is that the medi-
cinal essences be kept as long as possible in contact with
the skin. Obviously, if their good influence were to end
with the rinsing and drying after washing, little benefit
would be possible.
The medicine contained inZam-Buk Soap soaks through
the pores and goes down to the roots of disease, and even
when the soapsuds have been rinsed away, it continues to
exert its healing influence. The cure goes on constantly
from hour to hour, from day to day.
The exclusive use of Zam-Buk for toilet and bath
gives a skin that is smooth as velvet, soft as silk, and
secure from disease germs at all seasons.
Doctors and nurses can confidently recommend it to
second their efforts to overcome any obstinate skin disease.
FOR ALL SKIN AFFECTIONS.
Eczema, pimples, blackheads, chafing, itch, bad legs, prickly heat, rashes, ring-worms, scurf in the
hair, and other scalp diseases, disagreeable odour from the skin, fetor of the feet, checked or offensive
perspiration, milk crust, scald head, and other childish ailments, sallow complexion, sunburn, freckles,
heat spots and swellings, and for the stings from insets, Zam-Buk Soap can be employed with admirable
results. It is as valuable as it is refreshing for shampoos, and prevents baldness. Zam-Buk Soap is
recommended by doctors and nurses to second their own treatment of any obstinate skin disease.
It can be obtained from all Chemists at ONE SHILLING per cake, or for same price
direct from the ZAM-BUK MFG. CO., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
£
'r
v;
jL
ZAM-BUK SOAP IS BEST FOR BABY.
The valuable qualities of Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap, as applied to its
use in the daily bath for the soothing, comforting, and prevention of skin
ailments of Children is destined to play an important part in their future
good Skin Health.
The chief troubles with the young babe from its birth, are the various
forms of skin troubles that attack it, owing to the delicate and sensitive
nature of the skin, which is so prone to become sore and chafe. Milk Crust,
Thrush, Rash, and other distressing skin affections, common among young
children, especially those of feeble constitution, cause the child pain, fretful-
ness and restlessness, and the mother worry and anxiety.
It is dangerous to use Common Toilet Soaps, which are mostly impreg-
nated with poisonous substances, on the delicate skin of a baby. The health
of the child depends largely on its daily bath, therefore, the best Medicinal
Soap should be used.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap is a perfect combination of medicinal
properties for the prevention of skin disease in young or old. It is a Skin
Tonic and Food, maintains the delicacy of the skin through its action in
conjunction with the natural oil, removes all impurities, and soothes and
comforts. By its daily use, good skin health results, when used in the bath
or toilet.
The great virtues of Zam-Buk Soap entitle it to a place in every home.
m\
am
m
m
r Mm
i
mmm
m
i
Mail us the Coupon below for Free Sample Tablet.
Cut . ♦
Out . .
This, .
Coupon,
To prove the great value of ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL '
SOAP, we will send you a FREE SAMPLE TABLET on
receipt of this Coupon with name and address
attached, and Id, stamp for return postage.
THE ZAM-BUK MFC. GO., 39 Pitt St., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
25th October, 190 ft,
Bourns.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 3
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
MELBOURNE CUP, „ „ November 6
MELBOURNE CUP Special, Drawn Morning of Race, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 6
SANDHURST CUP, Bendigo, Victoria, November 21 •••
100,000 at 5/2 each,
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each /Os. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
PEL! VERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
(Booking Fee,
J 3d.
( per Parcel.
IJ r A D M C Q BRONCHITIS
HtAnlNto cure
£9f600 VORTHININE #RDER
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. LIM?
WHOLESALE DRUGGISTS
AND ORYSALTERS.
.l
Mr. W. tj. Hearne,
Chemist, GEELONG.
Dear Sir,
We have much pleasure in enclosing to you herewith our order
for £9,600 worth of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Our sales for this remedy have always been large, but at no time
has the demand been so phenomenal as at present. We believe thi3 forms
the largest straight-out order for any Chest Medicine in Australia.
We heartily congratulate you on the splendid reputation and
enormous sale which Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure enjoys.
Kip are, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing
power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to
those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It
is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and
it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Con-
sumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with
this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally
sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, is sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.


“A CHAIN
I is no stronger than its
weakest link.”
We are no stronger than
our stomachs.
A weak stomach means
weakness all through.
A strong stomach means
strength all over.
Perfect digestion and a
strong stomach can be
attained by the use of
I DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES
which digest what you
eat and give the stomach
perfect rest because they
contain all the natural
digestants found in a
healthy stomach. The
results are always certain.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. PRICE 2/6
9
SF /
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE SWINDLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EOMAHAPA Traffic Office was a place
whereaman easily-drifted into the habit of
living- beyond his income; and the presence
of an increasing crowd of collectors, some of whom
spoke quite severely, while the mildest were any-
thing but obsequious, suggested that it might be a
good idea to draw up a balance-sheet and see
exactly how I stood—
I was bankrupt!
I had been in difficulties before, and always
managed to get square, but this was hopeless
insolvency. I mentally ran over all the expedi-
ents I could think of, and, finding none satis-
factory, set to work to try to invent a new one.
The first idea was to call my creditors together
and, placing the position before them in its nude
hopelessness, wrangle with them over the lowest
amount to be paid monthly to a common receiver.
As an original notion, I thought I would suggest
that I should act as receiver, and collect their
debts from myself on a 5 per cent, commission
basis.
The danger of this course was, of course, that
they might simultaneously rush for judgment
summonses. Then there would be a smash, and
I would be out of the service. Anyhow, on
second thoughts, it was a useless device. A
meeting like that would be sure to demand at
least half my monthly salary, and lately I bad
found it all insufficient to live on. The only
thing was to make a fairly large sum of money
with great suddenness.
I had seen a good deal of life, and I was an
omnivorous reader ; but, ransack my memory as I
would, I could remember no ease of a man, situated
as I was, making a large sum by any other means
than a swindle. There were cases in fiction of
rich relatives dying at an opportune moment—
but I thought it was better not to rely on the rich
relatives. I started to think of someone with
money and simplicity.
At first I considered the Old Man. I knew him
well enough to make blackmailing him as easy as
falling into debt. But he was harder up than I
was, and had a deuce of a lot more to lose, and my
heart broke at the bare thought of it.
This weakness convinced me that I would never
be great—for the very first qualification for real
greatness is the moral, or immoral, ability to
hurt your best friend remorselessly when it is
necessary. I was not sure that the Old Man was
even a friend to me, but he was a genial old tyrant
and a most interesting scamp, and I decided that
I must spare him.
Then I gave Traffic Clerk Flutera few moments’
careful consideration. I had all the elements of
Napoleonic greatness about me where Fluter was
concerned but the question was how to do it.
Fluter was a fighter right down to his boots,
which, by the way, were large and heavy. I
marked Fluter down as “dangerous—reduce
speed to seven miles an hour 1 ”
There was no one else. The victim must be
found among the beastly public. The beastly
public only existed to be carried in safety, even at
the risk of our own lives, and it seemed fair that
it should be bled when we were hard up. Here,
again, the question of how it was to be done
cropped up.
Another few minutes’ destructive selection
revealed that the only portion of even the beastly
public that might be robbed wjth an easy con-
science was that which included pawnbrokers and
bookmakers. And there was a race meeting out
at Maraeama the coming Saturday.
* * * >
The bookmakers always came home from
Maraeama racecourse in a body, in a first-class
carriage next to the guard’s van. They used to
bribe the guard to lock the back door of the
carriage, and shooed the general public out of the
front one by exhibiting a big card with the magic
word “Reserved” scrawled across it in blue
P® nc, l- Just a,s the train was moving out of
Maraeama Station I hopped on to the front plat-
form of their oarriage, and hung a handbag filled
with detonators on the side-chain by a hook,
xhen I went inside and sat down by Solly Davis.
My idea was to produce a sudden bump or shock,
which vvould so scare Israel that they would for-
get their bags as they clawed one another away
from the windows. There was sure to be one
window through which I could drop a bag or
two.
The lights of Maraeama died away in the dis-
tance, and the gleaming sheet of water vanished
behind the shoulder of the hill. Night came
■down in the gentle way it usually falls in southern
Maonland, and just when we trot to the loneliest
part of the track it was pitch dark, for clouds had
come over the sky and shut out the starshine.
I got up and went out on to the front platform,
telling Abraham Cohen that I was going to see a
girl in the first-class carriage in front. Abraham
winked. Once outside, I lay down on the plat-
form so that I might not be seen from either
carriage, and tried to lower the bag of detonators
on to the rail just in front of the bogey. For five
minutes I fooled about with it, and at last it
caught. There was a sudden wrench, and the
string by which I lowered it was snapped. With
a roar of echoing concussion the wheel passed over
the obstruction and came down on the rail again
with a considerable bump.
For a moment I wondered if I had overdone it.
An awful chorus of shrieks arose, and Driver
Maepherson whistled loudly for brakes. As I
scrambled to my feet and rushed into the book-
makers’carriage I saw that the Jews had fallen
■on one another’s necks, and their bags lay about
unheeded. Maepherson had shut off steam, and
there was an alarming succession of shocks as the
buffers bumped one after another. I helped to
bold Abraham Cohen up with one hand while
with the other I threw a couple of heavy, bulging
bags through an open window. Solly Davis sud-
denly screamed to all and sundry to look at
Moses Isaacs, who was in the act of scrambling
through the window, and would certainly break
bis neck. I grabbed him by the coat-tails, which
promptly gave way, and then I got him by the
legs and hauled him back again, where the other
Jews and Irishmen grabbed him. He foamed at
the mouth and tried to bite them, and, after
trying desperately to speak, fell down and barked
loudly.
I guessed he had seen the bags go.
I looked out of the window to get a glimpse of
a distance peg, and saw, away down the track, a
red light being waved wildly, about half-a-mile
on the rear. Then the train stopped.
Presently the man with the red light arrived.
-Of course he was a fettler, and a ganger at that.
He had heard the report, and was hurrying to the
spot, accompanied by two of his men. when two
great bags of bullion came hurtling through the
•air. One struck Bill Smith on the head, and laid
him out, and the other caught Hans Galeski in
+ke chest, and doubled him up. He had pro-
ceeded to the scene of the explosion alone, and
found a badly-crushed hand-bag, which he pro-
duced. The bookmakers howled wildly for in-
formation about the bags, and, rushing back into
the car, ascertained that the missing bullion
belonged to Solly Davis and Moses Isaacs. They
expressed their belief that Isaacs was evidently
quite mad when he took to throwing away cash
like that. In the meantime they demanded that
the train should go back and pick up the bags,
and when the guard refused to dream of such a
thing they rushed off on foot, only to meet Hans
Galeski toiling along with a bag slung over each
shoulder. Hans thought they were robbers by
the way they fell on him, and he hit out in great
old style, and there was wreck and damage.
At last order was restored, and we made a fresh
start. At Paisley the guard telegraphed a full
account of the attempt to wreck the train, and on
arrival at Romahapa we were met by the whole
Traffic Office staff and the press representatives.
Personally I was not interested in all this fuss,
but went straight home and took to drink. There
were large possibilities ahead when Moses Isaacs
recovered the power of coherent speech. I hoped
and prayed that he might remain a gibbering
idiot for the rest of his days. However, it was
no use getting drunk. I stopped after the tenth
whisky. Then I strolled along and had an
interesting conversation with Sammy Palliser,
the chemist, on the best methods of clean, pain-
less suicide.
However, it was all waste time, for Moses woke
up next morning in his right mind, and was
nearly killed outright by the amazing news that
he had thrown his own and Solly Davis’s bags out
of the window and tried to climb after them.
Fortunately, they forbore to tell him that his
frock coat; had been ruined in the struggle. The
sensation fell flat with the announcement that the
supposed infernal machine was only a bag of
service fog-detonators, which some careless officer
had dropped without reporting.
In the meantime the financial position became
more acute than ever, and I had to think out
another swindle.
* * * •
A.vonia was 250 miles north of Romahapa, the
capital of a Provincial District, and the site of a
District Traffic Office. Also, it had the finest
racecourse in all Maoriland. The Grand National
was run on Easter Monday, and all over the State
there was a fearful growl because the public tele-
graphic offices were closed till C p.m. The race
started at 4 sharp, and the bookmakers in Roma-
hapa would lay the odds right up till five minutes
past the hour. Later than that they declined to
do business.
I had thought out a splendid scheme. Its
drawbacks were that it required confederates
—no less than 15 of them—and everyone of
them must be a shareholder. Also, it required
some capital.
There was no continuous railway telegraph
wire between Avoma and Romahapa. The
longest northern wire from Romahapa ended at
Maru. Maru had another wire running north-
ward to Wairirimoana, and Wairirimoana had
another that connected it with Avonia. I got
a few days off, and went for a wild scamper up
to Avonia, and fixed things there and at the
intermediate stations. On the day of the Grand
National, precisely at 4 p.m., the man at Maru
connected his Wairirimoana and Romahapa wires
The man at Wairirimoana did the same with
his Maru and Avonia wires, and the result was
that, for a few minutes after 4 p.m. that Easter
Monday, there was an unauthorised continuous
wire between Romahapa and Avonia Traffic
Offices. We had the horses labelled A, B, 0.,
D., &c. Out on the course, a railway man let a
confederate in the Telephone Exchange know
immediately the judge’s flag was hoisted. The
Telephone man passed the word to the operator
in Avonia Traffic Office, and, by means of
specially-strengthened batteries, he flashed the
name and letter over our extemporised wire to
Romahapa Traffic Office, where the operator
immediately sent it along to another confederate
in Romahapa Telephone Exchange. In each
one of eight betting shops, otherwise known as
bookmakers’ offices, we had a confederate, who
arrived there not later than 3.50. The man in
the Exchange knew what shops they were wait-
ing in, and the letter of the winning horse hap-
pened to be D. In telegraphing, D is indicated
by a dash and two dots. So, when the tele-
phone man got the letter, he rang the telephone
in each bookmaker’s office three times, only the
first ring was a shade longer than the other two.
When the waiting agent heard the bell go
“R-r-r-ring, ring, ring,” he knew that Hinemoa
had won.
We had raised every available sixpence, the
whole company mortgaging and pawning every-
thing it could lay hands upon. And in all those
offices scattered in and between Avonia and
Romahapa we sat and shivered, and wondered
how our friends were getting on in the attempt
to clean out Israel. It was a big stake for us.
We had risked £320 and our billets, for nothing
was surer than that we would be sacked to a
man if we were bowled out.
Immediately the name and letter were through,
I gave the signal to disconnect, and it was none
too soon, for already various stations along that
250 miles of line had tried to call up other stations
for news of the Grand National, or in connection
with other business ; and the man a few miles
out of Romahapa pricked up his ears when he
heard the call signal of a station which was not
on the wire at all.
How slowly the time went! To-morrow the
wolf would be right inside. Already one man
had taken out a judgment summons, and with
the first report of the sort my brilliant career was
ended.
Jack Barron was the first to come in. He
arrived with a rush, and pulled out a flask of
whisky.
“I bought it with my last coin—and I’ll have
to walk home to dinner to-night, or go without ! ”
he laughed. “All the rest is on Hinemoa.
Whoop, how will they go to market at 6 p.m.
to-night! ”
I gulped the spirit down raw, while Jack
Barron laughed till the tears ran down his face.
Then he started to tell his story, and told it in
scraps and fragments as the telegrams came
pouring in. reporting the movements of specials
and excursions.
“ I walked into Solly Davis’s office at 3.50 p.m
exactly.
“ ‘ Well, Solly,’ I said, ‘ how goes it ? What’s
going to win ?’
“‘Jerusalem!’ said Solly. ‘Do you take me
for a tipster? Back your fancy, my boy, and take
no notice of tips—they are all bad.’
“Solstarted along, drivelsome yarn about form
and Solly listened wearily, and adroitly changed
to the subject of women, and I watched the
blessed clock. The hand crept round, old man
horridly slow. It seemed to take half-a-dozen
jerks to get over each minute, and then, suddenlv
at 4.8, the telephone goes ‘burrrrrrr, burr bur 1 ’
Solly yanked the receiver off the hook : ‘Halloa
halloa, halloa!’ he yelled. ‘Anybody there?'’
Then bvjging it on again when he got no reply,
he said, * Infernal bells are always ringing—they
oughter have the wires underground. Half the
time she rings there’s no one there.’
“‘By jove, Solly,’ I said, ‘that race is over,
and I came in to back Hinemoa, and you went off
on to your infernal yelping about women and
telephones. Damn ! ’
“ ‘ Don’t swear, or you’ll catch no fish,’ laughed
Solly. ‘As you came in before the race started,
and haven’t been out of the office, I’m still open
to win your money. If you like to back Hinemoa
I’ll lay you 7 to 1. How much shall we say ? ’
And he grabbed his book.
“ ‘ Can’t you make it 10 to 1?’ I asked. * She’s
an awful outsider, you know.’
“‘No, I should rob my unborn children,’ said
Solly.
“ ‘All right, here’s fifty quid—that’s £350.’
“Solly looked at me in astonishment: ‘Look
here, my poy, I hopes I am not taking any
borrowed moneys ! ’ he said, significantly.
“ ‘ No, I never use the till cash, Solly. You
won’t have to disgorge,’ I said.
“Then he made out the ticket. Have you
heard from any of the others yet ? ”
I had not, but at last they strolled in. They
had all been successful, and we stood to win about
£2500 among the 15 of us. Golden visions floated
through our minds. So long as we managed to
collect, none of us cared much what happened
after. We’d have one night of glorious revelry,
anyhow. In the meantime, we were stone-broke.
So we made a cup of cocoa in the office, and ate
sixpenn’orth of corned-beef and bread and butter.
And all that evening the train telegrams came
pouring in as excursions and specials left station
after station. At midnight I went home on a
shunting engine, and slept the sleep of the
successful swindler.
• * * *
Next morning a firm procession of eight book-
makers filed into the Old Man’s room and held a
long conversation, and were reported as having
retired with smiles on their noses.
I was roused from sleep by an urgent message
that Mr. Mackenzie wanted to see me. I swore,
for I knew he had come about the swindle.
“ Oh, tell him you find that I’m not at home,”
I said, but, as the girl turned to go, she met the
Old Man at the door pushing his way in.
“ He says he ain’t been home all night, sir.”
“Go to blazes!” said the Old Man, pushing
her out and shutting the door behind her. Then
he rushed at the bed.
“You cow! Nice set of infernal robbers you
are! What the ? How the do you
dare to put up a job like that, and never give me
a show to stand in? Well, you’ve killed your
blessed pig that lays the golden eggs. I’ll make
you make restitution, that’s all.”
“I’m sure I have not the slightest idea what
you’re talking about! ”
“ Oh, haven’t you ! Well, you faked up a wire,
and then you faked a telephone signal, and eight
bookmakers are up the spout for £4OOO. But
you’ve reckoned without me. I saw the game
soon as they told me. Of course” (he had a
cunning look in his eyes), “ they haven’t dropped
to it. I’ve promised to investigate, and, if I start,
I guess there’ll be vacancies.”
I groaned. This was the man I forbore to
blackmail.
“ I’ll go and see the rest.”
“Well, hurry up. I’m stuck for £2oo—must
have it this afternoon. Good Lord ! To think I
missed this ! We might have won another £lOOO
if you’d let me bring along my big resources.”
“ We’d have got no more on. We plunged too
deep as it was.”
“ Well, what time can you make this restitu-
tion ? ”
“ Soon as we collect. They’re lying about the
amount. We only win £2500, and there are 15 of
us to divide it among.”
The Old Man’s face fell.
“Well, that’s your own fault. Be sure and
collect before the bank closes. Now I’ll go and
make inquiries, and, as soon as the money arrives,
you’ll hear it talking.”
* >ic * *
The money arrived at 2.30 p.m. He had advised
the bookmakers to pay, promising that he would
compel an immediate refund if his inquiries re-
vealed anything crooked. The bookmakers knew
their man, and they left a little packet of gold on
the table —and that was the first money we heard
talking. We promptly raised our bid to £250,
and it talked so loudly, with such honest bluff and
indignation at the unwarranted suspicions thrown
on “the finest staff in the world,” that the other
side was drowned.
We were nearly drowned, also, that night—in
champagne.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Australia has already had a trial in the
manufacture of heavy ordnance. Ten years ago
the Atlas Engineering Works (Sydney) turned
out five cannon to the order of King George 11.
of Tonga. The artillery was completed to the
full satisfaction of military experts. King
George’s were thus the first big guns made in
Australia. The murky potentate had no idea of
creating a new Australian industry. His instruc-
tions were to purchase second-hand cannon if
Sossible, and failing that to apply to Britain or
ermany, but the Atlas people put in a tender
which snuffed out foreign competition. The guns
were sft. 2in. in length, with a bore of a fraction
over 34in., and weighed, with carriages, half a ton
each.


HAVE YOU
KIDNEY TROUBLE?
HOW TO TELL
Does every cold affect the back,
causing chilliness, uneasiness,
or pain ? Are there urinary
troubles, sediment, travel, pains in the sides or loins ? Do
you suffer from dizziness, rheumatism, headache, neur-
algia ? Is the skin sallow, the flesh swollen and flabby,
the sight dim ? Are you easily worried or tired out ?
Do you get depressed and hopeless ?
Health depends on the kidneys. Look after them, and
when you do not feel as well as you ought give your kid-
■ «2v.
'Mi
/««.;;/ j
Sis.
CSC
"Every Ticture Tells a Story
neys help, in
Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney
Pills. This
medicine is
special kidney
help ; all its
healing powers
go to the kid-
neys. It aids
the kidneys in
their great
work, it soothes
and heals the
tired kidney
membran es,
dissolves crys-
tallised uric
acid, and keeps
the body free
from kidney
poisons. Your
neighbor s
Sydney people
—have been
cured to stay
cured by
Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney
Pills. Bead
th e following
testimony :
Sydney People Cured.
A SYDNEY WOMAN,
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this
city, says:—“For about three years I suf-
fered with kidney derangement. The worst
symptom was a constant backache, which
became more painful whenever I stooped
much. I tried many remedies for this com-
plaint, and the results were anything but
beneficial, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
permanently cured me. It is over twelve
months since I used these pills, and I’ve had
no return of the old pain.”
Four years later, Mrs. Mullins informs us
that she is still well. “I have never had a
sign of the complaint since,” she says.
“ They are splendid pills, and have made a
great difference in my health. The per-
manent cure in my case speaks for itself. ’’
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. OcS. per box
(six boxes iss. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. W. James, Tobacconist, Manly,
states :—“ Five years ago I took a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they
cured me of pains in the back, and strength-
ened my kidneys. I had been suffering with
this trouble a good while, and it was the first
medicine to do me good. Pve been quite
free of the ailment ever since. Pve never
taken a pill or had any treatment for the
kidneys whatever. It is solely Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills which cured me. Any-
body who suffers with the kidneys should
use this remedy. I can recommend it. Five
years is a good test.”
.
•><**?«
BACKACHE
ECZEMA.
Nothing spoils a good disposition quicker.
Nothing taxes a man’s patience
Like any irritation of the skin.
Piles almost drive you mad.
All day they make you miserable.
All night they keep you awake.
Just the same with Eczema.
Such miseries are daily decreasing.
People are learning they \be cured.
Learning the merit of Doan’s Ointment.
Plenty of qu'oof that Doan’s Ointment will
cure
Piles, Eczema, or any irritation of the skin.
Read the testimony of a Sydney woman :
Mrs. F. Fitch, 36 Wattle-street, this city,
says:—“Doan’s Ointment cured my little boy
of Eczema about three and half years ago,
and he has remained free of this terrible
complaint ever since. For eight months he
was suffering with this complaint—it was all
over his body, and it was worse about the
head, under the arms, and down the legs.
But, as a matter of fact, it was bad all over
him, and very itchy. The hair came off his
head, and we had to keep him covered up all
over to prevent him from scratching. Medi-
cal treatment did him no good, nor did the
various remedies which we tried. The neigh-
bors said that nothing would ever do him any
good. But lam glad to say that Doan’s
Ointment started to relieve him as soon as I
applied it, and in three days a very great im-
provement could be seen. We used five pots
to effect a cure, and he has not had a blemish
on his skin since.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Remember the name—DOAN’S.
Little Joan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SO all the day
Waxed bright and gay
From appie-red to jade,
A nd thro’ the trees
The thrumming bees
Like sparks of fire they played.
And baby Joan
Walked quite alone
Amid the noonday heat,
Her golden hair
More bright and fair
Than the fair golden wheat.
While o’er the hills
The running rills
Of chapel bells rang clear,
For sober folk
With hat and cloak
To gather far and near.
I saw them ride,
Each side by side,
In grave and decent row ;
The dainty miss
None dared to kiss—
Her gown and furbelow.
The aged wight
Whose hair was white,
The springalls tall and straight.
The parson, too,
Beside his Prue
And Gossip Addlepate.
To chapel they
With fine array
liode in religious mind,
Till I alone
And little Joan
Were all who stayed behind.
Aye, there alone
With little Joan
In peaceful, quiet rest ;
Out of her eyes
I saw arise
God’s love made manifest.
A nd thro’ the trees
Upon the breeze
We heard the organ song,
Like to a stream
Where roses dream.
Hush’d as it rolls along.
So let them go
In sober row,
To chapel those who may ;
Here will I keep
My watch, nor sleep,
Where God is ev’ry day.
N.S. W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Tried by Fire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
COLETHORPE was thirty-three ; but
seven hours of one day held for him more
of life than had all those clean, eager
years.
It was when the fires were out across New South
Wales, and men, seeing stock and land eaten up
before their eyes, forgot it in the agonised striving
to save children and wife. Colethorpe had no
wife. When he first saw Mrs. Asher, two years
since, he knew that he never would have one.
But none else knew, least of all Mrs. Asher her-
self, until the day which Colethorpe counted apart
from others to the end of his life,
A day can breed destiny. An hour can forge
a chain that will not break to the last moment of
eternity. Colethorpe guessed something of this
when he rode through the fire-line to Jingalee ;
rousing Asher before the dawn, and sending him,
stuttering and fearful eyed, back to his wife. He
guessed rather more when she was beside him,
sitting her horse with the free grace he knew well,
and turning to him, even as Asher turned, for
advice and help.
Asher was a big, burly man, with the soul of a
wood-louse. Colethorpe felt a sudden disgust,
looking on the flabby mouth and the loose cheeks.
Fear had smirched the man for all to see, and
Colethorpe dare not lift his eyes as he spoke to
Asher’s wife.
He told her, in curt, clear words, of the possi-
bility of flagging the north train on the perman-
ent way—always supposing that they could win
through the bush-belt to the line.
“ It was not afire when I came up,” he said.
“ But now —I don t know.”
Mrs. Asher smiled at him. She had the brave,
peaceful face of a woman who pays her vows,
purely and unflinchingly, though realising all that
it costs.
" We’ll get through—with you to lead us,” she
said.
The blood ran hot to Colethorpe’s heart, but
the stern code which he had taught himself held
his voice steady.
“Yes, we’ll get through,” he said.
They got through. But Colethorpe’s hand was
on Asher's bridle-rein, and if his v'hip cut the
man as well as the terrified horse, this will not lie
to Colethorpe’s blame. The lire had come over a
ridge to the left, heading them down the bush-
belt, whooping and snarling behind them, until
Colethorpe looked at the woman riding at his
knee.
“We must chance it here,” he said, “or we’ll
lose the train. Follow me, and drive the mare
through.”
Then he leaned to Asher with a curse on his
lips.
“If you pull back now,” he said, “by Heaven,
you’ll stay there ! I’m going to save her.”
There were three minutes to spare when Cole-
thorpe flung his rein to the woman and ran
between the metals with two handkerchiefs
blowing out on a stick. The train roared in mad
haste, for there was bitter danger ahead, and
scant time wherein to meet it. Mrs. Asher shut
tier eyes and prayed. That one man on the line
looked hopelessly indistinct in the rolling smoke,
and the roar of the wind and the racing fire killed
all other sounds.
Then Colethorpe’s hand was over hers.
“Come,” he said, and before she well under-
stood the three lay flat in a dirty, low-sided truck,
with the rails screaming under the wheel, and the
thick, brown smoke bellyiug lower and more acrid
as the heat grew fiercer.
Mrs. Asher lay where Colethorpe had put her,
watching the two men. Colethorpe was on his
feet. His hat was gone, and his coat was tinder;
his neck was streaked with smoke and sweat, and
his eyes were blurred and red. But Asher,
crouched in a corner, heard what the other had to
say with a blank-eyed terror that shamed the
woman. Colethorpe was speaking distinctly, and
snatches of what he said came to the woman
through the fury of sound.
“We’ll be into the thick of it—falling trees,
perhaps, or a heated—if the lines twist out —yes,
it means death, I think. What? What ? Yes,
two axes. I had them on the saddle. But ”
Then the voice was roughened and quick, and the
woman, lying still, heard each word. “Abetter
way than that for her. We’ve both got knives—
will you do it, if necessary?”
Mrs. Asher watched the two faces, fascinated.
Then she saw her husband cover his eyes with
shaking hands, and Colethorpe wheeled and came
back to her. His mouth showed the old kindly
smile as he dropped down beside her and pulled
out his pipe.
“You don’t mind a little extra smoke?” he
asked. “I haven’t had my breakfast pipe—or
my breakfast either.”
The firm sinewy hands filled the pipe neatly,
brushed off a speck of tobacco from the knee, and
Colethorpe leant back, smiling still.
“How have you kept so tidy?” he said. “I’m
too dirty to touch you—if necessary. Look here !”
She knew well the way in which he meant to
touch her “if necessary.” But she felt no fear,
only a strange, exultant pride in his steady hand
and eyes.
“We’re going fast,” she said. “ Perhaps we’ll
be out of it soon.”
It was never Colethorpe’s way to lie. But he
spoke gently.
“Hardly. The worst is to come. There’s a
steep grade presently, and the fires have been in
the bush there two days. You’re not afraid, are
you ? ”
“But if—if ” —?
The quivering lip, the eyes that were too brave
to fall, tested Colethorpe to the utmost.
“ We have all got to die, some time,” he said,
gravely. “ There’s no choice there. But we can
choose whether or no we die pluckily. If it
comes to that—and it may—l think you will die
pluckily. And I will promise that you do not
suffer.”
Under the low smoke, struck through now with
red falling leaves and sticks, she looked across to
her husband, where he huddled in the corner, his
coat over his head. Colethorpe’s eyes followed
hers, but he did not speak. He could give her no
comfort there.
The shriek of tortured trees and exulting flames
rose louder. A whirlwind caught the smoke hang-
ing thick on the track, and spun it up to Heaven,
leaving clear for an instant the earth below.
Colethorpe, standing with keen eyes, saw the up-
trail along the flank of the range show sheer and
white between the thin dark lines of bush.
But as he looked the fire grasped with hot hands;
the trees spouted flame and smoke, fountain-wise ;
and the tall columns swooped down all ways, with
fiery tracks of sparks on the dun air. The heat
blistered his skin, a thousand thousand flying
points of fire bit and flicked him ; then the smoke
rolled down, thick and smothering as a feather-
bed. Far forward the engine was shrieking
defiance. Colethorpe’s eyes lit a moment. The
stokers in the cab were playing a man’s game this
day.
Then he groped back to the woman, setting his
teeth as his hand came on her bowed neck.
“ Will you let me hold you ?” he said. “ Asher
is dazed, I think.”
She submitted, unspeaking, as his arms closed
round her.
“ Is it death ?” she whispered.
Colethorpe bent nearer, his lips against her soft
skin; and she knew that the knife lay ready to
his right hand.
“ Meg,” he said, “it is not death if we-go to-
gether. It is life, Meg—my love.”
She twisted, with a breath of sobbing joy ; and
their lips met with a great gladness that swept
out all earthly thoughts, leaving only the naked
souls that had been destined for each other since
Time was.
It was the woman who moved first, The hide-
bound custom of years cramped her.
“Oh—l never meant to let—— Oh, it is
wrong ”
“Not now,” he said, steadily ; and in the dark
and the heat of hell he was feeling over her with
swift firm fingers, that lie might strike true.
“Death is the beginning of new things. If this
had not been I would never have let you know.
But now —we’ll go together, my love, my love.”
“ Yes,” she whispered. And then again they
forgot; and time fled by, unheeded.
The truck rocked and moaned with the pace.
In the corner a man cursed all things past and to
be in a blind frenzy of terror. Either side the
track the flames mouthed and snarled; leaping,
clutching, spitting, tearing the tall trees down as
wolves tear a horse. Burnt tinder and sparks
drifted into the truck, and ahead the engine
labored, screaming like a creature in pain. But
to the man and the woman on the brink of death
these things mattered not at all. The fiery
crucible had fused their love for ever, so that they
should enter life hand in hand. They did not
speak again. For was there not all eternity in
which their souls would understand ?
A branch split from a rocking tree overhead
and crashed down upon them in a volley of sparks.
Colethorpe caught the blazing wood with his bare
hand, flinging it over-side. And as he moved he
saw, through the thinning smoke, black level
country, stripped clear of further harm or good.
The sight struck him like a blow. Then a faint
cheer from the forward carriages told that the
danger was past.
He stood a moment —a man pulled back from
Heaven by a rough and merciless hand. Then
he stooped to her, speaking as she would have
wished. There was no need to say much ; for
there were all the desolate years in which each
should think of all the other would have said.
“ The train is safe now. And you must under-
stand I said there was no harm in this if it
was death. And it is death. I will be dead to
you from now, because —I reverence you too
much. So there is nothing to grieve for. If ever
you want help I will know, and I'll come to you.
But you need not be afraid ; I won’t come till
then.”
They did not say “Good-bye.” They touched
neither hands nor lips. But she saw him swing
up on the truck-end, leap across the connection to
the carriage beyond, wrench the door open, and
go in. And he did not look back.
Then she fell down among the black ashes on the
truck-floor, crying with long, tearless sobs, because
God had given to her Life and not Death.
G. B. LANCASTER.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
-
%
y
tiias
m
“My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits. In later years these
were more frequent, ana her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
here in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to give it a trial,
and the result w 7 as marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
“I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully.” — John F.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland.
“P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla —“AYER’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER’S S arsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by JL>R. J. C. AYES & CO., Lowell, Maas.. IT. 8. A.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
fdg
r
n
E
E
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets,
each containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards re-
turn us our 65., and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By
continuing the sale of our cards you can earn a Ladies’or
f" e , n s' ® Silver Watch and Chain ; a Photo Camera
loaded for use; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes.
, - —■ uuu» oA4uiaiiiD auu uiiun-H inues. Re-
member, we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have
no connection with any other firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards
1? t. ala ’ aiK P n P° rt ou J‘ Jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be
tne first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. Every month we
are changing and improving our post cards, which are all copyright and cannot be ob-
tained elsewhere. Our illustrated gems of Australian poets, Lindsay Gordon, Patterson,
m > lf iue. Our Actress Series is a collection of popular artists, comprising Grace
Palotta Sarah Bernhardt, Nellie Stewart, and many other artfets renowned for their
talent and beauty Our London Series contains world famous historic London building
Uur prizes give full satisfaction and are as represented in illustrations. We refer to any
trade agency, or to our many well-pleased agents. We have thousands of testimonial/
having built up our large business by giving full satisfaction to all.
REGAL POST CARD CO.. BK O’Connell St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Us
a
y/y^
W.
w
• V / / 9 *
EPEE TRIALI!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s mproved high grade ELECTRIC
BEETS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever 'nvented.
It will cure all ases of Rheumatism,'Varico-
cele, Jmliges ion, Ejumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Ewe , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free'“r„",,5s
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which shcriild be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt F'ree Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this pap“r
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that j usfcly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALISE
11, showing sufferers how they may CURE
OF ALL' NERVOUS TROUBLES,
ueouity, and their serio'us consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
DR. RAftftNSli
THEMSELVES
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
Mr
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing.' Are the same
’to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORD'S
L \ Ft-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restares Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
_ all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AW IWTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving: instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter hfe and produce prepiature decay and loss of
nerve-pow*r and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
nient with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
2i.?? rsc>ris lost all hope before reading this book
i!rsF E 0n APPLICATION, Address, SECRETARY'
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Ghambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address •
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charsre
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHfLLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
Clje World 9 s JWedicirje
for Weak Sfomac/j, 3repaired 7)igesfion ,
Jpactive driver, ar\d all Tedious arjd
JYervous disorders.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
A fewdosesof BEEC-lAYPS PILLS act thoroughly upon
the vital organs. They cleanse, strengthen and restore
the system to a healthy condition. They drive all im-
purities from the blood and rid the stomarh and bowels
of poisonous gases. They give tone to the digestive
organs and enable the food properly to assimilate.
Appetite returns and sleep is sound and refreshing.
E-iEGHAM'S PILLS do all this without the aid of any
oth.r medicine. Trey have a great sale because they
make great cures. They cure because tLsy are a great
medicine. They recommend themselves. You wi-1
recommend them after use.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price I'll (56 pills) & 2 9 (168 pills).
"lOOM.
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
* GOOD PRICE unless handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
A MAN’S WATCH,
The Dependable Kind—
This is a Watch we can
honestly recommend.
It has fully jewelled lever movement, made of the finest parts,
in tightly fitting oxidised case, with strong or.vstel glass.
We warrant it for 20 years, and guarantee it to
give you the utmost satisfaction.
Post free to any address at the price— 255. —with the right
of return, if on receipt you are of opinion it is not exactly as
represented.
Our new Catalogue for Christmas will be ready
early next month. It will be full of gfood things.
Ybn need a copy. Send us a post card with your
name and address for our mailing: list.
ANGUS & COOTE,
George Street, cor. Royal Arcade, Sydney,
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
25s
25s
\
/
fdg
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
Incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name wr
(WIDYj
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURB, will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.fIIINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best versts; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. fid. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21 Si A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
MEN
NO
WOMEN
Over 20,000 CASES Successfully
Treated during the last 25 years.
SUCCESS UNPARALLELED IN AUSTRALIA.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
The only Legally Qualified Author and Specialist Advertising and
Holding his Qualifications.
Specialist in Nervous, Skin Troubler, Rupture, Varicocele, eta.
Consulting Physician in Men’s Special Disorders.
DISEASES OF WOMEN A SPECIALITY. Moderate Charges.
Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Acute Disorders Cured in 48 hours. Chronic Cases, 5 to 10
SPECIAL NOTICE. —DR. MARTIN’S Five Lectures may he had for 2s. Cd., post free. *
PRESS EXTRACTS.—The Australian Press on Dr. Martin's publications. Post Free.
“SPECIMEN PAGES.”—A glimpse of what “The Diseases of Men and Women” is like. Thirtv-two
pages, fully illustrated. Posted Free for two stamps. “'
Consultation Free (personally, or by letter). Hours, 10 to 4 ; 7 to 9 daily.
Dr. Martin receives a Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients at “ ELMLKY HOUSE.”
CALL OR WRITE. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR, MARTIN, M,D., “Elm Soy Hous@ f ” 151
HYDE, PARK, SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper when writing.


Use Your
Hose -Now
den Hose now,
you'll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
o better Hose than ours.
Sena Xr
Price Lists
There’s a lot that's not nearly so
pood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation pood.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
HARDY’S
df
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“THE WONDER”
AIR HAMMER
DRILLS...
SOLK
Agents—
W. and J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
—akd at —
64 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY .
Wonder Drills are essentially “ONE MAN” ROCK DRILLS.
Require only 25 CUBIC FEET of free air per minute compressed at about 801bs. pressure.
VERY SIMPLE AND EXTREMELY Particulars on Application.
The ORIGINAL and BEST AIR HAMMER PERCUSSION ROCK DRILLS.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
gdf
s3Mddn§puß
"SOOiB JSCI
Wood Pulleys
Shafting .
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can he obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyHE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fcc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name* of
the Inventor
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin” Writers.
Thb Book ia adorned . . .
By “ Bulletin ” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN COOP YARNS— AIX
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the Price Post Free from this Office.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
S. SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
t
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
gf
Sol
fey
all first'
claw stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176£ 2-BLADE
“ PAfIPA,”
Cocoa Handle 11
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
GARDEN HOSE
AND ALL ACCESSORIES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST to
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER COY.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BILLETTS Patent |-| OT Al R TU Y ERE
Effects a saving of at
Beast 25 per cent, in
your coal bill.
Heats the iron in one-
third less time.
Possesses many other
advanfages over the
old water tue Iron.
BILLETT-S
PATENT TUYERE
MOUNT MORGAN GOLD GO. writes :
“ We have proved these Tuyeres
to be an excellent invention. Every
smith’s fire on the works is now
fitted with one. We can testify
that they do even more than is
claimed for them.”
To be had of all Hardware Houses.
SOLE LICENSEES—
N.GUTHRIDGE LS
