

Vv JnL ■rVO
I i idArtb
REPUTATION .
«&£. ZJO
Milling
and Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
syaney,
Kent street,
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
▲MD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
R " aS3’ ci°V or PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES
AfO Fitted with tho n ® ,ne Parts monntecl on Machined Steel Seatlngs riveted on the holler. No leaking Joints
Cnllnuiiniy I . or griming. Patent Steam Stay preventing vibration and taking up the strain. Improved
renewing improvements l expansion eccentric Tor economising steam and reversing the direction oT running.
For Particulars
Apply to
SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney n.s.w.
3E3CQBtA^ : t. , X , a
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
HE
*
" Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
Pine Apple Brand I
HAMS ®
BACON.
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
Tiatwngf)
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted. ~9f
cue ,
u -& lk?t.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins # Wool
SJES3XTI3 TO
GOLDSBROUGH, MORI & CO. LTD.,
Highest Values, Speedy Returns.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
is the Queen oM Cocoft
FOI^
l Arom^Strertgthfi'PuritK
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY■ pr Off BOTTLEH
mi
m
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
engineers,
Vulcsfii Foundry, Osclong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Malting' Machinery.
HELIDON SPA.
' ‘ ’
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
QOLLIKT & 00., ent s.
The Bulletin
V0J.27.— N0. 1389.]
[Thursday. September 27, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


JXJST TO HAND.
ma : e e v,“" s treasure of heaven
With Photo, of the Author, nearly 600 pages. Paper wrapper, 2s 6d ; cloth, 3s 6d, postage 6d
Seymour, How to Speak Effectively, 2s 6d, post fid.
Walker, Modern Medicine for the Home, 2s 6d, post 6d.
1000 Practical Receipts in Trade, Manuf., etc., Is 3d, p.-3d.
(OasseH’s Cabinet Cyclopedia, concise and comprehen-
sive, illus., over 1300 pages, 7s 6d, postage 2s.
Herbert Spencer, by Thomson, 3s, post 6d.
Grandiere, How to Fence, Foil and Ep6e, 2s 6d post 4d
Puxley, Modern Dairy Farming, 4s, post 6d.
Hyslop, Enigmas of Psychical Research, 6s, post 6d.
Byrom, Physics and Chemistry of Mining, 4s, post 6d.
Wragge, Romance of the South Seas, 3s 6d, post 9d.
Progress of Science in the Century, 6s, post 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
g.yavjdso/v
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. <sd.
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
.Suitable for old and young.
The Lancet : “ Proved to be as effective, baetericidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great servioe
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. [3.
THE RED PAGE.
THE MAKING OF A MASTERPIECE
MOST readers know the picture of
Marcus Clarke, writing For the
Term of His Natural Life , that ia
given by . Hamilton Mackinnon.
Mackinnon tells how, m 1871, Clarke’s
health was failing, and doctors recommended
a trip to Tasmania.
But as funds were, as usual with him, decidedly
short, how was the change to be effected? An
idea occurs to the always designing brain of the
“ready writer.” He would ask the publishers
of the now defunct Humbug to bring out a tale of
bis in their Australian Journal , a monthly maga-
zine devoted to stories of Australian character.
The tale should be full of thrilling incidents
relating to the old convict life in Tasmania.
Brimming over with the idea, the ingenious jour-
nalist sought the presence of the publishers in
question—Messrs. Clarson, Massina and Co.—
and made his suggestions. The offer was at once
accepted, and the needy writer received the need-
ful to take him over to Van Diemen’s Land, in
order to improve his health and enable him to
pore over prison records.
Thus was the now deservedly celebrated novel
of “ His Natural Life ’’ initiated. But as to how
it was completed is quite another matter, as the
unfortunate publisher can testify through bitter
experience. The very thought of the trouble
given by the eccentric novelist even now causes a
shadow to flit across that Jr**"'* Jirow. And
this is how it was written, or, rroe properly
speaking, dragged out of the author. For one or
two issues the necessary instalments of copy
would come to hand with regularity and precision,
then the next one <m' two issues would have to go
to press without a line of the novel which was
“to be continued in our next,” much to the dis-
gust of the subscribers to the magazine. In the
meantimo the author would be frequently inter-
viewed by the publishers, and would as frequently
promise the copy. When mor Li illusion was ap-
parently powerless to effect the required object,
payments in advance were made with somewhat
better results, but as these could not go
on ad libitum, copy would fall in arrears
again. At last it was found that the only
way to get the author to finish his tale was to
induce him into a room in the publishing house,
where, under the benign influences of a pipe, &e.,
&c., and a lock on the door, the necessary work
would b • done b.y the facile pen ; and in such
manner was “ His Natural Life ” produced.
But the reader must remember that the book,
,as published by Messrs. Bentley in London, is
vastly different in finish, and even in the con-
struction of the story and the portrayal of the
characters, to that which appeared in serial form
in the Aiislralian Journal. In the work of
excision and supervision, prior to the publication
of the book in London, Clarke had'the experi-
enced literary assistance of Sir Charles (Javan
Duffy to whom he dedicated the work, and in
whose opinion the author held a high position as
a man of letters.
Jt
Of the original version of His Natural Life
the new generation knows little ; and the
bound volumes of The Australian Journal
that contain it are on the way to become
rare and precious books. Yet that original
version is in several ways interesting. It
contains perhaps twice as much matter as
appears in the current edition, and much
that is now omitted is marked with Clarke’s
own cachet of distinction. Of the matter
retained, much has been varied ; for the
revision was keen and careful. Truncation
robs the story of what originally was an im-
portant part, sketching romantically the
history of the Victorian rush for gold, and
of the fight at Eureka.
Incontestably the work has been improved
since the original publication. The old ver-
sion has not the rounded shape, the vital
form which Clarke has given to the new.
Clarke doubtless had in mind the method of
publication which Charles Dickens adopted—
a method which bred monsters. He took
hints and help from Dickens ; from the
Tichbourne case ; and especially from Les
Miserables. He pillaged the old records
ruthlessly, and created with splendid talent
a book that remains, whatever its faults, the
only masterpiece in fiction that has been
written in Australia.
In the original version Rufus Dawes is
transported not for the murder of Lord
Bellasis, but for the murder of a Dutch
visitor in a London inn. Later it appears
that he had married the Dutchman’s daughter.
The whole of the first “ hook ” of the original
version is reduced to the new “ prologue.”
It is a technical lesson k> follow Clarke
through the process of condensation, and to
see how he has changed his work in bulk and
in detail. The first draft of the description
of the prison ship opened :
It was the breathful stillness of a tropical after-
noon. The air was bot and heavy, the sky brazen
and cloudless, and the shadow of the Malabar
lay alone on the surface of the great glittering
sea.
In revision Clarke alters this to a single
dramatic sentence :
In the breathless stillness of a tropical after-
noon, when the air was hot and heavy and the
sky brazen and cloudless, the shadow of the
Malabar lay solitary on the surface of the glitter-
ing sea.
Breathful was probably a misprint, but in
the omission of great, and in the alteration
of alone to solitary, critical judgment is dis-
played.
As Clarke proceeds, one sees that his ob-
ject is to convert a feuilleton into a piece of
literature. He omits a great deal of docu-
mentary baggage, and much of which the
interest is episodical. The description o!
Sarah Purfoy on the convict vessel is post-
poned till her arrival in Tasmania. A lengthy
chapter describing Hobart Town in 1830 is
cut out. The heroine’s name is altered from
“ Dora ” to “ Sylvia.” In the visit of inspec-
tion, which occupies ch 21 of book i i in
the revised version, Clarke omits siuh a
passage as this :
Frere : Any complaints ?
Prisoner: No, your Honour.
Frere (encouragingly): Don’t be afraid to speak
out, you know. Have you anything to complain
Of?
Prisoner (with his eye on Burgess) ; Nothing at
all, your Honour.
Frere (pompously): Have I your permission,
Captain Burgess, to give this man a piece of to-
bacco ?
Burgess (solemnly): Certainly, Captain Frere.
Frere: Here’s some tobacco for you, my man.
Prisoner ( touching his forehead): Much obliged
to you, sir.
And then, turning his back, he would grin
among his comrades.
Sometimes Meekin took part in the farce by
calling out a prisoner to quote Scripture. Thus :
Meekin: Come here, No. 422, and let me see if
you can recite to the gentlemen any of the texts I
have taught you.
No. (with immense volubility): Though I
walk through the valley of the shadow of death I
will foar no evil for thou art with me—thy rod and
thy staff, they comfort me (gasp). Thou preparest
a table before me in the presence of mine enemies,
thou anointest my ’ead with hoil, my cup runneth
over (gasp), surely goodness and mercy shall
follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell
in the ’ouse of the Lord for ever (touches his fore-
head ).
Meekin (looking round with delight): And can
you tell me who wrote these verses ?
No. m: David.
Meekin: Who was David ?
No. 422 : A king of Israel. He was a shepherd,
and killed Goliah with a sling, Anno Mundi two
thousand nine hundred and fifty-six.
Meekin: Very good, indeed. Thank you.
(Aside to Dora) : A most intelligent man. I have
great hopes of him.
No. (aside to his friends on retiring): No
blank tobacco ! Blank ’em, do they think a blank
blank is going to spout their blank texts for
nothing ? Blank and space and (etc., etc.).
North’s diary is cut down considerably.
In the account of Dick Purfoy, a cancelled
character, Clarke gives some passages of
description that are worth preserving, and
that may have autobiographical value.
These ranges—big, long, and bristling with the
grotesque vegetation of the Australian mountain
ridges—were his father and mother, his confidant
and familiar friend. Whenever he was beaten or
maltreated he would disappear into the sombre
gullies, and forcing his mountain-bred horse up
all sorts of devious paths, would spend hours
stretched upon some lofty crag, staring alternately
into the blue sky above him and the grey bush
below him. Not that there was anything poetical
in the boy—save that natural poetry inherent in
children —but that in these solitudes lay all he
had known of peace and ease. Alone amid the
mountain gorges, with his fleet horse tethered
close at hand, ready to bear him where he liked,
and with no living creature else visible but the
floating eaglehawks, he realised something of that
calm happiness which more fortunate children
find in well-ordered homes and the caresses of
loving parents.
Lying there a solitary little soul, he could form
wild boyish plans of the future, heat his sorrows
into the kindly earth with passionate hands,
catch—from the rustling of the branches and the
soughing of the mountain airs—something of a
better and holier thought than was vouchsafed to
him in the grosc revelry of the huts, or the fierce
excitement of the dusty yards. The trees were
his companions ; the boulders and crags bis trusty
friends. They never laughed at him, nor lashed
him. On this giant gum he had cut out
liis initials, by that rough stone he had sat
and wept. It was in this creek he had been
nearly drowned in the last winter’s flood. It was'
in that gully he had found the brindled bullock,
for whom the whole station had hunted in vain.
It was into that pool be had hurled fragments of
earth, measuring the future greatness of his
righteous vengeance by the widening eddies. It
was against yonder tree that he had flung stones,
decidiug if he should find his father that
momentous and absorbing question—by his
success in striking the gnarled and knotted
target.
**
John Rex, also, does not escape at once to
England from the Blowhole, and the account
of his life on Sarah's station (now omitted)
has still interest for us. Clarke has rightly
cut away his material to make his story.
When he comes to the cyclone, much of
other people’s information is omitted ; and to
end the current book a condensed passage is
transferred from a point farther on in the
original version. The extended passage is
worth quoting as an example of Clarke’s
rhetorical manner :
In the human soul are depths which the intel-
lect fails to fathom. In tne great crisis of our
life, when brought face to face with annihilation,
we are suspended gasping over the great empti-
ness of death—we become conscious that the
“self” which we think we know so well has
strange and terrible capabilities. The mists that
compass our self-knowledge become transparent.
Deep calls to deep within us. We look down into
the profundity of our own souls and are appalled.
In those undreamed-of-voids our consciousness
cannot fly. An infinity of sensations is beneath
us i to look is to swoon, to lose grasp of ourselves
to fall headlong. The terrible Duality which is
mar is alone with itself in that horrible solitude
of consciousness, and our soul at once judges and
defends, condemns and pleads, asserts the majesty
of our good, and dismally confesses the power of
our evil. Become at once God and Satan, our
sou] contends with itself for the Heaven of its own
approval.
To describe a tempest of the elements is not
easy, but to describe a tempest of the soul is im-
possible. How can one set down in cold blood—
laboriously drawing characters upon paper the
multitudinous and varied sensations that go to
make up the myriad ideas sweeping like storm-
birds over that waste and awful ocean whose
shores no man hath touched, nor will touch while
time rolls. Amid the fury of such a tempest, a
thousand memories—each bearing in its breast
the corpse of some dead deed whose influence
haunts us yet—are driven like feathers before the
blast, as unsubstantial and as unregarded. Our
lonely, helpless egotism is afloat rudderless in the
storm. We lose our individuality, and by and
by, when the bright sun shines and the clouds
pass, the poor “ I.” that was so taut and trim in
the morning, lies shattered and water-logged,
scarce able to crawl'to port. This much we can
feel and tell, hut who, escaping thus, can coldly
describe the hurricane which has overwhelmed
him ? As well ask the rescued sailor to tell you
of the marvels of mid-sea, when the great deeps
swallowed him, and the darkness of death encom-
passed him round about.
The current book ends with the death of
Dawes and childless Sylvia. In the original
version Dora escapes with her child Dorcas,
and while Dora is drowned, Dawes and
Dorcas are picked up and taken to Port
Phillip. Dawes goes up country under
another name, and works for some time as a
shepherd. He finds the first gold at Golden
Point in 1851. sets up a store and makes
money. The account of the rush is effective.
To Golden Point comes Arthur Vern (so-
called), a nephew of Dawes or Devine. He
loves Dorcas, and Dawes discovers that his
own feelings towards Dorcas are not pre-
cisely those of a father; but, true to his
heroic model, he sacrifices himself to the
younger man. Clarke takes us past Eureka
Stockade and gives a telling description of
the fight and the combatants, with many
picturesque phrases. Here the secret of
the murder in the inn is disclosed to Arthur
Vern, who imitates Marius in Leu Miserables
in suspecting the honesty of Cosotte-Dorcas’s
“ father.”
Presently the story goes to Amsterdam,
which Clarke incidentally describes. His
picture of a Dutchman’s home is striking.
To comprehend a Miens or a Rachel Ruisch —
in which blooms, perhaps, a tulip, whose every
petal invites the microscope— we must have lived
in those gloomy and gigantic wood-piles ; contem-
plated the sluggish and melancholy tide ; and
analysed the smoke-wreaths of a Dutch pipe ;
watched the fire-light glow long nights together
upon Dutch tiles ; meditated, amid the gloom of a
Dutch winter, upon the red sun glowering through
his silver fogs; huddled round the stove in a
corner of the great chamber ; or clambered up the
blaelc and ghostly staircases amid the misty
aureole of our solitary candle.
The atmosphere, heavy and dispiriting, invites
to melancholy ease. Surrounded by sad-coloured
flats, grey sands, and dismal sea, we shrink
within our houses, and, shutting close the flapping
shutter, let the chill world speed on as it may.
The home life is the best life. Within our four
walls we elect to dwell for ever. The ‘'house”
becomes more than a dwelling—it is part of our-
selves, it partakes of our phlegm, it defies the
cold blast comfortably with us, it shares our warm
days until its gilt vane burns again, it holds deep
in its ruddy winter-memories whatever secrets we
have given to fhe grotesque keeping of the fire-
light and the shadows.
Tn sud) houses, generations, with their thousand
aspirations, hopes, loves, fears, crimes and secrets,
have been horn, lived, and died, one after the
other, without wishing to pass beyond the door
lintel. In such houses, in such a country, there
are fplks who vegetate for a life-time, without
hope or wish to ’change. They are horn, cry,
play, fall in love, marry, have children, grow rich,
and die; they play out their whole life-drama
without a change of scene. Have they ambitions,
loves, hatreds, secrets? The old house has room,
and to spare, for them all.
Back in Australia, Maurice Frere is gover-
nor of Pentridge gaol, and is murdered by a
gang of prisoners led by his own son. The
Rev. Meekin is chaplain at the gaol, and is
shocked at the occurrence.
‘‘Good heaven ! The villains ! The inspector,
too! How awful, Mr. Pine! In the midst of
life—dear me ! Pray bring him in ! Mind his
poor head ! And all in a moment ! Carefully,
my dear young sir ! And a lady waiting to see
him !
There is a general illumination, and the
leading characters go to Amsterdam, where
Rufus Dawes meets the wife of his youth ;
“ Oh, my husband ! ” cried Dorothea, with
streaming eyes, and face radiant with forgiving
love and sorrow, “ I have held you in abhorrence
as a criminal, when I should have worshipped you
as a martyr. Reichart! Reichart!”
“ -—lst heir ! ” cried Richard Devine,..
Sarah Purfoy is left still clinging to John
Rex ; Arthur Devine is married to Dorcas ;
and the book ends happily and badly.
Whatever be credited concerning Redmond
Barry’s “advice,” or Gavan Duffy's “assist-
ance in revision, ” the changes have been well
made. Yet there are in the old version
many passages of good writing, and many
passages of Australian interest, that one
would not willingly leave burned.
MEMORINDI.
“Ames,” says a Munscy’s writer of a N York
journalist, “ was the king-pin, the many-petalled
marguerite, the star-bright 100-100 of the rewrite
men.” “Star-bright 100-loo” is tolerably fine.
It tempted one to look for the point of the yarn,
which told how the war-corr. in Japan got his
message past the censor. He wired the first
words in this rigmarole :
Foregone^- conclusion
Pfevtijk&rted — arrangement
Hash —act
Witching -hour of midnight
Goes— without saying
M ttjfled— report
Rumour— hath it
M ine —host
Dark —horse
Silent— majority
U n fortunate —pedestrians
Richmond —in the field
Existing —conditions
Gage— of battle
Hotly —con tested
Brute —force
Select—few
Mooted —question
Parlous —times
Beggars— description
Ye— corresponden t
AngCl— unawares
Incontrovertible —fact.
From these cues the message could be read
thus: — A
Concluded arrangement to act at hour of midnight
without saying. . Report hath it that a large body of
cavalry and an overw helming force of infantry will be
thrown into the field. Conditions f battle contested by
only a small force. Question The Times description. Its
correspondent is unaware of the facts.
We fear the censor would have thrown the
message back as cipher, not transmissible. But
the jest remains.
V cheerful Eng. critic questions our own turtle-
riding Rougemont :
L. W. Appleby, who tries to make photography
an art in Sydney, exhibits a small collection of
work to be sent to Christchurch, where the board-
ing house saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha ! In
final quality he has not surpassed the sometime-
ago portrait of Sou ter, though a new likeness of
Vollmar approaches closely. One finds the New
Photography spoken of in an anecdote currently
printed. Two critics were looking at a picture in
a Photo Secession exhibition. “ Well,” said one,
“if that is high art, I’m an idiot.” To which
the other responded, firmly but gently : “ That is
high art.” ' v ‘iff&pßjg
Angus k. Robertson announce for early publi-
cation, A n Outback Marriage , by A. B. Paterson,
printed serially, five years ago as. In No Man’s
Laud, and since completely revised ; also. An
Anthology of Australian Verse, edited by Bertram
Stevens, to “contain the best verse written by
Australians, or inspired by Australian scenery
and conditions of life ; ” -also, The Secret Key, and
Other Verses, by G. E. Evans.
“Snag,” “Aramis,” “Millena”: Deoided
with thanks and regret that you lack the precise evidense
of fact that was demanded.
Told prosaically of one of the Amer. trust-kings
who deplete poor old Europe’s store of artistic
treasures :
His private art gallery is one of the finest in the United
States. In it are master-works by Corot, Romney,
Murillo, Lawrence, Millet, Gainsborough, Turner, and
Rousseau. It was Mr. Frick who paid one hundred
thousand dollars for Pagiian-Bouveret’s “Christ at
Emmaus." E.ven in his inner business office at Pitts-
burgh, a magnificent oil painting of tigers hunting their
prey hangs on the wall.
Most readers will miss the virtue of the last
sentence.
Jack London tells The Cosmopolitan that ha
expects to start around the world with his wife on
Oct, Ist—leaving the late San Francisco in a boat
45ft. long. The programme includes his wrfe’-s
uncle, a cook and cabin-boy, and various
islands between Hawaii and Australia, whither
luck may bring him in 1907.
“Steele Rudd” (with Mrs. Davis) has bee*
visiting Sydney and Melbourne, and been being
photographed by H. M. Ashby Co. _in a
group for The Oadfly. Others were N. Lindsay
(looking like an innocent maiden who has never
known Man), L. ditto (after seeing the Ghost), R.
Quinn (scowling at the other fellow’s poem), and
Davis himself (possibly regretting a dashing
moustache). The photo’s a curio, and not
half bad. Davis, by the way, says his
studious youth was fostered on Steele and
Addison—whence his own “Steele.” Qur memory
of where the “Rudd ” came from is blotted out
by an interpolated story ef the noble Sydney
journalist who answered greetings with “Yes.
lam well. Do you see how the sun shines on
my brow this morning?” The story of the other
journalist—who retorted magnificently : “ What,
Courtney ! You won’t lend me five shillings,
Courtney? Then I’ll tell you this, Courtney.
Yon never made an epigram in your life, Court-
ney ! ” —is another story. 5
The Mummy and Miss Nitocris, by G. Griffith
(Lond., T. W. Laurie; 2s. 6 d.), is a sensational
romance which bears the same relation to litera-
ture that a “waxworks” “chamber of horrors”
holds to humanity. In moocfs and seasons one
admits a certain seduction of the horrors, and
The Mummy has incident and interest enough for
a passing hour—in moods and seasons. There
are happy ?-unhappy ? (with an insoluble ques-
tion) people to whom the corpse under Deetning’s
hearthstone is bread of life—and at least it is
food of the laughter that Frenchmen fear they
are losing, gros yet not gross, large and hearty, as
good as bread indeed. So probably nine readers
in ten will enjoy Miss Nit'ocris, and the tenth may
grieve that he won’t.
That excellent little trade journal, The Austral-
asian Decorator and Painter, completes its first year
soberly.
A.G.S.
To M. LOUIS de ROUGEMOST.
Wrinkled, wrinkled L. de R,,
How I wonder who you are 1
Over all our beads you lie .
Like a wombat in the Bk.v ! -


Send Yonr WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD
The Leading: Sydney Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS.
The Leading Sports Depot.
■BP*} >4
lliJlll
Mai iSSSk I
CRICKET
MEN’S BATS
Postage on Bat, Is., N.S.W. ; Is. Bd., Inter-State.
BUSSEYS .. ss.
CLAPSHAW’S 6s, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, 15s.
E. H. AYRES’ All Cane... ... 13s, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ DOUBLE RUBBER HANDLE STAMPED
“CAN’T BE BEAT” SPECIAL SELECTED ... 18s Gd.
F. H. AYRES’ International ... ... ... ...20s, 245, 295.
los 6d, 15s Gd, 18s Gd, 20s, 22s Gd.
los Gd, 12s Gd, 15s Gd, 17s 6d, 21s, 255.
... 12s Gd, 16s, 18s Gd 20s, 255.
COBBETT’S
WISDEN’S
WARSOP’S
SYKE’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BARTLETT’S ...
DARK’S...
NICOLL’S
HEARN’S
STUART SURRIDGE
GUNN & MOORE’S
SPECIAL VALUE BATS
8s Gd, 14s Gd, 21s, 255.
8s 3d, 8s Gd, Us Gd, 14s.
18s, 19s, 19s Gd.
12s Gd, 15s, 18s, 19s Gd.
... 10s 6d, 17s Gd, 245.
... 15s Gd, 18s Gd, 225.
14s Gd, 22s Gd, 27s Gd.
... 13s Gd, 17s Gd, 21s.
21s, 255, 275.
l2s 6d
MEN’S STUMPS
Postage on one set Stumps, 25., N.S.W. ; 3s
PLAIN BLACKWOOD
SUPERIOR ASH
ASH, Brass Tops, Steel Shod ...
ASH, Revolving Tops, Steel Shod
HICKORY, Brass Tops, Steel Shod
Bd., Inter-State.
...2s set.
... 3s, 3s 9d set.
5s 9d, 7s 9d, 8s Gd set.
... 10s Gd set.
lGs Gd set.
MEN’S LEG GUARDS
Strong White Twill ... ... ...4s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Continuous Straps ...6s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Vent., Continuous Straps.. 8s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Skeleton, Continuous Straps
10s 6d pair.
Best Quality Gold Cape...l2s 6d, 13s 6d, 16s 6d pair.
Postage on 1 pair Pads, Is, N.S.W. ; 1/8, Inter-State.
BATTING GLOVES
Featherweight ... ... ... 4s 6d pair.
Chamois, Tubular Rubber...ss 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair.
Surry Shields ... ... ... ... 4s each.
Postage on one pair Gloves, 4d pair.
Leather Balls
(s|oz.)
“ M.S.” Special Gut Sewn,
4s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each.
Specially suited for Matting
ickets.
DUKE’S ... 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
WISDEN’S...4s 3d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
SPECIAL SIX SEAM PRACTICE
BALLS-
Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d. extra.
[ A! e V
Cricket Bag's
Strong Canvas, Double Ended (leather), 14s 6d each.
Postage Is. 9d., N.S.W. ; 3s. 2d., Inter-State.
Men’s Gauntlets
Tan or Drab Ventilated ... v . 5s pair
Gold Cape, Ventilated ... ... 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair
White Kid, Ventilated ... ... ••• 7s 6d pair
Buff Chamois, Rubber Palm ... ••• 7s 6d pair
Gold Cape, Rubber Palm ... 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d pair 4 -
All England Special ... ... ••• 11s pair
The “Lilley” ... . ... . l 4s P air
Postage on pair, 4d.
Cricket Nets
Complete S. Tarred, 18 x 6ft. ... 13s 6d each
42 x 6ft. ... 27s 6d each
42 x Bft. ... 35s each
Cricket Mats
Full Size Double Wickets, in two pieces, 6ft.
wide, green color—
Boys’ Bats
Solid Handle, Plain
Solid Handle, Polished
Half Oane Handle
All Oane Handle
Size —1
9d.
Is.
2
Is.
Is. 3d.
3
Is. 3d.
Is. 6d.
3s. 6d.
4s.
6s. 6d.
4
Is. 6d.
2s.
4s.
4s. 6d.
s. 6d.
All Cane Handle, Selected ... ... i t I s-
Postage on one Bat, Is., N.S.W. ; Is. Bd. Interstate.
5
2s.
2s. 6d.
4s. 6d.
4s. 9d.
9s. 6d.
2s. 6d. each
3s.
4s. 9d. ~
10a. 6d. ”
Boys’ Cricket Balls
Leather, Six Seam, Is., Is. 6d. each.
Composition, 3d., 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., Is. Bd.,
2s. 3d. each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d.
Boys’ Gauntlets
Chamois or Tan, Ventilated, 3s. 6d. pair.
Gold Cape, Ventilated, 6s. 6d. pair.
Postage on one pair Gauntlets, 4d.
Scoring Books
1 Pocket Size (Postage 3d.), 6d., Is. each.
2 Full Size (Postage 3d.), Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d.
each.
Bat Handle Covers
1 Plain Red Rubber (Postage Id.), Is., Is. 3d.,
Is. 6d. each.
2 Pure Black Para Rubber, Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
3 Red Rubber (Fancy Patterns), Is. 6d. each.
4 Red Rubber (to Bind on Handle), Cafferay’s
Patent, Is. 9d. each.
Boys’ Leg* Guards
Strong Canvas, continuous Straps, 4s. 6d. pair.
Tan Leather „ ~ 55., 6s. 6d. ~
Postage on one pair Guards, Is., N.S.W.;
Is. Bd., Interstate.
Boys’ Stumps
Polished, with Bails, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 25.,
2s. 6d. set.
Postage on first three sets, 9d., N.S.W.; Is. 2d.,
Interstate ; on last three sets, Is. 3d.,
N.S.W. ; 2s. 2d., Interstate,
Cricket Sundries
1 Ash Bails (Set of Four), (Post. 2d.), 9d. set.
2 Lignum Bails (Set of Four), Post 2d.) Is. 6d.
3 Rubber Bails (Post. 4d.), 2s. 6d. set.
4 Steel Shoes for Stumps (Post. 4d.), Is. 3d. set.
5 Bat Binding Twine (Post 2d.), Is. 6d., 2s. 6d.
ball.
6 Boot Spikes, on Card (Post Id.), Is. card.
7 Boot Screw Nails, on Card (Post Id.), 6d.
card.
8 Wicket Regulator (Horn and Parr’s), 2s. 6d.
each.
9 Bat Oil, specially prepared (Post. Is. extra),
lOd. bottle.
10 Book on Cricket (Post. Id.), 6d. each.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
GUNS and RIFLES.
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
11/6
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
"THE MAINE"
Pi fie
Shewing Pi He ft parr.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
SMOIAIKAIIS MOilrtl
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2|lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Oal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
_ Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
?- s - Rifle > New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3ilb. Postage—
N.S.W., is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d .. .. .. . \ ....
13$ Od
18s Od
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model.
21in. heavy
adjustable ri
sight with
tarnish, we
N.S.W. ; 3s:
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22' short or long rim fire cartridges,
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
ear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
patent alloyed tip, which will not
ight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
2d Inter-State).
24s
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36in
weight about 3Jib. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State).
blued steel round
21s
i rc
Stevens’ “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4£lb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. :
3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. ..
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£1 lOs
£2
Lesion
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d .. ..
35s
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
I). &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
n
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6(1
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved,
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.<3*I
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


TOWNS’ Great CURE.
A Triumph for the Freeman and Wallace Treatment. Showing how
Weak Men may regain the Strength and Vital Power of Youth.
GEORGE TOWNS, Champion Sculler of the World.
WE publish here the testimony and photograph of GEORGE
TOWNS, the great Champion Sculler of the World, who,
from a small beginning, by dauntless effort and determination,
attained the fame he holds to-day. The world rings with his prarne,
but what would his position be were it not for the splendid health
he possesses? Without health a man’s effort is nullified.
It is only recently that Towns profited by the advice tendered him,
when in a doubtful state of health, run down by arduous training, fatigued
by the great sculling tasks imposed upon him. Having a knowledge of
the wonderful skill of the FREEMAN and WALLACE MEDICAL
SPECIALISTS, he visited them, and took a course of their Electro-
Medical Treatment, and in a few weeks felt a new man in health and
strength. Here is his testimony, added to many others given by brilliant
exponents of the athletic art who have passed through the hands of the
FREEMAN AND WALLACE SPECIALISTS.
Dear Sirs,—
I have from time to time noticed
that you have successfully treated
many athletes in the athletic world,
and have often heard your Electro-
Medical methods of treatment eulo-
gised by men of note as being most
effective. Having need of medical ad-
vice, I, upon recommendation, under-
went a course of your Electro-Medical
treatment. / soon felt better and
strong, and perfectly confident that /
could stand any strain hard and con-
tinuous training might impose. / used
your Medical Battery, it is the Best
Electrical Appliance / have used.
(Signed) GEORGE TOWNS.
FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS.
We Specialise Men’s Diseases.
The Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute are known throughout
Australasia as Medical Experts in the treatment and cure of Diseases of the Male
Sex.
They have made a special study of this class of disease, and have concentrated
all their energies in observing and acquiring the latest scientific methods of treating
rapidly and curing radically systems run down by over-exhaustion, heavy training
(as in athletes), lack of nerve and muscular force, and degeneration of tissue.
Men have been cured by them of weak, nerveless conditions and strengthless-
ness when they thought themselves incurable. They have been rescued from pre-
mature decline, and have been made
Strong and Healthy Men for Good.
The Specialists have received thousands of Testimonies from men in Australia
who have been cured, and are now filling positions where mental acumen and bodily
health are essential.
CALL ON US TO-DAY OR WRITE.
We advise you to call on us to-day, or write us if you wish our opinion upon
your case. You may not be as strong as you would like to be. We can cure you.
Our Electro-Medical Methods are unequalled for the regeneration of strength in
Men. The Electro-Magnetic Batteries used by us are of the best scientific manu-
facture, and of the highest scientific value. It was one of these famous batteries
which was used by the great sculler, Towns, and attested to in his testimony. They
are unexcelled in RESTORING LOST NERVE-FORCE IN MEN, and, in com-
bination with correct medical treatment, will cure Rundown, Strengthless Men,
rapidly and effectively. If you are in doubt as to your condition, write or call on us.
Our Staff of FOUR Qualified Physicians
will advise you Free of Charge. In all matters pertaining to the health and
strength of Men they give Advice FREE.
By reference to any of the leading banks or commercial houses in Sydney,
patients can convince themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above
Medical Institute. It is scientific in every detail. Its cost has been enormous. It
is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by its Specialists. Its
Medical Staff comprises many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth.
A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or
Shrunken Organs, General Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy, or Diabetes, Spinal Affections, Diseases of the
Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have studied the class
of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend ftpon it the treatment they require is
the treatment they will receive, and will be fJich as no other medical institution in
Australia can afford them.
OUR FR€€ BOOK.
We give away Thousands of Copies yearly of
our 700-page Free Medical Work, which contains
31 Chapters of Useful Literature and other
articles, and will be sent to any address.
The Physician-in-Chief is registered by Aus-
tralian, and English Medical Boards, and is
one of a Staff of FOUR Legally-qualified Medical
Specialists, including Dr. Bell, Lecturer to the
Institutes. All Letters are treated privately, and
replied to punctually. Do not delay if you need
honest medical treatment. Valuable lives are
lost yearly through delay.
Thf FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Gor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director and Principal of the Institutes
DR. WALLACE, L.R.C.P., E., L.R.C.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children
DR. F. BELL, Lecturer to the Institutes.
And at MELBOURNE
IMPORTANT. —Our dispute with the Federal Postal authorities having been amicably settled, Patients
may direct their letters to the above address without fear of delay.


While thin hair and baldness are
undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of women
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
The hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from neglect. So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should use
filler's
flair Vigor
sjSj
CttA.S?.'*’
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in
any way troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap imitations which will only
disappoint you. Make sure you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Clean White
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
"the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
husbands !
Make it your business to
see that a bottle of
SCOTT’S EMUL-
SION of cod liver
oil and hypophos-
phites of lime & soda
is always in the house, and see that
the wife t&Res it the moment she
feels a chill, or a cold or cough coming
on, or is over-tired, out of sorts, a bit
“ low,” sleepless, or has lost her appe-
tite, or in maternity or nursing, or after
exhausting illness. Her health and
spirits will return as if by magic.
Wives! ci,,
SCOTT’S to your husbands
to stop chest, throat, skin or blood
troubles. €]J Town Hall Buildings,
Payneham Road, St. Peters, South
Australia, 28th July, 1904. “I con-
tracted a heavy cold, which settled on
my chest and lungs, causing a continuous
hacking cough both day and night. My
chest was inflamed and very sore, my
rest broken and appetite gone. The
first few doses of Scott’s Emulsion gave
relief, and my cough disappeared,
my chest and lungs were soothed and
healed, my appetite and rest began to
return, and I improved in health and
strength. I found Scott’s palatable
and easy to retain.” H. E. Wood.
Mothers !
Give Scott’s to your babies
to stop whooping cough,teething troubles,
bronchitis, colds, weakness or wasting.
While you think of it,
write to us for a free trial bottle of the
original emulsion of 30 years ago, since
constantly improved and still far the best
for its results. Enclose 4d. for postage
and mention this paper. Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483, Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
o
(gT
Q)
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGTOra’S
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING. "
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
OUR FAMOUS
BIG BLOCK SUITS,
Made to Measure. In
All-Wool Tweeds
401-
and
Pure Indigo
Serges,
TROUSERS ONLY, 12s. 6d.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN IT HE COMMONWEALTH.
gjagr-SEND FOR PATTERNS.
BLCCK I® Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to maks a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
A hairy individual who had arrived from
Wurrulc Wurruk for the Melbourne Show accosted
the beautifully-bowing shopwalker at the main
entrance of Umble and Smatt’s big emporium
with “’V’ you got my umbrella?” “Umbrellas,
sir? Walk this way, sir. Mr. Japeson, forward.”
Mr. Japeson duly showed the latest styles in
brollies to the representative of this country’s
backbone, but no business resulted. When the
segment of backbone explained, it appeared that
he had left his gamp leaning against Umble and
Smatt’s window while he crossed the road to look
at a motor-car, and he thought Mr. Umble or Mr.
Smatt had kindly taken it inside to keep it out of
the rain. When he was assured, after prolonged
argument, that both of these gentlemen were too
dead to have done such a thing, he remarked that
he didn’t think much of this Melbourne. “ If you
left anythin’ in front of the store at Wurruk
Wurruk, for half-an-hour or so, there was no
danger of losin’ it.” After stopping at the door
for a long parley with the shopwalker, until that
meek person had to be almost rude to him, the
section of national vertebrae walked forth to face
the elements without a gamp, firmly convinced
that all he had heard in Wurruk Wurruk about
the Melbourne confidence-man was painfully true,
and that the mild shopwalker was one of the worst
representatives of that class.
Maoriland numbered heads on April 29, and
found that, not counting Maoris, it had 888,578. But,
even including suburbs, there is not one city with
a population of more than Auckland’s 82,101; and
in the four chief cities—Auckland, Christchurch,
Wellington, and Dunedin—with their suburbs,
there are only 269,806 people, or 30‘3 per cent, of
the whole. In N.S. Wales the craze for dragging
everything over a wharf in Sydney has bloated
that one city, with suburbs, until it holds 35 - 6per
cent, of the people of the State ; and in Victoria
thescandalousdifferential railway tariffs have given
Melbourne 42 per cent, of the whole population.
When Maoriland had its census early in 1901, it
had 170,593 houses, huts, humpies and other camp-
ing places; when the same sort of count was made
the other day, it had 197,003, so that 26,410 have
been rushed up in the last five years. By far
the greatest number are still made of wood or
iron—partly because that kind of house doesn't
take so long to build, and Maoriland is in
a hurry; partly out of regard for the repu-
tation of the ricketty islands for shaking them-
selves or going off with a hiss and a bang. Of
every hundred houses and huts in Maoriland
something under five are built of brick or stone,
while in S. Australia, which hardly thinks it is in
a house unless it has 18in. of solid mineral substance
holding up the roof, there are 93 in every 100 of
that class. The rest of the States straggle in
between these two.
“ The Moocher ” : Once reared a pup and
a poddy that became pals. Pup grew quite fond
of poddy, and would never leave her. Poddy
became a scourge, knocking down fences and
letting other cattle on to the greenstuff; so we
beefed her. Pup did not witness the murder,
but heard of it afterwards, and straightway left
us, taking to the bush. After that our chooks
used to disappear, and we used to hear the cattle
and horses galloping about at night, and find
them chewed about the hocks in the morning. On
several occasions calves were killed. One night I
planted and slew the cause of it all. It was pup
turned bushranger and pirate ! Poor little beggar !
I believe the shock of poddy’s death made him a
misanthrope, and he was trying to get back on us
for it.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King- and
Koval Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HEEEINGS,
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU CET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY ACENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
the high-class washing material
‘Viyel
(Regd. *
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
/?T7?TsrA
□
Sc 2 THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE."
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ghost.
Grey as the cloud-hung winter dawn is grey,
I drift, I drift on mine uncharted way ;
Thin as the wind-wracked autumn mist is thin,
Unseen, unknown, I wander out and in.
An alien, I, to every time and place,
Wrapped in the speechless cold of empty space,
I tempt the light-filled ranges of the sky—
Adrift, adrift, no resting place have I.
The warm earth draws me. Still my footsteps
turn
To dewy morning slopes of ling and fern,
To rippled meadows set with hushing trees,
To gardens blossom-heavy, drowsed with bees.
What do I there? Ah me, what do I there ?
The young leaves shrivel, touched by my chill air,
The birds forget their song, buds hang the head,
The bright grass shudders, and the bees are fled.
The fierce world calls me. I would set my feet
On city ways, and hear its great heart beat,
Move to its ardors, watch its quick rage rise,
And read the thoughts that leap from live men’s
eyes.
I come. The hot air chills, clamor drops dead
Or sinks to hissing whispers quick with dread ;
Men glance out sidelong, look behind for fear—
What do I here ? Ah me, what do I here ?
Down the green hidden way where lovers go,
Hand-fasted, cheek to cheek, I wander slow.
I move beside them—all their joyance stills ;
I do but touch them—how their hot blood chills !
There is an hour when hearts beat strangely slow,
When all tides ebb and every light burns low,
The late moon sets, the stars forget to shine,
A chill air draws from east—-that hour is mine.
I pass the guarded door, I mount the stair,
I enter, watch the sick man tight for air,
Wait, till beyond all hope, all fear he lies,
Then take his hand and look into his eyes.
The dark hour sounds, the strokes fall one by one ;
“ Look now thy last on gladness and the sun.
Here, brother, is no place for thee and me,
Pass out —the cold, the silence wait for thee.”
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
Be Content, Ye Poor Ones.
The churches e’er have hatched a brood
Of parasites in gown and hood,
Of men who seek for rank and pelf
And lodging in a palace
By preaching Christ of Nazareth,
Who had not where to lodge Himself
Nor, in His anguish, solace.
The simple man who stands appalled
At starving Demos, chained, enthralled,
Bursting its bonds in frenzied might,
Gaining cohesion, finding light
And feeling there are wrongs to right,
Asks of his Bishop counsel.
The Bishop seeks in Holy Writ,
And finds there admonition fit
For those who clamor loudly :
“ Contented in that station be
Ye poor ones of the earth,” quoth he,
“To which the Lord hath called ye.”
“ Lord Bishop,” says the simple man,
“ Is it within the good God’s plan
That beings in His likeness—man,
Should, homeless, Starve and perish ?
Rather it smacks of human greed.
The workings of a rich man’s cteed,
Which doth the rich man cherish.”
N.s.w.
EXILE.
Hockey-Girls.
There are damsels dark and fair,
There are handsome girls and witty,
There are quiet maids and maids of great ability ;
With their captivating air,
They appear so sweet and pretty,
That to all of them a fellow shows civility.
There are dainty girls enough
To suit every taste and fashion,
But there’s one stands first of all in popularity—
And from Auckland to the Bluff
She’s the subject of our passion,
And the object of our faith and hope and charity.
When the lassies take the field
In a tasselled Tam-o’-shanter,
And a shapely blouse, and witching little skirt
as well.
Can you wonder that we yield,
That our pulse is set a-canter,
And that when they hit our shins our hearts are
hurt as well ?
For the breezes twine their curls,
Graceful limbs the good game sends them, •
And the winter wind has something now to sigh
tor, he
Is in love with hockey-girls ;
Of his own clear breath he lends them,
And he gives their cheeks the tints of rose and
ivory. .
You may like the half the best,
Or the dashing centre-forward,
Or admire the right-wing’s vigor and audacity—
You might search from east to west,
In the southward or the nor’ward,
But you’d never find their equals for vivacity.
See the merry little backs ■
With their active arms and shoulders !
See the whole entrancing bevy of eleven girls !
In the Land of Fern and Flax
You’re the pride of all beholders,
Could they have a better hockey-team in heaven,
girls ?
MAORILAND.
A.E.C.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on th ® ® e ®‘i r '* y
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any or tne «us-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, esq-
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. .
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Cures "WHile
You Sleep
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 1 6 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz., 2-3$ 2 oz., l-o.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied fay THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltcl.
SYDNB Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MPBTITIOKT.
i s
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
VVINCHSSTtR
AUTOMATIC RIFLC
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of order.
For city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN. CONN., O. S. A.
MB
For Kangaroo and Big Game
time*
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are Known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENOS
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Capsule marked EH0’8 ‘ FRUIT •ALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpuad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT' WORKS. LONDON. KNQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE,
f INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Carters
There's SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They
TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
Carter's
0
c
I
ST*
S
A
c»
X
N
V.
FROM
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE for FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Ai£octuC° 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
_ FROM
&11.5.
Billiards has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock - Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.


1# 05E
«?
\\
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OP PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY - APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria —Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for (Queensland — Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia —P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PlliliS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
fAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address —
J AS. C R A I G &, CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Ideal Beverage
for weather extremes. >
CADBURY’S
Absolutely Pure
An invaluable food-
drink & old;
at all times & seasons.
“The Standard of Highest Lanett.
‘A Papfect food"-/fealt/i.
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s *
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
I SriTH: Iyi rJ
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, special
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blooa
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 28/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing 1 Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASM
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES. .
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
HUNS
ELEC
THE GREATEST REMEDY
that Science has ever produced ! Simple to un-
derstand ; comfortable to wear; soothing to the
nerves; invigorating to the tissues; stimulating to
the blood; true eradicator of disease; honest value as
a remedy; a certain cure for the weakness of men and
women. . . . tkuly, Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is a Gift from Providence.
You need not face the future of middle and old age with terror
and regret for past indiscretions. If you have been indiscreet and
wasted your vitality, we will restore it in three months. This is not a
mere idle statement or boast; we will do what we claim. We guarantee our Belt in every case we undertake.
This means men should be strong and vigorous at sixty. If you are not the
vigorous man you should be ; if you have Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Kidneys,
Stomach Ailments, Impaired Vitality, or any Derangement of the Functional Organs, our
Belt will prove a blessing to you. Hundreds of men past seventy have testified that after from three to five months’ use
of our Belt they have become revived and as strong in manly vigor as they were at forty. Our Belt can, and will, do this
for you if you give it a chance. Worn while you sleep —Comfortable, Warming, Soothing, and Vitalising—it creates
the feeling of buoyancy and exhilaration of youth. Every weak man is safe in wearing our appliance. The cure is
absolutely permanent and lasting.
YOUNG MEN!
OLD MEN!
FREE BOOK!
So that you may
better know the
value of this Grand
Remedy, we have published, at great expense, a hand-
somely illustrated Book, in which it is carefully described
in detail. This Book explains how our Belt acts in
curing those complaints that do most to
unman a man and make his life miserable.
CONST!PA TION.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. ALBANY, W.A.
- Dear Sirs,—lt is now over twelve months since your Belt entirely cured
me of acute constipation. Drugs of all sorts had failed to do me any good, and
for years I suffered fearful agonies as, regards my condition. The effect of
vour Belt was certainly marvellous, for within two weeks’ time after beginning
its use my complaint was broken, and my recovery immediately followed. I
could not say enough in praise of your Belt, for I consider that a man who has
been cured of suffering such as I went through should not stint himself in
praising the method that effected his cure.
Yours truly, HENRY GILLETT.
FREE ADVICE!
Our Consulting Rooms are always open, and the services of our
Specialist are yours for the asking, so CALL, if you can, and
obtain his Free Advice. Every case receives the most careful attention and consideration. IF YOU CANNOT CALL,
fill in the attached COUPON and post it to us, and we will send you our Book—FREE. . . . Did you but appreciate
the value of this Book to YOU as a sufferer, you would gladly pay two guineas for it. . . Send for one at once.
Mr. W. CLOUTEN, Senp„ of Mountain Homestead, MAR-
TINSVILLE, N.S.W., who was cured of Weak Back and Lum-
bago, writes: “ I want to tell you that since I reported myself over two years
ago as cured I have had no return of my old troubles. As you know, for years I was
unable to get up or down without terrible agony, but now, though I am 67 years old,
I think nothing of walking ten miles of a Sunday evening to attend Divine Service.
I feel thirty years younger than I did the day I went to get your Belt, and though I
thought that day that my trip would be useless, now I shall remember it as being the
■beginning of the happiest time in my life. To suffer so fearfully as I did, and then to
be so readily cured, after all other remedies had failed, is, I consider, almost a miracle.”
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
100 W. Market St.,
SYDNEY.
Fill in this Coupon, and Post it to us TO=DAY.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 27-6.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Owbridge
v £ungTonfc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles,
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
FOR?
BOSISTOS
“PARROT ..
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
\sußSTmm^J
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bonght ol us. Your
Money in lull refunded without question
il not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
to £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
—...... .. _ machine. Active Agents
wan' ed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc ha If prices,
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
L
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE L. R. VERNON CO. a
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
Head Noises, Discharging Ears, and all diseases
of the ear permanently cured at your own home
by pure natural aural kinetics. No Medicine. No
Electricity, but nature’s own treatment, safe and
effective, endorsed by the highest Medical Author-
ities Call or write for full FREE particulars.
“ EAROSCOPE* CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.


THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced <ihows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “ Louis ” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior irbitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
THE “BRUNSWICK”
Household
ICE MACHINE
IN the hotter parts of. this Continent, in the tropical
islands of the South Seas, and anywhere, where
the thermometer soars up and stops pretty con-
sistently during- summer at about 100 in the shade, or
over, the luxury of a small, compact Cold Storage_
becomes an absolute necessity. Such is the Brunswick.
It is the result of years of research and experiment,
and it successfully brings within the reasonable reach
of your pocket a wealth of ice and cold dry air, at
all times, at a price that is moderate and possible.
We have several sizes of plant, and will give you FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Also Sole Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘Hercules’ Oil Engines, Cyclone
Fencing and Cates, &c., &c.
m-
£o^
BOORS. PLAYS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
ADRIAN & CO.,
(late WILL ANDRADE),
508 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
HOLLAND'S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting-the growth, and.giving-lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it ; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color.. It acts Quipkly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND ,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
SKINS &HIDES
Wj
p)
Ti
V
Is
J. Kennon&sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria «£>
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit sKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, etc.
to keep tlieir works going.
o
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment —and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sa/es sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address — , .
J. Kennon & iSons
TANNERS <a EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
WSNCHCOMBE, CARSON
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to: —
CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
I
WFT RUBtROID 1
>SBAMPCOURSE
-> orries
- DAMP A
I
Vfes K f.
m
-a »
eifi
ON
the Safe
1 Side
«• «l’.£UVt
'
%
"
L
r
r
3 PLY
'£
IBM
-
SfcS<
Hi
..
—iiJ
m
These buildings roofed with RUBEROID.
The foundations laid with RUBEROID.
The builders who have laid RUBEROID.
The men who have lived, and now live, under
RUBEROID, are living witnesses to the excellence of
RUBEROID
as a Roofing, a Dampcourse, and a Floorcloth.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1389.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1906.
Pbiok 6n.
OUR BOYS.
In a recent interview, Henry Tonga, at the head of a Kanaka deputation, told Prime Minister Deakin: “We have come down on behalf of the ‘boys.’”
Chorus of “boys”: “I ’ope we ain’t recognised in this disguise! ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
"Australia for the A astral in ns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Horn to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should, in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. Itlaolc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ruhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egyi>t. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Sprecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6%in. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1906.
THE NECESSITY OF TWO LEGS.
The days have gone for the deductive philosopher
in economics. The gentleman who, by close
Scotch reasoning (Scotch reasoning is distinguish-
able by the fact that it gives nothing away) from
an imaginary first principle, proves that it is best
to buy in the cheapest market and sell in the
dearest, has gone out of date. Nations now
decide their policies by facts, not fancies. All
over the civilised world a close inquiry is pro-
ceeding, by practical inductive methods, into the
causes of national prosperity and of national
decadence. The actual facts of industry and
commerce are classified and traced back to their
causes ; and there is no hesitation in groping out
after a benefit by a succession of empirical methods,
and choosing finally the one that proves sound.
It is the day of scientific tariffs, of bonuses to in-
dustries, of retaliatory and preferential tariffs, of
constant effort by Government interference to
promote the growth of national undertakings.
(Britain is, of course, an exception, and still, in
declared policy, follows the laissez-faire attitude
towards trade and industry of the Cobden school
of theoretical economists; but even Britain, these
days, faced by the fast dwindling of its old
supremacy, weakens, and, within a generation,
will doubtless fall into line with the rest of
civilisation in making national prosperity a matter
of national organisation.) The process of an in-
ductive inquiry is never absolutely complete.
There is always another set of facts being opened
up, and suggesting further exploration and
a fresh modification of methods of treat-
ment. But two general conclusions have
been arrived at which are likely to stand
undisturbed : That a country cannot be safe and
prosperous without a flourishing agricultural in-
dustry, and that such an industry cannot flourish
without the growth by its side of manufacturing
enterprises. The inter-dependence of the two is
as obvious as the necessity of the two. To stand
four-square, a nation must not only have those
two legs, but must have them working in unison.
* * * *
Britain is the standard example among civilised
nations of a country seeking to do without a great
agricultural industry. The Cobden gospel of
cheapness has practically destroyed farming there,
and the mechanic population depends for its food
on the foreigner, whilst the soil becomes the fowl-
run of plutocrats, or is devoted to the use of that
superior brand of goat, the deer. The results are
a difficulty, which rapidly deepens into an im-
possibility, in finding fit recruits for the fighting
forces, a lessening of the national nerve through
the gradual elimination of the stolid, brawny
rustic from the breeding stock, and an extrava-
gant naval defence policy which every year
becomes less possible and more necessary. An
important London newspaper, The Outlook, dis-
cussing the naval position lately, declared :
Our only safety lies in the inflexible determination that
we shall be at least as strong as the next two strongest
Powers taken together, no matter who they are, and not-
withstanding that they may be our friends or even our
allies.
That is but bare truth. Since Britain has no ade-
quate agricultural industry and depends upon the
foreigner for food, on the British navy in time of
war would fall the burden not only of defending
British shores, but of keeping the food-routes
open, so that the British people would not be
vanquished by starvation. A navy as strong as
the next two most powerful navies com-
bined is the least possible provision for that task,
for the undertaking amounts to no less than
guarding a line right across the Atlantic to
Canada and the United States for grain, meat,
and cotton, and possibly another to Argentina as
well. Yet how utterly impossible for Britain to
maintain that!_ Under conditions of modern
naval warfare it is only the latest boats which
count for real fighting efficiency. The accumula-
tions of the past may be disregarded in all calcu-
lations. So that a nation deciding from to-day to
spend £ for £ with Britain on naval con-
struction, would in ten years have as powerful
a navy. It is quite within the resources of at least
two Powers—the United States and Germany— to
undertake that. Two others, France and Russia,
may be reckoned almost equal to the task. Pre-
suming a vigorous naval policy on the part of any
two of these four nations, it is simply impossible
for Britain to follow and surpass their combined
efforts. Reversion to an economic system, which
will restore to the British agricultural population
the power to supply the British nation with food,
will thus soon be necessary in Britain, if not for
economic, then for defence reasons.
* * * *
Russia is an example, on the other side, of a
nation with an adequate agricultural industry,
but insufficient manufactures, and consequently a
miserable peasantry. The “great natural in-
dustries,” after feeding the local population,
must rely on an export market for their surplus.
There are but few great manufacturing towns in
Russia to give them customers, and in the lack of
those centres agricultural industry must confine
itself to the production of easily-exportable
staples. Small, “mixed” farming, producing
fruit, poultry, vegetables and cream for an
adjacent city, is not generally possible, for the
cities are not there. Further, there being few
cities with great factories, there is no outlet for
the surplus labor bred by the agricultural popula-
tion. The plot of land which keeps the farmer of
this generation in comfort will provide but a
miserable pittance for the farmer’s three sons of
the next generation. There are not sufficient fac-
tories to absorb two of those, so an increasing
population remains on the land and is poor. It is
calculated that the agricultural land of Russia
proper requires the labor of 12,000,000 adult men,
but is divided among 18,000,000. The surplus
6,000,000 add nothing to the productivity of the
land ; they are, in a sense, parasites. Were there
in existence factories to absorb those 6,000,000, it
would mean a vast increase in comfort for the
12,000,000 left on the land, and another great
body of consumers to give a stimulus to another
band of agriculturists. Russia is now making
strenuous efforts to better things. That country
suffers under no illusions as to the unaided value of
the “ primary industries,” and High Protection is
gradually establishing enterprises which, in time,
will give to the farming class an additional local
market for its goods, an opening for its chil-
dren to productive labor, and a wider range of
crops for culture.
* * * *
Not the least of the reasons why an industrial
population is necessary for the prosperity of a
farming class is that it offers a profit from a diver-
sity of crops. This has been shown in Germany
and France, the nations in Europe which repre-
sent at its highest the scientific method of pro-
moting the growth together of factory and field
industries. The German farmer is, in almost all
cases, near to a manufacturing city. It not only
provides him with openings for his children not
required for farm work, and a prompt-payment,
high-rate, easily accessible market for his staples ;
it also makes possible and profitable the addition
to his main industry of many little side-lines, such
as fruit culture, poultry-rearing and dairying.
Whilst th e Russi an peasant with no local city market
available, must confine his energies to one or two
staples, and be content with a distant foreign
market for his surplus, the German peasant finds
that the manufacturing industries, which High
Protection has nursed into being, give him a wide
and varied range of activity. So great, indeed, is
the local demand in Germany for the farmer’s pro-
ducts, that he is not able to supply it altogether,
and the deficiency has to be made up by imports.
The result is that prices are good, and the agri-
cultural industry, because of the growth of manu-
factures, singularly flourishing.
» * * *
The moral is, of course, for Australia (The
Bulletin takes little interest in foreign politics,
except when they touch Australia). A strenuous
effort is now being made in the Commonwealth to
alienate the farming population from the cause of
Protection, and to convince the agriculturist that
his best interests lie in banishing the local manu-
facturer, and devoting the whole country to those
“primary industries” which are purely pastoral
or agricultural. This is a policy which has been
utterly discredited in Europe, and the evils of
which will be obvious if the conditions of any
country, from China upwards, which is purely
devoted to agricultural industry, are studied. A
modern nation must stand on two legs. It must
have an agricultural population to provide the
raw necessaries of life and the bone and sinew of
citizenry ; it must have an industrial population
to provide the implements and conveniences of
civilisation, and to provide a local market for the
farmer’s surplus food products. If it does not
hold both populations within its borders it may not
hope for stability. Cobden dreamed of one coun-
try of primary producers amicably exchanging
with the secondary producers of another country,
and both being happy in the process. But it was
only a dream. Nations to-day must be self-con-
tained as regards the essentials of life, or run the
risk of perishing.
THE PARSON AND THE PRIEST.
The White Australia policy was lunacy. It was an
insult to Almighty God and to the empire. No such color
distinctions should be made. When the empire was
threatened in South Africa and on the northern borders
of India no objection was raised to the black man assist-
ing Great Britain. He was allowed to die for the empire,
but the people would call him an inferior person because
he happened to be dark of skin. The only place they had
in Australia for a shipwrecked colored mariner was in
gaol. If, for instance, Jesus and St. Peter came to the
Yarra, the only place which would be found for them would
be in prison ; yet Christ in His own day had said of a
little Syrian child, “ Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.”
Any country which put up such barriers of color would
be cursed by God. If it was right to have a White Aus-
tralia there was equal justification for a black Africa, and
if that cry were raised in India, how many men were there
in Australia who would not go there to fight against it?
There was no logic, no sense in the cry of the paltry poli-
ticians of to-day, and a man could not love Jesus Christ
and hate his brother man. He looked forward to the time
when men would be judged by character, not by color.—
Parson Worrall, of Bendigo.
There are honorable exceptions—most of the
exceptions seem to be Presbyterians, though
there is also a sprinkling of Anglicans and others
—but, in the main, the Protestant parson in
Australia appears to be a lamentably Tory person.
The loud advertising parson is, to all intents and
purposes, always Tory, and generally blasphemous
as well; and the pious Parliamentary candidate
(who may be mentioned by way of a digression) is
generally built much the same way as the adver :
tising parson. The outbreak of the screaming
Worrall quoted above is nothing very extra or
special or unusual for men of his class in the way
of pulpit sensationalism, and in the way of ac-
curacy it is just about the average. The statement
that the only place in Australia for a shipwrecked
colored mariner is the gaol is a falsehood, for no
shipwrecked colored mariners have been sent to
gaol; the only lot which struck these shores up to
date were rescued and sent back to their homes.
The statement that, if the Redeemer and St.
Peter called in upon Australia, the only place for
them would be the gaol is a curious mixture of lying
and blasphemy. The only obstacle that a Syrian
meets here is an education test, and the shocking
profanity of saying that the Omniscient couldn’t
write half-a-hundred words in a European language
is a thing that hardly anybody save an advertising
parson would be guilty of. Many a professed
agnostic would draw the line there. The implica-
tion that Australia gaols every colored person who
reaches its shores is a lie by implication ; last year
3401 colored people landed here, which was at
least 3400 more than was good for the community.
The yarn about the black man dying nobly
for the empire in South Africa is a blank
untruth, unless it is meant that he died in the
capacity of a bullock-driver at unusually good
wages, for no colored troops were employed there.
And, as for Worrall’s assurance that Australia
will be cursed by the Almighty— mostly for
things which it didn’t do—that is a matter which
is beyond human knowledge; but, considering
the amazing blasphemy about the implied inability
of the Almighty to pass a simple education test,
many people will imagine that Worrall is much
more likely to be cursed than Australia.
« # * *
Worrall, himself, may be a very small insect,
but he is a type. The bulk of that section of
parsondom which meddles publicly with politics
seems to act as political pimp to the importer,
the sweater, the great land-grabber, the ch6ap-
labor man, the enemy of Australian industry, and
every other kind of affluent Tory. The political
parson is mainly the hanger-on of wealth. For
half-a-century or more, Jesus Christ, if He
had come to Victoria in the same guise as He
wore in Palestine, would have been liable to be
gaoled for “insufficient visible means of support”;
He would have been declared unfit to sit in the
Upper House ; and He wouldn’t even have been
fit to vote at an Upper House election. (If
He had voted He would have been put in prison.)
He would have ranked in this respect with
women, criminals, dogs and lunatics. But no
advertising parson of the Worrall type com-
plained of those things; they continue to this day,
and still there is no loud wail from the pulpit or
from behind the plate. To mention such matters
would aggravate the wealthy classes, and the
advertising parson crawls abjectly to the wealthy,
just as he would have crawled to the affluent
Pontius Pilate if he had been in Jerusalem 1873
years ago. If the Saviour came to Australia
to-day as the impecunious Nazarene of old, He
would also be unfit to sit in, or vote for, the
Upper Houses of Tasmania, S.A. or Westralia;
but this doesn’t strike the advertising parson
as any profanation, or any reason for
disturbing the rich man’s monopoly of these
Chambers. If He went to England, He would
be declared unfit to own land or to be
promoted to the blessed House of Lords. If
He went to India He couldn’t travel in the same
railway carriage with the lordly white man, and,
as for Him having any share in the government
of the country, the idea would be preposterous
—the most junior white clerk in the civil service
could explain that. But the laws that would heap
all these, and scores of other disabilities on Him,
are laws that buttress the privileges of' the proud
white person of the ruling caste; therefore they
don’t, in the least degree, arouse the blasphemous
dander of the preacher of the Worrall stamp.
As regards the plaint about our colored brother
generally, the British Empire is about five-sixths
black, and the black man, in almost every section
of it, is declared unfit to have any share in the
government of the Empire. In India, where he
is a more intellectual type of black man than
in many places, he is held unfit to help to
govern his own country except in very minor
capacities. He is told that he is not quali-
fied for Parliamentary institutions. If he
marries a white woman, she becomes a social
outcast, and her half-caste children are social out-
casts. The native troops are not trusted with
artillery, nor with first-class weapons. The
native officer can’t rise to any high grade
in the service; the high grades are all
reserved for the lordly British person. The
Hindu is, in most respects, a person under a social
ban in his native land. Yet who ever knew a
Worrall, or any preacher of his class, to rise and
say that the British rulers in India will be cursed by
God for putting up such color barriers ? No one !
To say such a thing would not be a mere matter
of denouncing a common, ordinary Labor party,
composed mostly of humble toilers like the
Apostles—the sort of party which is responsible
for Australia’s immigration laws ; it would repre-
sent the appalling sacrilege of denouncing rich
people and people of “family.” It would be
throwing bricks at Pilate, and aiming a clod at
Herod, and speaking disrespectfully of the
Scribes and Pharisees. The advertising parson of
a certain stamp would rather burst than speak
disrespectfully of the Scribes and Pharisees that
are alive now, whatever he may say of those who
died many centuries ago.
The deafening, posturing, political preacher is
solid on the colored man’s alleged right to come
here, and cut down wages, and do the white
worker out of a job, and supply the rich white em-
ployer with miserably ill-paid labor so that he may
become even richer than he is already. No
other rights that the colored man has—not
even the right to possess his own country—
affect that sort of preacher at all. But while
he is solid on the claim of the black man
to be equal with the white when the
equality means taking the white worker’s job,
and enriching the wealthy white employer;
though not by any means when it signifies up-
setting or endangering the position of the rich
and important white ruler—it is difficult to remem-
ber when any parson of this species has held forth
on the equality, political or otherwise, of one
white man with another. That would amount to
Socialism ; it would bring him down to the level
of the Labor party—carpenters like Joseph of
Nazareth, mere toilers like the old Disciples, and
generally people with whom he wouldn’t be seen
dead. About their political ideas or pur-
poses the Worrall kind of parson knows,
as a rule, really nothing, for he doesn’t
associate with such characters. He is just
as aloof as the other Pharisees were. But he accepts
as gospel any and every fiction that is told of the
working classes in the rich man’s Tory paper, or is
related of them at the rich man’s dinner-table ; and
he circulates it from the pulpit, and wrests the
Scriptures to his own destruction (as mentioned
in 11. Peter, 3, 16) in support of it. He is one of
the props of the Petriana lie, and the Six Hatters
myth, and the Marriage Tie joke, and he is the pillar
of insanitary Chinatown, and, in a sense, the
advance-agent for the Jap house of ill-fame. Also,
he waves the curse of the Almighty round his head
—it is wonderful how familiar he is with the
Almighty, and, as for the curse, he flourishes it as
off-handedly as if it were a spoon or a rag—in
defence of the products of sweated foreign labor,
and in defence of a cheap nigger labor system
which, if carried out to the full, would either
leave the white worker with no work to do,
or else compel him to work for nigger wages
and live as the nigger does, six or eight in a
room, without civilisation or decency. The pros-
pect of these evils doesn’t matter to Worrall.
It isn’t he or his friend, the rich employer, but
the mere white worker whom wholesale Asiatic
competition would compel to live under the con-
ditions of Chinatown in Bendigo, or conditions
even worse than those ; and what does the worker
matter ? He is merely a worker —like the Apostles
already mentioned.
• * * •
The Bulletin has never troubled about the
niceties of creeds —about albs and copes and
incense, about anthems and rituals, about cathe-
drals and holy water, about the small details •
of Ash Wednesday and Shrove Tuesday. These
things are mere outward semblances. But it has
this regard—and a very profound regard—for the
Roman Catholic cleric, apart from his creed and
his millinery (and the same applies generally to
the Anglican parson who is “High Church,” and
therefore accused of sympathy with “Rome”). In
its politics, the R.C. priesthood, at least in Aus-
tralia, is unman and democratic. It condescends to
find out and understand the troubles of the poor. It
is mostly Protectionist because, instead of taking its
facts ready-made from the rich importer’s paper
or at the rich importer’s dinner-table, it has gone
down among the masses, and it understands the
struggle for work, and the misery that follows
when some Australian industry closes up to make
room for more imports, so that M'MiLLANand his
friends may make more profits. It is mostly for
White Australia, because it knows the awful
quarters where Mr. Worrall’s friend, the black
man, hangs out, and it doesn’t want to see all
Australia made to look like that. The Roman
Catholic priest can even sympathise with such
ideas as the graduated land-tax to break up big
estates —perhaps because he knows the landless
much better than the land-grabber. The common
explanation offered is that the priest is a
Democrat, politically, because he mostly comes
from the “lower orders” himself —that he isn’t
a “gentleman” in the conventional sense, and
wasn't born of the cult of the Scribes and
Pharisees in the lofty English, Anglican sense.
The charge may be quite true, and, if it is true,
therefore the priest is likely to be all the more in
touch with the Apostles who came from the same
class as himself. The Bulletin fails to remember
one case in which the celibate clergyman with
the murky hat has been anything like Worrall— a
savage slanderer of his country, a loose and utterly
reckless circulator of any falsehood the rich Tory
and the rich Tory person’s press care to invent;
an advocate of cheap imports to destroy Aus-
tralian industry, and of cheap niggers to take the
white man’s job, and cut down his wages, yet a
loud upholder of “the empire,” which exists by
depriving more than 300,000,000 colored people of
the right to govern themselves, and by declaring
them hopelessly inferior beings who can never
rank politically with the white. The priest
mostly stands at the other end of the telescope.
He doesn’t seem to take it for granted that every-
body is a liar except the wealthy importer, and
that everybody is a scoundrel except the affluent
landlord. He is never found clamoring in the
ranks of Stinking Fish. These human sympathies
of his are more important than ritual and copes
and holy water, and they are more up-to-date
than the Flames of Smithfield. The worst
thing that has happened to Protestantism in
Australia is the frantic effort of the poli-
tical parson and the Orange politician to
hang it on to the tail of the anti-Australian
policy, and to represent the Almighty as an
advocate of cheap labor, low wages, a degraded
colored population, big landlordism, the destruc-
tion of comfort, _ decency, and civilisation
among the working classes, and anything
else in which there seems to be profit for a class of
arrogant monopolists. It is up to the liberal-
minded and progressive section of parsondom to
rise up and sit on the head of the individual like
Worrall, and to drag its creed from underneath
his muddy hoofs.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lie by Suppression and Implication.
The extent to which the Sydney daily press
carries the art of suppression, and the lie by
implication, is at times magnificent in its impu-
dence. Last week there remarkable case in
point—a case in which the lie by implication was
even a little more artistic than usual. The S.M.
Herald and its brother in iniquity, the Tele-
graph, broke out on the same day re the question
of the Australian capital ; if they had con-
spired to take the disease simultaneously they
couldn’t have been more simultaneous. Here are
some samples from the ’Graph :
... The Demon Ministry can always find time and secure
followers to clap more taxes on the working masses of
the country. But it has no time, and will not take the
trouble, to arrange with its followers to carry out its


promisrs and redeem the obligation of the Constitution
to fix ms site and set to work on the Federal capital.
When it is a question of more taxes and affording more
protection to industries which some of the Protectionist
Labor members declare to be sufficiently protected
already, all-night siftings are resorted to, and the items
driven through when members are not physically fit to
discuss and consider them. No all-night sitting, though,
can be found for the Federal capital. Mr. Deakin pro-
fesses his desperate anxiety for immediate settlement —
has professed it scores of times in the last six years. But
every session he discovers some paltry excuse for shelving
it....
And these are some specimens from the moral and
pious old Herald the same morning :
The Prime Minister has now announced as definitely as
he can that there will be no settlement of the Federal
capital question this session—the last session of the second
Federal Parliament. ... The politicians played with it.
They dangled it for their own purposes before the eyes of
various constituencies, or they allowed themselves to be
swayed by inter-State prejudices into an attitude of open
contempt of an integral provision of the Constitution.
This attitude is to be deplored on many accounts ; and
not the least important of these is the spectacle that it
affords of representatives of the people cynically be-
littling the very instrument under which they sit in a
Parliament of federated Australia. The obligation to
select the site of the capital is duly recognised upon
occasion. ...
The duty of New South Wales electors is, at any rate,
clear. They should see to it that no man is returned to
the Senate or the House of Representatives at the coming
elections who is not definitely pledged to use every
means to secure at the earliest opportunity the fulfilment
of the solemn undertaking on the subject which is con-
tained in the Constitution Act. ... If the members from
New South Wales are united on the subject, and are true
to their pledges, they will assuredly find men from the
other States who, recognising the obligation imposed by
the Constitution, are determined to vindicate themselves
from the charge of bad faith which lies against the first
and second Parliaments of the Commonwealth. It is,
indeed, true that successive Governments of New South
Wales have played into the hands of those who have
BREN OPPOSED TO TIIE SELECTION OF A CAPITAL SITE ; blit
the bungling, or worse, of our State legislators does not
free the Federal Parliament from responsibility.... The
remedy will shortly he in the electors’ hands.
No stranger, reading this incredible rot, would
imagine that the Australian Parliament had
selected the site for the capital years ago—a site
which fills all the requirements of the Constitution
to the letter, a site which was among those offered
by N.S.W., and which lies in the district that the
N.S.W. official appointed to report upon the
matter declared to be the very best district he
could find. Nor would the stranger suspect
that the only obstacle in the way is the refusal of
N.S.W.’s silly State insect to surrender the site
as provided by the Constitution ; that the long
waiting complained of is the patient waiting of
the Australian Parliament for the N.S.W.
Government to come to its senses ; and that the
Bill which has just been postponed wasn’t
a Bill to provide for the selection of a capital
site at all, but one to provide means for
making N.S.W. cease to hinder the establish-
ment of the already selected capital within
its territory. Of course, the Herald and
the Telegraph don’t like the selected site ; their
idea is a capital on the Western line, so that all
the trade will go to Sydney, and tend to further
bloat a city which has already far too large a
share of the State’s population. But, even allowing
for that, and allowing for the well-known unscru-
pulousness of two disreputable daily rags, there
is something stupendous in the mendacity which
informs the public, by implication and suppres-
sion, that the Australian Parliament has done
nothing in the matter; that it declines to select
any site at all; and that a downtrodden Ma State
is still waiting for its rights.
Lock Up the Mines, too!
In connection with the struggle to have labor
covenants knocked out of the N.S.W. Mining
Bill, theS.M. Herald printed a humorous half-
column of “ arguments,” the other day. “ In all
probability,” says the humorist, “the best com-
mentary on the necessity for security of tenure is
the fact that some of the most productive mines
of the Commonwealth are freehold ;” and then it
mentions a dozen mines, only two of which are
producing anything worth mentioning—Mount
Morgan and Great Cobar. Of these two, Mount
Morgan is not freehold ; it used to be, but the eo.
preferred a lease, and returned the title-deeds to
“ the Crown,” which seems to show that, after
all, the would-be freeholder may find his sword
two-edged. As to the other productive mine :
What would have happened to Great Oobar during’ its
years of stress and trouble if the property had been
leasehold, subject to labor conditions, and strictly limited
exemptions ? Probably a goat camp to-day.
Eacts are that the co., having a freehold, and
being safe whether it worked the mine or not,
allowed the whole thing to fall idle. Along came
the Longworths, who took the mine on lease,
probed it, worked it, and soon had two or three
thousand men employed. Shares in the loafing
co., which had got down to pence, rose to pounds ;
and pounds the -Longworths and their partners
had to pay —had to pay for proving the other
people’s property. If it hadn’t been for those
lease-holders, the chances certainly are that
Great Cobar would be a goat camp to-day—
thanks to the freehold system, which had just
about turned it into that sort of a camp when the
Longworths arrived with their lease. The
Queensland .examples quoted are more humorous
still :
Glassford Creek was abandoned for years, but the cir-
cumstance that the holding was secure enabled the
original holders to negotiate with Mr. T. Gibb, and as a
consequence substituted success for dire failure.
It doesn’t occur to the foolish old Herald
that, if Glassford Creek hadn’t been free-
hold, Thomas Gibb or someone else might have
come in years ago, and “substituted success
for dire failure ” ; it didn’t occur to it that all
these years what might have been turned into a
“successful mine” has been locked up because
“the holding was secure,” and the owners didn’t
have to bother. The humorous Herald recalls,
also, Peak Downs and Cloncurry. Peak Downs,
which is now alleged to be a profitable mine, has
been shut up for 25 years—and would be shut up
still if some outsiders had not paid toll to be
allowed to come in, and do what the owners have
for 25 years refused to do themselves. As for
Cloncurry—
For 35 years the owners have been laboring to open
this field. Minus freeholds, they would have had neither
incentive nor ultimate success.
But for 35 years these strenuous owners didn’t, in
spite of all their labors, put a pick into the
ground ; they simply locked their holdings up,
and sooled a dog on to the prospector who would
have put a pick in. Finally, these diligent
loafers, who for 35 years had never done a
stroke of work, had to be paid large sums to
allow outsiders to prick the outcrops and see
what was underneath; and the result was
the discovery of such rich ore that a
railway was promptly authorised. If they had
had to work, or let others do it, Queensland would
have had the benefit of Cloncurry 30 years ago ;
but “ the holding was secure,” so Queensland had
to wait till somebody arrived who was willing to
buy off the loafer. There was mighty little
(hance of knocking the labor conditions out of
mineral leases before the Herald started out to
argue against them, but what chance there was, its
own foolish instances and arguments have surely
killed.
The Bore and the Quorum.
The quorum curse is very bad in the House of
Reps, these days. The great object of the
Opposition is to waste time, and block work, and
then talk about the “barren session and Prime
Minister Deakin, being too affable to apply the
gag eight or ten times in a night as he ought to
do, the CooK-ites have things very much their
own way. They talk with the dreariness of the
father of all tortoises until the House gets nearly
empty. Then little boy Kelly sniggers and calls
for a quorum. If the requisite number of mem-
bers come in the dreary, interminable speeches go
on, and the waste of time resumes. If the
requisite number of members can’t be found, the
sitting ends there. The Opposition is pleased if
there is a quorum, for it proceeds to make the
quorum miserable by its eternal stonewall. It is
more pleased if there is none, for then it stops
business altogether for the day. This is very
interesting for the Opposition, but from the
standpoint of the community the whole system
rests on a false basis. It isn’t the country’s
business which should be stopped when some
dreary wretch empties the House; it is the
dreary wretch who has done the emptying that
requires stopping. Certainly there must be some
specified quorum, and when the attendance falls
below the limit the bell should be rung to demand
the attendance of members, and if the requisite
number can’t be found the sitting should termi-
nate But if the requisite number is found, and
business goes on, THE MEMBER WHO LOST
HIS QUORUM SHOULD STOP. He should
be absolutely barred from saying another word on
the question at issue. A man who can’t be
sufficiently terse and fresh and interesting to
keep his own quorum should cease right there.
He is self-convicted as being a bore, and to be a
bore should be a worse offence than to be drunk,
disorderly, or a land agent. The most awful
thing on earth is the bore ; the short bore is bad,
and the long bore is dreadful. The quorum idea
as applied at present is that the bore must be
heard to the bitter end, or the country’s business
must close up. It is based on the silly theory
that the bore is more important than the country,
which he isn’t —even a country like the Great
African Desert is worth a million bores. There
are oases in the Great African Desert, but the
bore is dry right through.
■ ♦
London Editors and Australia’s Reputation.
The absurd and eminently CAKRUTHEES-like idea
of asking a herd of British editors to descend
upon Australia and browse and booze at the tax-
payers’ expense has been abandoned. Joseph
Carruthers had the notion that these editors
would come, and would swallow gratefully our
free beer, and would go back and exalt Australia
in their newspapers. It is said to be a fact that
in political circles —some political circles—cup-
board influence is mighty. The party which has
a generous pantry gains strength therefrom,
and it influences straggling votes by bring-
ing the voter under the influence of strong
waters. And there is also a tradition —left
over from the bad old boozy, so-called “Bohe-
mian ” days of journalism—that editors are
perennially thirsty persons, whose flow of ideas
can be directed in a required direction by a flow
of gratuitous liquor. But times have changed.
Carruthers’ invitation to British editors to come
out here and be fed “on the nod” and be influ-
enced to love Australia, would have attracted no
responsible pressman of any character. The
majority of editors would not be able to spare the
time for such a trip, nor willing to travel on the
free list; those who could come certainly wouldn’t
do so under conditions of giving hostages to rum
that their judgment would be favorable. As it
is, quite a number of British journalists visit
Australia, and come to varying conclusions as to
its capacities and conditions. Some, like Mr.
Mackenzie, of the Daily Mail, fall among
George Reid and his following, and return to
curse Australia and cry Stinking Fish. Others,
like Mr. Jebb, of the Morning Post, come w;tn
the desire (and capacity) to judge fairly, keep
away from cliques, ar.d return with an impression
of the Commonwealth which, by its fairness and
sympathy, puts to the blush many of our own
Australian writers. Further, most of the great
London newspapers now have special repre-
sentatives in Australia. The Times has Mr.
Jose, a writer of distinction, who devotes
his whole time to its service. The Daily Mail
has Mr. Lyne, a capable journalist of long Aus-
tralian experience, and other London dailies have
their correspondents. The Stinking Fish cry
which assails Australia’s reputation in England is
not the result of London press hostility or ignor-
ance ; it is the re-echo of the slanders of our own
citizens abroad, the touring Fat men and their
Fat females, and the reverberation of the dis-
reputable curses of the local Worrall and his kin.
To specially import journalists for a tour of this
continent would be—even if possible—nothing
like so effective a step as to establish a
Tourists Export Department, which would test,
and grade, and brand all Australians going to
London—this one as “liar and tcady,” another
as “ignorant and inaccurate,” yet another as
“reasonably truthful and fair.” Then when Mr.
Miggs, who has made money in a Sydney suburban
drapery, goes to London, with Mrs. Miggs, who is
anxious to be “presented at Court”; theMiGGSES,
who know less about the real Australia than a
well-informed German schoolboy; who are filled
with a hatred of the Socialistic legislation which
sought to make them shut up their rag shop
at six and provide seats for their white slaves ;
whose crawlsome snobbishness gives them the
idea that to slander Australia will conciliate
London—then, when Mr. and Mrs. Miggs, or
Sir William and Lady McMiggs, as they may
be, reach England, British journalism could
examine their brands before taking their opinions
as to the ruin of this country. If it were worth
the trouble, that might be done. But it probably
isn’t. The Stinking Fisherman abroad would still
snarl and sneer, and still find occasional publicity.
Australia would still, as now, have to justify
itself by its works. But, emphatically, the idea of
seeking favor by seeking to drag London editors
over the sea to free drinks here is absurd. Only
Carruthers could have thought of it.
+
On a Death-Bed—and After.
The swift settlement of the trouble at the Mait-
land-Newcastle (N.S.W.) collieries will carry a
sting in its tail. It is all very well to rejoice, as
the churches did last Sunday ; but the price
remains to be paid. Here, for the first time for
several years, a great body of men in N.S. Wales
acted as though there were no such thing as an
Arbitration law. They stopped work, and,
though the stoppage was called a strike, nobody
recalled that strikes were illegal and lockouts
punishable. By their persistent attacks, the
almost united Press of N.S. Wales practically
killed Arbitration. The papers attacked it in the
first place because they believed it was an agency
for getting reasonable terms from employers, even
when the employers might have been able to
get unreasonable terms and so make more
money; later on, when, largely as the result
of unsympathetic administration, some of the
Labor people turned upon it, the Act had very
few active friends on either side, but hosts of
enemies on both. Two months ago the President
of the Court said it was on its death-bed ; and
still there was no rush to the bedside. It was
allowed to die just as though it were better dead.
Then the Maitland-Newcastle trouble happened,
and served to advertise the death. For four
years the workers had been getting used to the
idea that strikes and lockouts were illegal; this
Newcastle affair openly scoffed at the idea. The
fruits of the awakening were borne instantly.
Within a week 50 men had struck at the Broken
Hill South mine—at Broken Hill, where the older
men shudder at strikes, and where amazing pro-
gress has been made since Arbitration arrived to
put an end, it was thought, to the old uncer-
tainty which hampered almost every mining
operation. And while the mere occurrence
of the Newcastle trouble aroused the workers of
the State to the fact that Arbitration, as an active,
forceful thing, is dead, the speedy settlement of
the trouble by conference puts a most dangerous
argument into the mouths of those who don’t want
it revived. How much better, they say, to settle
things like this ! Do they know how it came
about that things were settled so easily ? Chiefly
because, on the men’s side, they had no fighting
funds to speak of; nor have other N.S. Wales
unions. Trusting to Arbitration, they let their funds
run down ; with Arbitration out of the way, they
will inevitably build up fighting funds again.
Arbitration is killed ; and conference has
triumphed because it isn’t convenient just for the
moment to fight. That is all. And it is a poor
prospect to rejoice over. It would almost have
been better if a short, sharp struggle had roused
N.S. Wales at once to the true significance of the
deathbed scene.
♦
When the Ark Goes to Sea.
It is wonderful what risks some Australian
Governments allow shipowners to run. The rule
seems to be that a ship may be taken anywhere in
any condition ; so long as it doesn’t sink at the
wharf all is well. If the owner reckons it is good
enough to run the chance of losing his vessel
(which is probably insured), then it’s good enough
for the men in the vessel to run the chance of
losing their lives (which probably aren’t insured).
The paddle steamer Shannon provided a splendid
illustration of this a week or so ago. It was an
old tub of a boat of 122 tons gross register. It
was built in Goolwa (S.A.) 30 years ago, and wore
itself out tramping up and down the Murray,
butting into banks and logs and snags, and get-
ting stranded on sandbanks. Then for some
years it lay at Launceston waiting for a pur-
chaser. A Melbourne firm bought it, and a crew
of seven men, including an engineer and the
captain, went aboard with their bags in one hand
and their lives in the other, and were told to urge
the old Noah’s Ark along to Melbourne. , On
Sept. 3 it set out; but when it had grafted for
48 hours, and was overdue at Melbourne, it was
still swimming feebly somewhere off the north-
west coast of the Flyspeck. It put in at Stanley,
re-stocked its coal-bunkers, and had another
go at the trip to Melbourne. It left Stanley on
September 7, and next morning, there being a
slight jobble on the sea, the old sieve commenced
to swallow the ocean wholesale. The pumps were
set going, but did hardly any visible good, and
the crew set to work with buckets. Still the
water gained, and then what might have been
expected happened. One of the boiler tubes
burst, and the silly craft was paddled towards
King Island, 60 miles away. All the way the
pumps clanked, and the men emptied the water
out of the vessel with everything that came handy.
Anchor was cast in about seven fathoms of water,
and for the time the ancient tank was at rest.
Put every now and then the engineer emerged
from his hole to report that another tube had
gone in the boiler. At hist he came out of his
hole permanently to say that so many tubes had
burst that there wasn’t enough steam available to
even move the vessel, and it was therefore no use
returning to his hole. It was then resolved
to beach the fast and furious paddle-craft Shannon,
and it is now a wreck. It was insured for half its
value, which wasn’t much. But what has Tas-
mania to say for itself as the State which allowed
this old bleached skeleton to go to sea unques-
tioned after rotting for years in Deadman’s Row
up the Tamar ?
The Wreck of ’Frisco.
When the Boer war was over, a horde of Aus-
tralians left God’s good country and rushed to
South Africa to participate in the boom that
never came, and were sorry—very sorry—that
they went. A section of the Australian daily
press is apparently trying to engineer a similar
rush to California. Sensational articles appear
every now and then about the rebuilding of
fallen ’Frisco, and these articles create a vague
impression that there is work for all and sundry
in the burnt city, and that the whole world can
go there when it likes and get a job. Take this
(from a Sydney daily) as a sample :
Work is in progress day and night, and the united
railways alone employ 2000 men at Bs. per day and lodg-
ings, while carpenters, plumbers, and other building
tradesmen are badly needed at high rates. New hotels
have already been completed, with accommodation rang-
ing from 250 rooms down to modest-sized hotels of 40
rooms, where the rates per day rule very much the same
as formerly, and good quarters can be obtained at from
12s. 6d. to’His. per day, everything included, while 6s. to
Bs. per day provides one of the best rooms, not including
meals. The Palace Hotel is to be rebuilt on the old site
as a steel struct rc with about 700 rooms, and the famous
St. Francis Hotel is fast nearing completion. The bank
clearances are equal to any in former years, and alto-
gether the people of San Francisco have every confidence
for the future of the city.
No one doubts the confidence, or the pluck, but
the rest is mostly “ hot air.” As a matter of fact,
a closer inspection of this giddy paragraph reveals
nothing tangible in the way of work except the
fact that 2COO men are employed by the railways
at the not very special wage of Bs. a day. As
another matter of fact, San Francisco is, just now,
about the deadest-broke place on earth. It can
hardly be otherwise. The destruction of almost
every industry threw more people out of work
than the rebuilding would provide for even if the
rebuilding were fairly started, which it isn’t. It
might be fairly started if the ruined property-
holders and merchants and manufacturers could
merely wave their hands and get money, but they
can’t. A temporary San Francisco of one-storey
canvas and tin and lath buildings, or of two-storey
buildings thrown together with bricks picked out
of the ruins, is rising by degrees, but the great
new structures are still in the air. The streets in
the business quarter still keep caving in as that
vast system of cellarage which made underground
’Frisco collapses bit by bit. Accommodation is
naturally scarce, because so much of it is destroyed.
A comparatively cheap bed costs over 4s. ; the
old ninepenny or shilling meal costs 45., and it
isn’t the same old meal, but a miserable apology ;
the use of an attic, two or three miles out of town,
can be bought for something over £2 a week ;
close to the town any kind of a room is worth, more
like £3 12s. a week. A vast mass of the unions
demanded higher wages—they had to in order to
live under these conditions—and they were beaten
through the influx of misguided workers rushing
from all parts to rebuild San Francisco. The
“scab” is pre-eminent nowin the coastal boats
and along the wharves, and in some of the shore
trades, while many of the local workers have been
driven to depend on Government rations. Some-
thing like 60,000 people are said to still rely on
this public aid, despite the heroic bluffs put up
about the absence of all need for further relief.
The Kanaka from Honolulu has come into evidence
to add to the pressure; as he doesn’t mind where he
sleeps, he has a great ad vantage in a city of famine
rentals. Theschoolshavere-opened, butapparently
more to inspire public confidence than anything
else, for the children are comparatively few. The
drama has recommenced, in a cheap form under
canvas, surrounded by canvas drinking-shops and
sundries. Almost everything is, as yet, hard-up
and desolate, and temporary, and made of tin and
canvas, and cheap Oregon pine. It could hardly
be otherwise. When 400,000 people are pretty well
ruined they can’t start a wholesale reconstruction
on the instant, vast as the American energy may be.
When the industries of 400,000 people are practi-
cally destroyed, and almost the only form of work-
left is the clearing away of ruins and the construc-
tion of temporary shelters, they don’t want out-
side help for a long time, except in the shape of
food and money; almost every man there is an
applicant for a job on the ruins. ’Frisco isn’t a
place to go to ; rather it is one to flee from as if it
were a pestilence. The courage that can bluff
about new 10-storey hotels and a suddenly resur-
rected city in this time of chaos and beggary and
eleemosynary soup is very magnificent, but it is
rather deceptive to people at a distance.
♦
The N.S.W. Land Scandals.
The N.S.W. Lands scandals gradually slip into
oblivion. If the Carruthers Government had a
fixed design to smother the whole business and
allow the old state of affairs to be re-established,
it could not have acted to better purpose than it
has done. Yet its acts seem to have been done
in a blundering, chivvied fashion, and to have
rather happened, or blown on to the premises,
or been brought in by the cat, so to speak,
than actually perpetrated. When indigna-
tion was white-hot the Government pro-
mised all sorts of things. The guilt of
the past was to meet with condign punish-
ment. Ample precautions would be taken for the
future by removing the Lands Department from
political control, so that any future jobs would be
done by Commissioners instead of by Ministers.
The evil already done was to be remedied by a
resumption of leases, and a cancelling of conces-
sions illegally obtained. In fact, there was to be
all-round reform and upheaval. But there was
always an excuse for delay, and after delay there
was a recognition of the fact that public indignation
had cooled down, and that was a reason for more
delay, and then public indignation froze, and that
was cause for still more delay. So at the present
day, after many months, absolutely nothing has
been done to repair the evil-doing of the past, or
to take any adequate precaution for the future. In-
deed the Government, with cool effrontery, declares
its definite intention of perpetuating the old
political land agency system which has stained
so deeply the credit of the State. And Parlia-
ment is with the Government in the matter. The
fact is that there is no party in Parliament with
any real sincerity for the task of Lands Depart-
ment reform. Too many members had their noses
in the trough in the past and hope to have them
there in the future. Not one party, but every
party, in the Legislature—including the Lai < r
party—has some members who shudder at tl.i
The Lies of Anti-Sosh.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There i 3 trouble down in Hell —
Ananias feels unwell,
And Sapphira’s lamentations are both numerous
and shrill;
All the long-established liars
Are complaining from their fires —
Yea, the voice of envy echoes round the sulphur-
vat and grill!
And the reason why they wail
Is because their falsehoods fail—
Aye, because their greatest records have been
trampled into squash;
Even Satan quite agrees
That his best mendacities
Cannot hold a guttered candle to the lies of Anti-
Sosh !
All the liars who have lied
In their wickedness and pride
Are compelled to sky the towel, and admit they
are out-classed :
Lo ! the evil men of Crete —
Who were very hard to beat.
As the old Apostle tells us, stand confounded and
aghast.
Though the Psalmist spoke in haste
Yet his words on fact were based,
And applied to other folks besides the men wbo
dwelt at Gosli-
En in Egypt by the Nile.
O, the world is full of guile,
And the land is desolated with the lies of Anti-
Sosh.
The old horse perjuree,
Which was great and wild and free,
And the snake lie that was mighty in the hefty
days of yore—
Each has faded and is dead,
Each has tombstones on its head,
And the place of pride that knew them once new
knoweth them no more.
The fish-yarn great and vast,
Its bright, glad day is past,
And the other tales that flourished since the
ancient days of Hosil-
Ea, King of Israel,
Are with Dagon and with Bel;
And their tombs are buried deep beneath the
sands of Anti-Sosh.
vie.
GRANT HERVEY.


Jb.
Beware of other brands
said to be “ just as
P
good.” There is no
brand iikeGALLAHER'S
GOLD PLATE TOBACCO
and CIGARETTES.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The
and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is
relieves without discomfort; in other words, it
reform without revolution. This is because il
best and safest natural aperient.*
great
i hat it
effects
is the
*
G
"v
O'
O
V
G
&
&
❖
V
*
<S
mention of “Lands Inquiry” and shudder still
more at any suggestion that “the Lands” should
be in future barred against the politician with an
itching palm. A solid phalanx of members, drawn
from all sides, will meet with overt or secret hos-
tility any attempt to effectively clear up the
Lands scandals. The work will have to remain
for next Parliament. If this Assembly went to
the country now it would probably lose 50 per
cent, of its members. Unless the shortness of the
public memory intervenes, that will happen
whenever there is a dissolution. Then the way
will be open for Whole Hog fteform Government,
if the necessary material can be found.
♦
Judkins, the Melbourne apostle of anti-gamble
and anti-drink, lately created a real live sensa-
tion. At a Beastly Sunday Afternoon he talked
about the betting appeal cases quashed by Judge
Neighbour, and then, with an air of profound
awe, told the people in a stage whisper that if he
would, he could unfold a tale that would make the
State’s last hair stand up with horror on its head.
Exactly what this revelation that he wouldn’t
make might be no one knows. Judkins talked
about corruption in high places, and about the
power of money, and particularly requested the
audience to remember what he had said and the
date on which he had said it. He concluded by
saying
We do know some tilings, but there is a time and place
to say them, and I am only holding up to you now the
red flag of danger. I want you to understand that this
campaign means more than has been evident to you
already. We are attacking things of which some of you
have not the remotest idea. lam not talking platitudes
now, but from a knowledge of certain facts. We are
going on until this kind of thing is,not possible in Aus-
tralia. It may be possible in America, but we are going
to try, by the help of God, to make it impossible here for
the power of money to be the corrupt thing it is in
America.
Then Judkins’s dark and bitter attack on nobody
in particular, for alleged something or other not
named, roused Brother Worrall to comment
thus from Bendigo :
I pray God that our brothermay be able to substantiate
the statements he has made regarding men who are
diametrically opposed to everything that is good and
righteous.
To put the matter shortly, Judkins says there is
fearful corruption somewhere, and Worrall
hopes there is no mistake about the corruption.
Apparently Worrall wouldn’t miss the corrup-
tion on any account. Premier Bent, by the way,
has asked Judkins for particulars, and offered
him a Royal Commission ; but Judkins refuses
the Commission and declines to give particulars.
It is easier to bellow darkly and generally.
4» ■■ ■ ■
Arthur Griffith’s little Testator's Family
Maintenance Bill was unfairly treated in N.S.W.
Assembly last week. Useless talk filled in time
till the hour arrived when private members busi-
ness had to go overboard, and no decision was
arrived at. N.S.W. law at present empowers the
court to amend a will where a widow and her
children are deprived of their natural share of the
family property because of the testator’s insanity,
or because he has been subjected to undue in-
fluence. Griffith simply wanted the law ex-
tended, so that the court would have power
to amend or set aside a will which deprived
the widow and children of the means of sup-
port, even though insanity or undue influence
was not alleged. There is no doubt that
such a reform is bound to come. It is already
the law in many countries. It grips that sense of
human fair play which always gets the legal
quibbler, the temporiser, or the upholder of
vested privileges down at last, and sits on his
head. Thirty years ago Chief Justice Martin
reached the point Griffith aims at by holding
that the want of due provision in a will for widow
and children was in itself prima facie evidence
that the testator was insane or unduly influenced.
But there are many Judges and many opinions.
Law, and not opinion, is what is wanted to-day.
Attorney-General Wade ponderously sat upon
Griffith’s idea in the interests of old, dead pre-
cedent, but Griffith’s idea will be alive all the
same when Wade is forgotten.
♦
Treasurer John Forrest proposes to amend
the Constitution so that the Commonwealth may
take over all existing State debts, and not merely
those which existed at the time of Federation,
and everybody in the House of Representatives
approves. Forrest’s suggested amendment will
also provide that the maturing debt of any
State may be taken over without involving
the acceptance (perhaps without profit) of a
similar proportion of the debt of every other
State, and to this common sense proposal no serious
objection is raised. The further provision which
Watson and other members ask from Forrest is,
that the amended Constitution should also pro-
vide that no State should have power to borrow
outside Australia, excepting through the Common-
wealth. Watson would leave the States a per-
fectly free hand in local loans, which ought to
be more than sufficient for them, but would have
every State forbidden by strict law' to go to
London, or Paris, or New York, or anywhere
else. Deakin and Forrest (and even J. Cook)
all agree that an essential feature of Common-
wealth control of State debts should be that the
States must not go separately to the London
money market, but they refuse to put this pro-
vision in the Constitution, declaring that every-
thing will be arranged “by agreement with the
States.” The legal, constitutional agreement
seems preferable to the promise of an evanescent,
transitory State Premier, which binds nobody
but the man who makes it, and doesn’t necessarily
bind him. And there is something abject about
that perpetual phrase, “By agreement with the
States.” The Commonwealth badly wants a,
Government which will do things even if the
little State Governments don’t agree, and which
would just as soon disagree with the whole
41 biling” of them as not.
♦
Victorian Chief Secretary Sam Gillott made
an unusually firm remark to a deputation from the
Council of Churches which called on him last
week to wail over its poor Chinese brother. The
trouble related to the Factories Act. Originally
the Act treated the Chinaman like anybody else,
but the public soon grew tired of that. It was
found that he couldn’t be treated like anybody
else. He disregarded every rule as to hours,
wages, sanitation, and everything else. He kept
false records and bogus wages sheets which bam-
boozled the inspectors. His employees were all
described as partners working for themselves. If
the factory was nominally the property of Ho
Fat, that individual could never be found and
held responsible for anything; he was there, but
he assured the inspector that he was Ah Lee, a
humble person who didn’t savvy, and that Ho
Fat’s return was quite uncertain. If a sum-
mons was served on Ling Hi, he took it
under protest and turned up in court to swear
that it had been wrongly served, as he was Ping
Wo, and he had lots of corroboration. It was
impossible to hold anybody responsible, for
everybody when wanted became somebody else.
The Law grew weary, and passed special legisla-
tion to fix the unfixable Chow, and the churches
have been weeping ever since because his course
of lying and law-breaking was interfered with.
Last week, in the middle of one of its weeps, Sam
Gillott’s temper frayed out a little, and he
hinted broadly that if the church had to meet the
same kind of unfair competition it would take
quite a different view of things, and that its
readiness to sacrifice the other fellow on the altar
of abstract snuffle didn’t impress him much. And
S. Gillott might have gone further than he did,
and still not strained the truth.
4.
“Sassiety” influence threatens to undermine all
that the Women’s Gnash League has done for the
Anti-Sosh party down South. There is a State
by-election for Toorak, consequent upon the
decision of Faikbairn to try for Fawkner, a
Federal division hitherto held by Labor. The
Anti-Sosh body (which corresponds with the Poli-
tical Labor League) selected as candidate Norman
Bayles, a nice young man, with beautiful feet,
who plays tennis like an angel. Bayles has no
other qualifications that anybody knows; but
Toorak, which previously elected Fairbairn
because he once rowed in an Oxford eight,
regarded it as imperative to select somebody
who could say “Haw” with the right accent.
But the Women’s League had invited the wash-
lady and the Mary Ann to join it, with an
assurance of sisterhood, equality, and all that
sort of truck. A lot of Mary Ann Wash did
join, but she wasn’t consulted about the selec-
tion of a candidate ; she might have been a serf
struggling with beetles in the kitchen instead of
a full-blown member. The haughty dames of
Toorak just chose their own beauty man off their
own bat as if they were the whole league—and
Mary Ann Wash wants to know where the sister-
hood and the other eloquent fluff have gone to.
One or two reasonably strong men were among
the applicants for selection, but were thrown
aside because they couldn’t show so many ancestors
as the useless but beautiful Bayles ; in fact, they
were shuddered right out of the ballot on suspicion
that they had some horrible working people in
their pedigree. This aspersion on the Mary Ann
and Sarah Jane section of the league has almost
burst things up.
“Don’t mind me; look after Bill,” said
William Dickens to comrades who ran to help
him. William Dickens had been suddenly
striken down, practically disembowelled, by an
accident while at his toil at Wallaroo (S. A.) Smelt-
ing Works. Bill was his injured mate. When Bill
had been attended to, the still-conscious William
Dickens was taken to the hospital. He calmly
dictated his will, pointed out a slight clerical
error to the person who read it over to him,
signed it, and then said : “Now, doctor, give me
something to make me sleep ; this is Hell.” And
William Dickens—the Man who had looked after
Bill—died.
The Bulletin has before it a beautiful
little church-circular, issued this month. Some
extracts :
For some time past there has been a considerable fall-
ing off in the church funds, both in the offertories and
subscriptions. We believe this shortage is mainly due to
the hard times which almost everyone in the district has
experienced, through the long-continued spell of dry
weather.
The drought has passed, bountiful rain has fallen, our
prospect is bright, good harvests are assured ; surely this
is cause for gratitude and thanksgiving.
The churchwardens, with every confidence, now invite
you to make a special effort to reduce the overdraft and
keep our parish out of debt They therefore ask every
parishioner to make a thank-offering to God for His work
in the parish.
“Freely ye have received ; Freely give.”
This, which happened at Picton, a poverty-
stricken, decaying little town on the Melbourne
line, made the adjacent farmers feel good. Lack
of rain, rabbits, and heavy rents have reduced
most of them to bitter poverty. Some rain came
the other day, however, and, before a blade of
grass had time to grow, or a penny of profit to
come in, they received this circular' telling them
about their prosperity. And—the irony of it !
it was signed by the rich local landlord in his
capacity of churchwarden.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall Blanche Arral.
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire. ’
Her Majesty’s “The Squaw Man.”
Criterion “The Fatal Wedding.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Hippodrome Bohemian Dramatic Co.
Lyceum Hall t iison’s Popular Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Two Little Vagabonds.”
Her Majesty’s “ La Mascotte.”
Theatre Royal “The Earl and the Girl.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Dolores (Sept. 27th & 29th).
4. .
“ The Squaw Man ” is an unpleasant story,
festering under the veneer of a marriage certifi-
cate. Diana has married the wrong man ; and the
wrong man having got into trouble, Jim, the
right one, for love of her clears out for America,
where the Indians are, carrying with him the
cold, dark suspicion that he is the guilty party.
In America, being repeatedly saved from all sorts
of bad deaths by a squaw, a little half-breed
Indian, who calls Jim “daddy,” skips on in the
third act. Bill sums the mother up. “ Just a
squaw”—with two ideas, and only two, Jim and
the boy. But, being a hero and an English
gentleman to boot, of course he has made an
honest squaw of the squaw, according to the best
traditions of the police court, and married her ;
though, by the way, the parson isn't produced,
and the squaw wouldn’t know marriage lines from
a motor-car, anyhow. Still, in spite of the
wedding and all that, the dramatist evidently
reckons that James has made a mess of things;
wherefore the squaw’ has to shoot herself in the
last act so that J im may go home with Diana, and
become a lord, Diana’s husband having con-
veniently died. There’s no great quantity of
murder in the piece, considering the awful preva-
lence of “guns”; but a vast amount of suicide
and sudden death happens just when it will do
the yarn the most good. Out of consideration for
the fact that the piece is played at houses like
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), this convenient mortality
occurs mostly between acts, or just behind the
last visible tree. At the Royal, they like their
murders and sudden deaths done on the premises
as a guarantee of good faith. It looks a tough
proposition to make a hero out of a member
of the old nobility who shares his camp with a
lubra and sprinkles half-castes round; but, by
calling her a squaw instead of a lubra, and the
camp a ranch, and dressing her in a cloak of many
colors and a milk-pail instead of a blue blanket
and a clay-pipe, and making her brothers ask for
fire-water instead of ticcapenny, the house not
only forgives him, but applauds him vigorously.
Thus distance lends enchantment to another scene
—three scenes, in fact. In his own country, the
“ squaw man ” is ostracised ; in our own country,
the lubra’s white man is liable to get three months,
though there’s apparently no reason why he
shouldn’t be turned into a hero of a squashy melo-
drama for American consumption. That would
be reciprocity, anyhow.
# * * •
But, forgiving the unpleasantness that lies
beneath the marriage certificate, “The Squaw
Man ” is a play with some strong situations ; while
in an unusually long cast there is pretty well a
score of character-types that are only picked up in
rare corners, and probably some of them not even
there. In this respect it is a sort of dramatic
cinematograph, which might show as “America
at Murder.” Some of the pictures have little
bearing upon the trouble in hand ; but in only
one case—w’hen Hiram gets into the saloon
—is there an obvious intrusion. It is the only
time when Charles Waldron is out of the picture.
Waldron isn’t a magnetic actor, but no better
elocutionist has led a co. in Australia for many a
day. Yet he doesn’t rant as the mere elocutionist
is apt to do, but aims for his effects quietly,
and gets them. Curiously enough, while The
Bulletin’s Melbourne critic found reminiscences
of Nance O’Neil in Waldron, this writer shut his
eyes and heard Nance over again in Miss Ola
Humphrey, the new leading lady—the same
voice, the same staccato delivery. But not
Nance’s passion. For a lady in Diana’s situation,
Miss Humphrey was shivery. And, anyway, she
was only the other great actress after she had lost
most of her Amurrkan accent —in that re. ;>ect the
trip across the Atlantic in search of Jim seemed
to do her a power of good. Besides Jim, there is
Bill, previously mentioned in this narrative, and
a brisk, bustling hero also in his own way ; and
Plimmer, and an old Indian chief who speaks no
English but makes himself eloquent nevertheless ;
and Mrs. G. B. Lewis, and others who. deserve
mention for playing the minor parts unusually
well, though, as before suggested, “ The Squaw
Man ” is a piece in which a minor mummer,
being determined to get killed or something, is
liable to become for a brief space the principal
figure in the sum.
* * *- *
The Sydney recitals of Mme. Blanche
Arral have been so far marked by “an increasing
purpose.” The first was given to a generous-sized
audience, the second, in spite of rain, to a
practically full house, the third to a crowd for part
of which there was only standing room in the
great Town Hall. This singer, dropping on Aus-
tralia unexpectedly as from the skies, with no
preliminary flourish of trumpets, her personality
a matter of some mystery, has now won full artistic
recognition. The enthusiasm of Melbourne has
been repeated in Sydney and with each recital in
that city a larger audience has shown larger
appreciation. Reclame has not done this ; the
singer has sung her way to favor. Madame
Arral’s voice within its range— e.g., for such work
as “Mignon,” demanding flexibility of voice,
purity of tone, sympathy and the dramatic quality
—has struck Sydney audiences as coming near to
perfection. Her phrasing in recitatif is music itself,
and the liquid quality of her trills shows perfect
training. On Monday night last, following her usual
custom, the singer divided the programme into
three parts —the first a series of excerpts suitable
for the concert platform, the others connected scenes
from operas. Again, the “Mignon ” selections —the
plaintive recitatif, the dramatic malediction aria,
and the gay “ ./e mis Titania ” —were the most suc-
cessful, musically, though the singer was so
fine a Marguerite as to prompt a hope that
one day she will be heard throughout in
“Faust.” Popular appreciation was most pro-
nounced for a Spanish bolero—an hilarious, vinous
air, which seems to have suggested a vulgarisation
in the well-known “ Bull-and-Bush ” song. There
will be two more Arral concerts —on Saturday and
Monday next. The success—startling in its way
—of the recitals has been much aided by the ex-
cellent work of the orchestra under Rivers All-
press.
It only wants a month now to make a year
since the long hair of “The Bohemian” began to
float through the Hippodrome, in murky Hav-
street, Sydney ; and for 11 months Vice has been
rolled out flat six times a week. And it looks as
though Vice might continue to be rolled out inde-
finitely. The vast tent holds 3400 people, and there
were 3000 in it on Saturday night—3ooo people,
most of them eating peanuts. The Hippodrome
is becoming a habit; whole families turn up once
a week regularly, to learn how virtue always
triumphs in the end. There is a perfectly
true yarn of a small nurse girl who, in
her first “place,” turned out unsatisfactorily;
not to put too fine a point on it, she
helped herself to what gew-gaws were lying
round. Her mother was appealed to. “Only to
think of it!” said mother. “And I’ve been
letting her go to Cole’s Theatre reg’lar, tco ! ” It
was only another case of the inherent, ineradi-
cable depravity of some small nurse girls. But
they are not all nurse girls at the Hippodrome.
E. W. O’Sullivan is there, propping up the demo-
cratic arch, in his accustomed front seat. He is
writing a new drama, they say. But that isn’t to
be seen yet. Next week they put on a social play,
pitched in Newcastle, with Labor and Capital
hammering out their troubles. Right on the nail
does this quaint showman hit. At present,
they are killing Indian mutineers.
** * *
Sydney saw the last of J. C. Williamson’s
Repertoire Co. on Friday, when “The Mikado”
was played with all the foolery that a last-night
audience is supposed to put up with good-
naturedly. There had been three performances of
“ The Gondoliers ” before that, probably the best
thing this co. does—with Aggie Thorne and Dolly
Castles as the little wives, and Kenningham in
unusually good voice for his favorite “Sparkling
Eyes” solo. From Sydney, the co. goes to
Perth ; after that, it goes to pieces.
#* * *
Brinn, who juggles with cannon as easily
as an anti-Sosh lecturer juggles with facts, has re-
arrived at Sydney Tivoli, to give some needed
variety to a programme which otherwise remains
pretty well unchanged.
** * *
At Sydney Palace Philip Lytton’s “Three
Little Waifs” continue to mourn the mother
whom a bad uncle keeps from them. According
to original intentions, the mixed family of saints
and sinners should have retired from business
last Saturday ; but there was enough demand for
them to justify another lap. The piece has been
brightened up considerably since its first produc-
tion ; but'the plot remains in the ruck where the
authors first cast it.
** * *
When, now and then, a stock company
like Bland Holt’s stages a piece which is some-
thing apart from the ruck of shouting Virtue and
prowling, lurking Vice, it is a blessing to the
actors and actresses, as well as to the public. It
lifts the stage people out of the groove, and gives
them a chance to show that they can do some-
thing more than shout and lurk. When Miss
Ross, Miss Ireland, Baker and Norman have been
playing the same old types of character, with but
the very slightest variations, for months at
a time, their acting is bound to become some-
what mechanical ; and to appear to the
audiences a little more mechanical than it
really is. “The Great Millionaire,” revived
at Sydney Royal on Saturday, though of
the pure melodrama type, is sufficiently out of
the ordinary procession of things to give the
actors some chance to be bright and original, and
they take good advantage of the opportunity.
Baker, as the millionaire, acts at his best, and
Styan, Norman, and Mrs. Bland also show the
stimulus of a fresh line of thought—or the
stimulus of any kind of thought, for the plain,
old melodrama is a thing which the Bland Holt
Co. can play in excellent style without any think-
ing. Moreover, the “ Great Millionaire ” is a
good play—almost a very good one. The same
theme, stripped of its melodramatic exaggera-
tions, and with the scenery as a subordinate
adjunct instead of the domineering factor,
might be made into a great play. The idea
of a mighty capitalist when affronted in his social
aspirations taking revenge on society by organ-
ising a wheat corner to run up the price of bread
is full of possibilities. Shirley has taken just
enough of them to make his drama interesting,
even when it is somewhat banal. No change of
importance has been made in the cast of “ The
Great Millionaire ” since its last Sydney produc-
tion : Baker is still the plutocrat, Styan his
secretary, Bland Holt the humorous swaggie
from the Barcoo, and Mrs. Bland Holt the Gipsy
girl. Those four are the most individual charac-
ters. Other parts giving less opportunity are well
played, and the scenery is all there. The scenery
usually heads the bill at Bland Holt’s theatre,
and the man responsible is John Brunton."
** * *
“ The Newsboy’s Dream” entertainment,
by Edward Page, which has held the Sydney Cri-
terion this week, is hardly up to metropolitan
theatre mark ; but it should be a good show for
small, quiet towns with a religious atmosphere—a
rather old town with a cathedral in it ought, in
fact, to rush the thing. Mr. Page has a sense of
humor and a marked acting ability for his own
share, and is supported by an organisation of capi-
tal singers and choristers. They put on a little
comedy ; a pathetic, Dickensy sort of sketch,
with good choral singing, snow, and a dying
newsboy in it; and a mixed musical turn. It’s
all pretty good material, but somehow, as a whole,
it doesn’t grip. Yet any one portion of the pro-
gramme would make a capital music hall item.
The Sydney season closes on Friday night.
** * *
Sydney must brace itself for a revival of
“ The Fatal Wedding,” with its “ Tin-Can Band,”
next Saturday. The Criterion is again the scene
of. excitement, and, as before, it will probably be
besieged by the feminine section of the com-


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
MM
a??
Willi am Fleming# equitable bqg, george sisydaev.
ty'J/teming/ oJLtney'
ft) J3atu6nuuJ jfaUs
AMitiuCv-imiaflid/ for uJ
m/oc confa u/i/ to uou/t'
lOt&maic for- economy v Mtco -
faction. fro- MTilmroaum/
Ufa Aanctyew cnwrtw'Miemfa:
MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
The Speediest Cure.
It Gets There Quickest
m
VS'
KPhC
insist upon “FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE.
All Chemists, Is.; four times, 2s. 6d.
BACKACHE is often attrib-
uted to Defective Kidneys.
This in measure is only a
bogey, an advertising trick.
Your Kidneys are Correct—
never fear.
in nine cases out of ten the
pains are nothing but
Muscular Rheumatism
Easily Removed by 10 drops of
“FISHER’S” PHOSPUERiNE
A most Famous Cure.
FISHER & CO,, Ghemists, 337 George Street, opp. G.P. Office, Sydney.
munity—which is sometimes no less feminine
when its name is “Mr.” “ The Fatal Wedding^
was a wild boom in the U.S.A., where “F.W.”
Cos., a year or so ago, were thick as “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin ” Cos. used to be. In Australia it has
repeated that wild success; and the reason is a
dark secret.
* -* m *
Violet Balmain—what a perfumery name !
—having returned from studying in Vienna, will
pound the piano at the Y.M.C. A. Hall in a week
or two. The little lady is classically ambitious,
and will be supported by Vollmar and Staell in a
Brahms trio.
* # * -*
Hazon and his so-called amateurs gave a
splendid orchestral concert in Sydney Town Hall
last Thursday. They play so well that the title
seems too modest. Sweet music was the order of
the night, and the whole audience revelled in
“ II Flauto Magico,” and the little bit of Haydn’s
symphony which had not been in the programme
for 15 years. What Sydney would do without
Hazon passes speculation. A young contralto,
Elsie M'Cauley, warbled a song of Schumann and
“OMio Fernando,” and heaps of flowers fell at
her feet for reward.
** * *
Melbourne’s only melodrama for the
moment is “Two Little Vagabonds,” at the
Princess’s. Stated on the programme to have
been “written” by Geo. R. Sims and Arthur
Shirley, this tale of doughty Dick and wilting
Wally was merely adapted from the French, and
altered to suit Mrs. Grundy. But the Cockney
hand of Sims is plainly perceptible in many
touches of humorous sentimentality intended to
tempt the tear-drop from smiling eyes. The name
characters in “Two Little Vagabonds ” are more
generally pathetic than any other pictures of stage
childhood that have given woeful satisfaction
to the general public. Men, as well as
women, can feel comfortably sad on account of
the brown waif who has built up a strong consti-
tution on a raw-turnip diet, and his pal, the sickly
stray, who hopes to become a blacksmiff. In the
contrast of vagabondage, with its incidental bear-
ing on a long-lost mother’s emotions, there is a lot
of striking effect. For the rest, the drama is
rather crudely sensational, the human interest
being arrived at through the inhuman behavior of
a jealous husband, a person almost as incredibly
foolish as the male parent in “The Fatal Wed-
ding.” A low-spirited, preposterous papa is the
one weakness in common between the bad Ameri-
can play and the very much better Anglo-French
play which has succeeded it at the Princess’s.
* * * *
The company, as a whole, is good enough
for the work, or nearly so. Miss Beatrice Hollo-
way has a natural turn for boy-parts, and her
Dick is a forcible little vag. She looks too
exuberantly healthy and happy, and her acting is
a bit over-accentuated, but the impersonation
pleases. She is up to Dick. Miss Mabel Russell
would be a convincing consumptive Wally if she
were to reduce her plumpness by at least 141 b.
There is no fault to find with Miss Appleton as
the gentle mother. Inman, John O’Neill and
Cass are satisfactory. Brownless is good in a
small character part, and Miss Fraser makes a
respectable attempt to present a shocking old
Biddy. In other respects also the show gets a
fair chance to prosper for three weeks.
* * * -:ic-
“ The Earl and The Girl,” now staged at
Melbourne Royal, is musical comedy in the rough.
The same company, in a more humorous and witty
piece, or the same comedy treated by a different
co., might provide a brighter subject for reflection,
but the entertainment which came to pass on
Saturday night seems to haunt one like the
memory of a bygone pain in the back. There are
so many unnecessary yards of cheap dialogue
hanging to the narrative, and so few musical items
that call for an imperative encore. In short, “ The
Earl and The Girl” contains nothing specially good
except its intentions, which are doubtless excellent.
At the same time, it compels an acknowledgment
of the fact that it has a plot. The plot might be
stronger, nevertheless it holds together and forms
a bond of union for J. F. Sheridan and Co. A
dog trainer, clothed in the working garb of an
acrobat, consents to masquerade as an unknown
earl, who is being chased by a number of furious
citizens, male and female. Meanwhile, the dog
trainer is chased by his loving larrikiness, and when
she finds him he resumes his original identity.
Sheridan earnestly endeavors to be amusing as the
little man who goes about in cotton tights. A pair
of low comedy legsand a sham nose are the principal
features of his performance, and a large section
of the first-night audience laughed at them all
the time. Among the men who wore trousers,
Thomas Curran, Lochrane, Needham, and De
Lacy had most to do and sing. Miss Ray Jones
was a tuneful little lady in a sentimental ballad
character, and Miss Heba Barlow, as the comely
larrikiness aforesaid, acquired needless distinction
from a footnote on the programme stating that
she sang “Bom-Bombay” for the first time on
November 20th. 1905. With fifty or sixty persons
gathered together on the large Royal stage “ The
Earl and the Girl ” has considerable spectacular
attractions apart from a pair of performing dogs,
ifr * &
Panto, did not reign in Melbourne last
Xmas, but this next season it is going to pour.
The Williamson production at Her Majesty’s will
be “ Mother Goose,” and several new people are
under contract of importation for it. Anderson is
to stage “ Robinson Crusoe ” at the Royal, with
a locally constructed co., plus a “principal boy”
from England. Managers seem to attach a lot of
importance to an imported “principal boy,”
although the work required of that she-male
character is right into the hands (and feet, and
figure) of the typical, alert Australian girl.
Anderson, for instance, didn’t need to look beyond
Maud Thornton for a Robinson Crusoe of Xmas
tradition. It’s the sentimental Miss Simplicity
of panto, story who should be imported. The
girl with yellow hair, a sweet, plaintive little
voice and an imploring manner. This country
doesn’t grow many of her for stage purposes.
“La Mascotte,” for two or three sufficient
reasons, is doing big business at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, therefore its nights will be eighteen
instead of twelve, and “The Belle of New York ”
will have to wait until October 6th for Bronson’s
blessing. Melbourne wanted the revival of
“ Mascotte.” The opera makes new friends
and finds fresh favor with those old ones
who haven’t left all their preferences behind
them. The present co. gives an effective
performance in the first two acts; chorus and
orchestra are probably better than they were long
ago; and the insurgent troops, under the com-
mand of Fritellini, have not been equalled for
legs, discipline and splendor by any previous
comic opera army on Melbourne record. Their
march round in the limelight is a beautiful
incident.
** * *
New “ turns ” at Melbourne Opera House,
this week, are Alf. Chester, Larry Lewis, and a
lady in a youthful skirt, who sing individually
after the manner of many previous visitors.
Larry Lewis is the least reminiscent of the three,
although he chants in the footsteps of A. G.
Spry, and is chiefly remarkable for a piece of
whalebone in the margin of his jacket. Harry
Tate’s co. is to change its comedy sketch next
Saturday, when some acrobats or jugglers will
come to fill the gap left by Little Cliff and other
departing guests.
** * *
At Melbourne Town Hall the first of the
final Dolores recitals eventuates to-night (Thurs-
day). On Saturday afternoon the delightful lady
sings her farewell assortment of songs, and all per-
sons desirous of basking in her last smile are advised
to book their seats without further pause. A recital
by the Gregor Woods, with Mrs. Charles Heath
as pianiste, falls due at Glen’s Hall on October
3rd, and another impending event of a less musi-
cal character is the return of Wirths’ circus.. The
Wirths will pitch their tents at the old spot.
The portion of Alexandra Avenue leading thereto
will be illuminated by half a million electric lights,
more or less, and the feats in the arena will be as
brilliant as the brethren’s advertising display.
Dolores had Adelaide almost to herself
last week, after “The ’Virginian” had moved on
from the Royal on Tuesday. The co. covered
itself with honors in its final piece—a long cast,
and all good. Hardee Kirkland, Rapley Holmes,
and Cyril Maekay divided public favor with
Waldron and Miss Humphrey, and the old friends
in the co. were as good as ever. “What Would
a Gentleman Do ? ” has j ust started at the Royal.
Herbert Flemming, getting convalescent locally
while the rest were at Broken Hill, takes up the
leading part which Gregan McMahon played
there, as another Man from Australia, and Mrs.
Brough has a strong humorous part. The Tivoli
has opened again with a farce, “My Friend from
India,” at low prices, and'the Literary Societies’
Union, a strong body of which Adelaide is proud,
is showing the pick of its fifty societies at the
Town Hall in song and elocution. (N. 8.: Local
talent only; and nothing but certificates as
prizes.)
AT POVERTY POINT.
The will of J. L. Toole will come as a surprise to
many people who thought that, like his friend, Henry
Irving, he died poor—in fact, there was a vague idea in
some quarters that he was living on charity. For probate
purposes, the will has been sworn at just £36 short of
£BO,OOO.
Harry Tate’s company, putting up an amusing little
farcical* turn with a motor, at Melbourne Opera House, is
only one of a score or so of similar small bands of come-
dians organised by Tate, a London specialist, and hired
out by him to vaudeville managers all over the earth.
He has motoring turns, fishing turns, shooting turns,
skating turns, &c., &c. Tate devises these himself, and
provides the little companies to act them. In most of
his farces Tate introduces a freak of some kind. The
small Caledonian youth with the smudge and the eccentric
legs, whose inquisitiveness provides much of the fun in
»*le motor farce, is a sample. It is a melancholy reflec-
tion on the British sense of humor that Tate finds this
use of cripples profitable, but the Scotch deformity is
funny, quite apart from his quaint legs.
“S.S.”: One of the most joyous dances seen in Aus-
tralia for years is the Folly dance, executed by Jennie
Brenan’s Melbourne pupils. Miss Brenan is ex-leader of
the Royal Comic Opera ballet, and prepares damsels for
the Williamson cos. The Folly dance is done by about
a dozen nimble experts of 16 or thereabouts, and for
dash, vim, snap, and delightful devilment, I can remem-
ber only one ballet to equal it. That was performed in
the first production of “ The Old Guard,” years ago.
The long-expected happened at the “Thunderbolt”
show (Melbourne Royal), the other night. A large,
plump kangaroo, which had been hopping on its own
amongst the bush scenery through the run of the piece,
bounded into the orchestra, landing on the bosom of a
disgusted fiddler, who went down under the amazed
marsupial. The audience shrieked with rapture, while
the artists in the band pursued the ’roo round their small
enclosure, grappled with it, and hurled it back into
its native wilds again. The Bulletin has praised other
Australian dramas for sending the scent of gum-trees
across the footlights, but here is one that hurls national
animals at the audience.
THE TRAMWAY ENQUIRY.
Conductor John Smith was charged with biting his
nails. He was ordered to appear periodically at the
Superintendent’s office for examination.
FIRST CONDUCTOR : “ Ulloa, Bull, wotcher up
for? Nails?”
SECOND DITTO : “ Nah! The ole man, 'e sez ’e
didn't like me complexion. So Vs givin' me a
Gregory powder every mornin'."
A North Queenslander writes : Re “ Boisseau ” and his
inquiry about “Professor” Llewellyn Bushell. I saw
Bushell exploit Clunes (Vic.), about ’5B. He invited a
number of us on the stage, where we were given a small
metal disc, on which we were to gaze hard until we were
sufficiently dazed to become suitable subjects for mesmeric
capers. He was apparently successful in suspending
volition and imposing what he called the mesmeric trance
in the case of one young fellow, but the subject, after
doing a variety of antics to order, addressed the professor :
“ Enough of this fooling,” he said ; “ I was just curious to
see if there was anything in this electro-biology of yours.”'
“ Sir,” said the professor, in his deepest dog voice, “ you
have imposed on me and the audience. You are an
impostor, sir.” The other replied, “If you repeat that, I
will knock you down.” A voice from the body of the hall
added : “ Knock him down, anyhow, to preventaccidents.”
This incident closed the show rather abruptly. Bushell
said the nervous irritability caused by the miscreant who
had just left prevented him exercising the necessary
mental concentration for any further efforts that night.
He assured us he would spend, if necessary, one thousand
pounds to inflict condign punishment on the sceptic. He
further told us that the only similar experience he had
was in the city of Cork, and he held us spell-bound with a
lurid description of the retribution that then fell on the
offender. I forget exactly what it was, but I think that
in abject despair he became a civic turncock, or a process-
server, or something. The only result in this instance
was a summons for threatening language. The Court sat
in the Nag’s Head Hotel, the presiding magistrate being
Dr. O’Sullivan, an old army surgeon. Bushell com-
menced : “ In 1851, jointly with Professor Faraday, I con-
ducted some experiments.” Then the explosive magistrate
turned purple, and gave a loud yell, and said : “ Case dis-
missed.” Bushell was a man of rather striking person-
ality, tall, with black moustache, and piercing dark eyes.
He looked very like the peer in a cheap novelette.
A Sunday paper was guilty of flat blasphemy, the
other week, in applying the term “Old Danny” to the
commissionaire who strikes commanding attitudes at the
entrance to Melbourne Opera House. The warrior in
question is not “ Danny,” but Davy, and, as to his
moderately youthful vigor, there is abundant evidence
before the Federal High Court, which employed him as
crier and “ chucker-out,” until he was retrenched from
the billet. Davy is incapable of being old, although he
was longtime advance agent for Louise Pomeroy and
other show people in days that are now somewhat re-
mote. Neither is there any suggestion of “ Danny ”
about him. He’s a potentate who turns up at the Law
Courts in the morning, and at Rickards’ at night, blend-
ing- his two capacities with impressive effect. Davy’s
judicial manner has a touch of vaudeville in it, and his
vaudeville manner contains something of the awful
majesty of the law.
Manager Frohmann, of the U.S., has had the “gall ” to
produce, or threaten to produce, a musical comedy called
“ The Rich Mr. Hoggenheimer,” with the same actor in
the name part who played the rich Mr. Hoggenheimer in
“ The Girl from Kays’ ” when it was touring the United
States. Naturally, the librettist (Owen Hall) of “ The
Girl from Kays’,” and the inventor of Hoggenheimer, has
got an injunction to prevent Frohmann from working
this brazen plagiarism in Britain, but he is advised to let
it take its course in America without wasting money on
legal difficulties.
Miss Delia Mason’s engagement to an Englishman
living in Brazil is announced. So apparently there was no
truth in the circumstantial account, just after her
return to England, of her marriage to the beauteous
Farkoa, who used to hug her so extravagantly in their
stage “ business:”
“Stargazer”: I see the Yic. A.N.A. has been much
troubled in its soul about an idea its amusement com-
mittee has of introducing fancy dancing for youths and
maidens in the competitions at its big annual. A number
of shocked members are protesting that high-kicking and
the flying round of skirts will “lower the tone” of the
festival, and tend to bring the A.N.A. into disrepute
amongst that considerable section of the community that
is always being shocked at something. The other fea-
tures of the A.N.A. contests are musical, literary, drama-
tic, and recitative—especially recitative. The idea that
anything could lower the tone of a show that has already
got down to the recitation disease makes me laugh more
or less. To sit out a scratch competition among young
reciters is like being talked to death by cockatoos ; but
our young dancers are never ridiculous. As soon as the
limbs of the Australian girl have lost the uncertainty of
babyhood they adopt the fluent movements of the dance
with surprising ease. A fancy dancing competition at
the A.N.A. festival would certainly be worth recollect-
ing ; but who recollects A.N.A. reciters and essayists, or
is not eager to forget the sad amateur actors? As
for the worthiness of so-called fancy dancing, profes-
sionally considered, I contend that it represents the one
truly commendable thing on the Australian stage of late.
The plays are depressing, the acting maintains a smooth
level of commonplace, the singing is fair to middling,
but the dancing is always good, and sometimes exquisite.
The A.N.A. should certainly encourage the Australian
girl to develop the possibilities latent in her legs, with
the idea of opening up another great industry.
There is unwonted activity about some Sydney beaches
now. Bondi Aquarium, long untenanted save for the
occasional presence of a picnic or dancing party, resounds
with the din of a small army of hustlers. Said army is
directed by a co. which includes theatrical manager
Anderson of many stage murders, and it has a war chest
some thousands strong. The idea is to convert the old
aquarium into a summer theatre, with surf-bathing,
refreshments, skating, etc., for the multitude. Already
winding paths, miniature bridges, and summer-houses
ornament the picturesque grounds. Of late years
Anderson has had luck enough for half-a-dozen men, and
his connection with the matter should guarantee suc-
cess, unless his mozzle has expired by effluxion of time.
“J.A.C.”: With great disgust I read this advt. in
S.M. Herald, 19/9/’O6: “ A brilliant pianist offers her
services free for high-class concerts.” This misguided
young person—l assume she is young ; if she were
mature she might, possibly (not necessarily) have more
sense —evidently does not grasp the enormity of her
offence. She, seemingly, is above want, yet she endeavors
to take the bread from the mouth of some one who may
need it. Suppose, for example, a man of means should
advertise that he is a “brilliant bootmaker,” and is ready
to make shoes for very nice people for nothing, there
would not be wanting those to suggest that he be tarred-
and-feathered. Possibly no professional is so much
worried by the attacks of cadgers as the musician,
and the good church people are the worst offenders.
People who would not dream of not paying a plumber
will yet try to get a fiddler for nothing. “It won’t take
you more than ten or fifteen minutes,” they say ; it does
not strike them that it has taken him, or her, possibly ten
or fifteen years. Amateur business is very much overdone
in Sydney. I frankly admit that there are talenced ama-
teurs there, more so than in most cities, but it may be
accepted as a first principle that the zenith of amateurism
does not reach the lower stratum of professionalism.
“ Thank God, at last an actor! ” said Edmund Kean,
when a super, came on to deliver a letter at a fashionable
amateur performance. The long-suffering musical pro-
fession has enough to put up with without the free ser-
vices of the “ brilliant pianist.”
The balance-sheet of the Marshall Hall Testimonial
Fund is a pattern for organisers of “ corhplimentary con-
certs ” arid other benefit performances. In this case
there was no performance, with its inevitable waste of
money in expenses. The cost of issuing circulars to in-
vite subscriptions, and balance-sheets to notify sub-
scribers of the result, was £3 10s., as against gross re-
ceipts, £313 7s. The Fund benefited to the extent of
about lbs. 6d. for every £ that came in, and, after paying
50s. for a presentation baton, the treasurer was able to
hand over a cheque for £302 7s. to Marshall Hall.
“Philo”: I saw a sad-eyed, poverty-stricken, hungry-
looking individual mournfully contemplating the boards
on the Pitt-street side of the Sydney Exchange, where
the mineral show is. The expression on his face as he
read that £164,322,000 worth of minerals had been dug
outof N.S.W., and that there is yet at least £38,500,000,000
worth of coal alone procurable, touched my soul. I
passed half-an-hour later. He was still gazing at the
announcement of the enormous wealth. 1 gave him 6d.
He thanked me, and, pointing to the board, asked where
all the immense wealth mentioned there had gone to. I
told him I thought it had been exported, or the absentee
had it, or something like that.
“ Hamer ”: “ Cliff ” (B. 16/8/’O6) looks on the gloomy side
of the advance agent’s contract—when he is “ advancing ”
a third-class show. I never advanced a third-class show ;
mine was always undoubtedly the finest thing on the
road. But when I saw, for the first time, a variety enter-
tainment I had been heralding, and recollected the clergy
and other “leading citizens” I had personally inter-
viewed and induced to become interested, I felt a desire
never to see those persons again. As a rule, the hotel
porters fight for the advance-agent at the station, and
the landlord of the hotel shouts drinks at their first
meeting, and inquires when he is bringing the company.
As a rule, also, the rival bill-posters and the rival carters
rush the pub. almost immediately (small towns usually
possess rival bill-posters). And small boys hang round
and offer to do anything extra that is wanted—for a pass.
The landlord might speak severely to the manager about
money in advance, but he is kind to the representative,
and introduces him to persons who shout and inquire
what the girls are like. An agent hasn’t got the jollity
of the company around him, but otherwise he has all the
best of it.
If only half the threatened candidates
go to the Federal poll, the results, in Victoria at
least, will force on a Second Ballot or Contingent
Voting Act next session. In opposing Hume
Cook at Bourke, Randolph Bedford opens wide
the door for a Foreign-trader ; Laborite Kelly and
Protectionist Nicholls offer a similar chance to
the Iceberg in Flinders; Crouch and McCay are
Kilkenny cats in Corio ; Protectionist Miller and
Laborite T. Smith make the track nice and
smooth for Tory Fairbairn in Fawkner ; parson
Ronald, whom theP.L.C. has shunted for Mel-
bourne Ports, declined to accept the order of the
sack, and will give the party’s nominee, .1.
Matthews, a poor chance against a third candi-
date; in the Wimmera Pharez Phillips has so far
observed six opponents (two Oppositionists, two
Protectionists, and two more or less selected
Laborites); while in Yarra Laborite Tudor has
got ex-Laborite Geo. Roberts, and a Walls of
Derry candidate to draw votes from him.
NICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Salmon : High-kicking and bloomer shows would
not raise the tone of the competitions.
Mr. Ring : It would be nice to see young ladies of
sixteen dance. —Report of A.N. A. committee.
We’ve heard that “Curfew Shall not Ring,”
And found the statement wearying ;
We’ve heard the same old singers sing
Not once or twice ;
When, in a fascinating whirl
Of silken skirt and amorous curl,
She flutters in—the dancing girl;
It would be nice.
We watch, with hurried breath and thick,
Her feet, that move in rhythm quick,
The twinkling prelude to the kick
That adds the spice.
Then, decked in dainty dancing hose,
The little lady lifts her toes,
To flourish them before her nose—
It’s really nice.
The slipper, rising to its height,
Brings one brief vision of delight,
And sudden clouds of fleecy white
Hid in a trice.
Bach reckless limb in motion gay
Holds all the gloating A.N. A.
Enchanted with the swift display—
They think it nice.
And yet the terpsichorean queen,
With slender limbs of sweet sixteen,
Is not a patch on what I’ve seen
Upon the ice.
But still I like to see her fling
Her legs about like anything ;
And I agree with Mr. Ring
That she looks nice.
VIC.
K.P.


Furred vSßins
Rabbit vSßins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO—
HILL CLARK <a CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
On the very day that N.S.W. Attorney-
General Wade was delivering his second-reading
speech on the Lotteries Bill, the Public Instruc-
tion Department was conducting a lottery to see
which 12 metropolitan schools should take part in
the “rural camp” in the Hunter River Valley.
First, the 43 schools gambled to decide which
dozen of them would participate, and then the
12 lucky schools gambled to select 12 lucky boys
from each school. Meanwhile, Wade’s denuncia-
tion of lotteries was something tremendous.
INFORMATION.
AMY : “ Ma, what’s a burlesque?”
MOTHER : “ A take-off, my child.”
AMY : “A take-off of what, mother?”
MOTHER : “Of clothes, mostly ."
Sfc. -Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society has been occupying Sydney courts for
some time past trying to eject from a piece of land
a widow, to whose deceased husband tjie society
ihad lent £475 on mortgage. Of course, widows
: are often as unreasonable as other people, but it’s
.rough on the poor old carpenter of Nazareth to
iuse his name as a screw-jack without his consent.
No institution which lends money, no matter how
fair its terms, should be named after a saint.
Even a very minor saint doesn’t look well on an
ejectment notice.
The Biuenose captain of the Melville
Island still keeps up his reputation for muddling
and ill-luck. He spent weeks in Port Phillip
trying to do his starved crew out of their wages,
and failed in the end, the only result being some
law expenses, and a great waste of time and salt
beef. He lost a fair wind while waiting, and
bucketed about the Straits for weeks, wasting
more time and salt beef. As a consequence, he
arrived at Port Pirie too late for an ore cargo that
he should have carried, but after a while he got a
chance to load up with wheat. Next, he wanted
a crew; he had bounced the old crew at Mel-
bourne, and had got round to Pirie with a few
temporary hands. Apparently his reputation had
arrived before him, and there was no rush of
applicants, but one of those mysterious persons
called a “ runner ” found him four men. Unfor-
tunately, they were a bad lot, for the police
promptly annexed three of them to serve sen-
tences for larceny, leaving the Biuenose captain
with one solitary sailor. Last of all, the curse of
the Melville Island seems to have fallen on the
“ runner,” who has been twice run in for being
drunk and unduly excited. This writer, for one,
wouldn’t sail in the Melville Island for quite a
heap of money. Its luck seems bad enough for
anything.
• * * *
Old William Jones, formerly proprietor of
a picturesque little hotel called the Eagle-on-the-
liill, near Mount Lofty (Adelaide), died on 15th
October, 1905, leaving estate worth about £12,000.
His will left much property to the “Incorporated
Body of Freethinkers of South Australia.” The
only society of that sort which the Public
Trustee could find was the S.A. Freethought
Society. When inquiries were made, it ap-
peared that this society was no longer in
existence, and after much legal struggle
Justice Gordon ordered that the lost Freethinkers
should be advertised for. It appears that by the
rules of the society there are now no ordinary
members; no subscriptions have been paid by
any Freethinker for many years, and the rules
provide that a member who is six months in
arrears shall cease to be a member, so the present
search is for life or honorary Freethinkers. The
rules also provide that five members, including
the president, form a quorum. Up to the present
the efforts of the Public Trustee and his solicitor
to find a quorum have failed.
.*# „ *
“Adelaide”: One of the chief pleasures
in reading The Bulletin is finding out how
Adelaide, which it is the fashion to make good-
humored fun of, scores off most other cities in
really practical matters. “Pitt-street is still
Spit-street” (8., 6/9/’OG). “The by-law is never
enforced.” Why isn’t it ? Adelaide made a
similar by-law two years or so back, enforced it
rigidly, and does so still. Consequently, the pave-
ments are clean. Apply at Adelaide for tips about
public trustees, aduit suffrage, State banks, ice-
rinks, cremation plants, progressive and absentee
land-taxes, and practical city by-laws.
W * * ft
Three consecutive advts. from Sydney
Telegraph agony column (19/9/’OG): —
I XEAR HEART. —Wondering if ill ; happy moments
not forgotten. Sweet.
TAEAR LITTLE SWEET, always nearest in my heart,
if can be at show. Your only Heart.
TAEAREST LOVE.—Oh, let me think we yet shall
- L ’ meet! That only ray of solace sweet. North Sea.
* * « *
“ P.” : How the average man loves ex-
plaining things ! I was on a Melbourne tram, the
other day, when a queer little English
Johnny-man got on with two tall maidens,
and asked the conductor how he could
get to Cumbong-road (or something like
it). The conductor was uncertain, but
a mere Bloke, on the other side of the
car, volunteered directions. The Johnny
(he was a nice, polite little Johnny)
thanked him, though the maidens looked
supercilious. But Johnny’s troubles had
only begun. Another Bloke slid along the
seat to correct the instructions. The
thing became a debate, in which half the
car joined. The two silk-skirted maidens
wore a demeanor which would have
frozen a whole ox into chilled beef, and
the Johnny became hopelessly confused in the
effort to say “Thank you” to 14 people at once.
He was such a harmless, polite, pleasant, throaty-
voiced little Johnny that one was sorry to see
him so embarrassed. The last scene showed him
in the roadway, while the gripman and conductor
argued loudly concerning the true location' of
Geebung-road, and 174 hands pointed all ways
v at once. Johnny was giddy with turning
round and round, and dodging the blows of
a fat wash-lady, who was prodding him
with an umbrella to secure his undivided
attention. The two ice-maidens stared
majestically into space. If either of
them was his wife, then Heaven
help Johnny during the rest of
the journey !
A Victorian State school teacher scored a
bitter sneer at Parliamentary deadheadism in a
letter to the Age re the State schools’ display at
Melbourne Exhibition building :
I notice in this morning’s press that a Parliamentary
party is to pay a visit to the exhibition to-day, and that
they will be admitted free on presenting their railway
passes at the turnstiles. If poorly-paid backblock
teachers, who helped to make the exhibition a success,
are compelled to pay eighteenpence a day to inspect the
exhibits, surely it is a piece of monumental meanness for
Ministers of the Crown to insinuate themselves to the
exhibition on their railway passes.
But the scorn of the backblock teacher should
have been devoted to the management of the
show which was responsible for the announcement
in the press. Why appeal to the deadhead
instinct in human nature by inviting Tom Bent
and co. to walk through the exhibition gates
gratis on production of their railway passes ?
Members of Parliament have a good deal of this
“colossal meanness” thrust upon them by being
requested, as a special favor, not to pay up like
ordinary citizens.
HIGH ART A LA GIBSON.
No. I.—Here you have a Gilson Girl No.
looking her very Gibsonest.
2.—But “ when the clock struck
v the hour for retiring”-
([?] “Hop” hastens to stale that the last sketch was supplied by a young lady guest at
the same house party.)
Dowie has gob a pension and taken his
torrent of white hair to Mexico, but the evil that
he did lives after him. Kangaroo Island (S.A.),
where the settlers are largely named Hans and
Gretchen, took Dowieism badly, and the disease
has never been eradicated. It became so bad that
seven or eight families sold their property and
sent the proceeds to old cursing Whiskers, and
have heard nothing of the money since. One of
the converts was Mrs. Maria Tilka, who, until
then, had lived peacefully with her husband for 30
years. Maria couldn’t speak English, but her
daughter translated some of Dowie’s principal
shouts and blathers to her, and after that she
called her respectable old pipe-smoking husband
“Stinkpot ” for three consecutive months. Then
she left him—probably her voice had given out —-
and the ancient German now gets a judicial separa-
tion on the ground of three years’ desertion.
* * * *
The week before last, attention was forcibly
directed in the Victorian mining districts to an
ever-present danger. In one
day three cases were reported
of men being found down aban-
doned shafts. In each case the
discovery that the man was at
the bottom was purely acci-
dental—one man was down a
week before he was found—and
people are wondering now how
many men have dropped sud-
denly through the floor of the
globe, and have not been
found. (Jreswiek, Castlemame,
Bendigo, Daylesford, Ballarat,
and scores of other fields are
pitted all over with shafts put
down in the early days, logged
over and covered with a couple
of feet of soil. Nobody knows
the dismal orifice is there until
some one goes through and hits
the bottom—or the water and
sludge and dead snakes —any-
thing from 30ft. to 100 ft. below.
As the population increases,
there are more people to fall
through ; also there is a greater
weight of people on the totter-
ing crust; likewise the crust
grows older and weaker, and
totters worse. On the outskirts
of many old fields you will often
come across a small hole where
part of the covering has gone,
but whether that small hole
was or was not made by a man
falling through into an unknown
depth below, no One inquires.
Possibly one of the reasons for
the very slow increase of popula-
tion in Victoria is the dropping
of much - needed inhabitants
through these holes. The only
remedy seems to be for the munici-
palities to set to work and fill up all
known abandoned shafts (after dredging the
bones, clothes and hats out of them), and to offer a
reward of ss. to the local small boy for every old
shaft discovered, each one to be filled up when
found. The present method of waiting till they
fill up with dead population is much too slow.
“ Gip ” : A par. (B. 13/9/’O6) dealing with
the subject of Jewish proselytes, and the boycott
they are condemned to by the sterner members of
the sect, reminds me. I once knew a brilliant
Jewess, with letters after her name, who was
“getting on.” She was still young, but she had
been younger. In the absence of any rush for
her hand in Israel she annexed a fair, silent
Christian, somewhat her junior. Nothing much
was expected of the Christian ; still, he wheeled
the perambulator (and the contents of the pram
were excellent), and listened while the Jewess
talked, and the marriage has been eminently
happy and successful. But the lady's people
buried her solemnly, despite the fact that she had
bden a good daughter, and had for years sup-
ported a younger sister, decking her in gorgeous
frocks and giving her a good time generally. They
advertised her death, wore the outer signs of woe,
afld have never spoken to her or of her since.
Still the Christian husband continues to be a suc-
cess, and the pram remains full, and Rachel and
her partner seem perfectly happy.
;** * *
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men —buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
There is again a fierce discussion as to the
“sweating” of doctors by benefit lodges. The
doctor’s services to the lodge are given at a
charity rate and he now objects to people with
good incomes, able to afford the ordinary fees,
taking advantage of the lodge system. On the
other side, the lodge—which is mostly a working-
man affair—pleads good old Fatman’s “freedom
of contract.” The doctor is free to accept or
reject the sweating rate offered. If he accepts it,
he has no right to question the means of those who
pay. The doctor answers with all the devices of
aggressive trades-unionism that the coal-lumper
and the wharf-laborer know so well; and the
doctor is quite right. Once he bows his,neck to the
•sweaters’ yoke life will become a very poor game.
That other professional, the lawyer, is well
guarded against sweating. The courts uphold his
scale of fees, and punish “blacklegging” severely,
whilst a legal “lodge” to supply its members
with cheap law is forbidden.
THE HIGHER FINANCE.
“Say, old man, I’m short a fiver, and haven’t
the slightest idea where I can pick it up.”
“ That’s all right. I was afraid you were think-
ing of picking it up off me. ”
“F.H.” : The foundation-stone of Ballarat’s
soldiers’ statue, laid amid parochial pomp and cir-
cumstance by the yawnful Yorklet, was last week
disturbed in its grave, in Prince of Wales Square,
and re-planted opposite the City Hall. The
Mayor, and ex-Mayors unto the third and fourth
generation, burbled in turn about “ The War ”
(of course, there never was any other war), and
trumpeted the glories of gore and “ Hempire” to
two navvies, who had digged the new hole,
and a dozen idlers, who gazed sorrowfully
into it, like poor relations at a funeral. An
alderman put a bottle containing sundry records
of Bumbledom in a cavity scooped for the pur-
pose, and someone else reverently placed the
original bottle of bunkum, once touched by royal
fingers, alongside of it. The stone dropped into
its place with a dull squelch and blew mud all
over the mourners, who swore and left.
* » * *
Seems Australia is up against a pretty
cheerful proposition. England is going out of
business as ruler of the waves, and Germany and
Japan are going in. Although it does not require
much brain energising from D.C.L. Whisky to
grasp the possibilities of the situation, it may
require considerable inspiration from that kindly
fluid to help Australia discover what she’s going
to do about it.*
ABANDONED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Academy (Eng.) of 21/7/’O6 is published this wail,
from a person who says he was formerly of St. John’s
College, Cambridge (England), though he now suffers the
ignominy of hanging out at Forbes (N.S. W.)
“Sir, —I shall be verj’- glad if some of your readers will
kindly send me their copy of the Academy when they
have done with it. Although lam so far removed from
home, I cannot cease my interest in literature alto-
gether.”
(Paw beggah !)
He is a lonely Soul, a Mind
Mated with Planetary Orbs ;
With Deeps of Sadness undivined
By vulgar residents of Forbes ;
They just regard him as a Joke,
This very Literary Bloke.
In Forbes, where “-Sinjun ’’ is “ Saint John ”
(The solecism sears his soul),
He finds no food to browse upon,
No Fellow-Spirit to condole ;
He meets with Beings base, unclean,
Who state in Blanlcies what they mean.
He sat in Sinjun’s, drinking deep
The rubric rare that Ruskin wrote ;
O’er Walter Pater went to sleep ;
Read Austin as an antidote ;
But every evening, after tea,
Pored over the Academy.
What wealth it brought to his command !
What lore profound, what culchawed style !
Now in a crude, unlettered land,
He must consort with persons vile ;
Though more and more his soul must need
What Literary People read.
Oh, send him copies 1 Frayed and worn,
Dog-eared, or gravy-stained—what’s wrong?
They’ll bring a light in lands forlorn
To help him hump his soul along.
Or send a bob in stamps, that he
May buy his dear Academy.
vie.
LAM.


EDUCATION MAIL
"<
Sis.
learn by post,
in your spare time,
Money- Earning
Subjects.
Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing, Bookkeeping, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and
Civil Engineering,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study,” post free
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.
Shall hacking cough my rest destroy,
And all my pleasure here alloy ?
Are pains that cut me like a knife
To make a misery of life?
Shall bronchial troubles wear me put?
No—never, all are put to rout'
By best of medicines, simple, pure,
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
&f>e LATENT SOFT HAT.
They come in
the NEW
DRABS and
FAWNS, with
unbound
brims.
•v.V
m
m
i
. ...
fj Vj
Si®
• : ■-
...
; ;
"sr
3 no ;
This is the latest thing in Soft Hats, and it
will largely take the place of the Panama.
The brim sets up or down in front, and the
crown can be creased down or as shown, or
the brim can be turned up and the crease
in the crown altered to a dent in tront.
It is an Ideal Hat for
sunshade—is Light,
Durable, and easily-
kept dean, . . .
*' ,; :_r
Price, 12s. Od. each,
Postage, 3d, extra.
PEAPES & CO., LTD;,
. MEN’S AND EOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
“Groper” : Read, the other day, that, in
a bomb outrage, a man was completely eviscerated.
Didn’t know the meaning of eviscerated. Didn’t
have an English dictionary. Looked it up in a
Latin one. Found visoeratio— a public distribu-
tion of meat. Went on my way rejoicing.
“ Melb.” : It is getting the regular thing
for funerals to trot. You have to pay extra if the
ghostly horses walk. The driver wants to rush
back for the next deader.
“ 0.K.” : Somebody lately suggested that
the reverse side of the moral in Norman
Lindsay’s picture of the “Woman that
Was, Is, and Will be” would make an
equally strong subject for the artist.
But any such pictorial presentation
of a harlot’s progress—to misery,
or to prosperity—is merely melo-"
drama in black and white.
Give me the ordinary domes-
tic story of a woman’s career,
with its pathos of common-
place respectability. The
hopeful girl; the sonie-
wh a t disillusioned
young wife; the hard,
elderly matron in
“comfortable cir-
cumstances,”
upholding all
the doctrines
of Mrs. Grun-
dy. Or the
bright wench ;
the draggle-
tailed, prolific
mother; the
struggling
widow at the
wash-tub. For
every one
woman who comes
to weal or woe as
the result of her im-
morality, a hundred
arrive at a bitter end
through being Good, and
the bitterest end, per-
haps, is that of the cen-
sorious suburban marm who
has talked Virtue to her hus-
band until he is tired—or dead.
F-C. : The exhibition of the results of
• I l t ? w s y s tem of educating Victorian youngsters
is better than interesting and more than instruc-
tive, but-what of the teachers ? When the exhi-
bition was emended a further week, it was noti-
fied that those teachers who desired to stay in
town could draw an advance of salary from the
Treasury. if they needed it, and that was sug-
gestive; it recalled the fact that certain teachers
recently gained publicity chiefly through the
department paying them wages of £2O or £3O a
year. And these teachers, who, on such miserable
p tances, had made a splendid success of the exhi-
bition, actually had to pay Is. 6d. a day to view their
own work and draw inspiration from the exhibits,
inese men and women are expected to spend
fi ei +t e Ve i’ to glve their vei 7 highest and best,
for the advantage of the State, and the State
otters in return half-a-dozen billets at £3OO or £4OO
a year, ana, for the rest, a bare living wage, and
*miserly treatment always.
Miss Dorothy McCrae enthuses about
Melbourne and spring:—
If you would see Melbourne to advantage come in
September.
For in Melbourne now, the freezias are just beginning,
and the plum trees are white with bloom. The suburban
streets are redolent with the breath of pittosporum
flowers, and violets and primroses flourish in every garden
border.
By the river the wattle is coming out, and in town,
boys are showing great baskets of golden daffodils and
jonquils, and the ever popular boronia. The flower shops
are gorgeous with crimson carnations, forget-me-nots,
pansies, and purple patches of violets, while the fruiterer
exhibits mushrooms, and asparagus, and luscious bronze-
pmk persimmons. The hawkers are trundling carts of
monster Queensland pines at sixpence apiece, and summer
muslins and ethereal hats make gay the draper’s window.
Sprigs' is coming—and Dolores is singing at the Town
Hall! The almond tree wears a robe of lucent green, and
the peach is bursting into rosy blossom. The willow
spreads her fairy screen...
In the morning we are wakened by the chatter of
sparrows and the liquid call of the blackbird. “Spring
has come ” coos the wood-pigeon under the pine trees.
“ Spring has come,” laugh the Melbourne girl’s eyes under
her coquettish hat. Spring has come, and she awaits you
here in Melbourne this September !
* • * »
“Phoenix,” in explanation :
Re some remarks about Queensland railway jubilee.
Going by the date when the first line was opened, the
jubilee is not due for nine years yet ; the Ipswich to
Grandchester line began working in 1865. And I don’t
think there was any Ipswich a jubilee ago ; I believe the
place was then still struggling along under its old name
of Limestone. Old Limestone was a rowdy, unimportant
place with a population of station hands, bushmen, a few
storekeepers, too many publicans, and some “lags”—
mostly “ lags.” The great Paddy O’Sullivan was political
king of Limestone, and George Thorne was “squire” of
the parish. In 1862, however, when the Government
sent lecturers abroad, and shiploads of immigrants poured
into Moreton Bay, Ipswich made such rapid progress as
to become conceited, and said the capital should not be
in Brisbane, but at the head of navigation (a creek). Its
people were a political power in those days, and a com-
pany was formed to construct a tramway to Toowoomba
to tap the great squatting and agricultural country of
the famous Darling- Downs. The produce was to come to
Ipswich by tram, and be taken thence by water to More-
ton Bay. But the company got frightened at the
expense, and prevailed upon the Government to
purchase the plans and plant and the unfinished work.
That is how and why the railway was started from
Ipswich, instead of from Brisbane. And for several years
the wool and produce from the back country came by
train to Ipswich, and was then sent to Brisbane by water.
Eventually the country got too strong for the Ipswichians,
the line was continued on to Brisbane, and the thereto-
fore blustering rulers of the destiny of the railway traffic
had to sit quietly down (having secured the railway
workshops) and gaze on the trains passing them by. But,
being- the centre of a decent agricultural district, and
assisted by its coal-mining industry, Ipswich is still a
fair-sized, prosperous place.
» * ■» *
Berruther Worrall, in Bendigo, about Ber-
ruther Judkins in Melbourne :
I believe the brethren in Melbourne are standing face
to face with the devil himself, and glory be to God that
we have men of such courage.
Then Berruther Judkins in Melbourne will rise to
state how gloriously Berruther Worrall is fighting
the devil at Bendigo, and when they have done
stating what splendid characters they all are, the
public may have a chance to get some sleep.
The man who insures his household sticks
and lets the pestering agent fill up the forms has
had a lesson that his business doesn’t end with
signing his name and paying the cheque. Gener-
ally, the casual insurer reckons that the agent
knows more about the business than he does
himself, and takes everything for granted. But
Justice Bring (N.S.W.), following earlier cases,
decides that the obliging agent, when filling up
the application form, isn’t the agent of the co.
but of the applicant, so the latter is liable for any
mis-statements made. And as in this case the
agent made the applicant say that he had never
had a fire or prosecuted an insurance claim, the
policy was waste paper, and the co. didn’t have to
pay up when another fire happened and the
second premises were burned.
* * * *
The luck of girls ! She missed the
vehicle for years, though sometimes she almost
grabbed the back step. Despair set in in an acute
form, and she accepted a post as governess on a
lonely station out on the edge of Care and
Desolation, where devils walked in the sand-hills
by night and ghosts blew past in the whirly-
whirlies by day. This isolation did not Satisfy.
She decided to return to former scenes, still
clinging to some vestige of Hope. On the way back
in the steamer a wealthy and .presentable citizen
fell upon her long-neglected shoulder and said
that life without her would be a blank, and a
little later there was a quiet wedding.
A SLIGHT.
MRS. SMUG : “ There's
always an odor of
piety about that
dear man.”
MR. SMUG : “ You
never say that about
me, and we both
drink the same
brand.”
A corres-
pondent who
lately inquired
of Melb. Her-
ald’s tame law-
yer if he is still
liable for his
wife’s costs in a
divorce suit
which took place
14 years ago re-
ceived a dis-
couraging an-
swer that he is.
The butcher and
the baker may
bo stalled off
after six years,
but Costs are
recoverable right
up to Judgment
Day. And even
then some gent,
one —if any
chance to be
present —will
probably arise
in a horsehair
halo to move for
a new trial and
breathe Costs over the
Great White Throne.
* *
In Maoriland now the things a railway
man must leave undone are almost as numerous
as those that a Sydney tramcar person is expected
to do. He may not be a member of any public
body; he may not teach music; he may take
photographs for his own amusement, but if he
sells one to a paper—not necessarily a snapshot
of his superior officer in a state of intoxication,
but merely a view of a bit of scenery—he will get
“ beans ” ; he may not, if he belongs to the second
division, travel in a first-class carriage, no matter
how mouldy it may be; and the latest ukase is
that he may not write tales, or verse, or any
other darned thing, and get paid for it. And
this new regulation does not apply simply
where the tale, like some of C. A. Jeffries’
“Rail and Semaphore” yarns in The Bulletin,
has a tendency to deal truthfully with the
drunks, amours and cash shortages of bygone
railway potentates. It is a general order, and,
even if a railway official has a really good Spring
poem to throw off his chest in his own time, he
must either throw it off gratis, or not throw it off
at all, or leave the service, and then throw it off
for cash. Presumably, “T. Ronayne, General
Manager,” who issues the order, never had a
poem or a bit of interesting prose in his whole
constitution, and so he doesn’t care a straw if he
impoverishes the literature of his country by pre-
venting a large and intelligent body of men doing
a tale or an ode occasionally. Fortunately there
are employers who are less wooden in this respect
than “ T. Ronayne, General Manager,” and there
are also convenient subterfuges. Any of that
gentleman’s subordinates who has a good tale or
piece of verse to send to The Bulletin had better
write under a pen-name such as “Victim of
Tyranny” or “Sufferer under a Wooden and
Illiterate Bureaucracy,” and instruct that pay-
ment shall be sent to his mother-in-law, whose
name and address should be written legibly.
* * * *
Labor Leader M‘Gowen complains, in the
N.S.W. Parliament, that the Railway Depart-
ment does nothing to encourage the inventive
spirit among its employees. The charge is a
weighty one. Nothing matters quite so much in
modern civilisation as the inventive genius which
enables a man to make* two locomotives go where
only one went before. America’s industrial
greatness is mainly due to the stream of invention
which is always watering and fertilising its
workshops. The inventor there is encouraged by
every possible means. According to Mr.
M'Gowen, there is nothing but discouragement
for him in the greatest workshop of N.S.W. A
man who designed two small machines for lubri-
cating, and saved the department hundreds a year,
got £45 as a bonus, but was refused promotion
from his blacksmith’s job. A smart department
wouldn’t keep a man like that hammering out hot
iron—it would give him a chance to hammer out
ideas.
From the cocksure
way in which British
naval experts talk of the
power of the Dreadnought
and its influence on future
naval warfare, one wouldl
imagine that that famous war-
ship was a proved success. As;
a matter of fact, it has not as.
yet even been launched, and its;
powers are still very much ,-u.
matter of opinion. But if it is what;
it is cracked up to be, then a new'
weapon has been invented which makes
all the rest of the British fleet not much
better than scrap-iron, and wipes out the
accumulated naval supremacy of centuries. Un-
less tile Dreadnought is a huge mistake, all the
naval powers are starting afresh from scratch, so
far as big vessels are concerned, and if Germany
manages to build 12 Dreadnoughts to Britain’s
eight, then Germany, other things being equal,
will boss the sea. Of course, the old fleets of other
nations will be scrap-iron, just like that of Britain,
but they haven’t so much to scrap. Also, it isn’t
the supremacy of the seas that they are scrapping.
*■*•**
New York has its own Judkins—one
Anthony Comstock, a jjerson with famished-
looking side-whiskers and a bleary eye—who is
director of the Society for the Suppression of
Vice in the city of skyscrapers. Comstock created
a world-wide sensation last month by persuading
the authorities to raid the premises of the Art
Students’ League, to seize some thousands of
copies of its official journal, and to arrest every-
body on the premises, including a girl student
who acts as secretary of the league. Comstock
now demands that the prisoners should be
sent to gaol for a year apiece for circulating
“lewd, filthy, disgusting, obscene, and im-
moral literature,” and wants the literature,
shocked to death by the common eleetrocutor..
Artistic America and Europe are now thirsting;
for Comstock’s gore in a jug, and the New York;
World, at the risk of having St. Anthony apply
for its suppression, has published the two pictures;
which form the basis of the charge. These are-
reproductions of a couple of charcoal drawings;
shown at the annual competition and depict the;
rear view of a nude man and a front view of at
half nude girl.
■*•*■**
Mr. O. C. Beale brought back from
Europe many good ideas, but he needn’t have
worried about collecting information in Bavaria
in regard to hop-growing as a possible Australian
industry. Australia knows all about hops.
Tasmania produces almost the best hops in the
world, and Gippsland (Vic.) knows the crop well,
too, But the hop garden is very greedy for.
water. In the summer time, to secure the best
results, the soil should be flooded at least once a
day. That puts it out of consideration as a crop
for -most Australian localities, but in the rich
river valleys of Tasmania it flourishes amazingly.
* » * *
Casually opening “ Kurnel ” Bell’s wailful
denunciation of Socialism, issued under the
auspices of N.S. W. Deform League, one lights on
some remarks concerning the time when “ the
leprous hand of rotten Rome dropped into her
putrid lap.” Truly, these be gentlemanly lan-
guages.
* » * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment,
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.,
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entranced
from George or King-street.*
THEORY AND PRACTICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Ashton, in reply to Mr. Gardiner, stated that none
of the land had been made available for settlement which
Mr. Justice Owen had declared to be illegally held. The
Government’s intentions were stated by him to the House
in July last.— N.S.W. Assembly.
As proverbs tell, the road to , well, a place that no
one mentions
{lt rhymes quite well to “ Inverell ”), is paved with good
intentions !
To talk Beform’s a real good line, quite splendid! But,
the fact is
That what may shine as theory fine, may be absurd in
practice !
The theory most compact is,
And yet the awkward fact is
That what’s O.K. in theory may be wrong-end-up in prac-
tice !
We understand that certain land was got by certain
parties,
And by some method underhand employed by certain
smarties;
Which method, it had been decreed, a quite illegal fact is,
And ’tis agreed to be, indeed, a most improper practice !
The law most inexact is,
Because, although an act is
In theory wrong—entirely wrong—it may be right in
practice!
Our conscience tells us (or it might if we would listen
to it!)
What is the proper thing and right—but do we ever
do it?
’Tis wrong to swear! 'Tis worse than sin ; it’s vulgar,
such an act is !
We can’t say “No” to theory, so we please ourselves in
practice!
It’s wonderful what tact is !
No odds how wrong an act is
In theory we will all agree—and please ourselves in
practice !
The Minister, you understand, has eyesight like an eagle ;
He recognises that the land is held by means illegal!
That patent fact no one denies, though large or small the
tract is !
But what applies in theory lies in different case in
practice 1
The reasoning compact is—
The real material fact is—
That what’s O.K. in theory may be wrong-end-up in
practice 1
N.B.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
LOVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
XA EAR, we are one ;
M 1 Lore’s light burns white
M S Above our way;
Blind in the brilliant sun,
Our sight
Finds no dark blot behind the day.
They call us fond,
Maybe ; but we
Are far too wise
To look one step beyond,
And see
Death waiting with derisive eyes.
PRIAM.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
and
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The promised Federal Bill to protect Australian
insurers in foreign life offices suffers from the usual
inclination to go half-way and lean against a post.
Within six months after the close of its financial year,
the foreign office now doing business must deposit with
the Treasurer money or approved securities “to the
value of one-third of the valuations of the policies in
force.” Subsequently within six months of the close of
each financial year it must make deposits “equal to two-
thirds of the amount of the valuation of the policies
issued by it and in force at the close of the financial
year." It is a cumbersome section, which has been
taken to mean that the foreigner shall lodge one-
third of the amount of its liability on existing policies,
and two-thirds on future policies; but apparently the
idea is tliat the office shall have two years to pay up the
two-thirds on existing policies, so that in the second
year, and thereafter it shall have deposited securities
enough to cover two-thirds of all its policy liabilities.
But what’s the matter with compelling the foreigner to
put tip security that he will pay the local insurer 20s. in
the £? If he intends to pay 20s. in the £, and can do it,
there is no reason why the securities should not be in the
Treasury—they will be as safe there as in the foreigner’s
own vaults, and he will get the interest, dividends, &c.,
just as much as if he held them himself. If it’s a right
thing for the Commonwealth to demand that it
shall have the custody of 13s. 4d. in the £ of the
reserve value of the policies, it must be equally a right
thing to demand that it have the custody of 20s. in the £.
If the State is entitled to see that insurers get 13s. 4d. in
the £, it is entitled to see that they get 20s. in the £.
Once admit the principle, and it is absurd to stop two-
thirds of the way on the journey. Certainly there is a
head-office to be maintained, and the cost of that must
come out of some funds. But spread round over the vast
amount of business done by the foreign-offices with Aus-
tralian policies, the proportion chargeable to Australian
business is a mere trifle, and is far more than covered
by the difference between the result of the assumed
interest under the Commonwealth Bill and the interest
assumed by the offices themselves. The Bill assumes that
the investments will earn 4 per cent. ; insurance offices
themselves assume, as a rule, 3 or 31 per cent. On the
Bill’s 4 per cent, assumption, a much'smaller reserve will
be required than the foreigner actually has —or says he
has—seeing that he only assumes 3 or3£ percent., as a
rule ; and the difference between the two amounts would
much more than provide for the Australian contribution
to the cost of the “ home office.”
The S. M. Herald says that the Bill isn’t good
because the lodging of two-thirds of reserve values in
“ approved securities ” would be tantamount to a Govern-
ment guarantee ; and, as the foreign office would use that
with deadly effect in canvassing, the Australian office
would be at a disadvantage. Which seems a difficulty very
easily got over—add a provision thac the Australian
office may lodge approved securities, too. Anyhow, the
insurer in the foreign office can’t be refused protection
because the Australian offices will not thereafter be able
to point to the foreign offices as shocking examples, and
not to be trusted. The community can’t afford to let
savage dogs go unmuzzled simply for the sake of allow-
ing the other sort of dog to point to the wounds they
make in order to accentuate his own trustworthiness.
If, however, they think that the public will trust the
muzzled dog and not themselves, well then—muzzles for
all! And there’s a lot to be said for that, too.
* * * *
The 1.0. F., the assessment-insurance concern
which is of so little importance in Australia nowadays
that it hardly deserves capital letters
Added Total
to Insurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.
1901 ..£524,621 £325,335 £62,496 £136,790 £1,020,710
1902 .. 531,727 344,358 61,347 176,022 1,196,732
1903 .. 632,988 351,066 30,648 251,274 1,448,006
1904 .. 680,050 417,042 38,068 204,940 1,652,946
1905 .. 671,946 424,289 36,715 210,942 1,863,888
Which is according to the life assurance .account fur-
nished under the 18th schedule of the Victorian Act—
and is bunkum so far as the expenses are concerned.
For the 1.0. F. also runs a “fraternal benefit depart-
ment”; and the “general division” of this depart-
ment is kept alive by “fees, taxes, ocher receipts,
&c.”, amounting last year to £56,641, in addition to
£9590 “ received for supplies and contingencies.” Out of
this rents, salaries, office expenses, costs of “extension
of order,” etc., amounting to £70,189, were paid. Instead,
therefore, of being £36,715, the actual expenses were
£106,904. This manufacture of a “ general division,”
maintained by “fees, taxes, other receipts, &c.,” and
used exclusively for the purpose of paying expenses, so
that only about a third of the latter are shown in the
Life Assurance account, looks like a trick to hide the
real cost of this alleged insurance. The 1.0. F. is put
forward as being managed on most amazingly economical
lines ; while the fact is that the cost amounts to £l5
18s. 3d. per cent, of the premiums and interest receipts
as against only £8 15s. 6d. in the A.M.P. The 1.0. F.
promised cheap, brotherly insurance—and that is how it
pans out!
It was in Victoria that this wild-cat system of
insurance was most vigorously boomed. But it booms
no longer. At the end of 1904 the number of policies in
that State was only 735. After another year’s battling,
the number has been reduced to 704. If any new poli-
cies at all have been issued, then the same number and
31 more have lapsed or matured. The most deplorable
part of the business is that these Wild Indian policies
have no surrender value. If a man can’t pay up, he for-
feits. And, since it is run on the assessment plan, he
never knows what he may be called upon to pay up. The
1.0. F. insurer undertakes to pay an indefinite amount,
and to absolutely forfeit everything if he can’t do it. For
the privilege of playing in that sort of gamble, he pays
just about twice as much in expenses as the amount for
which he could get the same work better done in a repu-
table Australian office that offers real insurance.
At the end of 1904 there were 225,876 1.0. F.
policies everywhere. In 1905, 29,091 were issued ; total,
254,967. Yet the year ended with only 233,293 in force.
Thus 21,674 were discontinued—for three that came in,
more than two went out. The average sum assured is
£215; assuming that the policies which matured were for
the average amount, 1340 policies were discontinued
through death or maturity otherwise. The other 20,334
were forfeited, and all the payments made under them were
lost. It is an amazing- sort of insurance concern in which
for every policy-holder who draws insurance, 15 have
their policies forfeited and get nothing. And yet, in
spite of this wholesale forfeiture, the assurance funds
amount to only £1,863.888. The average amount for
which the 1.0. F. insurer is said to be covered is £215;
the amount actually in hand to pay that £215 is
£7 19s. lid. The reserves which other insurance offices
have against policies are, the assessment-man says, “in
the pockets of the insurers.” That must be very com-
fortable for the insurer. He thinks he has already bought
his insurance ; but the advocates of this system cheer-
fully tell him that he hasn’t —that the co. certainly
couldn’t pay, and that he must be prepared to do the
paying himself, or forfeit.
Whether the funds, such as they are, are really
worth £1,863,888, or Only as many shillings, is a matter
upon which no opinion can be expressed ; and nothing-
can be learned from the balance-sheet. For no less than
£563,939 is now sunk in Union Trust Co.’s stock and
£524,668 jn Union Trust Co.’s “investments”; total
£1,055,607. Originally this co. was formed practically
out of the corpse of another Trust co., which wasn’t a
promising beginning, anyway. By handing over the
money to this co., policy-holders are kept in the dark as
to what is being done with their utterly inadequate funds
—the Union Trust Co. may be putting it to the most
hazardous and improper uses, for all they know. It is
no use looking to the interest earnings, for the co.
guarantees the 1.0. F. 4 per cent. ; so the assets may be
rotten, and the policy-holders would be none the wiser.
Yet they still call it life insurance ; and a concern of this
sort is still at liberty to rage through Australia seeking
new business.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
Dividends Written To Re- Re-
Profits. and Div. Tax. off. serves, serves.
Feb., 1901 £7,502 7 p.c.=£5200 £l5OO £SO2 £102,564
Aug., 1901 13,497 8 „ „ 5943 5000 2554 105,118
Feb., 1902 8,640 8„ „ 5943 2697 107,815
Aug., 1902 8,906 8 „ „ 5943 2963 110,778
Feb., 1903 8,788 8„ „ 5943 2845 113,623
Aug., 1903 12,631 10 ~ „ 7428 5203 118,826
Feb., 1904 11,646 10 ~ „ 742 S 4218 123,044
Aug., 1904 12,635 10 „ „ 7428 5207 128,251
Feb., 1905 12,791 10 „ „ 7428 5363 133,614
Aug., 1905 11,532 12 „ „ 8914 2618 136,232
Premiums on new shares .. 8508 144,740
Feb., 1906 11,298 12p.c.= 9450 971 877 145,617
Aug., 1906 13,811 12 ~ ~ 9450 1000 3361 148,978
Seven years ago this bank wrote £91,000 off its reserves,
and for some time afterwards it appeared to be ener-
getically making provision for losses. Things in Tasmania
are, however, not being so absolutely ruined as they were
going to be under Federation ; and a good many of the
bad debts turn out less bad than they threatened. Lat-
terly, also, the mining business has been humming ; and
between them, these things account for an improvement
in the profits which the detailed figures wouldn’t lead one
to expect. A comparison :
Aug., ’O5. Aug., ’O6.
Deposits .. £1,492,802 £1,553,896 Inc. £61,094
Circulation .. 55,333 67,175 Inc. 1,842
Liquid Assets.. 578,478 642,609 Inc. 64,131
Advances .. 1,225,360 1,247,310 Inc. 21,960
Premises .. 30,935 30,680 Dec. 355
A small increase in advances ; but, as it is accompanied
by an increase in deposits nearly three-times greater,
there is not enough in that to account for the jump in
profits. The surplus deposits have gone to swell the
bank’s credit account with other banks. On the basis of
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) profits show
this return :
Feb., 1903 .. £6 19 4 p.c. Feb., 1905 ..£9 9 8 p.c.
Aug., 1903.. 918 0 „ Aug., 1905.. 8 7 7,,
Feb., 1904.. 818 11 „ Feb., 1906.. 717 10 „
Aug., 1904.. 911 0 „ Aug., 1906.. 9 610 „
For the half-year, the figures are among the best shown
by Australian banks—largely due to its big borrowing
connection, and the fact that it has the deposits with
which to oblige the borrower. Its own funds
constitute only 24 per cent, of its advances,
while in the Royal Bank of Queensland, with approxim-
ately the same amount of advances, the shareholders’
funds represent no less than 49 per cent, of die advances.
Which mainly accounts for the difference between the
Tasmanian bank’s £9 6s. lOd. per cent, of profit and the
Queensland bank’s £3 16s. 4d. per cent. But every £lOO
of the Tasmanian bank’s shareholders’ funds has to pro-
tect £430 of perishable assets against depreciation, as
against only £225 in the Queensland bank—which is a
point for the depositor to consider. It isn’t necessarily
the bank which makes the biggest profits (because it
takes the biggest risks with the depositor’s money) that
is the best from the depositor’s point of view, though he
often acts as if it were.
» * » *
The Adelaide Steamship Co. (Adelaide)
To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901 .. £47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 .. 91,329 10 ~ „ 50,718 40,611 62,293
June,
1903 .. 94,978 9 „ ~ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .. 86,104 10 ~ ~ 50,718 35,386 141,939
1905 .. 86,998 10 „ ~ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906 .. 76,307 10 ~ „ 50,718 25,589 203,80
No profit and loss account is published, and the amount
written off for depreciation is not disclosed. The book-
value of the steamers, hulks, lighters, plant, &c., has
moved as follows during the past three years :
1904 £503,289
1905 432,537
1906 403,017
Notwithstanding that the fleet stands at £100,272 less
than it did two years ago, the Rupara has been added
to it, in addition to several small launches, tenders,
&c., and only the Albany has gone ; and, no doubt, pro-
gress payments have been made on account of the
Echunga, now building—the biggest vessel in the co.’s
service. This means that in two years £100,272 has been
written off this property out of profits, in addition to the
cost of the new vessels. The reserves, therefore, though
they are mostly for renewals, repairs and insurance, are
more genuine reserves than such funds often are. From
the beginning of the present co. (a reconstruction of the
old Adelaide Steamship Co., formed in 1875), the reserves
have moved in this way :
1901 1904 1905 1906
Insurance.. ..£5,772 £86,616 £105,000 £115,000
Repairs & renewals 10,000 50,904 70,000 85,000
Undivided profit.. 5,910 4,419 3,219 3,808
Whether the gross profits have been less than usual,
allowing of rather smaller additions to the reserve funds,
or whether the calls upon those funds have been larger
than usual, there is no way of telling. All that we have
is the net result; and a very handsome result it is. For
after the large allowance for depreciation which is clearly
made, the profits are equal to £l5 Is. per cent, on capital,
or £ll 2s. 6d. percent, on capital and reserves combined.
The undivided profits are going into “ freeholds, wharves
and shares in other cos. ” (now £198,417, as ag-ainst
£104,103 in 1904) and “sundry debtors, balances, etc.,”
£121,859, as against £52,249 in 1904.
* * * v
The Wellington Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901.. £8,791 8 p.c. = £4281 £2500 £2OlO £19,301
1902 .. 10,773 8,, „ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares 1413 23,850
1903 .. 9,065 8,, „ 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 .. 9,130 8 „ ~ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 .. 3,950 6 „ „ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 .. 5,200 5 „ ~ 4000 1000 200 24,018
This shows some improvement; but it is accompanied by
much heavier risks. As witness this growth of liabilities:
1903 .. .. £17,009
1904 .. .. 35,795
1905 .. .. 42,862
1906 .. .. 63,724
This extra money has gone, about three-fifths of it into
machinery, buildings, &c., and two-fifths into stock ; and
both items are liable to heavy depreciation, especially in
a country which hasn’t even yet made up its mind to
give adequate Protection against the foreign manufac-
turer of shoddy, who hasn’t any Arbitration awards to
work under. In the past year, an award has added some-
thing further to this co.’s costs ; yet the duty on woollens
remains at the old 20 per cent. Under the circum-
stances, the increase in the imports of woollens is no
more than might have been expected. Maoriland can’t
protect itself against the local sweater unless it also
protects itself by tariff against the foreign sweater. It
can prescribe high wages by Arbitration ; but it can’t
get the work to earn the high wages unless it joins Pro-
tection to Arbitration. Up to now this co. has been able to
show a fair profit on the surface ; but considering the risks
it has had to take, the past year’s 5 per cent, is not enough.
With liabilities amounting to over three-fourths of its
capital, it has presumably had to pawn its fixed assets ;
it is, in fact, in the same position that the Queensland
Woollen Co. arrived at a couple of years ago. And as the
result of a few bad years that co. lias had to take a course
which ended in its losing about half its capital. It is all
very well to work with borrowed money, only, un-
fortunately, even if the assets shrink the debt doesn’t.
The Wellington Co’s, position therefore calls for some
anxiety ; and it also calls for more tariff help for the
industry, and more protection against the shoddy
importer, than it has had so far.
N.Z. Farmers’ Co-operative Association of
Canterbury (M.L.)
Unex-
plained
Addi-
Writ- tions
Visible ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves, serves.
May, £ £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 1C,459 lOp.c. =5674 7,164 260 30,864
1901.. 14.169 9£ „ ~5799 6,207 25S 843 33,112
1902.. 8,091 9 „ ~5859 5,188 1535 777 29,398
1903.. 9£ „ ~6185 7,240 466 250 32,389
1904.. 13,747 9“ „ ~5868 6,788 154 S 31,932
July,
1905.. 22.539 8J „ ~6560 11,039 590 93 36,375
1906.. 22.035 10 „ ~6306 10,000 954 114 40,964
Some of the figures in the last line are necessarily esti-
mates only; the bonus, for •instance, is paid on share-
holders’ purchases, and the amount of these can only be
guessed at till the next balance-sheet is issued. The
growth of the business is rapid. In 1904 the assets were
£270,954 ; by 1905 they had reached £301,470 ; they are
now, before paying dividends, &c., £335,300. Mean-
time only a few pounds have been got in in calls,
which means that the debts to the public have increased
rapidly. In 1904 these debts, apart from drafts against
shipments of produce, totalled £145,941 ; they are now, on
the same basis, £200,949—and the shareholders’ capital
and reserves (estimated as above) are only £107,007.
Against this the principal assets are freeholds £41,188,
merchandise stocks £117,971, advances (less drafts)
£82,238, and sundry debtors £43,999 —all assets involving-
considerable risk of depreciation. And the shareholders’
funds have to bear the brunt of this depreciation ; the
depositor and other creditor take no risk of that sort.
It looks a highly profitable business —one of the most
profitable among co-operative enterprises in Australasia ;
but, then, it is taking more risks than almost any other,
and, unless stocks and other such assets are kept so
rigorously written down that there is compara-
tively little chance of a bad awakening presently,
prudence would call for a modified dividend.
Also dividend on capital and bonus on purchases ought
to be kept separate in the published accounts. Twelve
months ago a 10 per cent, dividend (6 per cent. div. and
4 per cent, bonus) was declared ; but it was not made
clear whether this was per annum or not. The previous
term had lasted 14 months ; 10 per cent, for that period
would be, as shown above, about 8A per cent, per annum.
Had the appropriations been separated it would now have,
been possible to tell what the actual rate was ; lumped
together, it is impossible.
* » * #
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit
representing preliminary and flotation expenses :
Dividend
(5 p.c.) Written To Re- De-
Profits. and Bonus. Off. serves, licit.
May, 1903 £lO7l
Jan., 1904 ..£1450 £456 £994 77
July, 1904 .. 25S 638 457
Jan., 1905 .. 1896 £1331 265 300 157
July, 1905 .. 1637 1441 215 176
Reserves.
Jan., 1906 .. 2661 1786 440 435 259
July, 1906 .. 1884 1662 266 215
Once more this young- co-operative concern, which has
incurred very large liabilities, and is shouldering very
large risks, pays out more than it has earned, and
trenches upon its insignificant reserves. Its Flinders-
street land and buildings, all bought with borrowed
money, still stand in at fuil cost; stock is either at cost
or “ at a lower valuation where deemed advisable ” ; and
only a miserable 5 per cent, or thereabouts is provided
out of profits to cover wear-and-tear of furniture, fittings,
horses (and horses seldom last 20 years), plant, &c. As
for the liabilities, they have moved in this way :
Deben- Debenture
tures. Loan. Sundries. Total.
July, 1904 .. £13,384 £13,384
July, 1905 .. £9,636 4,535 14,171
Jan., 1906 .. 10,731 £16,500 12,195 39,426
July, 1906 .. 12,596 14,500 4,636 31,732
The reduction of liabilities in the past six months has
been brought about almost wholly by an increase of capi-
tal, which now stands at £28,428. That capital, in con-
sequence of the heavy borrowings, has to stand the racket
of the shrinkage jn value of assets Worth (book value)
£60,913. And still the society, after writing off only
£266 for depreciation, pays away more in dividend and
bonus than it earns, and reduces its reserves to £215. If
the society escapes disaster, it won’t be for want of
taking the necessary risks. Fortunately, cash sales con-
tinue to grow ; they were £54,763 against £4'2,866 twelve
months ago ; but, even if they grew' to £547,630, it
wouldn’t prevent disaster supposing the management con-
tinued to distribute in divs. and bonus more than it
earned.
* * * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Victoria,
Ltd., which has just issued its first balance-sheet, has
probably the smallest paid-up capital of any bank in the
world—£42s Bs. And it began on £ll7 3s. 6d. But to
make up for that it has three actuaries and a licensed
auditor on the board. Burke, of the Victorian Civil Ser-
vice Co-op., started it. The Co-op. doesn’t give credit,
but Burke figured it up that there was no reason why
the Co-op. shouldn’t smile upon a pawnshop and give it
office-room. So the Co-op. Credit Bank was started.
It charges 2d. per £1 per month—lo p.c. p.a., with
coupons thrown in ! —and it made a profit of £4 in the
half-year. Whether the business can be run on the pre-
sent cheap principles as a regular thing has yet to be
proved ; certainly the lending is confined to Civil ser-
vants, and they ought to be “ good marks.” If it can be
run on the present low-priced principles, there will be
lamentations in Jew'ry.
* * * *
The Adelaide Co-operative Society
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Feb., 1902 About 8 p.c. = £2332 £384 £l6OO
Aug., 1902 £2511 „ 8 „ „ 2351 308 1452
Feb., 1903 2427 „ 7J „ „ 2181 329 1369
Aug., 1903 2286 „ 7f ~ ~ 2179 242 1234
Feb., 1904 2433 „ 7f ~ ~ 2152 254 1261
Aug., 1904 2529 ~ 7f ~ „ 2104 364 1322
Feb., 1905 2680 „ 7f „ „ 2208 299 1495
Aug., 1905 2399 „ 7| „ „ 2311 251 1332
Feb., 1906 3128 „ 8 „ ~ 2349 523 1588
tapproxO 6 } 3085 >* 8 » » 2400 423 1850
This purely co-operative concern, out of which members
may w'ithdraw their capital at very short notice, con-
tinues to prosper on much the same lines as have been
followed for nearly 40 years. A w'eak point has
always seemed to be the absence of a substantial
reserve fund. The official objection to such a fund
has been that, as members are entitled to draw out
at any time, a reserve w’hich could not be touched
would not be fair. This seems to be pushing the co-ope-
rative idea to selfish extremes ■ there is,really no reason
why a co-operator shouldn’t try to do a little for
posterity as well as for himself. Still, so long as stocks,
&c., are kept rigorously written down, the best purpose
of a reserve is served. For many years the society,
though it had a good cash-balance and about £4OOO worth
of Government securities, kept a mortgage of £4500
alive ; practically it mortgaged its premises to buy bonds,
which could be readily sold in case of a rush of members
applying for their capital. It seemed a roundabout and
unprofitable way of arriving at a safe position, and so the
old mortgage has now disappeared. The “capital’' is
now £43,578; loans, £18,727 —total, £62,305. Twelve
months ago the total was £58,544. For practical pur-
poses, there is no difference between capital and loans ;
both appear to carry 8 per cent., and both interest and
dividends are in the first place credited to members’
capital. Apart from its debt to members, the society
owes nothing, as it pays cash on the nail, while (apart
from unpaid accounts, £5853) it has £10,532 of cash and
liquid assets—a remarkably sound position, always pre-
suming- that nothing will happen to cause any big body
of members to rush in and want their money back. If
they were foolish enough to do that, the forced realisa-
tion might spell disaster.
Barrier Co-operative Society, Ltd. (Broken
Hill) :
Divs. (5 p.c.) Written Ke-
Profits. and bonus. off. serves.
Dec., 1004 .. £596 £371 £lO2 £169
June, 1905 .. 1129 591 232 475
Dec., 1905 .. 1236 766 183 762
July, 1906 .. 1322 968 126 990
The figures iu the last line are approximate ; 21 per cent,
bonus is allowed on non-shareholders’ purchases, but the
full amount is never called for (which adds to the
profits), and a proportion of shareholders’ bonus is also
uncalled for. Profit and reserves for the last half-year
will therefore probably be greater than shown above.
Though the balance-sheet is said to be “for the half-
year ending July 31,” and the auditors’ report
mentions that date, it is seven months since the
previous accounts were presented; and the interest
and dividend are, therefore, less than 5 per cent,
per annum. The share capital (now £2081) is being built
up partly out of profits, through bonuses ; and a loan
account has also been opened. There is so little differ-
ence between capital and loan that the two were bunched
in the earlier accounts. At June 30, 1905, the debts to
the public were £3682; they now amount to £3600.
Meantime, cash balances have gone up from £487 to £956,
and outstanding accounts from £1415 to £2289 —which is
an increase that doesn’t look too well. A fairly substan-
tial 10 per cent, in most cases, and an inadequate 5 per
cent, in others, is being written off for depreciation ; 2£
per cent, of profits goes to reserve as a first charge, and in a
place liable to as many vicissitudes as Broken Hill it is
little enough. At Bendigo, which doesn’t hang on to
anything so erratic as a lead market, 15 per cent, of the
Co-operative Society’s profits goes to reserve. The sudden
spring in outstanding accounts shows the sort of snag
that will have to be prepared for all along the track in
Broken Hill.
* » « *
Inquirer: “A life-assurance co. makes its
valuations on a 3J or 4 per cent, basis—what does that
mean?” Simply that that is the rate of interest which
it assumes the premiums will go on earning till the policy
matures. A co. which assumes that it will earn 4 per
cent, will, of course, reckon that it need put aside less
towards the payment of a policy than one which assumes
that it will earn only 3 per cent. If a co. assumes that it
will earn 4 per cent., and actually earnsonly 34 per cent.,
then (if its other calculations are correct) it will be pay-
ing away more than it can afford —in other words, it will
be robbing the man who hasn’t died yet to pay the man
who has died. Hence the security of a low assumed
rate. If the co. actually earns more than it assumes,
surplus becomes available for bonuses—or dividends, if it
happens to be an office that pays dividends.
* * * *
Reports of the Maoriland State Life Assurance
Department’s triennial valuation have been issued. The
total profit for the past three years—that is, the amount
actuarially estimated to be available for bonuses —was
£206,754. Of that, £10,872 has already been divided ;
and £178,993 cash, equal to £302,910 of bonus-additions
to policies, has now been distributed. This means an
annual compound bonus of £1 per cent., which is equal
to a simple bonus starting at £T per cent., and running
up to £1 Bs. per cent, as the policies grow older. In the
special temperance section the bonus results, are i 0 per
cent, less satisfactory, partly, it is said, because of the
preponderance of endowment assurances, which are less
profitable from an insurance point of view than whole
life policies. It is probable that, to save expense, the two
sections will be amalgamated.
* * * *
Following the run of good seasons and the
change in the look of pastoral accounts, shares in squat-
ting cos., and the like, are becoming almost fashionable
again. In view of which, this, from an experienced
Western (N.S.W.) man, is valuable:—“Most squatting
and mortgage cos’, improvements have been left to go
entirely for the past ten years. Take, for instance, the
biggest station in the Milparinka district. Tanks have
not been cleaned out on that holding for 10 years, and
for the last eight years no new work has been under-
taken to increase water storage. In most cases in this
country, owing to fearful duststorms, &c., an excavation
is of little value (unless kept in order) after 10 years.
The same plan has been followed on most of these
properties. They have simply been takipg off all they
can, and putting nothing back into the country. In-
vestors should, therefore, look into the item of expendi-
ture on maintenance of improvements, and make enquiries
as to whether heavy outlay will not now be called for,
unless, of course, their policy is to take off all they can
from these western properties and then abandon them.’’
* * * *
Kalgurli (W. A.) continues to open up splendidly
right down to 1150 ft., and stone for treatment is
coming from all eleven levels. During the past year
the grade of ore treated has ranged between 61s.
and 625. Bd., and Manager Moss reckons that he
can easily maintain this average. Last month’s
profit was £21,560, or at the rate of 215'6 • per
cent, per annum on the nominal capital. At present
co. is paying 7s. 6d. per quarter div., the next div. being
due on October 6. Co.’s financial year ended on July 31,
and it is quite possible that a bonus div. will be declared
before long, as profits now amount to over 435. per share
per annum, of which only 30s. is being distributed. After
allowing for depreciation and London exes., there
should still be a g'ood margin. Co. is very conservatively
handled, and mine is very economically managed. A year
ago ore reserves were given as 548,600 tons, worth tils.,
and results have more than confirmed this, at least so. far
as values are concerned. The ore lenses are so peculiar
and so wide that it is not easy to estimate quantity, but
Manager Moss may almost be relied on to err on the safe
side.
* » » *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), is again dis-
appointing. The north drive at the thirteenth levelis in
230 ft., and values only run up to Bs. per ton. From the
bottom of the winze from the twelfth level a drive is
going in south to connect with the north drive froth the
thirteenth level ; the ore in this drive is worth 225. 3d.
for 64in. wide. It has about 300 ft. to go to connect with
the drive from the shaft. Going north from the bottom
of the winze the lode is 58in. wide and worth 41s. Chair-
man Moreing said, at the recent meeting of the co., that
prospecting was to be undertaken in other parts of the
co.’s big area ; but, so far, nothing much has been done.
All the gold has come from one 24-acre block, whereas co.
holds 167 acres in all.
* * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, has at last picked
up the continuation of the rich shoot at the 300 ft. level.
After driving 150 ft. south, manager Maymaii started a
winze at 60ft. in the drive, and, after sinking 10ft., ore
carrying up to 640 z. gold and over 500 oz. silver was met.
The pay shoot is about 30in. wide, and latest assays shows
7oz. gold and 560 z. silver, which is quite as good as it
was when the stuff was lost at 200 ft. The owners have
decided to immediately sink the shaft to 400 ft., and also
to continue the winze to that depth. It is probable that
a battery will shortly be put on the mine, as there are
several thousands of tons of lOdwt. oxidised ore in sight
above the 200 ft. level. Owing to the picking up of the
shoot, mining in the vicinity, which was looking rather
sick, has got a fillip.
» * * *
The Government has arranged to subsidise the
North End £1 for £1 to test the ground at a greater
depth, and try to give a fillip to the north end of the
Kalgoorlie field. The Fairplay, adjoining on the south,
has just treated 160 tons for 200 oz. It looks as if there
was a pretty good belt of country from the North End to
the Hidden Secret, but proving it is very slow, for want of
capital.
» * * *
Hannan’s Reward and Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoor-
lie, has made a profit from royalties during the past two
years of £3300, against a loss of £3OOO incurred during
the preceding year when working on wages. Two main
shafts are down, one 400 ft., the other 520 ft. The co.
proposes to sink another 500 ft. or 600 ft., and is negotiating
with Government for £1 for £i subsidy, to be re-paid in
the event of success.
* * * «
Waihi, Davyhm’St (W.A.), during the past eight
months made a loss of £1420, exclusive of depreciation,
&c. Except as a gambling counter the scrip seems
worthless, as the mine is never likely to earn a div. The
shortness of the gold shoots and the hardness of the
ground make it impossible to work cheaply : and the ore
is low grade. So long, however, as shareholders pay up
calls the mine will no doubt be kept going.
* * * »
Lancefield (W.A.) will shortly resume opera-
tions, as the new treatment plant is well on the way to
completion. This plant is a replica of the South Kal-
gurli mill which is doing such excellent work, but it is
expected to do still better. What this means can be seen
from the fact that during August the South Kalgurli


The private trustee is an anomaly in this age,
and as out of date as the practice of burying the family
fortune in the earth for safety. He dates back to a
period when civilisation was just beginning to evolve
from savagery, when a man had to leave his widow and
children to the tender mercies of his best friend. In
science and art, and all that goes to make up civilisa-
tion, the world nas been moving onward with consider-
able velocity. The time has passed when the science of
surgery was a small side-show of the barber’s business,
and now if a man begged to be carried to the barber’s
when he broke his leg his friends would regard him as
wandering or hopelessly mad. But the man who finds
himself dying and sends for a business man, or a well-
meaning but not too-intelligent schoolmate, to make him
trustee is not one whit more ridiculous than he who
carried his shattered limb to the hairdresser. Australia
has recently had many shocking examples of the folly
and wickedness of leaving the widow’s jointure in the
care of the private trustee. It can be taken for granted
that in the mass women are entirely ignorant of business,
and have not the business knowledge to prevent them-
selves being robbed. For every fraudulent private trus-
tee that has been haled before the courts numbers have
escaped, because to prosecute them would only entail
added loss to the estate. What a man should do is to
seek out some Institution that has too great a stake in
the country to allow even bad management, let alone the
question of dishonesty, cloud its reputation. This paper
knows one such institution in this State, the
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), of 2, 4, and 6
Spring-street, Sydney. Behind this concern rises a vast
mass of resources, totalling £1,026,992, as a guarantee of
faithful care and expert management. The co. works
under a special Act of Parliament, and is a professional
trustee and executor, which pays an expert staff to do its
work properly, and does not look after its clients’ in-
terests like the private trustee, with the fag end of its
intellect when the business of the day and the sport of
the night have been attended to.*
The Aerial Tramways now being erected at the
British and Central Mines at Broken Hill on the Bleichert
system, will enable mine managers of Australia to learn
the saving in transport charges of ore from mine to mill,
or mill to railway with concentrates. Many mines pay
from Is. 6d. upwards for horse and dray, whereas they
could do the same work at about one penny per ton by
means of a proper Automatic Ropeway. W. and J.
Lempriere, of 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, are the
Agents for A. Bleichert & Co., of 70 Cheapside, London.*
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Co.’s new Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision against
any increase in the volume of water now that they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71'5 percent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria andhasmetin each with unqualified success.* [a]
The Sunday Times (Sydney), of 4th June, 1905,
wrote as follows with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ This line company whose
income has so largely increased during recent years
occupies one of the strongest positions in life assurance
circles.”*
•V * » »
Australia will have a pretty solid holding of
shares in the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co., judging by
the business which Mr. H. G. Robinson has been doing.
Mr. Robinson represents the underwriters of the co.
which has secured all the Marconi patents ; and a chance
to get into a concern which promises to revolutionise a
thing of such world-wide use as telegraphy has not
hitherto been put in Australia’s way like this. Both
Sydney and Melbourne have seen that, and acted
accordingly.*
* * » *
COBAR.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
To Prospectors.—Auriferous Deposits, con-
taining fine or coarse gold successfully treated by a new
process. Send samples to Findlay, 19 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.*
*** * '
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * »
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase."
•k * -* m
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
K * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
-**--**
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsby ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
* * *
Charters Towers.—-Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
ion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
treated 8760 tons for 325. 2d. per ton at a cost of 235. 3d.,
the net profit being- £3860. The tailings assayed less than
25., showing the splendid extraction of 94 per cent. The
L.incefield has over 200,000 tons of ore worth 345. in
sight ; but, owing to its refractory nature, the old mill
could not save the gold. From tests made, the new mill
is expected to overcome all difficulties, and put the co. on
the div. list. The lode on this property is fully 25ft’
wide, and has a long and consistent pay-shoot.
* * * *
From one of the five owners :—“ It’s a bit early
yet to either extol or condemn the Merninga Marley,
Black Range (W.A.), but, as far as we have gone, things
look all right. Bollktin stated recently that the reef
dipped at an angle of 45 degrees. We are down 100 ft.,
with a winze below that level, and the reef to that point
is nearly vertical; we have not cut the reef at 200 ft., so
the recent report that at that point it breaks, may be
true or it may not—it will take time to tell. The coun-
try all down the shaft and crosscut gives from ldwt. to
as high as 13dwt. ; there is absolutely no change of coun-
try in the crosscut as far as we had gone when I left on
Sept. Ist. We intend to work the show ourselves, having
our own plant—battery, &c. (cyanide plant is in course of
construction ; it will be ready Ist Nov.). We put through
230 tons, as a first crushing, from the prospecting dump
last month for 3630 z., with 25dwt. in the sands. Heavy
mineral accounts for latter; but it should be easily
recovered by cyanide. Hans Irvine made a proposition
lately, but it was broken off. His offer to us was un-
solicited, and, although we agreed to accept his £20,000
cash, some variations submitted a couple of days after-
wards blew it out.”
* * * *
Prices of leading Barrier stocks towards the end
of September for the past three years, so that people may
see what they are paying now compared with what they
thought the same goods were worth 12 and 24 months
ago
1904. 1905. 1906.
s. d. s. d. s. d.
Block 14 (pref.) .. Unsaleable 22 0 33 6
Block 14 (ord.) .. ~ 21 9 36 0
British (new) .. 911 26 0 50 0
British (old) .. 12 6 27 0 54 9
Block 10 .. 45 0 67 6 89 0
B.H. Prop. .. 40 6 50 6 82 6
Junction .. .. 6 5 5 8 6 8
Junction North .. 5 11 13 6 24 6
North .. .. 22 9 43 9 72 9
South (con.) .. 29 6 60 0 109 0
South (paid) .. 37 6 66 0 117 0
South Blocks(con.) 1 9 4 2£) „
South Blocks(paid) 5 0 12 6 j 60 0
Sulphides (ord.) .. 6 6 11 0 15 3
What has done it ? The metal markets ? Then they are
a rotten reed to lean on. Lead is at £lB 2s. 6d. to £lB
10s. now. It was at £l7 17s. 6d. in 1900 ; but that didn’t
prevent it going back to £lO 2s. 6d. in 1902. Twenty-
four reasons or thereabouts are furnished why the pre-
sent price must be maintained. They were also put for-
ward to show that the £l7 17s. 6d. of 1900 must be
maintained. Certainly, there have been satisfactory
mine developments in some cases, though, except at the
South, British, and Junction North, no better than had
been anticipated. Possibly the lead market in Sept.,
1904—£11 17s. 6d. to £ll 18s. 9d.—was slightly below the
normal (if there is such a thing as normal in the lead
market), but it is certain that £lB 10s. is a great deal
further above the average than the 1904 price was below
it. Also, it is just as certain as anything can be that the
market will again go below the average, just as it has now
gone above it.
The public has been fascinated by the gorgeous
figures quoted with regard to the tens of millions worth
of zinc in the Broken Hill tailings dumps. It would pay
a lot better to remember that, even if there are tens of
millions there, the mining cos, (except the B.H. Prop,
and Sulphide Corporation) have sold practically all of the
dumps for as little as 3s. 6d. per ton. It is no use reckon-
ing up that the metal in each ton of tailings is worth £7
when the co. is only going to get 3s. 6d. for it—3s. 6d. at
the best, and, if the zinc market breaks, probably not that
much.
The B.H. Prop, has bounced up to a market
value of £3,960,000. Last half-year, with the metals at
boom prices, it netted £232,332. On the present market
value, even that shows less than 12 per cent, per annum.
And that isn’t profit. To make that money the co. has
to eat up its assets. Twelve months ago it had 3,200,000
tons of ore. Be liberal, and double that for recent and
future developments = 6,400,000 tons. Deduct 522,000
taken out during the year, and call the total ore left
6,000,000 tons, which is 10 years’ supply at present rate of
consumption. That 12 per cent., then, based on profits
made at nearly the top of the market, has to provide for
the return of capital within 10 years. The .proposition
doesn’t look enticing in cold figures.
B.H. Prop, is valued at £3,960,000 ; B.H. South
is valued at £1,137,500. Above the 825 ft. level manager
Wainwright, of the South, estimates 1,750,000 tons.
The deeper levels have developed most satisfactorily—
infinitely better than those of the B.H. Prop. It is
very doubtful whether to-day the B.H. Prop, has 50 per
cent, more known ore than the B.H. South. Last half-
year the South’s profit was 14s. 2d. per ton of ore, and the
B.H. Prop.’s about 20s. 2d. ; but the latter included zinc
profits, and the South’s didn’t. In the past, without
zinc, there has been very little to choose between them.
Yet to-day the public is valuing the B.H. Prop, at 3£
times more than the South. This isn’t written to
“ boost ” the South ; it is simply written to show that
the public is “ going blind ” —and there’s a ditch ahead.
As for the South, while it is probably the
lowest-valued mine at Broken Hill at present, the
situation is that, though with last half-year’s prices it
made a profit of 14s. 2d. per ton, in the latter half of 1902
it only made a gross profit of 2s. sd. per ton. And,
though there have been splendid ore developments since
then, there have been no metallurgical developments
worth mentioning apart from zinc ; and the South has
given an option over its zinc product for years ahead. In
other words, given the same markets as there were in
1902, it is doubtful whether any more profit could be
made now than was made then out of silver and lead.
Extraction is certainly better, but, the ore for one thing
being more refractory the deeper it goes, increased costs
have more than counterbalanced that gain.
if * ♦ $
The hysterical announcement that a 6in. vein of
native silver had been found in Marsh section of the
British, Broken Hill, could hardly have come from
manager Woodhead, for no one understands better than
he the danger just now of dangling such a bait before an
investing public eager to swallow anything with silver on
it. Some native silver, it is true, has been discovered in
Marsh section, but it is so insignificant a thing in com-
parison with the carbonate body as to be really only a
curiosity, for in these days native silver is of extremely
rare occurrence in any Broken Hill mine. The facts are
that, in stoping out carbonates at the 200 ft. level, a small
vein of lode material carrying native silver and native
copper was come upon close to the hanging-wall; but
there isn’t enough of the stuff to put a silver lining to any
investor’s cloud. If some breeder of wild cats could steal
it, and put it down a mine that is existing on a plausible
prospectus and a few streaks of galena, it might keep the
market afloat. But in the big British mine, a streak of
native-silver bearing material is immaterial.
* * * *
About 12 years ago the Central Co., Broken
Hill, had the South mine thrown at it for a song, but it
declined the deal even at that price. That must be a sore
memory to some Sydney people. At present the South
promises to equal the B.H. Prop. Already opened up far
beyond the expectations of the most sanguine, it is
almost certain that the big ore bodies now being worked in
the Sulphide Corporation’s Central—at least some of them
—will be found by the South when the latter opens up at
the 1200 ft. There is, however, one cloud overhanging
the South —the danger of a creep. Against such a con-
tingency manager Wainwright (an all-Australian produc-
tion, by the way) is making every possible provision ; and
it may turn out that his precautions, coupled with the
fact that in the early days the South refused to adopt the
treacherous pillar system, will minimise the movement
that must come in time.
* * • *
Harvey shaft, the forlorn hope of Block 10,
Broken Hill, appears to be doomed. The creep which
has for years been slowly tearing the inside out of the
mine has not by any means satisfied its hunger. A
further movement is bound to occur, affecting both the
Central and Block 10, and then those innocent-looking
little cracks which, like tentacles, have been feeling out
towards Harvey shaft will exert their pull, and if Block
10 hasn’t another shaft well forward by that time there
will be weeping and wailing among shareholders. The
water at the 1115 ft. level is preventing the sinking of a
winze to the 1215 ft:., and to get out of the predicament it
is intended to put a diamond-drill or two through from
one level to the other, and drain the water off so that the
men may get to work to sink the winze.
* * * •
The North Extended, Broken Hill, is making
two sensible moves. The shaft is being sunk to 300 ft.
(but it will have to go lower to reach anything of value)
and diamond drills are to be put down from the surface
to try to locate the ore bodies supposed to be in hiding
somewhere in the deep places of the alleged mine.
•* * * *
J. D. Kendall, having taken over Great Cobar
(N.S.W.), makes an early start with his threats. “We
have paid a large amount for this property, and when
that was paid we did not expect to have to pay any more,
but hoped for some profit,” he says. But the men don’t
work hard enough to satisfy Mr. Kendall (who hasn’t
been baking on top of a Oobar furnace for years), so
there’s to be labor-saving machinery wholesale unless
they graft harder. And, as for double pay for Sunday
work, if they talk about that, the co. will see
about doing Sunday work on Saturdays, and giving
the men only five days’ work a week—which is
bluff. It boils down to this: The co., as Kendall says,
paid a vast sum for the mine, another vast sum went to
the middlemen (even English financial papers have
snorted at the size of their “cut ”), more vast sums went
in incidentals and frill; and now the Australian workman
is to pay for it. And the chances are that presently,
when a kick comes from the Cobar workman (who exists
under about the worst conditions in N.S. Wales), the co.
will point out that, copper having fallen, it is not getting
a fair return on its capital, and the fool-Australian, whose
whole sympathies ought to be with the workman, will
say that the latter ought to be ashamed of himself—that
he’s always causing trouble and driving capital out of the
country.'
• ■» * *
Budgery (N.S.W.) directors’ action in wiring to
Sydney Stock Exchange and the Daily Telegraph, on
Friday, protesting against the ’Graph’s undeniably inac-
curate chart of the Budgery lode, was cruel. Not that
the Telegraph did worse than usual; but it really would
be interesting to know who pulled the paper’s leg. See-
ing that Budgery is prima-facie the biggest thing un-
earthed since chief mines-inspector Jaquet took office, it
is nearly up to the Government to let the public know,
through him, what is the real strength of things—to do
for N.S.W. over Budgery what the Westralian Govern-
ment did lately over Narlala Hills. At least, seeing that
the tendency of the public is to rush into anything that
sounds like Budgery, it is up to the Department to furnish
a map showing the general position.
* * * *
The strike of the Budgery lode—taken on
Thursday by the directors and party, including J.
Bonderson, manager of the Cobar Gold Mines, and mine-
manager Thomas, of Budgery—is from 15 to 20 degrees
west of north ; and the eastern underlay can be set down
at one in ten. Of the four floats that have now taken
place, the South Budgery is within 315 ft. of the main
shaft, and the strike of lode is almost through the centre
of its southern leases. The North Budgery Extended, or
North Budgery Blocks (it is called by both names), is also
in the strike, about 600yds. north of the main shaft.
Outside these, and giving all consideration to the position
of the North Budgery, which adjoins the Extended or
Blocks on the east, the public would do well for the pre-
sent to keep cool, and invest in one shilling’s worth of
map. That is, if the Department is not too tired to pro-
duce a map.
« * * *
Budgery, which, as far as it has gone, is the
show mine of 1906, at 52ft. in the crosscut is still ham-
mering the drills into high-grade black oxides; and, on
appearances, there might be as much ore in front of the
pick as behind it. Anyhow, manager Thomas (an old
copper man) astonished the directors on Saturday last
with the report that he expected to shortly reach very
rich ores ! This was on top of the fact that the mine
gave an average of 19 per cent, copper from three
sections, each of 10ft., taken from the top and base of
the crosscut. The assays were made at Cobar copper
mine by mine-assayer Motherwell; so the bulk parcel of
1501 b., sent to Lithgow on the 20th Sept., ought to bear
investigation. There is little doubt that, so far as the
certainly limited experience of one crosscut can be relied
upon, there is a very big tonnage of high-grade ores ; but
there is all too little development as yet to determine on
a policy for the mine. Management is, therefore, wise
in its decision to send away 50 tons weekly for treatment.
Mine is now' in 100 shares of £l5 each, worth on ’Change
about £6OO ; and on Sept. 28th shareholders will be asked
to confirm the formation of a new co., of 400,000 shares,
of 2s. 6d. each, 200,000 to be issued to present holders as
fully paid, and 200,000 preference contributors, at ljd. on
application, and l£d. on allotment.
* * * •
A kite was sent up to see how the market would
take the idea of cutting Budgery up into 400,000 half-
crown shares—it is now in 100. But the market wasn’t
enthusiastic. Especially in a concern whose future has
yet to be proved, the Australian market isn’t big enough
to absorb such a swag- of shares, as the experience of O.K.
proves. There is almost bound to be a big proportion of
weak holders, and that’s the material for a bear raid.
All the bear has to do is to throw in a handful of shares
spread his yarns, and in rush the weak holders. To,
make a quotation, 100 shares are as good as 10,000 ; if the
market is at 10s., and 100 art thrown in at 9s. 9d., the
mine is reckoned up on the nine-and-ninepenny basis,
and the weakest holder left probably throw's in at 9s. 6d.
And if it helps the bears to have a bigger swag of shares,
than the market can properly absorb, it often helps the
bulls ; for not once in three times does the public stop to
ask how many shares there are in a mine, and reflect that
if there are 400,000 shares they ought to sell for only half
as much as if there were 200,000.
* * « *
The long-thought-of amalgamation of Boppy
South, Cobar (N.S.W.), and the south blocks of Boppy
Gold Mines has been practically fixed up. A scheme has
been received from the parent co. in London which will
give the South 10,000 shares in a co. with a decent work-
ing capital ; but of those 10,000 shares it will have to give
away 1000 to the owner of G.L. 34, which the Boppy Gold
Mines insists must come into the deal.
* * « *
Crowl Creek (N.S.W.) shows up badly for
the past half-year, in spite of the phenomenal copper
market. The mine’s history for 18 months —from the
time when it was supposed to have just got into its stride
as a regular dividend-payer :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Jan., ’O5 £23,531
July,’os £12,062 {orcL £lo4B 24 ’ 045
Jan.,’o6 11,688 .{ .jg ” » Jgg f 1196 24,037
July,’o6 1,907 j 921 19,773
Looked at that way, the shareholders who took up
ordinaries at 4s. didn’t do so badly, as they have got ss.
back in 18 months. But, then, 18 months ago—just after
the result of the half-year’s work was known, shares were
at 11s. ; and that is a different sort of proposition.
Beckoning share premiums (£3125), only £18,125 has been
put up by the public ; so that the public can’t complain
of the mine, though it may speak disrespectfully of the
market. The reserves mentioned above are, unfortu-
nately, not all in cash ; but there is a surplus of liquid
assets of £8797. In view of the half-year’s figures, future
is very uncertain ; the proposal now is to put up a small
concentrating mill to try to pull down smelting costs.
Last half-year total costs per ton of rough copper ran to
£57 19s. 6d., so that only the extra-good market saved the
co. from heavy loss.
* * * *
Coppabella Co. (N.S.W.) has turned over the
property', on easy tribute terms for three years, to
Manager Turley, who will put up a small mill and fight to
show that he was right about the mine and pretty well
everybody else wrong.
* * * IK
With the help of yarns that manager Shepherd
had resigned, that there is zinc in the bottom, and that
the water has run out, the bear raid on O.K. has got on
very well; the market was squeezed down as low as
13s. ljd. For every' yarn there arrives an official con-
tradiction, till the manasrement must be very tired of
wiring “ No truth in statement that,”&c.
* * * »
The trouble which has arisen between the
Bundamba (Q.) miners and the colliery proprietors has
brought the fact to light that the wages of miners in the
district range from 255. to 30s. per week. Most of the
men are married. Yet the coal trade was never in a more
prosperous condition in Queensland than it is now, and
the mine owners (such as the Thomas and Cribb families)
are amassing great fortunes. But, to some extent, Bun-
damba miners deserve their ill-luck. Until now (when
the conditions have become intolerable), they have never
thought of forming a union for self-defence.
* * * *
Walsh and Tinnaroo tin field (N. Queensland)
produced lode tin worth £22,820 for July. The Vulcan
keeps up its end with a return worth about £4 per ton of
ore milled. Smith’s Creek has crushed 580 tons for an
estimated return of 32 tons of concentrates, value of
which is a gamble till the black tin is weighed and assayed.
Dalziells and neighboring shows are developing a lot of
ore ; looks as if Dalziells and some of the big tin proposi-
tions which J. Moffat has in hand will monopolise the
available 20 head battery power, and the small shows
will have to wait a long time. It will take a few weeks
to finish the battery 7 .
* * * *
Smith’s Creek (Q.) latest return of tin concen-
trates has been another let down. The traditional “ 2
per cent.” seems to have been partly iron or mullock.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.), in roasting mundic ore, sends
vast quantities of sulphur up its furnace flue ; yet it
imports brimstone from Japan for use in the manufacture
of chlorine. The progressive management which adopted
the steam shovel and producer gas and electric hauling-
plants is fairly' sure to tackle sulphuric acid manufacture,
as Wallaroo has done. Electrolytic refining works are
also proposed.
■ * * *
Output of wolfram in North Queensland is
valued at £5OOO or £6OOO per month. The price of ore is
just about as erratic as the mineral. One N.Q. producer
seems to have sized up the market manipulation accu-
rately by holding on to 40 tons of ore, for which he finally
got £lOO per ton, which was a good deal ahead of the
best, published quotations. The gag that the increased
demand was due entirely to the manufacture of war
material is unlikely. In these days a metal or mineral
with exceptional properties soon comes into use. If a
percentage of tungstic acid (from which wolfram takes
its value) will enable steel to take and retain a high
temper, it should, for instance, be of value in the manu-
facture of drill steel.
* * * *
Honest brokers and others are trying to make
up their minds about Briseis (Tas.). Speckers have done
this already. The question is raised by a statement of
the directors, issued as a counterblast to the emphatic
assertion that the lead was pinching out in its southern
or upper reaches. On Lindesay 7 Clark’s authority, they
give the lie direct to that statement. Not content with
this, they say they have every reason to believe that
Currie’s amended estimate of the mine (1903) will be
realised. Currie then put the overburden down at
1,700,000 cubic yards, and the drift at 2,700,000 cubic
yards. A little table will show what has been done since,
and enable the curious to work out the life of the present
mine:—
Overburden
Worked. Drift Sluiced. Tin Won.
1903 .. 400,000 cub. yds. 256,940 cub. yds. 412 tons.
1904 .. 624,000 „ 173,400 „ 424 „
1905 .. 454,000 „ 281,900 „ 744 „
*1906 .. 200,000 „ 160,000 „
‘Estimated.
This leaves no overburden at the Briseis (which may be
the case), and 1,800,000 cubic yards of drift available.
The difficulty' that faces the investigator as to the life of
the mine is to fix a standard for work done in the drift
by' the nozzle. This is because of the presence of pug
and of hard bottom ; and, next, because be is not told
how many nozzles are to be turned on to the drift. The
working of the Brothers No. 1 mine by the co. also clouds
this issue. Future necessities for elevators, and for
the overburden on the new leases across the river, also
affect the problem. Without the latter leases, it looks as
if the mine, at the outside, had a four years’ existence.
With quarterly divs. of 9d. a little more than earned, and
with plenty of margin for a fall in tin values, the market
estimate of 12s. for the shares does not seem to be very
far wrong.
* • * *
Glenfine South, Pitfield (Vic.), has a history.
A few read it with pleasure; many with regrets.
Sydney and Adelaide loaded up shares at about £lO, and
unloaded at as many shillings. Its past has to be read
with its present. The early alluvial worked was lion-
payable ; the late alluvial prospected well—dwts. to the
dish. Still divs. are slow in coming. With the quartz a
different parallel has to be run. The co. paid good divs.
out of its quartz. Then it shut up like a cheap umbrella
on a wet day, leaving a big crowd in the drips, and very
few protected within the folds. This, then, is the
history of the Glenfine South —a boom, divs., then extinc-
tion until revived to prospect for the deep lead. Now
gold is struck in a western quartz formation. This strike
may mean a lot or a little. Glenfine Consols was the only
other mine to raise golden quartz in the district, and it
did not take a big tonnage to settle its hash. There were
two crosscourses in the main lode from which the Glen-
fine South got its gold—not one—and payable stone was
got north of them, though not far north. As a matter of
fact, also, tests were made of the western lode south
where it had been crossed in the old alluvial main cross-
cut, and there is a story that samples sent to the School
of Mines, Ballarat, went 3dwt. That does not say that
there is no gold north on the formation, because no one
can see ahead of the pick. But the public wants that
proved, for the formation looks like a jumble—first
quartz, then slate, then quartz, and so on. Nothing very
defined, and nothing very solid —comparable with the
recent make of stone met in the Birthday' crosscut.
* * * *
Berry Extended, Creswick (Vic.), is in a poor
plight indeed. Three parties in wash, and still the yield
is down to about a score of ounces a week. Mine has
crumpled up ever since the last of the good gold was got
in the stretch of the lead away to the south. When the
gutter widened, so that the ground did not pay to take
out, the crash came, and the co. then had to turn to the
north, where mining always was doubtful, because
of the risk of running into hydro-thermal deposit.
Berry Extended had the luck of it for long .years, as while
it got divs. out of the lead on its side of the boundary 7,
Spring Hill Leads, on the other side of the fence, was in
disturbed ground, which it has taken £150,000 to escape
from. Now appearances are that Spring Hill Leads is
going to get the gold, and Berry Extended the hydro-
thermal. One director has a theory that the real lead is
away out somewhere —no one can quite understand where.
So a Government bore is being put down. If it hits wash,
the co." will regain its old reputation for luck, and those
who believe in omens may be prepared to believe that
divs. are ahead in the northern ground. This will soon
be proved, as co. is to open up wash in that quarter
from the Spring Hill Leads workings. It is doleful to
seethe Madame Berry West the only div. -payer to-day
on the famous lead that produced the Madameßerry, the
Australasian, the West Berry Consols, and a host of other
splendid properties.
Bravo Coaxes! “I see no reason to alter my
opinion regarning the eo.’s prospects. The mine has a
prosperous future in sight, and I believe the co. will
declare dividends from the formation for the next 10
years, especially after the main shaft has been deepened
100 ft.” Now, that is the way to talk. It re-
minds one of the days when the same Catherine
United, of Bendigo, was on the big formation, and
when Coakes was a very proud and confident figure on
the Beehive. Yet the market in Catherines did not hold
on his report. Average from the stone beaten out so far
is over 15dwt. The formation has been proved for 350 ft.
in length, and in the north end it runs out as wide as
60ft. ; the best gold lies east of the lava. Coakes pins his
faith to the formation living down. He will soon be in a
position to prove this, as the new air compressor is about
ready. If his assumption is borne out by actual work,
there will be some ironing out of wrinkles in the bear
linen.
• • * *
The Narlarla Hills (W. A.) wild-cat goes to the
dust-heap in Adelaide without leaving even a liquidation
dividend behind it.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: The Northern Territory boasts a
Government smelter. This was formerly erected near
Palmerston. The usual influence was brought to bear,
and the thing was shifted to the Daly River. As long ago
as 1904 copper-scratchers sent ore to the works, and have
never received one penny. This is the way they encourage
miners in the Territory !


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Of Queen Elizabeth we read—
“ Cold made that monarch croak.”
To save the Queen from catching' one,
Sir Walter spoilt his cloak.
But had she ruled us now, you know,
For very trifling payment,
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Would save poor Kaleigh’s raiment.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
MR. JAMES MORRIS, U.F.S.A., Palmerston,
North, N.Z., makes a statement that should
interest every father or mother. “ In July
last,” says he, “my liuie boy, two years old,
gave symptoms at 7 p.m. of a eroupy cough, and
barked away a good deal during dinner. This,
continued in aggravating symptoms till 9 p m. at
which time I returned home. Hot flannels and
hot water were being used then, as it was im-
possible for those at home to administer anything
by the mouth. I then took the child in hand and
compelled him to swallow a dose of Chamberlains*
Cough Remedy. This was done with a great
struggle. He had a rest then for a matter of
twenty minutes, when another spasm attacked
him. I then administered another dose, and at a
quarter to ten a third dose, after which he
vomited a good deal, and then had nearly two
hours’ rest. At 12 o’clock a fourth dose was ad-
ministered, and the child fell into a peaceful sleep.
Next morning he seemed a little weak and out of
sorts, but nothing very bad, and recovered hourly.
I know we saved his life through using Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in time. The above are
simple facts, and may be utilised for the benefit
of whom it may corcern. We are never without-
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the house. ’
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE HAUGHTY LANDOWNER.
FIRST PEDESTRIAN : “ Have you noticed how
blooming proud that bloke has got since he
bought that bit o’ property?”
SECOND HO.:“He is that. Owe your rent and
keep respectable — that’s my motter."
“ Smig ” : Has anyone noticed that in the
rabbit-infested parts of the country the children
have mostly enormous ears, and have the inane
look of bunny about them generally ? Pre-natal
influence, or too much rabbit-diet for the maternal
parent, or what ?
A MISUNDERSTANDING.
FURIOUS PERSON : “ Look here, sir, do you allow intoxicated persons to ride on your tram?”
CONDUCTOR (cheerfully) ; “ That's all right. Hop on the back, an’ no one’ll notice yer.”
“ J.A.R.” : Happened along to Warrnam-
bool (Vie.) t’other day on a holiday trip, and put up
at a pub. Whilst discussing local topics with mine
host one morning, some youths passed with a dog
in tow. Sundry firearms were included in the
outfit of the party. Inquired of Boniface the
scene of the sport. “Foller ’em and see,” he
replied. I followed and saw. The youngsters
made for the breakwater, and moored the dog at
the toot of a steep bank, in the water. The sports
then perched themselves on the jetty overhead,
and unlimbered. Presently the movements of
the dog announced the arrival of several small
sharks, averaging about two feet in length, which
proceeded to sample the canine in a weak, foolish,
baby kind of way. Shots were fast and frequent
from the muskets above as the sharklets came
within range, and the lads proved no mean marks-
men. Doggy did not suffer much from bites, but
appeared somewhat bored at being made bait of,
and looked weary on being released. Was told
that the sport was of frequent occurrence.
• * « *
“S.R.”: I wish to state again distinctly
that the mate of a dead snake will prowl round
its partner’s body. It
was a regular practice
in my school days to
return next day and
search around for the
mate, and in the
majority of cases we
bagged the second one.
February and March we
found to be the worst
snake months. At that
time of the year the
snakes must have been
pairing, and they
seemed particularly
lively and vicious.
While on the subject of
snakes: Which spot in
Australia has the great-
est pressure of snake
to the square yard ? I nominate “The Palms,” at
Yeppoon, Central Queensland. (Only three pubs,
at Yeppoon, too.) A grove of palms, a dense
undergrowth, a small stream running through,
and snakes everywhere—l enter this lot as exhibit
A. At “ The Palms ”it is, or was, dangerous to
step off the beaten tracks.
If the Cold Tea brigade succeeds in
abolishing Tatt.’s sweeps, the worried pastoral
lessees will have to invent a new gag for their
“ friendly selectors ” to get off before the local
Land Boards. The man who kept his savings
under his bunk (which explained why he could
take up land with no visible bank account), was
getting too frequent, and the cove who was left a
legacy by an uncle in Fiji only provoked a grin
from the Board. Then Tatt.’s sweeps got under
weigh, and the number of people whom Tatts.
settled on the land is really astonishing. If Tatt.
is passed out, what is the bona-fide bloke to
do ? He may have to tell the truth—that the kind
lessee lent him the money to cut into his estate,
because ’is ’onest ’eart yearned for closer settle-
ment.
<< „„, ~ . \t i ii i ~,
Kulpara : Not generally known that
if a horse has a very bad sore in which “proud”
flesh has formed, let the blowflies at it and they
will clear it away. As soon as the sore com-
rv» ui a £ii , „ „ • •11 i •
mences to bleed, fill a syringe with kerosene, give
it a good dose, and in a few days the sore will be
healed.
* * * *
mi „ i „„„ „„ i i •
The bran-ba a and corn-sack play an impor-
tant part in the Wayback’s life. Houses are
made of them, also horse-rugs and covers for
water barrels. They are used for
doors, windows, and window blinds.
And what is warmer than a Wagga
rug, though it isn’t a thing of beauty?
As an article of wearing apparel the
sack comes in handy. What is better
for an apron than a bag when milk-
ing or feeding the pigs and calves?
At one place writer came across a
man wearing a pair of overalls made
out of a bran-bag. They weren’t of
the most fashionable shape, but they
suited all right. He had slit the
bottom of the bag across, and run a
knife from the bottom up the centre
of the bag to within a foot of the top,
thus making the two legs. With a
packing needle and a bit of thread he
sewed the insides of the legs, and
there was a fine pair o( overalls. Also,
this scribe saw one time two tiny
bush children with sugar-bag over-
alls. A little hole in the bottom of
the bag to shove the head through,
and two holes in the sides near the
corners for the arms to go through,
provided a cheap if somewhat inele-
gant costume. Speaking of sugar-
bags, what would the ‘"waler” do
without his nosebag, or without the
corn-sack to cover his “drum”? A
traveller (they call themselves that,
though the common or garden term
is swaggy) has even been known to
wear a hat made out of part of a
sugar-bag. It was when the matting
bags were more in use. He had cut off one
corner of the bag, and with a piece of red ribbon
for a band, he had a head-covering that was at the
same time unique and attractive.
* * * *
“ Agricola ” : I am surprised that “Gip ”
(B. 23/8/’06) finds anything startling in magpies
attacking foot-passengers. Tho.se on Shanks’s
mare are the ones whom mag. most diligently
forwards on their way. But if there is anything
in this world that sends mag. completely “ off his
block,” it is some inoffensive mortal on a bike.
Many a time have I had my cap knocked off,
when I was already five minutes late for work,
and time was too precious to wait for arguments
and explanations. Mag. seems to know that the
average bikist on a rough road does not even dare
to shake his fist at him, and so he becomes pre-
sumptuous. Some day he meets one who strikes
at him recklessly with his cap, and then imme-
diately proceeds to take up a selection on an
inconveniently hard spot in the road. Then old
mag. sits on a limb above him, and raucously
calls upon heaven and earth and all the little
fishes to bear witness how he overthrew the fear-
some object single-handed. For five years I
carried a revolver (cost £1), and purchased car-
tridges (cost 17s. 6d.), for the special benefit of the
he mag. The only casualty recorded was on the
day that mag. bit my ear, and I fell off the bike
with fright, and the revolver fell faster than I did,
so that it was On the ground ready to be sat hard
down upon when I arrived. And I came down on
it like a falling, clamoring, distracted elephant.
* * » *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“Nulla” : Prickly pear is a fairly solid
curse. It’s no use simply cutting it, as it propa-
gates from the leaf as well as from seed ; and, as
for burning it, you might as well try to burn a
cataract or a heap of watermelons. Some years
ago a New England man claimed to have pro-
duced good results by stacking the pear and
drenching it with water, which causes the vege-
table to rot. I can’t think that the experiment
would be generally successful, however. In most
of the country I know there would be a big
chance of the water giving out long before the
pear.
» * * X
“Two Seas”: lie prickly pear. I know-
one squatting firm up in the N.W. district of
N.S.W. which got a “prickly pear lease” of
several thousand acres at a nominal rental.
Going over it one day I remarked to the manager,
“You’ve precious little pear on this block—they’ve
left it all outside.” He laughed and said, “It
wasn’t my business to point out where it was
thickest.” Evidently it wasn’t the surveyor’s
business either. The idea of granting “Scrub
Leases” which are scrubby is good enough business
if, at the end of the lease, the land is cleared and
fit for small holdings; but generally the lease is
abandoned, when it has served its purpose, in a
worse state than when granted. Only the small
selector takes any notice of “conditions” attached
to his land ; the lordly O.P. inspector can always
put the fear of death upon him with a threat of
forfeiture.
« -* # *
“ Gip ” : Have heard it said that lyre birds
will not live in captivity. I saw a very healthy
specimen, not so long ago, at the door of a bush
humpy. His head was on one side, and he was
imitating his master’s “ dog ” whistle very credit-
ably. He had been taken from the nest when
very young, and fed on worms, grubs, etc. The
owner said he followed him about like a cat. I
saw him feeding with the fowls. He walked like
an old maid—a bit pigeon-toed. The geese would
not stand him at any price, and had nearly made
him the central figure in a bird tragedy on several
occasions. At the same place I struck a talking
crow and the usual profane cockatoo. It was
most enjoyable and thrilling to listen to their
chatter. When I arrived, the crow was dancing
round “ cocky,” croaking, mockingly, “ Pretty
cocky ! Scratch cocky ! ” with maddening
sameness. Cocky stood it for a bit, but turned at
last with an ear-splitting and angry shriek.
“ Garn, you black devil ! ” he spat out, savagely.
His tone was exactly that of the push when it is
about to throw a brick. The cockatoo is not a
gentleman, and is seldom a lady. His occasional
outer coating of good manners slides off him
easily, and then lie is just a feathered Billings-
gate.
* * •* *
“ Gip ” : What a pity babies are off! Met
this morning two young gins and a blackfellow
moving in from the Snowy River. They were
followed by a procession of assorted dogs, that
caused a close-by team of bullocks to catch their
breath. Counted thirteen, and then was pulled
up by the sight of a tabby cat trotting soberly
amongst them. The gins carried, with extreme
care, small blanketty bundles, and on the back of
one something heaved in a rug. I knew it was an
adorable, shiny picaninny, and approached ex-
citedly. “Baby?” I queried eagerly, pointing
to all three bundles at once. The gins laughed.
They stirred the blankets gently, and two bored
dogs looked out at me. I raised my eyes hope-
fully to the rug, but nary a picaninny was there
—only another dog.
CONTRA ACCOUNT.
PATIENT: “I suppose you don’t mind cutting
out your bill in trade, doctor?”
DOCTOR : “ Well, I don’t know. What’s your
business?"
PATIENT : “ I’m a cornet player!”
May be of interest |to schoolmasters and
children devoted to “Nature study” to know
that the hairy caterpillar is a dangerous cuss to
handle. Its hairs come off, and they are barbed,
and work into the skin and cause “caterpillar
fever.”
* » * *
THE EVANGELIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the parson sought the fanner and admonished him
because
He had wandered from the pious path of life,
Emphasising how high Heaven on the sinful farmer
pours
Caterpillars, beetles, cattle-pest and strife ;
Penitently gazed the farmer at his rotten crops and
stacks,
As he wandered homeward when the day was o’er,
And he called his daughters round him and he swore he’d
break their backs
If they missed their blanky chapel any more.
“I’ve to thump out somethin’ for that institootion every
year,
So remember when you’re joinin’ in a psalm,
That I’m not a mangy parson-starvin’ pagan, do you
hear?
And just vocalise a bit about the farm.
Pick out somethin’ from the Gospel that’ll do to agitate
For posterity. No wonder that we’re poor,
It’s disgustin’ the unpious way we’re goin’ on of late ;
Don’t you heathens miss your ciiapel any more !
“ Now it’s systematic prayin’ that we want to pull things
straight,
And, to start with, plump for rain just all you know.
Don’t you waste no prayers on that pertater patch ; it’s
too damn late !
They are done for—like the barley—let ’em go.
Fix up somethin’ special pious when you’re mentionin’
the maize,
And all pull together when you’re on the floor,
Never mind no pocket-handkerchiefs to kneel on—spare
my days!
Don’t you sinners miss your chapel any more !
“ Come on 1 Hunt the family Bible up and let us make
a start,
There’s some wrinkles in the Scriptures, so they say ;
Just read out the twelve commandments, and I’ll larn
’em off by 'eart,
Or I may go breakin’ one or two ter day.
Turn to Pharer and the locusts, that’s the paragraph to
read,
'Cause its topical ; we might have larnt before
How he dosed them flamin’ locusts. What’s a man with-
out a creed ?
Don’t you scarecrow's miss your chapel any more !
“Gals ’ll never make no’eadway that don’t warble in a
choir;
Or go tacklin’ for donations through the farms;
There’s that wench of Jerry Gill’s, who hooked that swell
cove named M'Guire,
Just through playin’ the ’armonium for the psalms.
Help to hand the plate around is what you fellers ought to
do,
ind chin up to swell coves round the chapel door,
Now, I’ve gave you timely warning, and I’ll flog the whole
blamed crew
If yer ever miss yer chapel any more !
“ When the Lord sends His reward, it’s only them will ’ave
a show
In the profit that I reckon earnt a share ;
X ain’t on fer keepin’ holy just fer pastime, don’t yer
know 1
While you ’eathens ain’t contributin’ a prayer.
What? —we ’aven’t got no prayer-books? Well, yer’d
better buy a batch
Straight away, and get some discount at the store ;
Mind, I’ll fetch yer with a saplin’ when we all get orf the
scratch,
If you scrubbers miss yer chapel any more ! ”
VIC.
ALFRED E. BIDGES.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
CHOICE
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
WE SPECIALISE ON.
We make it. We mount it. We set it.
From London’s Latest Designs, which
we receive by each mail.
Our stock of Unset Jewels is one of
the largest in Australia.
It affords us pleasure to submit
special designs.
As manufacturers, our prices never
exceed London figures.
Plain Figures Strictly Cash.
All Diamonds, £23.
Diamonds and One Pearl, £lB.
Diamonds, One Pink Tourmalin
and Pearl, £l5.
Diamonds and One Pearl, £25.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
Selected Diamonds and Choice
Whole Pearls, £l5 10s.
“ Tookarie ”: In issue of 29/3/ 06 Piuv
writes: “ The first steamer to navigate the
Murray was the Lady Augusta.” I beg to
disagree. Captain Cadell got the bonus oftere
by the S.A. Government, but Captain YV. K.
Randell was the first to navigate the lower
Murray, with a small steamer called the Alary
Ann. He was trading some months on tue
Murray before the.. Lady Augusta arrived.
“ Priv ” also says thesecond boat was the Limy
Daly, and the third the Lady Darling. Ihe Lady
Daly was built at Port Adelaide m 64, out tne
Albury navigated the Murray, from the sea to
Albury, in ’56. The Albury and Gundagai were
built at Goolwa in ’55, and the Sturt and Leich-
hardt shortly afterwards at Port Adelaide. Ihe
Bunyip, burnt in ’64, and Wakool and Melbourne
had been running on the Murray, and vvere all
gone before the Lady Daly was built. The Gun-
dagai, Sturt and Wakool had gone to Maonland,
the Leichhardt to Batavia, and the Settler to
Brisbane, where it was running between Brisbane
and Ipswich until a few years ago ; the Melbourne
was lost on the bar at the Murray mouth. Cap-
tain Jackson brought in the Settler two years
before the Daly was built. The Lady Darling is
still running on the river under the name of the
Coro’va.
* * * *
Bob McNab, now a member of the M.L.
Cabinet, is bringing out a book dealing with the
early history of Maoriland. Awhile ago he came
across 43 books, printed in Russian, in a second-
hand shop in London, and discovered in them
some references to an old-time expedition to
Maoriland. In order to acquire this he had to
buy the whole 43 books. These tomes give in
detail the work of the Russian navigator,
Thaddeus Bellinghausen. His expedition was
fitted out by Czar Alexander 1., the ships being
the Wostok and the Mirnyj. They left Kronstadt
in 1819. Details are given of their experiences on
the M.L. coast, including their dealings with
the shy and timid Maoris. They voted the
climate splendid, resembling that of southern
Crimea, and expressed surprise at the way the
Maoris at Queen Charlotte’s Sound handled a
bow, “after the fashion of the Tcherkessen, with
extraordinary accuracy.” Macquarie Island was
reached in 1820, and the chapter dealing with the
visit contains what is believed to be the first
known printed account of sea-elephants and
penguins. Sydney men who had been sent out
for the oil of the sea-elephants were met with. A
great number of vessels had already called there,
and the head trader had lived there six years.
Recorded that an earthquake happened, and the
two Russian vessels thought they had touched
ground, but found themselves in deep water.
At this time such was the demand for the'skins of
the “sea bears” in England, that they were
practically exterminated.
COMPARATIVELY.
“ Shay, old hoy, theresh one thingsh 'bout new
Liquor Aetsh, fellow does getsh home shober."
He was a little flea-bitten sort of chap,
with clothes about two sizes too large for him,
and a hat that came down over the bridge of his
nose. He had the appearance of a person of
whose identity he was uncertain, and whose
whereabouts he was totally at a loss to locate.
He shuffled up to the local railway station, called
in at the booking office, and finally planted him-
self in front of the clerk. The clerk was busy, as
the train was overdue. “ Have you —er —a parcel
there for Daniel Delagunty?” The clerk ran
through his parcels, looked through his book, and
answered “No.” “Are yousurethere isn’t one?”
“Yes, I am.” “Well, that’s strange; I got a
letter from me brother yesterday morning saying
that he had sent it. Would ye please look again ? ”
The clerk did so, with the same result as before.
“Well, it’s very strange it isn’t here, and it will
mean that I will have to stay in the town till it
comes. Would you mind having another look?”
“ Oh, it’s no good looking again. What sort of a
parcel is it?” “It’s a truckload of manure,” said
the little man. Then the train came in.
A PROBLEM.
BILL (at the Murrumberee picnic race hall): “ Gee-willikins!
How am I goin’ to cut my heifer outer that mob? ”
“Paul Cupid”: It is astonishing the
amount of brute force required to drag a snake
out of its hole. When a boy, my dog put a black
one into a fallen limb. I started to make a fire
at the only open end, and then got on my hands
and knees and blew it per mouth. It smoked
well, and the smoke went into the hollow beauti-
fully. Then, to my great shock, the reptile darted
out through the embers, and by a miracle missed
my frank, open counten-
ance. I revolved back-
wards like a Catherine
wheel. When I ceased to
wheel the snake was dis-
appearing down a crack at
the butt of a tree. With
the alacrity of a land agent
seizing on a disappearing
improvement lease, I grab-
bed the tail and tugged
and screwed, while the
working of the snake’s
muscles seemed to act on
me like an electric battery.
Suddenly the snake let go,
either from strategy or
loss of strength, and the
next instant it was flying
heavenwards with great
velocity, and I was stand-
ing on my head. I didn’t
see the snake come down
—for all I know it is still
up. As another instance
of their holding power, I
saw a new-chum grab one
that had partly disappeared
under the slab flooring of a
shed. The chum was strong,
and pulled with the guile-
lessness of a chum. The
snake put its head round a
slab and looked at him.
The chum shouted enthu-
siastically, and braced his
feet against the globe, and
pulled like a herd of wild
horses, and, as he felt the
snake coming, he gave a
cheer. Then the thing
that anyone but a chum
would have expected took
place. The snake came,
and the chum fell back-
wards with snake coiling
round his neck, and dancing on his head, and
leaping on his chest, and flying every way
at once. He said he had been bitten in ten
places on the skull and countenance, and that
nothing but immediate amputation of the head
would save him. But we found the snake’s
head two yards away among some husks;
and proved to him that it was only the body
and tail which had attacked him, and he was
’comforted with some beer.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: I don’t want to
start a slowest train competition ; still, 1 wish to
remark that the train from Goulburn to Crook-
well (N.S.W.) and the train from Parkes to Con-
dobolin (N.S. W.) are the least-fast trains I ever
saw. On the Crookwell line one can get off,
gather some wonderful wattles, and then, with a
gentle jog-trot, catch up to the train. The Parkes-
Condobolin line winds in and out amongst the
stumps, and has no fence on either side. Some-
times a flock of sheep takes possession of the iron
way, regardless of the marvellously hideous
engine-whistles and the train language, and blocks
traffic till the driver and some passengers get
down and chase the jumbucks off the line. One
driver, who hates being delayed, threatens to
apply for a dog or two to run ahead of the train
and drive the sheep away from the front of the
furious engine.
The unspeakable Chinkie is a malodorous
person at any time, but one of him, who kept a
welly ni Suit shop in a M.L. town, was much
more mephitic than usual. He died in his shop,
and wasn’t discovered for four days, at the end of
which time the subject was much better dropped.
Deceased was duly placed on fixed deposit in the
earth, and his share of the story ended. But the
Chow who re-opened the shop sold the fruit,
which had fbr four days kept company with a
corpse, to unsuspecting strangers who knew not
the circumstances, and the police made no protest
about the business either.
SPRING SONG.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Across the shy—the sunny sky—the green galahs go by ;
The scented plain beneath the sun is pink and white and
green,
Wide-strewn with flow'er and quickened blade where
white the bare bones lie ;
And, in the shady belts, full boughs of crow'ding crimson
lean,
Borne down with bursting blossom, sweet with incense-
odors deep,
And my One Girl is calling me, and, sure, I want to go—
But here I stagger on the bridge and worry naked sheep,
A-struggle, grey-and-yellow, in the smelly dip below.
Grim clamor in the dust, as loud the grimy rustlers
shout
(The bleating of a thousand sheep, close-jammed within
the yard,
Where, scrambling in the flock, the yardmen strive and
shove and clout),
Drowns the clear notes of Spring ; just now the Voice of
Love is barred.
The breaking bunches clatter, quick-foot, clearing from
the race
Where shy their silly pals sneak down to join the pent
decoy ;
O, this is Spring—gay, lovely Spring—the hot sun in my
face,
And mad sheep, swimming past below, to brim my cup
with joy.
The clean, sharp smell of wood-smoke comes to me along
the breeze—
And Little Willie, lazy, puts the billy on to boil,
And sets our lunch out where the black ants swarm
beneath the trees—
There.' lots of bliss in Spring-time when you spend your
time in toil.
The crows croak high above me, and the magpies cruise
around,
Cheerful and fluty-throated, and the passing wild-bees
hum,
While Willie bangs the pan ; “ Hi—lunch ! ” —I love that
welcome sound,
Since I must graft here, cursing sheep that swim by,
crazy, dumb.
The lamp of love, with flaming lip, still burns for me in
town ;
My love', I know, is waiting with her crumpled hanky
damp—
Plain gall to me, put hereto keep these paddling jum.
bucks down,
And bat them as they plunge, all wild to reach the
landing-ramp.
vie.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
N» notice (except of a hostile character) -will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
The Gravedigger: The Bulletin does all it
knows how to “ barrack ” for the country press. But in
N.S.W. Free trade, centralisation and the subsidies to the
city dailies have made the task of the provincial rags a
hard one. (2) Don’t care to enter into that case again.
Tub B. wasn’t pleased to find it had been used unwittingly
to ventilate a partly-private grudge W.P. : You say
you are “informed” that that Queensland Labor member
borrows money cheaply on his property from the Agri-
cultural Bank, and lends it out to his friends at 10 per
cent. To be “informed ”is rather vague. Also,-does the
member get security ? If not, he will be ruined, even if he
charges 20 per cent W.H.Mc. : Like your earnestness
and sincerity, but desultory ramblings in rhyme can’t
find space G.P.P. : Too trifling for print
H.S.R. : Expect the “ Wisdom of the Serpent ” is
based on Genesis 3; he led Eve to cower herself up,
and if she was the shape we suspect, he did wisely. Any-
how, the statement abouo the wind being tempered to the
shorn lamb isn’t Scripture. It is Laurence Sterne
S. : Not very promising The Pessimist: We’re
profoundly pessimistic as to the chance of your
succeeding as a poet... Sobraon: “A Romance of
Two Worlds” was Marie Corelli’s first novel
Neva: Shamrock poemlet declined. No room even
for weak little wattle verses, and the wattle appeals for
sympathy as a local vegetable Berkeley C. : Verse not
up to the mark. One couplet only has a tang :
And oft we meet them on the dusty track,
Black Care and blue Matilda on their back.
llathi : “Euterpe” sounds pretty, but it has a sad
mixture of metaphors and figures J.B. : “Tasman
Light ” too laborious... .0. YV.S. : Hardly a thick enough
story A.V.G. :An idea so wild as to verge on the
absurd S. : Bellowdrama has been satirised so often
before.... A. See: Fair, but too trifling for publication....
E G E.: Good for 10, but we don’t favor juvenile poetry.
Car : Pretty-pretty bit of dried pathos, only suitable
for album publication.... Little Mary : Received, lengthy
complaint that doctors aren’t infallible, with some re-
marks about insects, &c M.S. : “ Springtime ” still
unsatisfactory. It is such a very old subject that it takes
absolute genius to make aspring poem look fresh....
T. (Blackall): The deportation of kanakas is
compulsory....“ L.”: No, wrong. It is not that
civilisation causes all those evils, but calls
attention to them by striving at their cure....
A.D. : “Spring” hardly springy enough. It doesn t
dance along on glad hoofs, so to speak B.C. :
“ Between Time’’ is rather pretty love verse, but it leads
' to nothing in particular.... C.D.S. : “Dirty Paw” verse
doesn’t rise to the occasion. It takes a Milton to ade-
quately describe a peer wiping his hand on his pants
M A.O.D. : Sentiment good, but verse just mildly dread-
ful J.D.C. : A very plain story of a young man
who loved a kittenish maid named Nellie, but wanted to
marry an old maid named Mary for her money. And you
don’t even try to make the old maid frisk a little by call-
ing her Polly Tongatera : Only one of them at all near
the mark ..Nulla: “When a Man’s Married” lost
the race bv a short head....F.L. : “Wine” rather
bumpy, and “Demon” rather incomprehensible
H.C. W.’: All pretty good shots, but none a bull’s-eye....
m" Delamere : There’s much truth in it, but it is other-
wise out of our line... .Otto J. : Some of it is very good,
and some very weak.... Bob Marr : Almost infantine in
its feebleness.. ..Plunger II.: Verse too wooden and
mechanical... .A.E s: Fairly well written, but not
vivid or convincing enough....E.R.S.P. : Still much
below the mark. You don’t appear to have any ear for
rhythm Charley: The yarns are chestnuts, and the
pars, fauity in grammar and spelling... .F. 0.8.: No lite-
rary merit.. .West-Coaster : Ludicrously bad.. ,S. Monta :
Not quality enough, and interest too local Ecla :
True enough doubtless, but too clumsily presented
Phil Random : Rather well written, but too far-fetched
and fantastic Ex-V. : Versification weak and awkward.
Lander R.: Of no use to us Mint: Not enough in
any of them... .D.B.G. : Well written, but the point isn’t
striking enough....L.R. : Shows a very inexperienced
hand Waikato: Sloppy ideas and a slovenly style
A.W.B. : Too scrappy and digressive Orion: The
subject is obviously above your w'eight, and, in any case,
your style is clumsy and ambiguous... .Frank A. : Merely
pretentious prose, cut up into verse lengths.... Pavey H. .
Can’t deal with the matter unless you give titles and
approximate date of forwarding A. ILL. : Decent
verse, but very trite reflections.... .Veldt: Driftwood
mixes metaphors, and doesn’t give any new aspect of a
well-worn idea... .Darcy M. : Still you don t get up to
the mark T.C.M.S. : Crude and unskilful. And why
do you make a Canadian talk low Cockney ?.... W.M.M‘O. :
But “ purity ” in a literal sense cannot be predicated of
language. Chaucer’s so-called “English undefiled,” for
instance, was a mixture of bastard French and degraded
Anglo-Saxon....Diorite: Well written, but too heavy
and formal T.A. (W.A.) : Will look it up
J.O. : The Bulletin proposes, as a penalty for not
voting, disfranchisement, not hanging, and it advocates
the use of a negative vote, enabling the voter to declare
a plague on both, or all, candidates, if he feels that way.
That removes both your objections A. J.B. : A sample
of your poetry as a warning :
But dwell not, stranger, on the cause, the annals of the
sea
Are full of such ; ’tis man’s poor lot to err,
Due to wrongful guidance, and human fallibility,
Catastrophes like this, alas, too oft occur.
De R. : Moon rainbows are fairly common Kei
Kei: Smells discussion off, now that the hot weather is
coming on E.A.W. : (1) No definite decision has been
come to by the Parliament as to decimal coinage. (2)
The Bulletin strongly favors a system of deci-
mal coinage and decimal weights and measures.
It would save an enormous amount of time.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
8.5.: Picture of lunatic too crude E.D.R. : Irish-
man and pig make a rather worn-out combination of
mirthfulness....E.D. : The “What’s Up” joke is very
obscure, and sketch strictly moderate. ...K.M. : “Visit-
ing in Kiandra” too amateurish, and hardly worth having
re-drawn G.B. (Balaclava): Very poor art, and cost
4d. through insufficient postage.... Bub : Too crude.
One joke not much good. Other derived from well-
known comedy... .N.G.M.: None of them very promising.
Alex. N. : “ Smoke Night” too improbable. It is a
most fearful over-night drunk which makes a man mis-
take a hair-brush for a mirror next day... .Laddie : Sug-
gestions not very hilarious... .No Artist: The quartz
(quarts) pun petered out, or dried up, long ago Pera :
Nowhere near to publication level.. . .Thos. G.: “ Jokes”
hopeless ; sketches too crude S.P. : Hardly up for
illustration... .Unsuitable : F.H.F., R.K.D., Bathurst
Burr, Phil, Unknown.


No. I—The marshalling of the good-conduct
schoolboys for a tour of enlightenment.
No. a.—ARRIVED IN THE COUNTRY. Teacher:
“We will begin, If you please, with the piggery.
Yes, they ere larger than guinea-pigs, and differ
from 'the letter In some other respects. For one
thing, you will have noticed that the voice of the
guinea-pig Is a shrill Soprano, while these possess a
rich basso.”
No. 3.—“ Agriculture is a most exacting task-
master, boys, and demands of its votaries
incessant toil. You see, even at this early
hour, this party is already at work with his
spade My good man, what crop are you
preparing for there?”
“ Diggin’ for worms, mister; goin’ fishin’
to-day.”
- »r<f™ ,? A ! RY,Na IN ™STRY. •< This is a cow, and thla is
where the milk is secreted’*
(A voice) “ And, please, sir, in wot part of the critter does the
mac-crobes secrete theirselves?"
No. 8. “You may learn two lessons from this experience of
yours, t>oys. The first is: Be sure your sin will find you out,
and the second is: When you steal apples again, be sure that
Ihfey are quite ripe. ”
No. S.—“ An apiary Is not, as you have
hitherto supposed, a place where apes
are kept, but for bee-culture. When
we contemplate the industry of the
bee we are forcibly reminded of the
words of the poets <l«t us then
No. 6.—Bee up and doing ’ Ouch I
And do it, d quick.”
No. 7.—The boys, in their appetite tor'
knowledge and things, pursue their
'studies even when the eye of the
teacher is not upon them. Fruit-growing, as a science,
_ attracts them amazingly.
No - 9.—“ And here, my children, you have the place
where the Australian iron-works are not.”
No. 10.—“ And, to conclude the lesson, this Is the
place where the Australian ship isn’t built.”
A TOUR OF ENLIGHTENMENT.
N.S.W. Education Department proposes to take picked batches ot well-conducted school-boys (the well-conducted school-boy is a zoological
curiosity sometimes found in N.S.W.) on tours to show them the resources ot the State.


e
t bnsl< dow n o^der
dt<«c k
A
j^o
< Hfi,
"tt-field lireitfcr 4
tjor
’ Arc *"v**
*/\roos
A^s + C or nof\ Silly ! I says
'e never '*A none. ;
R« itje Melb TrVsi'* sending £2*3to^T EngtAn4 io bay new dredges— Vic w&^e
baye a rigVt'+© njatePltjciK Voices in no uncertain protect"
6il|
7
down ai sWf"
$f Would
£e well Till
(Boy 4 J
-'%* -tfrrd Be.r A
1 We ■ f°7W}
H -WtW < W- s f r
wg eve*'' « 1• li »
SHOW you M/^ORPI^,
/'"To Keef, §
S^ort
isife only hrjesvos
of- h>vode *>t
(A 1 J
A "' s .n*ll, \
c / " VJVJ .
OVfihWnf.—" W«Ve ir7, IWt
Qe*t~ '- '' Or eVah "baer J
/ife
/ ,
AftS Cbnf^Vjf*
A ConVS"" I *, . ,
cxutg vJbl<*)
ftasce 4
•
lft- m one Ngv
dating
V {Vee toil ) «*' X
\ to otAr Knowledge-
Boss'—l ,os '^ 0, ’
! lb^
|>©si tro** — sJisvvj —is
Si»6cufe \r\e.ro\y J~b
\f/'\
BENT, WITH A GLANCE AT SOME OTHER PEOPLE.


If beM/UMsM^enMnicei
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mayor Crase, of Brisbane, is very fond of
his robes. His main hobby, nowadays, is to
parade in his mayoral costume and chain. He
spends nearly all his nights—to the obvious
injury of his health—on the railway-station plat-
form, waiting to receive some visiting football
team, politician, pugilist, singer or miscellaneous
functionary, looking—in his togs of office—like a
comedian in a black nightgown.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers and Opposi-
tion-leader M'Gowen are marriage connections, it
seems. A witness (a conductor) stated before the
Tramway Inquiry Board that
he had got references from very influential people. He
was closely related to the Premier, Mr. Carruthers, and
by marriage, to Mr. M'Gowen.
And it was only worth a poor, precarious con
ductor’s job on the trams !
Little Billy Kelly is like the Tell-Tale-
Tit in a young lady’s seminary. He only giggles,
and interjects, and carries tales. He runs up to
Opposition speakers with Hansards to cheer
them on their weary way, counts the sleeping
House, blocks up the passages, trips round the
corridors, holds earnest confabs with everybody
who lets him, returns to the Chamber, listens and
spies a little, and then tears off to somebody with
the glad tidings that he usually gets all wrong.
But he doesn’t mean any harm. He only wants
to show what a smarty he is, poor little chap.
Thomas Burgoyne represents the biggest
State constituency in the Commonwealth ; yet,
despite his 80 years, he looks forward with
equanimity to the forthcoming S. Australian dis-
solution, and gaily sniffs the battle from afar. He
has sat for the same district for 22 years, and has
always voted as an advanced Radical. He was a
member of the Cockburn Government 16 years
ago, and now leads the Liberal country party,
which, with the Labor members, keeps the Price
Cabinet in office.
The late “Andy” Lysaght, when a
member of N.S.W. Parliament (before he was
unseated on petition by Arch. Campbell), used to
complain frequentlyof the “unfairness” of Speaker
Abbott of those days. “ Andy ” was an Illawarra
native, one of the “first crop” of Australians,
and, like most of that crop, was about 6ft. 4in.
high. At this time he was of mountainous pro-
portions and slow in his movements. His rising
in his place in the Assembly was a gradual pro-
cess, and by the time he had ascended to his full
height and had caught the Speaker’s eye, the
House had gone into committee, or had adjourned,
or was counted out, or prorogued, or dissolved,
and he was thus cut out of his speech.
October birthdays (to be- found in that
handy volume, Johns’ “ Notable Australians ”):
Garnet Walch, 63 on the Ist; Bishop Camidge
69, and David Syme 79 on the 2nd; Cus-
toms Collector N. C. Lockyer, 51 on the 6th ;
artist Hans Heysen (S.A.) 30, and Miss
Rose Scott 59 on the Bth ; editor Bonython,
58 on the 15th ; Herald proprietor J. R. Fair-
fax, 72 on the 17th ; President H. J. Wrixon, of
the Victorian House of Rich Landlords, 67 on the
18th; Colonel Tom Price, 64 on the 21st; C. C.
Kingston, 56 on the 22nd; ex-Premier Lewis
(Tas.), 48 on the 27th ; Murray Smith (Vic.), the
advocate of lost causes, 75, and ex-Judge Boucaut
(S.A.), 75 on the 29th ; T. A. Dibbs, Sydney’s
veteran banker, 74 on the 30th ; MissC. H. Spence
(S.A.), 81 on the 31st.
Not generally known that Sydney’s Arch-
bishop Saumarez Smith chases the
Muses with more or less
agile feet, and is the
author of several hymns.
RALLY ROUND THE SPUD DECOY.
The Farmers’ League is becoming a real rallying point
for those who object to State ownership.— ARGUS.
Jawbone Neild has been away on a talking-
tour of the country districts and neglecting his
Parliamentary duties. The retired Field-Admiral
appears to have been slaying two birds with one
bone. He has been organising on behalf of anti-
oosn, and at the same time informing the country
people that he is one of the Senators whom
W.S. W. elected some time ago, and that he will be
troubling them again for their votes in the near
future Also it is rumored that he spent some
time collecting matenal for the erection of another
terrace of poems.
“Squeery ” : Melbourne has lost an old '
identity in Black George” (surname Adams)
a cabman of long standing. His appellation, it
seems, was fixed upon him some forty years ago
when every little English-speaking community
had a Black George. ’ Who was the original
B.G. ! A notorious criminal, a distinguished
prize-fighter, or a character in fiction ’
HIS POINT OF VIEW.
WILLIE: “ Dad, what’s the meaning of a system of monogamy?”
PECKER (with feeling): “ A system of monogamy, my boy , means that one wife is the extreme
'penalty of the law.”
Every good Tory who plays “ goff” intends
to vote for the Labor candidate for Fawkner
(Vic.), the Federal seat which Fairbairn proposes
to contest in the Bosh interest. Fairbairn was
caddying a putt, or bunkering a cleek, or some-
thing to that effect, at his place in Geelong the
other day, when half-a-dozen excited minions
rushed out with the news that his mansion was on
fire and the old masters were blazing like L.
Fairbairn at once dropped his foursome, or his
bundle, or whatever it is, and spent the rest of
the day driving with a hose. Among “goffers,”
it is considered an unpardonable offence to leave
the links when the game is unfinished under any
pretence whatever. A “goffer” who would rush
away on account of an earthquake or a spilling of
the heavens is regarded with suspicion. When a
player bothers his head about a mere Conflagration
his name is Mudd.
Some years ago Anthony St. Ledger,
who has been selected to do battle
for anti-Sosh at the Queensland Sena-
torial election, was so uncompromis-
ing a democrat that the Labor party
ran him for Brisbane North. He then
tried his hand as an Independent, as
an Oppositionist, and ultimately as a
Philpite. But the electors wouldn’t
stand him in any costume. Anthony
has become politically old without
ever having been politically young.
His eye is dim with looking for a pro-
mising electorate, and his legs have
given out with standing for constitu-
encies. But his pants are still quite
good. They haven’t been worn out
through sitting as member for any
place.
A few days ago Richard Sleath,
ex-M.L.A., told a Sydney court that
his poverty prevented him supporting
his wife and four children, and he
could make no promise to do any better
in the future. Also, he asserted that
the expense of defending his wife’s
suits for maintenance—which seem to
have cost almost as much as main-
taining his wife would have done—
had prevented him becoming a can-
didate for the Australian Parliament.
Sleath apparently thinks the incom-
petence which makes him unable to
earn a square meal for his wife doesn’t
debar him from making laws for his
long-suffering country.
Died, at Newham village settlement, on
the eastern slope of Mt. Macedon (Vic.), week
before last, Mrs. Jarvis, an Irish woman with a
fairly probable-looking claim to be 104 J years of
age. She came out to Tasmania 53 years ago, and
did her duty nobly by the country. When
she died she left 24 grand-children, and eight
great-grandchildren. One grandchild is W. J.
Jarvis, member of the Tasmanian State Legis-
lature. The old lady had been living in Victoria
for the last 15 years, having taken to roving, and
shifted her location at the age of 89^.
“T.D.” : When in Melbourne I used to
regard Chief Justice Madden as the very height
of everything in dress and deportment. Saw him,
the other day, walking along Piccadilly, when all
the swells of clubdom were mooching towards
Hyde Park. John was just as dapper as ever,
but, alas ! there were little points about swelldom
that he hadn’t cottoned on to, and he looked a
mere City man straying up West to see the sights.
Again, aias ! that one of my most cherished idols
should lie shattered, unwaxed, untailored, and
unimportant.
Welfare and Deadman were the names of
bridegroom and bride at a Liverpool (N.S.W.)
wedding last week.
Little Cohen, who forms a party of one in
the S.A. Assembly, and whose great object in life
is to smash up the Labor organisation, is stated
to be contemplating an early retirement from
politics. He finds that the mosquito doesn’t make
much impression on the elephant, and that the
struggle is very wearing on the mosquito.
Things have been sudden among politicians
and ex-politicians of late. In N.S.W., Crick has
been committed for trial on one charge, and
Nicholas Willis on four, and Richard Sleath has
been sued for maintenance. Then, in S.A.,
Charles Tucker, M.L.A. has been arrested on an
accusation of defrauding the Customs.
The condensed story of a N.S.W. State
school-teacher, as related in the Bankruptcy
Court: Stationed for six years at Mossgiel, 562
miles from Sydfiey, 100 miles from Hay, 100 miles
from a doctor, 70 miles from Hillston, and one
yard from perdition ; eternal drought, heat; flies,
dust, and illness ; prices going up, school attend-
ance down to 10 ; medical ex’s ruinous ; finally,
something (amount uncertain) in the £.
Charles Tucker, whom the Customs
people arrested in Adelaide the other day on
warrant, Charging him with conspiring with his
brother ‘‘ to cheat and defraud ” them of “divers
large sums of money,” has bulked considerably in
S. Aus. for 20 years—as mayor, M.P., and'the
best-groomed beauty-man in local politics. He
had a. long feud with Kingston, who frequently
scarified him; and that, for a time, made the Very
Best People take to him. But his star has been
paler for some, years now.
According to the cable, Matilda has dis-
tinctly fallen in. The lady was organist to the
Salisbury family at Hatfield House, and has got
six months in a large stone building for publishing
a glaringly bold assertion that Lady Gwendolen
Cecil had a Past. She had asserted things before,
but this was too much, and the Cecil family fell
on Matilda like elephants. Adolphus has also
struck trouble. Hippie, the American suicide
who was £2,000,000 or so short in his petty cash,
left a statement behind him that a man with the
front name of Adolphus had got most of the
money, and there is some slight buzz and fuss.
Charles L. Garlaird, who pegged out the
first gold-dredging leaise in. N.S.W., hesitates
over the idea of re-entering politics. As a some-
what visionary Henry Georgeite, he sat for a
while in N.S.W. Parliament, but amateur
engineering took Iris fancy, and he put his whole
mind into tailings. Garland started dredging
when little was known about the procedure. To-
day there are about fifty dredging plants at work
in N.S.W. It is estimated that they have among
them recovered gold worth over half a million
sterling, and tin worth £lOO,OOO more. But even
that doesnT make so very much per dredge when
allowance is made for defunct plants.
Many N.S.W. civil servants got a bad
taste in the mouth the other morning, when they
found their names and salaries published in the
Sydney newspapers as having received small
increases. If someone contrived to get hold
of a list of the salaries and last increases (or
reductions) on a Sydney morning paper and
published them in full, that Sydney momm-*-
paper might begin to see the point. The needless
glare that beats on a civil servant’s salary
aggravates him just as much as it would Editor
Whiskers, of the Telegraph. Besides, it is often
such a very big glare beating on such a very
small salary.
A Victorian constable lately discovered an
aged Gippsland wood-cutter badly in need of a
doctor and a nurse. So the State charged him
with vagrancy, sent him all the way to Mel-
bourne, and kept him on remand in the gaol for
10 days, cured him, marched him to court, and
considered him for a space, and finally persuaded
the Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society to send
him back to Gippsland again. Yet Victoria is
quite a civilised place, and it has a Premier who
will roar for five minutes if he thinks that a public
servant is wasting tuppence.
The first practical result of Judkins and
‘‘social reform” in Victoria is the Attorney
General’s refusal to license an Eight Hours
Anniversary art union for next year. The Trades
Hall people got in early with their application for
the usual “ bob ” lottery on the same old Charity
ground, but the A.-G. remarked that, whereas the
balance-sheet of the last Eight Hours F£te showed
receipts from tickets as being over £BOOO, the
profits that wont to charities were only £1483 10s.
This time the intention was to put tickets on the
market at once and push the sale until April next,
by which time each purchaser’s chance of gettinga
prize would possibly have been reduced to an
infinitesimal part of a farthing. Considering that
the law allowed any idiot to buy an unlimited
parcel of tickets, and gave him no sort of
guarantee that their numbers would be included
in the slovenly drawing, the law may be said to
have swallowed the art union camel after straining
at the Tattersall gnat. As a matter of fact, many
people have annually dissipated £1 or more in
various art union tickets, their chance of a prize
being only a ghost of the show they might have
got for the same money in a Tattersall gamble.
The irresponsible parson once more. At a
recent anti-gambling meeting in Melbourne Town
Hall the Rev. T. B. Woodful stated that “ a man,
whose son is a telegraph-messenger, had told him
that a P.O. official delayed race messages while he
sent a boy out to back the winners.” This was
such a serious charge that a detective was
promptly set to investigate. Rev. .Jugful first, as
usual, said the report was wrong ; then, on being
hard pressed, he gave the name of his alleged
informant. This alleged informant remarked
that he merely spoke “in a general way, and said
that probably such things were done.” Itseemed
a fair thing to look for an apology from the Rev.
T. B. Awful at this stage, but none has arrived,
and the Postal Department still stands accused of
being a fraud and a swindler, though the bottom
has dropped out of the yarn on which the whole
charge was built. The chances, in fact, are that
if Rev. Woeful were hunted up, he would be found
to be wearing a martyred expression, with per-
haps one or two old ladies whispering in his ear
that he is a brave man. The worst of this sort of
brave man is that he never points his gun at any-
thing that can fire a writ back.
“Lantana”: Padding the hoof down
Liverpool-street (Sydney), a few days ago, was
struck by the following legend, displayed in a
fifteenth-rate doss-house
Clean rooms to let; no vermin or children.
What an insult to the Birth-rate !
THE CHILD POLITIC.
THE JILTED ONE (son of a politician): “ That
looks like a bloomin' coalition."
Melbourne Hospital has again earned the
distinction of being unable to detect a fractured
skull. A man was knocked out in a disagreement
with a tram-car and taken to the hospital. The
surgeons (they were students last year) took the
line of least resistance and diagnosed his trouble
as concussion. After five days they discharged
him as cured. Next day he went back and died.
A post mortem, showed that he had a hole in his
skull, and that the brain underneath it was badly
lacerated. The coroner, acting on the evidence of
brother medicos, found a verdict of accidental
death, and exonerated the hospital surgeons from
all blame. The trouble arises from the impudent
haste displayed by the hospital authorities to get
rid of patients. Again and again, the same thing
happens, and people with fractured skulls are
either refused admittance or hurried out of the
hospital to die, with their cases undiagnosed.
The excuse is always the same; skull, fracture
is difficult of diagnosis. It seems to the lay mind
that if there is a possibility that a patient is
suffering from a serious trouble which is very
hard to detect, that is all the more reason for not
firing him out suddenly and saymg, in a careless
sort of way, that he hasn’t got the trouble.


No. 931 — CRE'UJ JAPANESE SILK BLOUSE, transparent Yoke,
trimmed Valenciennes and Silk Embroidery, 17/6
V'
- V .-r
No. 957-CREAM JAPANESE SILK BLOUSE, transparent
Yoke, trimmed Valenciennes and Guipure
Medallions, 15/-
Beautiful BLOUSES
Triumphs of Taste
//
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
SKP
a
m
No. 974—CREAM COTTON VOILE BLOUSE, trimmed
Valenciennes, Guipure Lace Yoke, 12/6
SPRING and SUMMER FASHIONS
AT
Anthony Hordern
Only Universal
Providers^
Sons
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY
No. 864 CREAM JAPANESE S!LK BLOUSE, transparent
Yoke, tucked and trimmed Silk Embroidery, 15/6
IN
*
No. 129—CREAM LOUISINE SILK BLOUSE, hem-stitched,
and trimmed Medallions, 19/6
/ V' \ \
Shave Yourself!
You ought to —it’s so easy with a
“Plum” safer, too.
THE PLUM RAZOR
is by a long shot the best razor on the market at or
near the price. If you appreciate a “good shave”
just try the “ Plum ** and you’ll have good shaves
all the year round.
Price 10/6 Post Free to Any Part of the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 s ?S°„T£ st '
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. R. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St.. Sydney, cAaents.
Uf>e Great
Sing'ers of
the day.
It is easy to hear the world’s
greatest singers if you own
an Edison Phonograph.
We.have records of these
famous voices and receive
new ones by every mail.
W 1
W WAB<
SA&tm*
tr&bs
S6e
Incomparable EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
Tshe Gem, £2 lOs.; ©ic Standard, &5 » Home, £7 lOs.
RECORDS, Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d. and Is. 9d. STERLING ENGLISH RECORDS, Is. 6d.
Write to-day for Catalogues of Instruments and New Records.
Owing to the Federal Government imposing an extra 10 per cent, duty on Phonographs,
the prices of machines are increased to that extent, making Gems, £2 15s. ; Standards,
£5 10s.; Homes, £8 ss. Should the Parliament not pass the Bill the extra 10 per cent,
will be returned in full to„our customers. Records are not advanced in price at present.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
* “MY IMPORTERS OF
opticians,” Phonographs & Records,
393 GEORGE STREET (Facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED
For the USE, COMFORT,
and CONVENIENCE
of Ladies and Tourists
generally, THE &
FOLDING
POCKET
KODAK.
IN VARIOUS SIZES AND MANY
PATTERNS, FROfl
£2 to £2O
Of the first quality in every
detail, and Films can be
developed in daylight,
with absolute certainty
and assurance of success.
*
From the Sole Australian Agents for
“ KODAK LIMITED,” and all Dealers*
Supplies.
BAKER & ROUSE Propt’y.,
LIMITED, ’
375 (Si 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 78*80 Queen St., Brisbane.
37 Bundle St., Adelaide. N.


Messrs. David Jones & Co. have sent out two
big attractively-illustrated catalogues—One dis-
playing the fashions for women’s summer wear,
the other titled “ All a Man Wants in Cloth-
ing.” A post-card will bring either catalogue, or
both, to the anxious inquirer.
“N.E.N.” (Wagga): I have heard Gibb
and Lonsdale on Bill Lyne. I conclude from
their statements that, if the Deakin Government
gets back, marriage will be abolished, and all
farmers will have to grow peanuts instead of
wheat. It seems to me a daring political pro-
gramme. When did Deakin promulgate it ?
Mdiie. Helena Rubinstein, the Russian skin
and complexion specialist, can be consulted daily without
charge at the Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney (above Washington H. Soul and Co.). All ladies
by whom beauty and freshness of complexion are desired
will find her advice in the highest degree valuable. The
Valaze Institute is fitted with the latest and most
scientific appliances for the removal of birth marks,
moles, disfiguring growths, red noses, double chins,
superfluous hairs, and other facial blemishes, which dis-
appear like magic. Valaze, Dr. Lykuski’s Famous Skin
Food, will beautify and clear the muddiest skin by drawing
out the impurities that clog the action of the delicate
pores. This shows at once that the impurities are being
brought out, not driven in, to appear later and cause end-
less trouble. The impurities dissappear after three days.
Valaze Russian Herbal Skin-food, 3s. 6d. ; a large jar,
containing three times the amount, 6s. Posted to any
part of Australasia, 6d. extra. Valaze Herbal Soap
surpasses any other for beautifying the complexion, 2s. a
cake ; 2d. postage. Valaze Herbal Face Powder contains
no lead, is hygienic and pure, 2s. hox ; 2d. postage. Dr.
Lykuski’s Special Blackhead and Open Pore Cure,
guaranteed to cure the most obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. a
box; 3d. postage. Rusmo Hair Killer is guaranteed to
instantly remove superfluous hairs from face, neck, and
arms, without injury to the most delicate skin. Price,
ss. 6d. Valaze Massage Rollers, for home massage, will
remedy both overstoutness and thinness. Single roller,
Bs. 6d. ; small size, set in case, complete, 10s. 6d. : com-
plete set, in case, 255. These rollers will last a lifetime.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure. A certain remedy
prepared by Dr. Lykuski for these disfiguring complaints,
no matter how obstinate. Recommended by eminent
medical authorities in Europe; 2s. 6d. a box, postage 3d.
“ Guide to Beauty ” posted free on receipt of 3d. to cover
postage. All the above toilet preparations obtainable
from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Rubinstein,
158 Pitt-street, Sydney, above Washington H. Soul and
Co., and 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
Considering the immense number of books now pub-
lished, it is impossible for a regular reader to purchase
half the books he would like to peruse. A subscription
to the above up-to-date Circulating Library will place at
his command, immediately upon their arrival in Sydney,
the best and latest works in fiction, biography, history,
belle lettres, reminiscence, philosophy, popular science,
etc., etc. Intelligent assistance is given in the
selection of suitable reading, and special attention
is afforded to country exchanges. For the small
figure of £2 12s. 6d. per annum, or £1 11s. 6d. for
six months, we exchange eight volumes at a time to
any country address as often as we receive intimation of
return of previous parcel. Write or call at 428 George-
street (next Royal Hotel), Sydney, for full particulars,
catalogues and lists gratis.*
Kidney and Liver Dangers.
Impure blood is too often looked upon as being the
direct cause of many ailments from which people suffer.
Powerful alteratives are taken, and frequently do more
harm than good. Impure blood does cause disagreeable
skin diseases, rheumatism, langor and many other
troubles, but as the blood is only a nourishing fluid that
feeds all parts of the body, the treatment should be
directed to the organs whose work it is to keep the blood
pure and of right quality to do the work Nature designed
for it. Those organs are the kidneys and liver. If they
are out of order the blood loses it’s life-sustaining
qualities and becomes full of the impurities which should
be eliminated from the system. If your back aches, or
you have muscular pains in the back and side, rheumatism,
3allow complexion, constipation, &c., you can be reason-
ably sure that your kidneys and liver are out of condition.
Senior’s Pills are a positive remedy of proved merit. They
are a perfect remedy for use as a general family laxative,
and for the cure of biliousness and stomach troubles.
Price Is. and 2s. per box, Is. Id. and 2s. Id. posted from
Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
) cTnfvy&
dxm
&
4
i/Tb
%(MjU6
jurcr
4XA
“ Goutez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
5*
SV
“ceav'emettes"
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 25, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
These are the days when poor Woman is getting
all that is coming to her in the matter of abuse.
A tram guard, giving evidence before the Tram
Grievance Commission, mentioned incidentally
that “he had a very low opinion of women.
Women have neither conscience nor principle.”
The Commissioners seem to have hurried
round the qincksand and got over what might
have been a dangerous spot, with adroitness.
The brass-buttoned Nietzsche didn’t give the
reasons for his Schopenhauerism. Possibly he
had detected some women trying to evade pay-
ment of the penny and it had made him morbid.
But, then, some men try the same juggle. The
latest scientific work—Teutonic, of course—“ Sex
and Character,” doesn’t leave woman either a soul
or morals. She is just a superior kind of cow with-
out its convenient swish-appendage for knocking
flies off her hat. Sometimes she is not superior at
all, but only a vicious, horny-headed, undomesti-
cated animal. Apostle Paul’s opinion of women
was only a little higher than that of the Teuton,
or the tram-conductor. It is well for us that the
spring poet yearly puts on his wreath and strikes
his lyre in honor of the virtue, beauty and sweet-
ness of the eternal She. But, spite of wreath and
lyre and song of praise, the tram-conductor’s
shaft rankles. To him we are just a rag and a
bone and a hank of hair—and a penny.
I felt quite tearfully grateful to-day at getting
a note from a man asking an opinion. To be
asked for any old opinion by a man after being
mauled by the Germans and Pauled by the
apostle is as soothing syrup. The man writes :
Saw the daughter of a Sydney solicitor and her mother
in a library the other day, and had my curiosity aroused
by noticing the daughter smell several books. The
mother remonstrated, and inquired how a good book
could possibly be chosen by such a method. “ Easily,”
said the damsel ; “ if a book smells of tobacco I know
men have read it, and then X know it is a good one.” As
a member of the male sex, of course I appreciate the
subtle compliment, hut I would like to know whether
the method is original.
It seems a Sherlock Holmes way of clue-finding.
But the damsel would want to exercise another
sense than the olfactory. One of the most tobacco-
laden books I ever handled was a treatise on
bridge building. Besides, so many women now
smoke over their novels that the damsel may take
home as a prize a eigarette-aroma-ed book that a
man wouldn’t be seen dead with, it being to 6 vast
for his intellect.
Another crumb of consolation : None of the men
who write books to prove that our intellectual
level is about that of collecting the snails off the
flowers at night can take his coiffure to pieces at
midnight’s solemn hour, and extract from it 102
hairpins, side and back combs, a jewelled orna-
ment. and a fringe net. There now !
“The Garden of Eden was truly Paradise until
they began to eat the wrong things.” A smart
writer on the French Talent for Living has
pointed out that in France the attitude towards
the dinner table is universally cordial and
respectful, and that it is the only place where one
is never bored during the first hour. Australians
are beginning to realise slowly, and a few at a
time, the French attitude towards food. Many
of them who have gardens, or even only a balcony
and no garden, eat their luncheon out of doors ;
and yet another section, also as yet a small one, is
learning not to hurry, and begins to realise that
table-talk is the chief charm of a charmingly-
cooked meal. The majority of us, unfor-
tunately, still look upon eating as a kind of
something that is twin to original sin. It has
to be got through ; therefore rush through it in a
hurried sitting or by means of perpendicular eat-
ing of the counter-lunch variety. But knowledge
of the sweet ritual of dining spreads. A sign is
that Paris House, the noted Sydney sanctuary of
the gourmet, has to spread its walls for the A.J.C.
Spring season, and will use the adjoining St. James’
Hall as a dining-room during race week. And the
Wentworth Hotel celebrated the opening of a
new dining-room, last Thursday, with a dinner.
Most of Mrs. Maclurcan’s exotic recipes were on
the menu, and some of the prettiest and smartest
women in Sydney sampled said exotics. Even
the mere men in their blacks and boileds looked
quite dandy under the soft pink rain of the elec-
trics, against the background of lily-white walls
and the upground of crimson carpets. One of the
tables, at which were Mrs. Philip Morton and
Miss Clara Manning, reminded of Sur les Toils,
the Sydney Gallery picture.
A note from London tells that Madame Ada
Crossley has become quite plump, and has ac-
quired a double chin. Which proves how happily
she has married. A double chin is a sign of a
contented mind, and it (or should it be they?)
suits some persons vastly. It’s only a trinity of
chins that should drive one under the ivory
rollers of Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein, and even
then one ought to part with but one of the sur-
plus chins. Two just make for cuddlesomeness.
Other ink items shed by my correspondent are
that the Australian page of The Throne, that
haughty paper with about twenty peeress.es on its
editorial staff, is contributed to by Miss Myra
Browne (an ex-Melbourne presswoman), Miss
Ethel Mills, and Miss Inez Bensusan.
But the first-mentioned is looking out for
the chaperonage of girls for foreign travel.
She has already done considerable in the
way of discreet guidance of innocents abroad.
Mrs. Barbara Baynton’s book, “Human Toll,”
announced for publication by Duckworth,
has been compared by their reader to Maupassant
and Stephen Crane, which must be delightful
reading for Mrs. B. B. Australians in London
have fagged on the hope that Janet Lady Clarke
would marrjr Lord Rosebery, says my corres-
dent. This is interesting. We out here didn’t
know of the soaring hopes of our sistern in
London. Neither, we may be sure, did Janet C.
and the noble earl. Anyway, they have our per-
mission.
Blanche Arral has fallen in love with Sydney.
It suggests to her Nice with something of Paris.
“I love the Bo tanee Gardens,” she tells—meaning
thereby not those lovely dells around Botany,
where the boiling-down works lift their soft fra-
grance to the sky and the bone-mill attracts the
gauzy fly, but the Botanical Gardens. “ There I
go and sit on ze bank ” —as a matter of fact, Madame
doesn’t frivol on the grassy banks, “ banc is
French for bench—“and I watch the blue water
and the gay, bright people, and I love Sydney.
This much was said at a little Paris House supper
after the opera. Madame, after being Marguerite
and Titania and Mignon and a Spanish picnic
girl, and half-a-dozen other characters, had settled
down to lie herself—a piquant Parisienne with
a sense of the joy of life, and a fund
of good-natured, happy chatter, which is
set off by her English, picturesquely broken like
the outline of Sydney harbor. Madame lias
humor, and lacks of the prima donna only the
pretensions and the “frill.” She hopes to pay a
return visit to this city some day. “It is surely
ze one place in ze world to rest.” An excellent
compliment to a city. If only we had done more
work in N.S. Wales and better deserved a rest !
Spring is here. The muddied oaf at the goal
has given way to the flannelled person of deficient
intellect at the other arrangement. The roses
are blooming in the parks. In the same charming
parks the young man’s fancy turns feverishly to
thoughts of love, and, iu his haste to propose, he
doesn’t care whether he keeps off the grass or
not; who can think of grassatsuch a crisis? Yes,
spring is here, and the long-legged yahoos who
make the foreshores of the harbor hideous in their
abbreviated clothing are here also, and publish-
ing the calf and the breast-bone. Also, by the
visions in the surf at Manly, one can swear the
spring has arrived, and all Nature is blushing at
the revelations of the pink hundredweight of girl
who bathes in transparent muslin and stands
between the sun and the spectators. But all
these things are excusable —anything is excusable
when the spring arrives.
J. J. Virgo, the Y.M.C.A. secretary, is found-
ing a “Girls’ Barracking League.” This doesn’t
mean that the girls are to open their mouths and
yell for all they are worth at a football match ;
instead of this loud and reckless dissipation, they
are to give their aid and support to the training of
nice young men, so that the nice young men may
be nice little tame husbands later on, and not come
home full of whoop and beer. The Barracking
Girls are informed that “the welfare of young
men must mean much to your future happiness in
life, for the young man who has good Christian
associates, healthy recreations, untainted with all
kinds of gambling and evil influences, must eventu-
ally make the best husband, the purest home life,
and the happiest social surroundings.” This
sounds very nice, even if it is rather previous.
But nothing will prevent the Girls’ Barracking
League sounding like a high-heeled organisation,
with one eye obliterated by its hat, and the light
of a great recklessness in the other, and a firm
resolution to be an awful dawg.
At a city auction mart, last week, a picture of
King David with the head of Goliath of Gath in his
fist was sold for 6s. 6d., whilst a portrait of George
Reid was passed in unsold at 9s. 6d. A buyer in the
throng, who has a Holy Writ bee in his belltopper,
was quite hurt at David and the other champion
going so cheaply, but he seemed still more hurt at
the offer of 9s. 6d. for Reid. Then he brightened
up, and remarked that if George Reid’s picture
had shown him holding the head of Deakin in his
hand someone would have been killed in the rush
of anti-Sosh buyers.
A letter from Miss Alexia Bassian mentions
that the plucky little singer is nursing her husband
(Mr. Danby), who is seriously ill again. So pro-
longed are the sicknesses and nursings that she
has had time for but two concert engagements.
Once she sang before the Duke and Duchess of
Norfolk, at Sheffield, and again at a big benefit
at the Spanish Embassy.
Mrs. Trefle, wife of the editor and owner of the
Temora Independent, has been in Sydney on a
visit, and seemed to go one better than Sir Boyle
Roche’s bird ; her energy gave the impression
that she was equal to being in three places at
once, and the Boyle bird’s maximum was two.
She is a vital, vigorous young party, and pretty
well ran the paper whilst her husband was elec-
tioneering. She didn’t run it into a libel action,
either. Her friends say the wheat stopped grow-
ing while she was away. Temora is the wheatiest
spot in N.S.W., but the vegetable missed Mrs.
Trefle’s moral support.
“ Adela Taylor, Lady Mayoress,” is the signa-
ture to an appeal published in all the dailies for
another £lOOO to complete the £3OOO required for
a women’s branch of the Thirlmere Consumptive
Home. Less than half a-year ago Mrs. Taylor
and a beaverish committee determined to raise the
£3OOO for the work, and already £2OOO is in
hand. One unusual sidelight on the collection
shows up the smiling fact that the total expenses
of the fund up to date are less than £5. So the
workers are practising “selfishness” and “other-
dom ” —the goods that were delivered in “ The
Message from Mars.”
Miss Rose Musgrove is staying with Mrs. Jack
Scantlebury in London, and filling in spare spots
of her time writing to friends in Sydney, to tell of
her utter disillusionment with England and things
English.
An imported star (feminine), who was here within
the last four months, when on the voyage hence,
and between Adelaide and Albury, had that por-
tion of the deck near her cabin railed in “to
save her nerves,” Also—a solemn fact—when in
the middle of the Great Australian Bight, she
sent the manager of the co. to the captain to
request that the engines be stopped for two or
three hours so that sSe might get to sleep. They
didn’t stop.
To-day Her Majesty’s Theatre was humming like
a hive. Five hundred kiddies were “tried” in
singing and dancing by the management for the
Xmas performance. One lovely baby of four, the
height of a daffodil, who sang and danced like a
genius, was gravely asked by Mr. Ramaciotti,
“Are you married, madame?” and replied, with
extreme coldness, “O, no, sir—l haven’t thought
of it yet.”
An Australian girl, from London :
One compensation to our loneliness he . re -"’f . f ®®'*
piece of soap in the ocean—is the 1 o velyGo th i e
we have rented on the upper Thames for £lB a year. It
has eight good rooms, with romantic oak beams, garden
tennis court, all high-walled round, and with fruit trees;
nailed on to the walls-a real picture house, and the
who reads the Sydney papers, and who is, for an
Englishman, a humorist, promises us that, as soon as.
weVe learnt to say “ Haw,” the family spook of the Gothic,
cottage will condescend to walk for our special thrill.
The Dash Blanks, whose taking of a cottage near Maiden-
head was chronicled (almost in red ink) by alQthe small
correspondents from London, are paying only is. a week:
for it, and it is one of the sweetest little houses you ever
saw. If such a cottage were to let at Wahroonga, near-
Sydney', you’d be asked £9O or £lOO a year for it.
A Canadian widow is returning to Canada with
the body of her husband, who died in Australia.
(Better not mention the name of the steamer, for
fear of upsetting the equanimity of passengers of
the kind who worry about signs and omens, and
would hate to be left £13,000 on a Friday.)
Deceased is said to have left £lOO,OOO to his four-
year-old son, but the attractive widow has control
of the gold and the gilded boy till the latter
reaches years of flirtation and indiscretion.
Weddings are usually such commonplace, con-
ventionally-managed concerns that the mildest
alteration is welcomed like an upheaval. Bride-
groom of a recent wedding was too ill to go to
church on the appointed day, so the bride married
him at his parents’ house, and then helped his
mother to hold a reception at the maternal
humpy.
A letter from London says Maud Dalryniple has
lost her voice, and that all the money she had
made has gone to doctors. However, letters and
cablegrams don’t always tell the truth. Let us
hope that the large, smiling Maud’s voice will
presently come up out of the fog and prove as.
good as new, or better for preference.
A small section of Sydney—that one which has.
the inside running in the race for culture—is.
rather red about the eyelids since last American
mail. Reason : Baron Hoenning O’Carrol will
not return to Sydney from New York. I don’t,
know the reason ; perhaps he has taken a con-
tract at ringbarking in Broadway. The O’Carrol
was a remarkable-looking man—a cross between
Southern Irish and Slav. His cousin, Count.
Devtn, now here as German Vice-Consul, is tall,
dark, lank-haired, and kisses the hands of the
Sydney society frauen with such grace that they
get palpitation of the egotism. Frauleins don’t
share in the hand caress.
The band of the Pah’f’l will play for the gallery
from 7.30 till 8.30, at St. Vincent’s ball, on Wed-
nesday, October 3. Also, as a devilled almond,
so to speak, the minuet from “ Beaucaire ” will
be stepped just before the ball is set properly
rolling. Seven or eight fancy sets will take the
floor, but plain and fancy dress will ruffle it to-
gether through the evening. A set of Mediaeval
Queens will be of interest. Mrs. (Dr.) Collins
will be Berengaria of Navarre, the lady
who was so very unsatisfactorily married to
Richard I. Miss Pearl Faithfull, who is very
tall, slight, and auburn haired, will disguise
herself as Queen Elizabeth. The costume of red
velvet, bound with pearls, will be lent her by
Mrs. Bland Holt, whose portrait as Queen Bess is
a feature of the Appleby collection of Rem-
brandtish photographs in the Strand Arcade.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s mediaeval queening will be
done in silver tissue gown and an apple-green
cape. Miss Edith Manning will sham being
Caroline of Anspaeh in blue satin and brocade
over a huge crinoline. Instead of a crown she’ll
toy herself with a jolly little cap. The Dresden-
china set formed by Miss Le Petronel ought to
give other sets a good run for William Farmer
and Co.’s prize. It looks as if the receiving teller
in whatever bank the committee banks, will
get cramp in his fingers from counting the pro-
ceeds of the whirl.
N.S.W.’s Public Service Board’s latest grad-
uation of school teachers’ salaries continues
the most pernicious of the old evils. Under the
new salary arrangement, the master in charge of
between 400 and 500 pupils receives a maximum
of £375, but the mistress of the same-sized school
gets only £2BO. The Board knows, of course, no
sufficient reason why it should make that differ-
ence. It simply follows bearded precedent. It
gives a first male assistant £260, and a first female
ditto £lBO. But when it comes to schools of the
lowest class, it admits apparently that the pre-
cedent is bad, for women in charge of 7th, Bth,
and lOth-class schools are given the same pay as
men. Probably the explanation is that the man’s
pay is so small that the woman couldn’t live on
less.
From London :
Bessie Doyle, who is professionally known as
Madame Eileen O’Moore, has left London for her new
post at the Oberlin Conservatorium, Ohio, U.S.A.,
where she has been appointed artist teacher. This
means a big thing for the Sydney violinist. Apart
from a handsome salary as teacher, the post carries good
engagements as soloist at big symphony concerts. Many
readers of The Bulletin will remember Miss Doyle’s
romantic marriage aboard Sir George Bullough’s yacht at
Oban, with that gentleman’s secretary, Mr. Mitchell.
Almost immediately after the wedding, whilst the happy
pair were honeymooning on the yacht, Sir George
Bullough placed it at the disposal of the British Govern-
ment (the S’African war had then started in real earnest)
for a hospital ship. For months that ship was used as a
hospital for wounded officers, Bessie Doyle filling the role
of chatelaine. She was the only woman aboard, the
nurses being men. Afterwards she decided to take up
her musical career again, so went to Leipsic, where she
won the Mendelssohn scholarship. Then she went to
Berlin, where the great Joachim, after hearing her play,
advised her to study in the romantic school of music.
Later she met Ysaye, who is an ardent admirer of her
gifts, and finally studied with Seovik, who has given her
a glowing testimonial.
Mr. Howard Vernon and his infantile-looking
wife, Miss Vinia de Loitte, are “going on the
land ” when the disbandment of the Repertoire
Co. occurs in about a month’s time. They have
bought a far«o near Liverpool, and, as neither
knows anything about farming, they ought to get
some fun out of the learning process. Kenning-
ham will, it’s said, start a musical conservatorium
at Perth.
Before giving up the reluctant ghost on Satur-
day night, the Royal Art Society shook a free leg
for a week in a round of mild dissipation. The
revels went no further than musical “at-homes ;
the staid and un-Bohemian Society, even under
the stimulus of unprecedented success (about £6OO
worth of canvas, paint, and talent has been dis-
posed of during the four weeks the show has been
open), doesn’t altogether lose its head and forget
that it has to be dignified and regardful of the
proprieties. One of the least formal and brightest
of the receptions was that given by Miss Una
Xidgell, Miss Constance Hadfield, and Miss V.
Marshall, assisted by some other art students.
The hostesses wore as distinguishing badges
beautifully painted palettes (miniature) from the
brush of clever Gerald Fitzgerald. The rooms
were filled with a well-selected crowd of men and
women, all of whom have in their time done some-
thing or other of an artistic nature with pen
and brush, even if it was only to paint the
rustic seat under the garden tree a bright green.
Daffodils and hyacinths filled the air with con-
centrated spring odors, and someone sang a song
that informed the incredulous audience that the
blissful and poetic season had really arrived.
Other musical items of less incredulous and hack-
neyed nature were contributed by notable people
—people who have made a noise in front of some
very critical audiences in their time, and Mr.
Fred Leston gave a humorous account of how
father put down the carpet. A classic-minded
lady, in shoulder-straps and some other black
drapery, expressed horror at comic-singing being
permitted at an Art exhibition, but a degraded
company seemed to enjoy the comic items more
than the sentimental ones.
So many thousands of school children swung
clubs and dumb-bells and danced around barbers’
poles at the Cricket Ground last Wednesday,
that the headachy effect on the public could only
be counteracted by antipyrine, or in the case of
the male onlooker (one of them told me this) by a
better-known drug in alliance with sodawater. A
human kaleidoscope of endless strings of children
looked as if they were following the Pied Piper.
Women teachers, to whom the day was one of
hard work, marshalled the young idea, which of
late years is growing more erect in its carriage,
thanks to physical culture.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENRHI.


SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS.
AN ABSOLUTE CURE FOUND AT LAST.
LADY, self-cured of this distressing: affliction, will
forward remedy on receipt of 4/6, postage 6d.
extra. Other States, 5/8. Send Id. Stamp for booklet
on treatment and testimonials from grateful clients
cured. Only genuine postal address —“ Tonic,”
Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.
/or Track and
m
-s r
O
m
X:
i
m
M
Beware of
Imitations
Done Genuine
WitKout-
Mark
ililiiiiill
QTAViXi?
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
MtOOOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON*
gtocNH
(Dress
shields
KLEINERTS DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
LDaUSIIAPE
oorm
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 25, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
At latest, Lord Dicky Nevill was ailing and
failing of his social engagements—a serious blow
to England, no doubt. The informing scribes
give no particulars of the illness, but dwell mourn-
fully on the fact that the bun-fights and muffin-
seriinmages for which Dicky in his glad health had
booked would have to proceed without him.
Word comes of Miss Violet Clarke’s doings and
her increasing infatuation for a song career. My
correspondent states that the voice is as sweet as
honeysuckle, and just as inconsiderable for plat-
form uses as that fragrant climbing plant is for
banquet decoration. But the aspiring Miss is
lovable, and her friends would dearly like her to
have the top C of a Melba for her own dear little
sake. So amiable and interested in all Australians
is Miss Clarke that Pa and Ma Clarke find them-
selves constantly called upon to tea or feast or
otherwise smile kindly upon some musical
aspirant from this land.
Rupert Clarke has a new interest. He is
actively concerned in the publication here of his
daughter’s inky efforts. Young Phyllis Clarke has
had the craze for story-writing all her salad days,
and, after a varied college career at Brussels, Berlin
and Paris, has launched out with two romances.
They embrace a period of the Franco-Prussian
war and the loves of two Russian characters. It
sounds ambitious, but Rupert reckons the yarns
are full of interest, despite a lack of polish and
evident traces of girlish judgment. The second
daughter is prone to daub allegories and quaint
fanci ,on canvas. She exhibited some of her
pigment-effects at a Kensington show, recently,
and earned some commendation.
There was a great deal of irrational anthem at
the Findon Harriers’ meeting—the two vice-
regal contingents calling for a blare apiece. The
G.-G. troup loomed up late and drove off early,
and the Talbottles timed their arrival and exit
accordingly. With the greater Exes, was Vice-
Admiral Fawkes. All the Cream had dressed
according to the morning sky of melancholy
grey, but the Moonee Valley course was in
a reproachful blaze of sunshine all the after-
noon. The Federal Ex. displayed a navy blue
rig and unstylish headgear flaunting a profusion
of sweet-pea, while the local Ex. struck a rather
more effective note in all black—her silver thatch
crowned with a smart millinery effect. A com-
pliment is due to the F.H. Club for the fine show
of daffodil decorations made in the tents of plenty.
Personally, I neglected my rainbow cake in the
contemplation of these elegant blooms. They
were prize ones culled from private gardens.
A notable Toorakite at the Findon meeting was
Miss Landale, whose subdued habiliments and
quiet style generally called for astonished
exclamation. The returned gadder has completely
allayed her chiffon ecstasy and abandoned her
loop-the-loop head-frame. Now her nut-brown
tresses are snugly confined in the ordinary fashion,
and she is a mere fashionable who doesn’t invite
nervous shocks. Her frock at the meeting was
demure black, worn with a plain little brown hat.
Miss Eva Robertson is back from her protracted
jaunt, looking a shade less jaunty. Why does the
grand gad cause this odd subduing ? Is the ’Roo-
lander’s exuberance smothered by contact with
the prim English Miss ?
Madame Kellermann prepares to skip for Europe
while her eldest chick is still in the swim. Young
Maurice Kellermann is now fiddling in George
Edwardes’ orchestra, London.
Rear-Admiral Bridges is booked to land back in
this State before Christmas.
Donald Macdonald, whose Nature notes — “ Does
the magpie freckle?” or “When does the bull-
finch begin to take notice ? ” —are much loved by
the suburban Miss with the rapt and soulful
expression (who aches to tell Algernon, whose
intentions are still in doubt, that she has an
economical appetite) enlivens his golfing-match
reports with tender reflections on the grass-
blade, the nettle, the cow-frog and the bunker-
croaker. He generally attracts a large, girly
following on the golf course, and delivers his soul
of Nature notes off the shell, as it were. Down
at Lome, he encourages small audiences in the
same manner, and is the beloved oracle of a little
circle.
There’s a lace-craze in the Tooraketty quarter.
All the fashionables with ivory-toned trans-
parent skin and graceful fingers are studying
Irish crochet, duchesse point, Flemish or Austrian
thread designs. Miss Ursula Dunne (Ursula
suggests tapered fingers) set the craze jjroperly
going. Now Mrs. George Fairbairn, Mrs. George
Chirnside, Miss Simson, Mrs. Edward Miller,
and a host of the Cream ply Penelope’s needle.
Mrs. Andrew Shields and another medico’s wdfe
(Mrs. Buchanan) are so keen that they are delving
into lace literature, and chase up to the Public
Library worrying out the romantic history of this,
that, and the other mesh. There is romance in
lace. The legend of its beginning was that a
dowerless nymph was sighing and crying for the
lover she could not wed withou t some possession
or other. So the angels, or the gods, or some
equally vague people with no visible means of
support, promised her the talent of working
thread into charmed cobweb patterns on condition
that, when wedded to her lover, she instructed all
other dowerless maidens in the art. And these
lace enthusiasts talk learnedly of other mesh
legends and romances, and are deserting the
Bridge tables for the sewing-basket. Miss Jamie-
son, of ’Varsity fame, is becoming an expert.
Already Mrs. Shields is one. Truly, a virtuous,
edifying craze.
Mrs. E. Miller tells of a lace gown she saw
when last in London among a bride’s possessions.
It cost 1500 bright sovereigns. It was Irish
crochet with suggestions of Venetian point. At
Monte Carlo, the dame said, one saw all the flash
daughters of Uncle Sam’s land in wonderful lace
garbs—any of which might have cost 500 guineas.
Rupert Clarke is said to pay a very fat sum for
the privilege of securing the Glaciarium for him-
self and party on Sunday. There is no audience.
The baronet has the ice and the entire view for
his guests—the star of whom wears frocks worth
heavy applause and notable display. She can’t
possibly enjoy so much space and such an area of
vacant gallery. After all, the joy of clothes to
the sex is measured by the amount of envy they
raise in the other cat, just as the joy of a carriage
is not so much in being driven as in seeing others
walk.
Mrs. Ross-Soden, the widow planted at Man-
deville Hall, who is making such a heavy splash
with her share of the Tyson wealth, is now the
chief patroness of the arts and crafts of the State.
Last week a spree was given, principally to show
the fiddle talent of two Sydney lads, though the
local singers had a chance too.
Bigjohn Forrest’s dame was hardly settled in
the apple-green suite at the Grand, than she was
saying good-bye with great despatch to official-
dom. John has to bounce aboard a lugger at once
for the sandy State —the prospect of opposition
at the elections causing the Forrest pulse to beat
somewhat frantically.
Mrs. T. J. Ledingham jaunts again to Europe.
By this time the brisk matron should be able to
set the ship's compass and pretty well captain
any liner from here to the Big Smoke docks. A
round of farewell sprees takes up the dame’s
hours at intervals of packing. The Hammond-
Gleggs, with all their brood, and governesses to
match, are also sorting out chiffons for a trip.
The castanets used by Miss Pinschof in the
recent presentation of “ Carmen ” were the iden-
tical ones used by her mother (Madame Elise
Wiedermann) when she played “Carmen” for a
hundred nights. They were presented to Madame
by the Spanish people of Hamburg during her
engagement in that city.
Miss May Congdon, the wronged wife in “ The
Fatal Wedding,” enlivened her season here with
Christian Science. Every Sabbath morn the fetch-
ing English Miss journeyed in from Windsor to
the holy stance that fills the upper hall of the
Athenaeum at such times. Mrs. Theodore Fink is
now one of the priestesses of the craft, and pays
sick-calls on those who are not yet inured to the
faith. She has given up theatres and all distrac-
tions of life to administer pious optimism to
novices. Meanwhile, Theodore himself becomes
a box-patron of the theatres, toot-toots
in style to the city, and generally comports
himself like a joyous pagan. There are some
points in having a Christian scientific wife.
Miss Violet Mount’s appearance in grand opera
was hardly justified. Her voice has good range,
full tone and clear quality, but it lacks expression.
As Marguerite, she acted stiffly, and had what-
ever good effects she created spoilt by everyone
but Mr. Victor Dougall, whose Mephistopheles
was rather a fine performance. The two. pretty
chicks of a Brighton solicitor —the Misses Vera
and Zepha Evans—gave the one flawless contri-
bution to the concert—-a fascinating pirouette.
A flock of musical aspirants took the oppor-
tunity of sailing away by the Scharnhorst, the
German liner that carried off Marshall Hall.
Several Conservatorium demoiselles made a scene
in the great moment of farewell with Hal Cohen,
but the last cherubic smile of that plump youth
went to the wistful and exceedingly pretty duck-
ling of a Collins-street medico. Marshall Hall’s
brayings (he always grunts, brays, or bellows
when excited) were as music to the ears of fare-
welling brethren. The swarthy Pagan of the
baton was as joyous as a child at departing, and
clowned it to the amusement of even the weary-
eyed Pier loungers.
A lecturer should be careful in selecting a chair-
man or woman. I remember the Dowager of
Cliveden, who has the most emphatically waspish
waist in this State, presiding at a lecture delivered
by Dr. Bob Strong, on health in general and the
disastrous results of tight-lacing in particular. He
dwelt gloomily on the abuses of the corset, while
his chairlady looked down her nose and endeavored
not to appear conscious of her own alluring
eighteen-inch meridian.
From Maoriiand hails a young singer with a
contralto depth of melody that Wellingtonians
speak much of —Miss Lenore Pulsford. Presently
she is to be heard in song in this city. Mean-
while, hospitalities are being extended on the
strength of Mr. Joseph Ward’s interest.
“Goffing” femininity had a big day at Sand-
ringham last Tuesday, when all the top-scorers of
the Victorian links gathered to try conclusions at
the Royal Melbourne Tournament. Miss E. Lem-
priere “puttied” home to the final green with
the hest card —her play being even an advance on
a former record score. The day was, for a wonder,
fine. For several seasons the Spring Tourna-
ment has been in progress during belated winter
rains, and the ball has sunk in deep waters.
Again, the curiosities of grief and consolation.
One mourning she of my acquaintance never
leaves her garden precincts. She is condemned
to a year’s garb of woe ; so, embittered, she hides
from the gay world. Sorrow for a dead relative
is blended with a chagrin that her swarthy com-
plexion should be condemned to a swarthy mount-
ing of clothes. The honey-haired mourner, on
the other hand, gets consolation out of a becoming
black wardrobe. I know one impulsive artiste
who, when goaded to jealousy or driven into
temper by disappointment, rushes off and buys
herself a lovely silk petticoat or a giddy toque, or
some other adornment. The other day, said she :
“ I was in such a temper all the week and so blue
that I just went round to Chiffon, Lace and Co.
and bought myself one of those lovely sequined
theatre-scarves. Of course, I can’t run it. I just
had it entered to my account, dear, and, really. I
feel ever so much happier. After all, what’s the
use of worrying ? ”
It’s marvellous how much comfort the second
sex extracts from tragedy. At the “Two Little
Vagabonds” every second She in the audience
spilt her tears copiously. I saw three or four
sympathetic souls in a deluge—their hankies
drenched and their sobs escaping unashamedly
from their pent-up hearts. In the cloak-rooms
the emotional sex told each other how sweet the
show was, while their red eyes still blinked back
the tears. As a reward for vagabonding to the
manner born, Miss Beatrice Holloway received a
whole nursery of blooms.
My Adelaide correspondent writes :
Leslie Harris, a South Australian violinist, has been
appointed household or domestic fiddler, or something
romantic like that, to some Russian grandee. Grandee
fiddles some himself, and has a quartette on the premises
to waft sweet strains over his tomb-fearing life. The
South Australian gets a salary equal to £lO a week, with
residence and menials provided, and has nothing to do
(until the revolution comes) but fiddle at stated intervals.
He’s a native of Moonta, about the most musical of up-
country S. Australian towns.
The Voice was a fully choral voice, at the Blue-Rymill
wedding, at Christ-church, North Adelaide. Adelaide
doesn’t have a deputy-Ex. wedding, attended by a full
viee-regal cortege, every day. The wedding was a blue
one (the millinery pun was, of course, inevitable), the
bride’s color being displayed in her maidens’ frocks
and in sundry bows and things distributed round
the church. Five girleens, with a couple of pages for
train-bearing purposes, made up the procession, and it had
the moral support of three chums of the bride—(l)
little Dorothy Lendon, (2) a niece of bridegroom Rymill,
and (3) Editha Le Hunte, a bright vice-regal youngster,
who is just on the verge of being sent to school in
Germany. The bride herself, usually a gay and joyous
charmer, wore duchesse satin and a considerably demure
air, and forged her way through the multitudes at the
church door on the arm of Chief Justice Way. Some
300 guests of the frilliest and frockiest were duly recep-
tioned at Montefiore, where Mrs. Way, in a fetching
ensemble of heliotrope, hostessed matters, and collected
congratulations. Bridegroom’s gift was a tourmaline, set
with diamonds on an exquisitely delicate chain. Mr. and
Mrs. Rymill rusticate at “ Sea View,” the Chief’s
farm at Noarlunga, for a space, then pass on to Melbourne
and Sydney. They have given up the idea of dwelling
permanently on the Seaton golf-links and “golfing” all
their days; and will reside in the more civilised neigh-
borhood of North Adelaide.
Little Wanda Radford, the 10-year-old South Australian
actress and dancer, has been attracting some notice in
the Ma country. Some wealthy and good-natured people,
who took a fancy to her, lent the child and her mother
their country house for several weeks, with lacqueys and
everything complete ; and Melba, who is interesting
herself in the kiddy, had her at her house to spend a day
on several occasions. The diva wrote in the small
Wanda’s autograph book : “ My dear little Wanda, you
have interested me enormously ; if you work hard you
will have a brilliant career. Yours affectionately, Nellie
Melba.” Melba has developed a habit of collecting
wonder-children of late, so her interest may be con-
siderably useful.
A South Australian woman, Mrs. Pollitt, wife of the
canon of that ilk, has invented a stove for picnic, yacht-
ing, or other light purposes, and it is just now attracting
a good deal of attention. It is called the “ Oooee
Kitchener,” and is constructed of sheet-iron, in such a
manner as to allow the heat to circulate round the stove.
The whole affair is light and easily moveable. Mrs.
Pollitt’s mother, Mrs. Carlton, was the author of the
“ Song of Australia,” which in this State has become the
national song, although the other States don’t seem to
know of its existence. In South Australia every State
school kid knows the “Song of Australia” before its
alphabet, and it is sung on all public occasions. Why
doesn’t Tub Bulletin arise and barrack till the other
States take it up ?
About the most interesting exhibit at Adelaide Show,
was a cabinet made and carved by a girl who has never
had a day’s tuition in her life. Her people inhabit a
wild sort of little island somewhere off Port Lincoln.
Last year, when Governor Le HunteJ happened to be
rushing about that part of the hemisphere, he saw some
of her relief carving, and senfher a complete set of tools.
This cabinet is the result. Since the show various well-
known manufacturers have been leaping at her with offers
of employment.
Dolores escaped the eternal reception for once in the
tram-horse State. The Lyric Club approached her on the
subject, but she begged with tears in her voice to be let
off this time and she’d never do it again, or something
like that. The songstress is popular in Adelaide, and the
booking for her three concerts was so satisfactory that
she determined to commit an extra one, on Friday, 21st.
Her concerts happened this year in the Exhibition, a
structure with as bad acoustic properties as any I know,
and it was utterly impossible to hear her to advantage.
Still, one could see her diamonds.
It transpires that Mr. Willie Bryceson Trehearne is not
going to remove the light of his aesthetic countenance
permanently from these shores. He only jogs Fogwards
for nine months or so, to look out the latest thing in
chiffon neck-wear, Brahms rhapsodies and such. It
seems that this Tortoise State has a prejudice in favor of
Willie pianists. Trehearne’s one rival in the gymnastic
art is Willie Silver, a local product with German embel-
lishments, who gobbles all the prize pupils outside the
Conservatorium. Mr. Silver has offered his services as
accompanist to the Doubleday demoiselle for her concert
on the 29th. He accompanies the small Leila only, but a
pupil, Ruth Coles, one of Speaker Coles’ chicks, will
supply interpolating chords for the other performers.
Another feature of the Doubleday concert will be an item
or so by Miss Nora Thomas’ string quartette. This damsel
is one of the Register Kyffin Thomas clan, and is another
of the genus just-returned-from-Germany. All this crowd
has a following of its own that will help to rush the book-
ing at the wonder-child’s concert.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYHENA.
In his book of recollections, “Elections,
Electors, and Elected,” It. G. Webster tells a
story of a Londoner who, staying in a German
hotel, was told that his rooms were wanted for a
German princeling who was expected. Said he
to the landlord : ‘‘You, seemingly, do not know
who I am?” “No, sir.” “Well, bring me the
visitors’ list, and I will add my title to it.” When
the book was brought, he wrote, in bold charac-
ters, after his name : “Elector of Middlesex.” He •
kept his rooms.
Of all the preparations for improving the com-
plexion that have been introduced to Australia, nothing
has approached that ideal Skin Pood, Patti’s Beauty
Cream, for purity, daintiness, and efficacy in harmlessly
and rapidly clearing the skin of Wrinkles, Pimples,
Freckles, Blackheads, Sunburn, Roughness, and all Skin
Blemishes, leaving the complexion smooth, clear, fresh,
healthy, youthful and transparent after a few applica-
tions ; in fact, chemists speak of it as the standard of
excellence in toilet preparations. We do not advertise
hysterically about half-a-dozen preparations. We simply
state a few indisputable facts about one, and its users
prove these facts and spread glowing reports of its virtues,
so that to-day it has a greater sale than any other toilet
preparation. Moreover, it is not necessary to keep on
using Patti’s Beauty Cream for months. We positively
guarantee to give you a clear, healthy, velvety com-
plexion if you use one pot of Patti’s Beauty Cream faith-
fully according to directions. Its curative and anti-
septic properties have brought it into great favor, also
with gentlemen after shaving ; and Burns, Cuts, Scalds,
Bruises, etc., are healed almost instantaneously by apply-
ing a small quantity of Patti’s Beauty Cream. Price
3s. 6d. and 6s. per pot, of all Chemist and Stores through-
out Australia and Hew Zealand.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
—— and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, BpC. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
PARIS HOUSE.
Table <f Hote Race Dinner
IN ST. JAMES' HALL, 5.30 to 8.30 P.M.
ORCHESTRAL PROGRAMME
3s.
Every
Evening.
pe^
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Hageo, Ltd,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^-
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS;
Surgical Instrument
1 Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lord Brassey is the latest to point out the
necessity of an Australian navy. He fell off on
the right side that time.
N.S. Wales at last is logical, and makes
education free as well as compulsory. Labor
member Arthur Griffith kept hammering away at
the reform for years. Now, the Carruthers
Government has put a Bill to that effect through
all its stages.
The selection of Queensland Senate can-
didates to run in the anti-Sosh interest leaves
out Senator Drake. Drake is probably getting
no more than he deserves ; nevertheless, his deser-
tion ,by lieid is another instance of that globular
man’s loyalty to his supporters.
Foster, selected as the Labor candidate
for New England, is a strong Protectionist and
all-wool Australian. There has been a powerful
Labor-Protection committee formed at Emma-
vijle in his interest. The Government party
should let him have a clear run against Lonsdale.
PLL FEED HIM!
Preferential trade is a policy of Patriotism.
AUSTRALIA : “ It shan't be said I looked on and
saw me ole farder fed by Chows and
foreigners! ”
The S.A. Government hopes to have its
trouble with the Legislative Council finalised and
the dissolution on the franchise question over before
the end of October. Just as th e State elections are
finished the Federal contest will be about due.
Ex-Works Minister Foster has decided not to go
for the Senate in the National Ass interest; and
Editor Sowden, of the Register, is said to be
anxious to run with Symon, K.C., and D. M.
Charleston, once Labor member but now nonde-
script, for the Senate.
Queensland has spent much good money
to make the Ipswich State railway works the
most complete of their kind south of the line
and now it gives half of an order for loco-
motives to Private Enterprise. The Ipswich
works could do all that is wanted—it is merely a
matter of putting on more men—but Digby
Henham, Minister for Railways, doesn’t believe
in State Socialism except in the butter and pro-
duce business. He is a whale for State aid to the
butter and produce business. (N.B.—He is in
the butter and produce business.)
The Deakin Ministry, 'which is doing a
vast amount of solid progressive work of late,
asks for an amendment of the Const 1 ’ion
authorising it to impose some special C- ms
duties, the whole proceeds of which will r . ..ay
old age pensions throughout Australia. Only six
votes were east against the humane proposal, :..id
N.S.W. had the misfortune to provide five of
them. Hutchison, of S.A., and Joseph Cook,
Dugald Thomson, G. B. Edwards, Conroy and
Lee, of the Ma State, were the people who believed
in letting the aged poor shift for themselves.
Harper, of Vic., merely complained that if the
Government would deal with the finances on
“broad lines” there would be no need for extra
taxation. What are the broad lines that we
hear about so often ?
Parson Ronald, Labor representative for
an outlying district of Melbourne, vanishes from
the list of Labor nominations in a cloud of vague
suspicion and innuendo. Yellow Pup influences
are rather strong in his locality, and, since the
night when Ronald moved an Irish Home Rule
resolution in the House, it is alleged, Pupism has
been resolved to get rid of him. That very night
a report was started about how Ronald was seen
going home drunk in a tram-car. Ronald was
able to prove that he wasn’t drunk and that he
wasn’t even in a tram-car that night, but, as fast
as one footless rumor partially ceased to wander
round, another started. Yellow Pups took people
aside everywhere in dark corners to tell them
alleged horrors about Ronald, and finally he was
rejected as a Labor candidate.
The N.S.W. Electoral Bill now before the
Legislature embodies three changes of importance.
It proposes to abolish the elector’s right as a con-
cession to the careless citizen who always put the
paper away in an old boot and forgot it; to
abolish the out-of-date practice whereby Ministers
go for re-election on accepting office; and to
retrograde to the old system of demanding a £25
deposit from Parliamentary candidates. The
Bulletin would suggest as an amendment, if
N.S.W. must retrograde, that the candidate
should, when depositing the £25, be required to
specify on oath how he made it, and if he hadn’t
made it honestly by his own toil that he should be
disqualified. The spectacle of a wealthy landlord
having to put in three months’ pick-and-shovel
work to earn his deposit would be too beautiful
for words.
From “ Red Tape, junior ” :
The quinquennial regrading of N.S.W. Public Service
has at last appeared, nine months behind time, and a
bitter cry has arisen from the 82 per cent, of the public
servants who get nothing, and an additional 15 per cent,
who get very little. The Board disarms criticism by
pleading guilty. The truth is that the five-year regrad-
ing system is an absurd one. The majority of the
thousands of public servants must wait five years for
recognition. Then, if every deserving case that has
accumulated is remembered, the result would be a sudden,
huge increase in the vote, and the Board would lose its job.
Parliament, too, is frightened to vote a five years’ increase
in a lump—the aggregate amount required' looks (and is)
enormous. So the majority of the small men get nothing,
or else the stereotyped tenner. The Board can explain,
this by saying that if the small men, who are the majority,
got fair increases, the vote would be dried up in no time'
What it can’t so easily explain is the faot that its own
staff in its own office has increased in cost £4OOO in 10
years, and that, in proportion, it has been granted rises
in the present regrading out of all reason as compared
with the service proper.
Story of a sad betrayal in Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly:—
Mr. Colechin : In clubs they played poker
Mr. Boyd : What is poker? (Laughter.)
Mr. Oolechin : It is a game I saw you playing the other
day. (Oh ! Oh !)
Mr. Boyd : I object to an insinuation of that sort when
it is not true.
Mr. Murray : Then what game was it? (Laughter.)
Mr. Colechin : It was in a raihvay carriage, and Mr.
Boyd w'on 4s. 6d. (loud laughter). It was a jack-pot he
won (renewed laughter).
Mr. Boyd (subsequently): Mr. Colechin has done one
of the most contemptible things. I was going down to
Geelong as his guest, and he started to relate what had
transpired privately. That is conduct not characteristic
of a gentleman. All that fuss about a four-and-sixpennv
jack-pot! J
But how was Colechin to know that Boyd was
playing poker in secret, and didn’t want his Tory
constituents to hear of it ? J
Significant announcement from Sydnev
Telegraph (24/9/’O6) J
Mr. G. H. Reid will leave for Melbourne this evening
and will take part in the week’s proceedings in the House
of Representatives.
Greid’s attendances at Parliament are so very
rare that they have to be solemnly trumpeted.
About the aged and superfluous :
Melbourne Trades Hall Council has passed, for the nth
time, a resolution calling on Premier Bent to retire Pan-
ton, Melbourne’s arbitrary and venerable, but not neces-
sarily venerated police magistrate. Bent made just the
sort of reply that might be expected of him. He said that
because three successive Governments had seen fit to keen
Panton on the Bench, after he had reached the retiring
age, he therefore must be a good magistrate. It is quite
true that Pan ton, though long past the age at which men
are usually hustled out of the service, has been kept in
office by three successive Governments ; but every time
the renewal of his term has been for a 3 r ear or six months
and merely meant that the Government, yielding
to social pressure, had remanded Panton for sen-
tence. Bent himself has remanded the old chap a
few times, and apparently intends to continue doing so
until Joe ’ dies in harness. It is a matter of economy •
the hideously erratic law which Panton deals out is
comparatively cheap. The retirement of Panton would
mean a considerable pension, and that pension sticks in
Bent s gizzard. So apparently, as long as Pant, is able to
creep to the Bench and mumble out sentences from it
Bent will keep him at it. He isn’t the only Viet-"-ian
police magistrate who is far too old for the job' lie
State has two or three others, but Bent keeps on renew-
ing their appointments, seemingly in the hope that they’ll
die off in the middle of ordering the drunk to be executed
and save hnn the pension money. The lingering of these
old monuments blocks promotion in the service and
makes it sour, tired and disorganised. Also, it makes the
administration of justice more and more deaf toothless
antiquated and incompetent. The old men are can’
tankerous and uncertain, and some of them appear at
times to have forgotten the statutes, and to make new
ones as they l go along. Some of the new statutes thus
manufactured on the premises are amusing enough hut
then the law isn’t expected to be funny—not as a regular
PERSONAL PROPUTTY.
ORATOR : “ And, then, there's alt that talk of
buying back the land. Why, ain't even the
dirt ours?"
Maoriland Premier Ward has definitely
given his opinion on the Upper House question.
He desires to retain the prerogative exercised by
previous Premiers, and to appoint whom he
pleases. He objects to the elective system, and
also the abolition of the excrescence. All the
same, William Jukes Steward, he of the long
white beard and poetic temperament, got the
second reading of his Legislative Council Election
Bill (election of members by the House of Reps.)
passed by 34 to 24, despite Ward’s opposition.
However, as in previous years, the measure isn’t
likely to get much further.
Ihe Maoriland Farmers’ Union is furious,
and talks of shouldering its gun, for Premier
Ward has announced with emphasis that his
Cabinet will not assist the State tenants to acquire
freehold. They can change their tenure from
999 to 66 years with
some compensating ad-
vantages if they wish—
but no freehold. The
saleof Maoriland public
estate has stopped with
a bang. Ward declines
to make an ass of
himself by buying pri-
vate land for closer
settlement with one
hand, and selling it
back to private owners
again with the other.
Further, he says that if
he were in favor of
parting with the free-
hold he would pay the
occupants valuation for
their improvements
and put the land up
for public auction—
which is just what the
blessed tenants do not
want. They want to
buy surreptitiously for
a song. As a matter
of fact, it is the land
gamblers who are howl-
ing loudest for the right
to compulsorily acquire the freehold of their leases.
Many of these gentry balloted for land under the
Perpetual Lease and Lease-in-Perpetuity without
the slightest idea of living thereon for the term of
their natural lives. They simply acquired the
leases with the idea that by the time the value
had risen the pendulum would have swung back
to unbridled individualism. And it hasn’t.
Hence the wild talk, froth and fury.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers’ latest threat
is to establish in the interests of pure economy—
another small department in the Public Service
to be called the Assets Department. Joseph’s
apparent idea is that the assets of the State, as
represented by a small amount of real estate not
under the Lands Department, together with the
buildings and works erected thereon, are in a state
of unrest, probably owing to the trend of Socialistic
legislation. Anyway, a public office is to be
created, the chief duty of the staff being to take a
firm stand, and see that the State assets don’t fall
down on top of each other. It is a strange thing
that the interests of economy are always pointing
to the creation of new billets for somebody.
A great and dolorous cry goes up in
Victoria because a farmer with a dray-load of
wheat spent three days getting it eight miles over
the fearful bogged roads at Dimboola, and, as
usual, the local inhabitants are waving their hands
to Bent to come and metal the highway. Victoria
* 3n joys the blessing of local government, and the
local inhabitants are supposed to look after their
own roads, but because of the general desire not
to pay rates it is sometimes difficult now to tell
which is road and which is ploughed slush. Some-
times the mud tracks are so bad that the begging
deputation can hardly get to the railway station
en route for Melbourne, to cadge money from Bent
at the expense of the city worker. In fact, there
have been times when it had to telegraph to Bent.
Spurred by the action of N.S W i n
sending the voluble Sufefcpr (of the steadv-Govern
ment-job Suttor family of Bathurst) "to Japan
and the Yellow Sea littoral to canvass for orders
for frozen sheep and other things, Maoriland
also sent a Trade Commissioner to those
CC vr n a tr ™r S ’ Suttor recently returned to
JN.S.W. and got a, big increase of salary
from the economical Carruthers Govern-
ment. Maoriland representative Gow
has returned to his ain countree, and
tells his Government that he had a
delightful trip through Singapore
Hong Kong, Japan, China and
India, but that any idea of send-
ing him to reside permanently
in those countries to canvass
for orders is sheer waste of
money. They are all raw-
material-producing coun-
tries, and we have no
hope of doing trade
there till we can manu-
facture on a much
larger scale and
have a surplus to
export. And
even then Japan
is a closed ware-
house—its pro-
tective tariff
will hit us
every time.
The Commis-
sioner con-
cludes with
earnest ad-
vice to stick
to the mar-
kets Maori-
land has
already de-
veloped.
Now this is
evidently
the yarn of a
straightforward
business ni an.
Why was Suttor
re-appointed at a
much larger screw?
Is he making business hum ?
Some Opposition member might move for a return
of the orders for Australian produce bool:!-!
through Trade Commissioner Suttor.
The dreary old “marriage-tie” lie isn’t
dead yet, it seems. Bill Lyne happened into his
constituency recently, and was immediately
held up by women voters, who asked if it were
true that, supposing they voted for him, the
marriage-tie would be dissolved next year, and
that children would be taken away from their
mothers at the age of nine months, and kept in
State asylums till they were 18, and then turned
adrift. The weary Lyne said it was a glaring,
shrieking lie, and went on his way —to meet, at
Adelong, a nervously-prostrated woman shop-
keeper, who wanted to know if her shop would be
taken away from her if she voted for him. The
cause of all these problems was a few “Anti-
Sosh ” women organisers, who had been working
the women voters with the lie. But the obloquy
doesn’t rest so much with the women organisers,
who are more fools than rogues, as on the Anti-
Sosh male leaders who first set the lie afloat—and
keep it floating.
NOT A MASCOTTE.
Enter, a bird of ill omen.
THE SPEAKER : "Hullo! All turn round three
times!"
The Foreign-trade party lately sent an or-
ganiser down to Portland (Vic.), in little Wobinson’s
constituency, to teach the farmers the advantage
of having work done in Germany instead of Vic-
toria. It hired a hall, advertised the circum-
stance, and got up a neatly-turned address to
throw at Way back ; and there was a violent rush
of three persons to the premises. Still, there’s a
“great Preetrade revival ” in Victoria. G. Reid
says so.
The shepherd roaming o’er the plain,
The stockman on his lonely run,
The teamster with his bullock wain,
The sportsman out with rod or gun,
The digger on gold-bearing reef—
While firm to duty’s call they stand—
For coughs and colds they find relief
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure at hand.*
The Phonograph Song Book, containing
80 songs by popular favorites, and advertised in
The Bulletin of Sept. 20th, is published by
Allan and Co., of Melbourne, who inadvertently
omitted their name from the advertisement.*
THE DUAL ALLIANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Breslau, the Emperor William referred to God as the
old ally of the Hohenzollerns, and urged all to rally
round the throne to stem the tide of infidelity, to keep a
bright outlook for the future, and never to despair.
Personally, the lvaiser said, he was unable to stand pes-
simists. Let them depart if they thought they were able
to find a better country.— Cablegram.
Keep a good heart, Germans, holding by your own.
God is in His Heaven, I am on my Throne.
God is in His Heaven, whence His eye and hand,
Active in my service, buttress my command.
My Almighty Ally, through the changeful years,
Saves my house unshaken, free from doubts and fears.
Setting you example, O my subjects, who
All should line up with me as you see Him do.
Disbelief’s tide stemming, proof against despair,
Firm to find the future fortunate and fair.
I and God together, God and I agreed,
Make a combination far beyond your need.
But we value only those who hopeful feel,
Serving God and Kaiser with an equal zeal.
Let the pessimistic and the carping go
To a better country, if such land they know.
God and I don’t know it; nor can just men see
Any State swayed better than that ruled by me.
Never was a people shepherded like you.
I am watching o’er you ; God is watching, too.
Yes, unequalled sentries keep Die Wacht am Rhein,
I with God in union, God with me and mine.
N.S.W.
TALAIKKAH


•7
SI
Just Published.
A BRIGHT, EXTENSIVELY
ILLUSTRATED . . .
Style
Book
ABOUT
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS.
90 BOOT PICTURES.
If you are interested in . . .
GOOD BOOTS
We want you to have a copy
of this Style-Book.
IT’S FREE AND IT’S WORTH SENDINQ FOR.
CALLAGHAN boots
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTE ! —The Style Book contains all that’s useful
and novel in Ladies’, Gent.’s and Children’s
Boots and Shoes.
SOMETHING TO INTEREST YOU
HORACE FLETCHER’S CELEBRATED WORKS
The ABZ of Our Own Nutrition Post free, 6s. 6d.
The New Glutton or Epicure „ „ 6s. 6d.
The New Menticulture - „ „ 6s. 6d.
Happiness - - , „ 6s. 6d.
That Last Waif - „ 6s. 6d.
These works have an enormous sale in America, and, dealing as they
do with the important question of good health, the series should be
in every household library as a guide and reference.
SELF AND SEX SERIES.
What a Young Boy Ought to Know Post free, 4s. 6d.
By S. STALL.
What a Young Man Ought to Know Post free, 4s. 6d.
By S. STALL.
What a Young Husband Ought to Know, Post free, 4s. 6d.
By S. STALL.
What a Young Girl Ought to Know - Post free, 4s. 6d.
By MARY WOOD ALLEN, M.D.
What a Young Woman Ought to Know, Post free, 4s. 6d.
By MARY WOOD M.D.
What a Young Wife Ought to Know, Post free, 4s. 6d.
By EMMA DRAKE.
Dr. Hood’s Plain Talks and Commonsense Medical Adviser.
Handsomely bound in cloth, and illustrated. Containing 1000 pages about the
Human System, the Habits of Men and Women, the Cause and Prevention of
Disease, &c., &c. A very useful and instructive book. Post free, 10s. 6d
A New Supply of the Library of Wit and Humour.
A handsomely bound volume of over 400 pages of wit and humour, gleaned frorii
the writings of the World’s Greatest Humourists. A book that will drive awav
dull care. Post free, 4s. J
A DIARY is BETTER than a Good Memory.
JUST OPENED—A FULL RANGE OF DIARIES FOR 1907.
POCKET EDITIONS ..
OCTAVO SIZE ..
QUARTO SIZE ..
FOOLSCAP SIZE
.. Sd, Is, 1s 6d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s and 3s 6d, post Tree
ls 3d and 2s post free
1s 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 9d, 4s 9d and 5s 6d post free
1s 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 9d, 4s 9d, 5s 6d & 6/6 post free
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
9
UP-TO-DATE
PUBLISHERS, BOOKSELLERS,
STATIONERS, &c.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And ALL BRANCHES.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
P. & B. PRESERVATIVE PAINT
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAINTS.
DONT
give yourself too many chances for
worry. Coat your building materials
and machinery with P. & B. Paint, and
you needn’t worry about damp. Don’t
WASTE TIME
in putting it on ; just flow it on quickly,
and it will form a splendid blaok and
glossy surfacs. Made from a pure
mineral. Send for Booklet.
If it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & 00., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Yio.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Ohch., N.Z.
E. L. YENOKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vio,
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
jar
&
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27th OCTOBER., 1906.
First Prize, value £,500.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Cowderv, Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be .advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN Me DOUG ALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee
A HEAVY LUSTROUS fIOUSTACHE
I’ll Try It."
That’s the kind of Moustache that you like—and it
is the kind of Moustache that
CAPILLARINE
is giving men to-day. It’s a HAIR FORCER pure
and simple—and will grow strong hair on any lip.
For 20 years have we been selling it —and we have
yet to receive a complaint.
PRICE 10/6. Post tree to any part of Australasia.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
i-s ;
m
a?
a?
«s
S 3
Entertaining
“the Boys”
WITH
AN
EDISON
Phonograph.
T H muric Se 'buV ’pmlnrD that is alwa . vs full of good cheer-fun and
Funn B <« ntho w^^ H 0^ and make your home attractive. It tells
Edison Machines are sold throughout the
world, and are obtainable at all Phonograph
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand. Wben
you buy, let it be the Genuine Phonograph,
made by Edison.
Write to-day for our new booklet, “ Home Entertainments with the Edison Phonograph ’
It is Free. ’
LATEST RECORD LIST AND CATALOGUES OF INSTRUMENTS, FREE.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH Company
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


“M OT A” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade P" "W" I
American . . . 1 laVJ'Lb
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
PARIS HOUSE.
Tabk cT Hote Race Dinner
IN ST. .’AMES' HALL, 5.30 to 8.30 P.M.
ORCHE'TRAL PROGRAMME
Evert 9-
Evening. vO«
SCIATICA
Caused by Urio Acid in the Blood. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills Get at the Cause.
Sciatica is the name applied to rheumatism
when affecting the sciatic nerves, which are
situated in the region of the hips. It feels as if
the pains were in the bones, gnawing the very
life out of them. Sciatica, like rheumatism and
lumbago, is a disease of the blood, and can only be
*
<5%
7
effectually cured
by purifying and
cleansing the
system. Mrs.
•E. Bailey, of
Fairfowl- street,
off Y ule-street,
Dulwich Hill,
Sydney, says
‘‘ I beg to ac-
quaint you of the
fact that Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are
our sole family
medicine. They
were firstbrought
under our notice
when my hus-
band was suffer-
ing severely from
sciatica. He had
been away from
work for over six
months, during
which time ho tried all kinds of physics. Dr.
Morse’s Pills, however, entirely cured him,
enabling him to again follow his occupation, and
he has had no return of the complaint. This
happened four years ago, so that the cure has
been permanent. My daughter also derived much
benefit from them after trying many other pills,
which' had no satisfactory effect whatever, and
she is now perfectly well.” Those who suffer
from rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, or neuralgia,
will find Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills very
successful. Much immediate relief, however, may
be obtained by the use of Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment in conjunction with the pills.
This liniment has been thoroughly tested and will
be found invaluable in all cases of nerve, bone,
and muscle pains. Obtainable at all chemists,
stores, or will be sent post free on receipt of price.
Pills, Is. (6 bottles 6s. 6d); liminent, 2s. 6d.
(6 bottles 13s. 6d.) W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
58 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
TWIN SCREW MARINE MOTORS
For
{SPEED LAUNCHES
AUXILIARY YACHTS
LIGHT DRAFT VESSELS.
Sole Agents : F. H. RELPH.
MOTOR. LAUNCH AGENCY,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. T. 1760.
Cable Address—
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M- J- MOLONEY,'
Tattersa/I’s Club,
SYDNEY .
♦
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST riARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.==£S— 1 »
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
4
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, TattersalTs,
SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbeweky and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Betting on Epsom Handicap, at Randwick
(Saturday), has been fairly heavy and distributed. If
Berthier'continues sound, which is anything: but certain,
he has a chance second to none. Maximize (late Maga-
zine) is also a power to be reckoned with, though her easy
win of Flying Handicap, at Eosehill on Saturday last,
didn’t impress some shrewd watchers as much as it
appears to have impressed several Sydney sporting
scribes. The bold hid made by Pompous near the finish,
and his defeat of Maximize in Tatt.’s Club’s six-furlong
event at Randwick a week or two back, won him heaps of
friends. Marveil is another with good prospects.
Famous, though in the same stable as favorite Berthier,
is much the more seasoned and reliable of the pair, and,
having already proved his form and condition, will carry
heaps of public coin. Charles Stuart looks better than
for a long time, and quite the horse that beat
Gladsome brilliantly in the All-Aged Stakes at Bandwick.
A move from the right quarter in favor of Charles Stuart
would cause the books to tighten up hard. Maorilander
Savoury is fancied on the strength of a good gallop last
Saturday, after most of the touts had gone to breakfast,
and a possibility is Clonsilla, who, though working well,
is little heard of, but it is within probability that Luciana
may be preferred for the Epsom and Clonsilla kept for
Metrop. Summed up, the winner should be among Ber-
thier, Maximize, Famous, and Charles Stuart (if his
stable supports him), and likely outsiders are Savoury and
Lord Fitzrov. (N.B.— This is not so much an attempt to
point out the winner as to warn people off probable
losers.)
* * » *
At moment of writing Maoriland mare Solution
is voted sure for A. J.C. Metrop. on Monday, and better
than 7 to 2is not obtainable about her. The Bairn has
come on so much, showing improved form every time of
shaping, that it is certain he would be a lot higher in the
weight list than G.ll if the handicapper could go over his
work again. Poseidon’s brilliant win of Hawkesbury
Spring Handicap at Itosehill on Saturday indicates that
he possesses an excellent chance of appropriating one or
more of the approaching big things (his Metrop. weight is
6.7); and Noreen can he depended upon to run a sound
race from end to end. There are others who will pro-
bably be close up, or thereabouts, at the finish, and some
fancied Epsom candidate might rise to the cccasion, but
the writer knows nothing better than Noreen, Poseidon,
and The Bairn as named.
* *
Despite her “roaring” drawback, the beauti-
fully formed M.L. mare Isolt continues to open the eyes
of Randwick’s touts, who tip her liberally for w.f.a.
events, and reckon her more than likely to win owner
Stead the Craven Plate trophy.
* * *
Within a couple of weeks, Rosehill racecourse,
regarded as the safest outside Randwick, has seen the
death of two good-class nags. One, Sleeper, appeared
more than a possibility for coming Epsom or some later
big thing ; and last Saturday’s victim was the fine per-
former Sir Leonard, who, in his time, gathered Hampden
Stakes, Villiers Stakes, and A. J.C. St. Leger andOuniber-
land Stakes, also V. A.T.C. Futurity Stakes, Q.T.C. Queen’s
Plate and Royal Stakes, and Hawkesbury Spring and
Autumn Handicaps, as well as several minor tilings.
Sir Leonard was plainly beyond usefulness for racing-
purposes. The pity of it was that he had not been sent
to the stud.
* * * *
Rider (F. Conolly) of Rosehill Cup winner
Rosemead got £5OO. for his success—probably from the
drawer of the nag in the Tatt’s. sweep, which was won
locally. The other sweep went to a working miner’s
daughter at Charters Towers. She knew nothing about
her luck till four days after the race, and, consequently,
didn’t lay anything off.
The Warrnambool-Melbourne Dunlop Road-
race was a terrific struggle through sheets of falling rain,
over roads that, in most cases, were rivers, and which
were quagmires when they weren’t rivers. Nevertheless,
of the 235 acceptors 206 started on the long 165 miles
struggle under most depressing circumstances. The
limit men left at 5.45 in the cold, damp, grev, splashy
dawn, and the scratch riders started at 6.55. " Much of
the road was submerged to such an extent that the water
was over the feet of the riders, and had Wade’s anti-
Gambling Bill applied to that race the bettors would have
been exempt on the ground that it was an aquatic affair.
The six front markers put on speed in spite of the condi-
tions, and a great struggle took place between them and
a second bunch which included several Maorilanders.
The pursuing bunch eventually won after one of the most
difficult races ever held in Australia. D. 1). Riley, of
Westralia, finished first in Bhr. 58min. 50sec. He had
28min. handicap, and was closely followed by A. Birch
and A. Huram, both of Maoriland, both off the 24min.
mark. H. Mehrtens, the winner of the Timaru-Christ-
church race (M.L.), came in eleventh, having made the
fastest time, Bhr. 53min. The first five men all use !
Dunlops, as did Mehrtens.
The race was a great lift for Maoriland. Of tlw
eight men the Isles sent across, five were in the first
and one of them made the fastest time. Second, third,
seventh, ninth and eleventh were the places they filled.
In spite of the shocking state of the road accidents were
few. Riley, who won, had a bad fall. Another man
ran over a dog and damaged his wrist so that he could not
continue (fate of dog not recorded). A third collided
with a boy and came a terrific cropper. Maorilander
O’Connor fell, and brose his machine so that he had to
retire, and Huram, who finished third, struck the earth
four times. Up to the present no word has been received
that any of the competitors were drowned, but perhaps
they haven’t been counted yet, and some mother’s son
may have disappeared and not been missed.
*■*■*■*
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association, which is
putting up a game though impossible struggle against
the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen, brought its Goulburn to
Sydney Road Race to a successful issue on Saturday. The
powerful Dunlop co. gave valuable assistance, donating
£3O and a gold medal for the first prize, and arranging
for the feeding of the riders on the road. There were
15 prizes in all, aggregating £l5O. Only 47 started. One
man fell into Paddy’s River, owing- to a collision with
another rider on the bridge, and had to swim out; but
otherwise there were no accidents. A. E. Fowler, of
Goulburn, who started from the 22min. mark, with C.
Butler, of Camden, went to the front early in the race.
At Camden, Fowler went away from Butler, and beat
mm home by five minutes. The third place was filled by
B. Henry, a Sydney youth. The time was 7hr. 28min.
25sec., which is 22min. 18sec. more than Arnst’s record
for the same distance last year. The Dunlop co. had the
satisfaction of seeing the three first men arrive on
Dunlops; and Fowler, who finished first, also put up the
fastest time.
* * * *
As this paper anticipated, the Gardiner Cup
went to Glebe (Syd.) after a final game with P.yrmont,
which was one of the best exhibitions of Association that
?v, man cou ' ( l w * s h to see. Rugbyites and others were
there to see what sort of animal the Association game is.
Six thousand looked on, and cheered madly at the splen-
did exhibition of speed and skill. The play' of both goal-
keepers was superb, and they saved their sides over and
over again. Altogether Glebe back division was very
strong, while Pyrmont’s strength lay in its forwards. The
Pyrmonters opened with swift attack, and in less than
50sec. had shot their first goal. Glebe awakened to the
gravity of the situation, and after splendid play, the scores
were equalised by a kick that was simply invincible,
then something happened which made it 'appear that
f? 6 ?> 0<^s le s t ar s in their courses were fighting
A strenuous charge had gathered
™ e leather an( l the men right on Glebe goal line,
where the goal-keeper kicked out with all his heart and
was the strength he put into it that did the
mischief. The ball rose like a shot from a mortar, and,
striking a Pyrmonter, rebounded right into the Glebe
t'fi l . vw £ Pyrmont a lead of a goal. Both teams took
on their caps to what seemed a direct interposition of
providence, and someone inquired if it was worth con-
tinuing .the match. Then Glebe commenced a whole
series of strong attacks, and, after many repulses, suc-
ceeded in scoring another goal, and the half ended two
ail. The second spell found both sides much exhausted.
I'yrmontattacked, but was repulsed, and Glebe, follow-
ing up, shot again. This was the decisive stroke. Both
teams staggered about for a while, but neither had the
strength to get past the other’s goal-keeper, and the
game ended in favor of Glebe—three goals to two.
A feature of the Glebe-Pyrmont Association
match was a “save” accomplished by Glebe full-back
bplatt. In Association the ball has to pass under the
bar and not over it, as in all other football. Carey, the
Pyrmont forward, took careful aim, and kicked high, so
that the downward curve would just cut in under the
bar. The Glebe goal-keeper eyed it warily. He saw it
was out of reach, but with a leap he just managed to
touch it with his outstretched fingers, and divert it over
instead of under the bar, amidst tremendous applause.
The Vic. League football final on Saturday was
?u m ?? lentou .® circumstance to some 44,000 spectators at
the Metropolitan Cricket Ground. For some inscrutable
reason Fitzroy was favorite in the betting, but from the
bounce Carlton held its own, and ran away at the finish.
It was a well contested game, with a casual “ scrap ” or
two, but no more. There was little system on either side,
but the Blue-and-Whites gripped the ball more surely,
were swifter throughout, and lasted better. Also, the
team is trained to the hour. But an equally well-
trained team, with a system, would beat Carlton
every time. (’Wood came within 10 points of it
the previous Saturday, but couldn’t last out the last
quarter.) First quarter saw the Blues 20 points to ’Boy’s
1.5 ; at half-time the case looked much worse—Carlton
seven goals four behinds to ’Boy’s one goal seven behinds.
Then the Maroons came out for the uphill fight, and in
the third term put on five goals one behind to Carlton’s
two goals—rand there was still hope. But the effort had
taken all the stiffening out. of them, and in the last
quarter the Blues did almost as they liked, adding six
goals, while the Maroons notched only one solitary be-
hind. The ful’ score showed exceptionally straight kick-
ing on Oarlto s part—ls goals four behinds to six goals
nine behinds. -t is 19 years since Carlton has flown the
premiership pennant, though before ’B7 it had reached
the top rung five times—in ’7l, ’73, '74, ’75, and ’77.
* * » *
As a curtain-raiser, the League provided what
was, in many ways, a prettier spectacle than the big
match a game between the Fort-street (Sydney) school-
hoys and a combined team from the Vic. State schools.
The Sydney lads are much larger than the Victorians. They
were stated to be all under 16, but the Victorian youngster
leaves school at 14, and the average age of the lads
who represented Albert Park (the Victorian premiers) on
the Wednesday previous was about 13J. Consequently
the Cornstalk infants walloped the Albert Park lads by
99 points to 16. On Saturday the combined team—the
best player from each of 18 district schools—ran over Fort-
street, though the latter still had the advantage in weight
and height. These kiddies play such an unselfish game,
and are withal so keen and quick, that the crowd grew
quite enthusiastic. In a few years, when the nippers are
“ seniors,” inter-State matches should be a real gold mine
to the governing bodies.
The Association finished its semi-finals in
Melbourne with the game between Bichmond and Foots-
cray, which provided a keen struggle to delight 16,000
spectators. In many ways it was a prettier game than
the bigger match, the teams bearing each other no ill-
will, and having the most competent umpire in Victoria
to control matters. Footscray won by nine points, so it
meets West next Saturday for the pennant, though West
has a right to challenge if defeated.
* * * *
North Adelaide football club, which gave a fine
exhibition under Australian rules in Sydney lately, has
been causing a mild sensation at home. All the season it
ran a bad third to Norwood and Port Adelaide, which
lost only one match each (to each other). But in a brief
final round, confined to the first four clubs of the season,
North beat Port and Norwood in turn. Port, being the
leaders up till then (with a better goal average than Nor-
ivood), had the right to challenge, and the Oval held a
bigger sporting crowd than it has ever seen before, except
on the Saturday of Banji’s test match, years ago. This
time Port Adelaide won the game and the premiership,
and everyone is content except the Norwoods, who allege
grumpily that their season’s work gives them a claim to
a better place than third. But the S.A. Football Associa-
tion rolls gaily in the £476 of riches which the “gate”
produced, and doesn’t care who grumbles.
* * * *
Dunedin (M.L.) has produced a pair of fancy
rifle shots named A. W. A. Barnard and E. Godso. They
use the ordinary pea-rifle of "22 calibre. At a private ex-
hibition they are reported to have put up an amazing
performance. Barn.ard shoots moving objects, while
Got devotes his ,■ >ntion to stationary ones. The
120 swinging bok s were perforated. Visiting-cards,
edge on to the marksman, were split. Barnard
V b * a cigar, and Godso cut the ash off the end of it
w. 7 bullet. At this stage the spectators called loudly
for •rnething to hold them up. Then Barnard held a
match’ between his forefinger and thumb, and Godso lit
it by grazing the phosphorus with a bullet. The audience
thereupon sat down with a bump. Barnard’s perform-
ance was, with one exception, entirely with moving
objects. He placed six numbered playing-cards on
a wheel, and when it was revolving rapidly hit
whichever card was called upon. While Godso waltzed
around with a clay pipe in his mouth Barnard knocked
the howl off it. A brick was suspended by a piece of
string and set swinging. He shot away the string. Then
he fixed a loaded rifle in a shooting tripod, and got across
to the other side of the room with a glass on his head.
Taking aim down the rifle barrel he placed his head where
the bullet would hit the glass, and pulled the string
attached to the trigger. The bullet did the rest, and
shattered the glass within half-an-inch of his head.
Here the broken-up audience just fell down dead for an
hour or two, and was only revived with difficulty as the
hotels were closing.
The popular pastime in the eastern States of
America just now is ballooning. And for infernal danger
and general destruction it beats motoring into oblivion.
The anchors carry away clothes lines, rip up roof-gardens,
haul'off chimney tops. Sometimes, when the balloon
swoops low, they get caught in carriages, and horses’
winkers, and cause considerable excitement. At Bhode
Island a man spent 710,000 on a new conservatory
and had just finished showing a crowd of friends over it.
They were sitting down to dinner in full view of the new
creation, when some fool whose dirigable balloon had gone
wrong crashed down into it. When he was extricated
from the wreck he started to explain that the accident
was due to something having gone wrong with
the machinery that controlled the aeroplanes, helped
himself to a glass of wine, and walked out without
offering to pay for the damage down. Another case :
The people in the main street of Long Island heard a
hideous noise in the upper air, and cricking their necks
to gaze at the sky found it blotted out. Some thousands
of square feet of balloon was slowly settling down on the
street. The car landed on the top of a seven-storied
building, and the occupants scrambled out. The great
bag wobbled slowly down, and for several hours traffic
was held up while the thing was deflated and folded up.
It seems that a man who falls from the upper air and
destroys your property is not responsible, there being no
laws dealing with the matter. U.S. law seems to be
horizontal, not perpendicular, and doesn’t extend far
enough in an upward direction to properly control the
balloon. Some day, if this defect isn’t remedied, some
person will build a sky-scraper so tall that the U.S.
statutes can be broken with impunity in the top storey.
* « » *
The Vic. Amateur Billiard Association brought
off a very successful championship meeting at Aleoek’s
hall, though one of the four men left in for the semi-final
was unable to play his heats. Jacoby was expected to
prove the survivor of the quartette, but he got beaten
bv I). Robertson, who subsequently fought out the final
with last year’s champion, Arthur Tricks. They played
1500 up in three sessions of 500 each, and at the end of
the first session Robertson had a lead of 238. Resuming
next afternoon, Tricks, playing the better class game but
with less caution and generalship than the other man,
wiped off his deficit and was actually in front for a moment.
Then Robertson plucked up, and got to 1000 when Tricks
stood at 925. The third stage wasagood display of superior
billiards on the one side, and gameness. Tricks
won by 58 points. In the course of this well-contested
game the winner proved himself the more accurate player
for position, and he got the “strength” better than
Robertson, who sometimes left the object ball in baulk
after scoring a losing hazard. The winning hazard play
of both men was about equal, and Robertson, in spite of
two or three unwise misses, got better results from his
safety tactics than his opponent got from his “gallery”
strokes. Still, Tricks asserted a distinct supremacy (after
he had warmed up to his task) by scoring 1238 points to
Robertson’s 942, playing an uphill game most of the time.
There’s a straightforward boldness in his billiards which
belies his name. His method has no “ concealed great-
ness ” about it. According to present arrangements he
will have to meet Rumball, the Sydney amateur champion,
on Melbourne Cup-day. The conjunction of names—Rum-
ball v. Tricks —is somewhat Dickenesque.
* * * *
A long and lively fight was provided when
Greek met Greek in the persons of Lyn Truseott, of Syd-
ney, and Bobbie Greenshields, of Westralia, at Melbourne
Olympic Club’s high hall the other night. Truseott had
the advantage of six or seven pounds avoirdupois, also of
a couple of inches in length, and several years of
experience, but Greenshields had superior clever-
ness. The referee said that Greenshields had
won on points, and that the verdict was certainly a true
one is evidenced by the fact that Truscott’s friends
clamored for nothing better than a draw. On
the following Wednesday evening, in the same
high hall, Jock MTvor flocked into the ring to deal
with Black, “The Fighting Englishman.” Mclvor was
much the smaller man, but he is practically a fight-
ing Australian, whereas “the Fighting Englishman” is
only a good-tempered young mart with an astonishing
, love of being damaged. Black survived the first round
only to be completely outed in the second. Yet an hour
later writer saw the beaten man airing a black eye in
the city, but otherwise not a ha’porth the worse for
wear and tear. He said Mclvor was troublesome while
he lasted, but nothing to the Australian mosquitoes last
summer.
*«•*■•*
Bill Squires, having been done out of his chance
of a battle in Australia for the world’s championship,
may consent to meet his friend and fellow-townsman,
Bill Smith, whose dramatic whipping of the African,
English, and Irish champion, Williams, gives him an
emphatic claim upon the attentions of the Australian
“ master.” Squires and Smith are cobbers, but the latter
would like to have a big try with the champion, and the
“gate ” would certainly be worth it. Meanwhile Squires,
of Newcastle, is talking of going to America to meet
O’Brien on his own ant-hill, and Wren promises £lOO
towards a fund to send Bill where glory waits.
« • * *
O’Brien’s cable —if he sent it—proves him a fool,
or proves that he takes Australians for fools. If he
declines to go to a country where sport—his sport—is a
Crime, and athletes who take part in it are outlaws
(meaning thereby, presumably, criminals), the O’Hagen
will have to give New Yark a very wide berth. Also, his own
city, Philadelphia is not much better ; in that delightful
town fights are limited to six or eight rounds, and stagger
along under all manner of disabilities. In fact, in the
great and glorious U.S.A. there are some half-dozen
States in which Mr. O’Brien’s particular brand of sport is
a crime, and where he would be gaoled for creating a
disturbance such as he proposed to create here in con-
junction with Bill Squires.
* * • *
To “Green Horn ”: John L. Sullivan certainly
claimed to be champion fighter of the world, and, as
there is no governing body to decide the question, any
man can call himself champion heavyweight of the planet,
or of Mars, or anywhere else. But the question as to
whether Jonel was “morally ” entitled to call himself
such is another matter. He was a great fighter with
his mouth, but failed to knock-out Mitchell, of England,
and wouldn’t hear of fighting Peter Jackson, of Australia.
Under these circumstances, on the grounds of equity and
high Worrality, Jonel’s claim to the world’s championship
is hereby disallowed.
* * * *
“ Num ” : Was reading somewhere that Mac-
kennal used no less than seven models in sculping his
“ Circe.” On the same principle, I have been constructing
in mind an ideal pug. Here he is : Height, Bill Smith ;
weight, Dick Kernick ; reach, Peter Felix ; chest, Dan
Creedon ; arm and legs, Bill Squires ; feet, Bob Fraser
(the quickest footwork man at the game); abdominal
muscles, Jack Willis; heart, Cullen ; temper, Jack
McGowan ; and back, Arthur Cripps. A thousand or two
years ago somebody said that the back of the statue of
Theseus was the finest thing in the world. He had never
seen the rear view of Cripps.
According to the New York Police Gazette
Hock Keys, who could not find an American to stand un
against him, met his fate when he faced Englishman
Fred Welsh, who is touring the States at present in
search of scalps. The Englishman was the lighter of the
pair, but his speed and baulking skill had Keys com
pletely hazed at the end of the eight round. At the end
of the 17th Keys’ seconds dropped the towel into the
ring to avoid the disaster of a knock-out, for their man
was so exhausted that he had ceased to be capable of
putting up a decent defence. This is somewhat unex-
pected, and if Welsh is so much more clever than the
brilliant Hock, then he is a wondrously clever voun*
man indeed, and the Yankee lightweights of the first
water will be getting hurt something considerable
shortly.
* * • «
“Snell ” : There appear to be a lot of people
anxious to defame boxing in the columns of The Bulletin
and the passionate gentleman who gurgled over the
horrors of the amateur boxing contests in Melbourne is
the largest whale for misrepresentation in the swim
There was no leg broken in the battles. Outhwaite
twisted a joint, as he might have done with a mis-step in
the street, and his worst infirmity was a slight limp • and
of all the others butchered for the amusement of the
monsters composing the audience there was not one in-
capable of rejoining the crowd in the hall and enjoying
the rest of the show after a visit to the changing-rooin. *
* * # «
N.S.W. Rowing Association is just awakening
to the fact that amateur rowing is somewhat decayetl
and in need of vigorous stimulation. The Bowing Ass!
is itself to blame for the decay. At present six metro-
politan clubs constitute the governing body, and seem to
be mostly anxious to keep up the Sheen on the sport’s
silver tail. Now the Ass. proposes to allow some of the
common herd to come in, under strictly limited condi-
tions, for the sake of lifting the boat out of the mud.
But the hauteur of the Association would kill any sport.
* * * *
Champion English professional peel. B. R. Day
is on his way to Westralia to race Australian champion
A. B. Postle, for the world’s championship, at Kalgoorlie
in December. A purse of £2OO goes with the title, and a
side wager of £3OO is being posted—although the backers
of each athlete are perfectly willing to lift the amount
considerably. The distances decided upon are—7syds.,
130yds., and 300yds. In all fairness, and for the sake of
records, ’twould be as well if the Kalgoorlie tracks were
surveyed and levelled, in order to wipe out the squabbling
which arose over the recent flying spins done by Postle.
(Continued on page hO.)


& i
.FI ~
i
u
3h« #''
?N
/ /
•*'
■'a:
t , &**J--:~ 7 ,»<
& JSC if.
N_/
3»
* t
* -"
•t 1
UNION.—First prize, value £5OO, DIAMOND TIARA, Gold Settintr 254 Pure
oortfon o?TiaJ-a^« nd K i T | he th T Sfca !? are detachable > and oan be used as Pendants or Brooches,’ and lower
stoet ODDorite Raßwflv jec . lall >' d e si S ned and manufactured by A. Saunders, Jeweller and Silversmith, 809 George-
A V !i"’ Syd £? y ’ ln whose window the above will be on view till after drawing. Tickets Is.
each, obtainable from A. Saunders. Numerous other prizes on view. It is well worthy of inspection.*
M
I—l* Ml
22Z
firaphophones
Make Happy Homes*
GENUINE
COLUMBIA
MAKE
Price, 15- Complete,
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co.
GEN’L.,
25 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
COUNTRY VISITORS
New
Spring
Suitings
Sty/ish
Pattorns
Should certainly take advantage of this splendid opportunity of
being measured, while in Sydney, for future orders, which they
surely will give us, after inspecting our unapproachable goods and
Store, which is the Largest Toiloring- Establishment in the
Commonwealth.
All Measures kept for future reference.
Patterns, Self-measurement Forms and Fashion Plates sent to
any address on receipt of a postcard.
E. T. WALSH,
Merchant Tailor
and Importer, >? i?
359 GEORGE STREETSYDNEY.
Made
Australian Fruits, Flowers
and Herbs.
Nothing
So Good
On Earth
For Skin,
Complexion,
Scalp,
Hair,
Skin Disease,
Chapping,
Redness.
.
, ■
M
.
Quite Unequalled for
(Shaving.
r _
Kugelm<>r>rv>'K r e Heri JJk iV\ ,Xap .Tlsy be
all Ckeivv/I > <£> w/tbre/Keeper./ tbroutoKout"
per Box of b> "Tablet/*.
«- , -rj . P^r
soieT?o pr H-E-KL/OELriaTiN 4 COMPANY
TA WHOLE JALE * DRUG GISTS'& -FIAN R*/*.
rH6 OUEEN-ymß'. N . E -?• 199 CLARENCE 5 T SYDNEY.
i Arvd £T ADELAIDE <5 TSRI iE> AMEL .
FREE SAMPLE sent on receipt of Twopenny Stamp.
TWO OF THE NEW SEASON'S SKIRTS
AND HOW TO ORDER THEM . ?
T F you are attracted by the Skirts on this page it is an easy matter to order. Send u. c _>ur measurements as directed below and we
1 will forward the Skirt, carriage paid, to your nearest Post Office or Railway Station. A remittal V.:or the amount must accompany
the order, but if you are dissatisfied with the Skirt when received, or think our plate gave a wrongV it may be returned and
your money refunded. If you cannot personally visit us, we can reach you by Mail, as we send ill’goods, excepting Furniture and
Floor covering, carriage paid, throughout the Commonwealth. A post card addressed to us will bring you our new Fashion Book.
A.'*
No. 18.
10/6
No. 18.
Smart Skirts in Assorted
Grey Tweeds, also Navy
Panama Cloth. Price 10/6.
No. 28.
•White Linen Skirts,
trimmed Embroidery
The embroidery
does not go all
round the Skirt—only as shown
in illustration, j 2/ 6.
Quote Numbers when ordering.
Insertion.
The Following Sizes we have
in Stock :
LENGTH HIPS WAIST
In Front 5 Inches Measure*
From lower Below meets..
part of Waist Waist.
Band to bot-
tom of Skirt.
Out Sizes will be specially
made for 2s. each extra.
12/6
•D
&
No. 28.
David Jones GH Co.
Opposite G.P.0.,
Sydney


A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s Ad, 20s, 255, 30s; £2.
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4-
YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold SCROLL BRCOCSH,
Pearls and Rubies. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Pearls and Rubies, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH.
Set Pure White Pearls, £5 Ss.
Diamond Centre, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH,
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c t Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewelled,
£2 10s, ;CJ £3 10s, £4, £5, £6
£7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2. 3. 4 . and 5 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opt Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, i
Sizes' £2 10s, £3. £3 10s, £4. All with
Chains attached.
i Four
Safety
Country
Residents !
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
if personally selecting
in our great store.
fiEa
./'W
Hi
to*
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BIIOOCII,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre BROOCH,
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Pearls a;ul Rubies,
A. SAUNDERS.
Stet. Gold CROSS,
6s Cd.
Larger,
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Half Chased Bamboo
Safety Chain attached, £2 15s.
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
BRACELET, with
Smaller, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ruby
or Sapphire, 20s.
Pure Double. £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
Pe-1 Set
W* JBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Spray
BROOCH.
Rear'll and
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Two-Heart
RING,
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds. £4 10s.
'The LokdWhch
Between Ik
Wmch
9tr
iHtE
Aft OTHER!
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM, 8s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Crescent NECKLET, Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £4.
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete in Silk-Lined Case.
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Circle
BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £i.
A. SAUNDERS..
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH. Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
N N
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM. 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Pure Double Out Diamond
BROOCH, £2. Larger Diamond, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold, £3.
18et. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £6 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Marquise
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s. £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS,
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger, 12s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Rubies*
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Envelope
CHARM. 12s 6d.
Post Card, 10s 6a.
Silver, 4s 6d.
SPECIAL,
15s.
Strong,
63 6d, 10s,
Our “Guard
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
SUPERIOR,
17s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £B, £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Pilled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS. 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Out Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £3.
15ct. Gold, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Oval
LINKS. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Initials Engraved Free.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVtK~
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Pjg
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. So—
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS
( SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, )
\ SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
809, 8(1, 813, 815, 817
GEC (RGE-STREET,
( Opp.
i Railway
] Station,
v Sydney,


r
IU
V,
J S
w
V i
*c.vn
W' M
jp;
\
a
\
-V
M
V
m
V
/
9
<y
f
v
u
*/
c
natrrv J .V/pjtbK.
A Happy Day Ashore with Yankee Doodle,
No. 4. r “ n st °P, "i"> “11 “«pt the smoKinS. When Life’s little ills overtaKe you, what
better solace than YANKEE DOODLE?
(To be continued in our next.)


The Lottery Bill now before N.S.W. Par-
liament is thorough. Not only is it illegal to
hold any sort of lottery, but to receive a ticket is
an offence punishable by a £lOO fine.
While the Victorian school kiddies were
showing what they can do at Melbourne Exhibi-
tion, horrible revelations were being.made about
the state of the places in which they learn to do
it. A report from the health officer atßuther-
glen made people wonder that there were any
children alive thereabouts. One room had
green fungus growing out of the damp
walls for 2ft. Gin. above the floor. There
were 120 children packed into that room, and
it had only 1208 cubic feet of air space for them
and the fungus. The furniture and desks had
been in use since 1872, and were in a shocking
state of decay. The whole school was damp.
There were insufficient windows, insufficient light,
insufficient air. The ceilings and floors were
ricketty and ancient. The youngest and gayest fur-
niture was 29 years old. The health officer said :
“ It is little short of criminal to herd such a num-
ber of children in such a school.” Bent is going
to do something towards improving matters, and
£lOO,OOO has been set apart for this work. But it
is a mere drop in the bucket. There is hardly a
school outside the metropolitan show buildings
that does not require radical alteration to make
it conform to the lowest standard of the Board of
Health. Most of them want radical obliteration.
Amusements.
OWN HALL, SYDNEY-
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF
BLANCHE ARRAL
SATURDAY and MONDAY, SEPT. 29tli and OOT. Ist.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices—6s, 3s, 2s, Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. CLYDE MEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 29th.
Revival of the Most Popular Play in Australia—the
Famous Musical Drama,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
PRICES—POPULAR. Plan, Elvy’s.
HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
AMERICA AT WORK AND PLAY.
INSTANTLY ACKNOWLEDGED EVERYWHERE.
The Greatest Animated Picture Organisation in the
Colonies. Two Machines. Two Operators.
Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Pronounced Triumph of CHARLES WALDRON, OLA
HUMPHREY and Mr. J. C. Williamson’s New Dramatic
Company in Milton Boyle’s Melo-comedy Drama—
THE SQUAW MAN.
Box Plan at Palings. IW PRICES AS USUAL.
Amusements.
Theatre
T.
Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
BLAND HOLTS Mammoth Drury-lane Spectacular
Drama,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic Organisation of
the Australian States.
Box Plan at Elvy's. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
JAY MARKET HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at S o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY,
fcy PRICES—Cd. and Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator, in “Fun on a
Battleship."
Continued Success of LA MOTO GIRL.
SEYMOUR and DUPRE, Comedy and Specialty Artists.
Enormous Success of MR. HARRY BEDFORD.
MISS NELLIE KILBURN, the Charming Young English
Burlesque Artiste.
KELLY and AGNES.
MAUD FANING, TOM DAWSON, OLIVE LENTON, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
ALF. CHESTER, Leading English Comedian.
HARRY LEWIS, Quaint Comedian.
VIOLET STOOKELLE, Dainty Comedienne.
FLORRIE HENDERSON and her Perlorming Dogs and
Monkeys.
HARRY TATE’S Co. in Comedy Sketch, “Motoring.”
LITTLE CLIFF, Comedian, Expert Dancer.
OASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentrique.
AUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers, in “Athletes
at Play.”
Plan at Allan’s. S3T PRIOES-Bs, 2s 6d, 2s, Is
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Old Favorite Opera,
LA MASCOTTE.
For 12 Nights Only.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
RE-AI’PEARANCE OF
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
after 3 years’ absence, and first production in Melbourne
THE EARL AND THE GIRL.
p r i ces — 3a., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. CHAS. HOLLOWAY in
TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.
After Lapse of 8 years.
PRICES—6s, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
The Grand.
™LCRACKAJACK
No. 12 SONGSTER
Just run TOO, eve over this glorious contents OVER. 40 OF THE MOST POPULAR
cM^HeIuCCE Y SSESOF GffiE y pALOTTA?'SL£m KiLBURN? y TOM
DAwIo^ E FKED E BLUETT, NADA MORET, VICTOR KELLY, and other
Popular Artists. All for 6d., Posted 7d.
CONTENTS : THis is the Latest.
A Sweetheart for Every Day
Borneo
Bombay
Di- Di-Diddidy-Di.
Do a Good Turn When you are Able
Don’t Be Silly
Genevieve
He’s Me Pal
How’d You Like to Spoon With Me
How Dare You ?
I Don't Want No Black Cat to
Cross My Path
I Only Know That / Love You
I See You’ve Got the Old Brown
Hat On
/ Want You to Notice My Leggings
I’ve Got to Dance Till the Band
Gets Through
in Dear Old Georgia
It’s All Right in the Summer Time
In the Parlor with the Lamp
Turned Low
Just a Little Rocking Chair and
You
Love Me and the World is Mine
Lusana
Mama’s Boy
Molly, / Love You
Nellie Dean
Nobody
Oh ! Who Says So ?
Put a Little Bit Away for a Rainy
Day
Send Me a Picture Postal Card
Smile On Me
Starlight
Stop Yer Tickling, Jock
Tammanee
Take Me to Your Heart Again
The Peanut Man
The Next Horse / Ride On
The Parrot Duet
The Cheese
The Girl that is Waiting For You
The Laxy Man
The Singer was Irish
The New Office Boy
Too Laxy to Live
Waiting at the Church
We’re the Same Old Pals To-Day
Will You Love Me in December as
You Do in May ?
Won’t You Take Me Back With You?
Ask your bookseller to show you a copy, or, if he has sold out,
send us 7 Stamps and we will send you a copy.
ALLAN & CO., 276-278 Collins St., Melbourne.
PHONOGRAPH...
The Grandest Song
£>W VJTIIs Book ever issued.
It contains the words of over 80 of the latest and most popular Songs of to-day, in-
cluding successes such as Bombay, Hear the Pipers, Apple Tree, Daddy s
Little Girl, Wooden Hut, Old Bull and Bush, Singer was Irish,
Keep a Little Cosy Corner, My Irish Molly O, Starlight, Stop
Yer Tickling Jock, Walking Home with Angeline, Teasing,
Where the Sunset turns the Ocean’s Blue to Gold, &c., &c.
The Only BooK of the Kind in existence.
Price Is., Posted 1s 2d. 0
ALLAN & CO., 276-278 Collins St., Melbourne.
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH
Free Exhibition.
• ••THEala
Wonderful Invention fully Explained and Demonstrated.
(WITH FULL- SET MARCONI INSTRUMENTS).
Sending' Messages through the Walls, Ringing Fire Bells,
Blowing' Fog' Horn, WorKing' Railroad Danger Signal, and
Lighting Electric Lights, ALL WITHOUT ANY WIRES.
Only TWO MORE NIGHTS
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27th,
... AND ...
FRIDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 28th,
AT 8 P.M.,
Centenary Hall, YorK St
This will be the LAST opportunity to see these instruments.
For further information See
H. G. ROBINSON.
Special Representative, MUNROC MUNROff
No. 1 Ground Floor, 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.


The S. Aus. Register has been hurling
indignant paragraphs at the Price Government
because the Parliamentary inspection of the
recently completed Pinnaroo railway wasn’t turned
into a razzle-dazzle. The Pinnaroo district is
several miles from nowhere, and the railway is a
second-hand affair laid on sand. The country
was inhabited mostly by mallee-hens and kanga-
roos until the last year, when a few farmers
started operations without the help of the line.
But, apparently, the Register, and the other
hangers-on of the party, expected spacious dining
halls, champagne, and finger-bowls. It is a
happy State in which the worst that can be said
of its Government is that, when it takes a party
over a new line, it can’t see that the State should
fill ’em up every 10 minutes for every guzzler who
happens to be hanging round.
Some months ago, when the A.M.P. de-
cided to have its new Melbourne offices built by a
Sydney architect, Pitt, M.L.C., Bent’s colorless
honorary Minister, who is an architect in private
life, wailed like a hyaena with the stomach ache
about “foreign competition.” Now, this same
bottomless Pitt has been instrumental in per-
suading the Melbourne Harbor Trust, of which he
is a prominent member, to send to England for
two new hopper barges or dredges or something
at a total cost of £24,000. One of the British
craft is to be bought from a firm which, in turn,
bought it cheap when it was stranded on a rock
off the coast of Spain. It was built for the
Spanish Government, but, after it was rescued
and repaired, the Spaniards inspected it and
declined to touch it with a long pole. Still it is
supposed to be good enough for Australia. Years
ago, parties in Petticoat-lane, London, used to
advertise for “left-off clothing for the colonies.”
Now we get the left-off dredge. The owners have
been trying to sell it in many places for the last
eight months, but until the Australian with his
importing craze came along it seems there wasn’t
a bid.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report : On
Tuesday 18 inst., we brought forward a catalogue of 3074
bales, chiefly composed of wools from the Western, North
Western and Southern districts. Competion was good
for all descriptions of greasy at prices on a par with those
ruling at our last sale on the 4th. Scoureds, however,
sold irregularly. Highest price in grease was lljd., paid
for Ist Com. E of the Jones/Bullagreen brand from the
Castlereagh, the Ist Com. H selling at lid. Wool of fine
quality, good staple, and bright, but slightly touched
with burr. Other leading lines were: ABT/Wilgar
Downs from Hermidale, 71 bales Ist Com. W 10Jd., 70
bales Ist Com. W 10Jd., of good quality and staple, but
earthy in condition. ABT'Mer.vula from Nyngan, 67
bales Ist Com. A V 10Jd., 57 bales Broken 101 d., fine
quality, soft, but rather wasty. Wilgar Downs from
Hermidale, Ist Com. E 101(1., EH IOJd. ; good quality
and staple, little seedy and earthy. Eremeran from
N.vmagee, 53 bales Ist Com. IOJd. ; fine quality, sound,
rather seedy, wasty' backs. Bunna Burma from Moree,
16 bales AFYVand AFEH IOJd. ; fine quality, good staple,
earthy. ABT/Canonbar from Nyngan, 122 bales Ist Com.
W 10.jd., 56 bales 2nd Com. W and 68 bales Ist, pieces W
9fd., good quality and staple, wasty backs. CC/G from
Burren Junction, 10 bales EF 10Jd., of good quality and
staple, but heavy in condition. OAC/Marlow from Burren
Junction, Com. 10Jd., good quality, rather tender and.
wasty. At auction and privately we sold 2508 bales. Our
next sale takes place on 4th prox.*
Missing- Friends.
AGEE, DANIEL, late of Bendigo,
Victoria, son of the late Arthur Magee.
Information required by the undersigned as to
his whereabouts. If he, or any one who knows
him, will communicate it will be to his advan-
tage.
FRANK J. MAGOBOY,
Solicitor,
Albion Chambers,
Bendigo, Victoria.
WILL W. E. DALRYMPLE, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, write friend,
“ ADELAIDE,”
care Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne,
Mining.
BUDGERY.
Write direct to
G. M. FIELD
for Reliable Information. On the Ground.
TO WELL-BORING CONCERNS.
THE TARANAKI OIL AND FREEHOLD COMPANY,
Ltd., New Plymouth, New Zealand,
invite Communications from Contractors prepared to
PUT DOWN CASED WELLS
to Probable Depth 2500 feet.
F. P. CORKILL,
Chairman.
Legal Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
IN THE SUPREME COURT,
No. 83 of 1906.
IN THE MATTER of the Estate of WILLIAM
JONES late of Port Road Southwark but
formerly of Eagle on the Hill in the State of
South Australia gentleman deceased
and
IN THE MATTER of The Administration and
Probate Act 1801.
WHEREAS WILLIAM JONES above
described by his Will directed The Pub-
lic Trustee of South Australia as his trustee after
the decease of his son and daughter to hand over
all his real and personal estate (sworn for the pur-
poses of Probate and succession duties not to ex-
ceed £12,000) to four trustees appointed by the
Incorporated Body of Freethinkers of South Aus-
tralia for the benefit of that Institution AND
WHEREAS the Public Trustee has taken out a
summons herein for advice and direction of this
Court on the following (among other) matters
namely
1. Is there an Institution in South Australia now
in existence and entitled “The South Australian
Freethought Society Incorporated ” NOW THIS
IS TO GIVE NOTICE that pursuant to the
order of His Honor Mr. Justice Gordon made on
the 16th August 1906 during the trial of the
questions of fact arising in this matter ALL
PERSONS CLAIMING to be either life mem-
bers or honorary members and all persons claim-
ing to have any claim or interest in the property
and assets of and any person or persons claiming
to hold office in the South Australian Freethought
Society Incorporated are requested to send their
names and addresses together with a short state-
ment of the nature of their claim to the Public
Trustee of South Australia or to his Solicitor
Reginald George Nesbit of Santo Buildings Way-
mouth Street Adelaide on or before the 15th day
of December 1906.
R. G. NESBIT,
Solicitor for Public Trustee.
Queensland Health Department, under
Airey and Dr. Ham, has a firm way of doing
things. South Brisbane simply wouldn’t be
clean, so the Health Department washed its dirty
face, and sent in the bill for the soap and water
and the wear and tear of the struggle. The same
process of compulsory wash is now threatened
against Dalby, which also doesn’t want to be
clean.
Melbourne Argus is deeply concerned
lest the retirement of its friend Fairbairn from
the Toorak seat in Vic. Assembly may result in
the election of an “unfitting” successor. The
member for Toorak has always been a “fitting”
person in the Argus sense—somebody “strong in
debating power or distinguished in the world of
affairs,” such as Duncan Gillies or Paunch
M‘Kinley. In short, he has always been a
lamentable nominee of the Proputty party, and it
is satisfactory to know that the party is afraid of
losing the seat at the bye-election. An “un-
worthy ” successor to Fairbairn would be a plea-
sant surprise.
Still another honor has been granted to the
manufacturers of Oerebos Salt, H.M. King Alphonso, of
Spain,, has given them his Royal Warrant of Appointment.
They are now purveyors of Oerebos Salt to H.M. King
Edward VII., H.M. The King of Spain, H.M. The King of
Portugal, and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.*
“MAKE NO MISTAKE!”
The best general purposes paint is “ FERRODOR,”
made in London. The only paint which
thoroughly adheres to galvanised iron, with-
stands acids, salt spray, &c. Does not affect
rain water for drinking. Costs under jd. per
square yard. Will not crack, blister, or peel off.
Lasts twice as long as most paints.
/?. A. HERVEY, Sole Agent for Australasia, corner
CLARENCE and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Be sure you get the 28th Number
“TIVOLI ALBUM.”
Every Popular Copyright Song ofthe Hour.
Price, One Shilling.
STOCKED BY ALL WAREHOUSES AND MUSIC SELLERS'
To Manufacturers, Tourist Bureaus, &c.
AH AUSTRALIAN, 25, with Sound Commercial Ex-
** perience, leaving India for Europe in December,
190(1, would like to REPRESENT ANY AUSTRALIAN
FIRMS, OR TOURIST BUREAUS, as an AGENT on the
Continent on small Commission.
“ COMMERCE,” Talbot House,
Simla, INDIA.
NEW MUSIC FOR. PIANO.
Only 6d. each, or 3 pieces 1/3, post free.
SPARKLING CASCADES.—A brilliant piano solo,
suitable for concert or drawing-room piece. THE
GONDOLIER (Intermezzo). —The famous piece for
which £lOOO was paid as copyright. SALOME (Inter-
mezzo). —A catchy, up-to-date piece, now very popular.
Send either stamps or postal note. KILLARNEY (Song
—M. W. Balfe), Is. post free. Keys, E flat, F, G, or A.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229-231 Coiiins-st., Melbourne.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Miss Wills, IT Union Club,
CHARLOTTE STREET,
Premier Boarding Establishment; heart of city ;
lawn, large garden, cool rooms, good cuisine.
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS' BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting' of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR
Three divisions, 57 x2Bft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIRST FLOOR-
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR-
TWO divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A Very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICKOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
:r
sp 025
i
CREAM
Gives
Permanent
Polish.
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather.
SOLD BY ALL STORE-
KEEPERS AND BOOT AND
SHOE SHOPS.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. lOlfi. .^CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
CROZINE
BLACKING
—the superb liquid dressing for boots and
shoes. It not only gives the most approved
deep black polish, but it renders the boots
soft and pliant to the feet.
Cro/.ine does not smut nor rub off on the
clothing; is not affected by dampness. Its
use is the vogue the world over.
Get the genuine H/UITHAWAY’S. At any
high-class Boot Store anywhere the world
around - Made only by
G. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Aoents fob United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England
I
SIT
MITUfHI
taint Hacking
RT
i
Bfl
LIKE
080 Z 3HJ
ANYONE CAN
PLAY IT.
The Zobo is a new invention made on the same principle as
the Kazoo. It has a rawhide disc on the inside, and by
singing in and against this disc, wonderful music is produced.
Anyone can play any tune upon it; imitates fowls, bagpipes,
animals, etc. Very popular with singing club and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
A Baby with the Voice of a Giant.
1«. 6d. Each (is. Bd. post free); 2 for 3a.
A more unique merry-making- and fascinating: little noveltv
would be exceedingly hard to find. It possesses real merit. It
is an intensely amusing article for adults as well as for children.
It is not a mere toy, as many might suppose, being substanti-
ally constructed and easily operated. The sweet and varied
tones possible to be produced with this little device are incred-
ible. No tune ever composed that cannot be accurately pro-
duced. It is just the thing for duets, quartettes, chorus,
carnivals, masquerades, serenades, parades, etc. It may be
accompanied with various other instruments with very pleasing
effects, and never fails to make a hit. Remember, that if you
do not obtain satisfactory results the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument. Read over the directions, and persist a
little, when you will be delighted with the results. Best article
to be had for the money.
DIRECTIONS.
'Place the stem against the lips, or hold between the teeth as in
the act of smoking. Simply HUM the air of Anv Tune into the
stem. DO NOT BLOW. The notes are produced by vibra-
tion, the voice alone causing the vibratory diaphragm to act,
reproducing and modifying any sound emitted against it. The
tones thus produced resemble those of various instruments, such
a £ the Cornet, Clarionet, Saxophone, Bagpipes, and many others.
Very little practice is required by even a child to master the
instrument; there is a little “knack” to it, that’s all.
Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229-231 Collins St., Melb
[Mention this paper.]
D*“lf interested, write for Cheap List, Pianoforte
and Vocal—STAß NOVELTY COMPANY, Box
466, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. DRESSING & RECEPTION ROOMS CN CROUND FLOOR.
A Large Assortment of Transformations, Natural Hair Pads, Fringes, Tails and all Accessories
kept in stock. Combings made up. TOILET REQUISITES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Ladies’ Homes visited by Appointment. Country Orders Promptly Attended to.
Mi
EST® 178 2
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
H 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers)* Robert Walter martin, D Manager.
fAULDANA WINES
In competition
against all . . .
Australia at. .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP—SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH : ANCEL PLACE, PITT ST.
Beautiful
F rench
Postcards.
BEto. tfShl 1 —r-HtfiESSBB^BMSM
Charming Hand-Coloured Bromides.
Beautiful designs. Best French cards imported.
Actresses, sets of 5 ; Studies, &c. Prices —single
card, sd. ; set of 5, Is. lOd. ; or 4s. Id. per dozen,
post free.
Jewelled Bromides, ss. Id. per dozen, post
free. Also in stock—
Aluminium Postcards, Very Unique’
Views of Britain, 9d. each.
Australian Stamp Series, facsimile of the
different States and N.Z., Is. 7d. per packet of 7,
post free.
Leather Postcards. Made of very soft,
specially finished leather. Plain backs, 4d. each ;
with hand drawings, 6d. and Bd. each, post free.
Magic Postcards. Two different scenes
observed on the same card, Is. 6d per dozen.
“ Art ” Series. Best penny cards on the
market. Views from all parts—Mountain Scenery,
Bush and Station Life, Australian Birds and Animals,
Wild Flowers, Studies, ltacehorses, Theatricals,
Actresses, Wild Seas, &c., &c., Is. per dozen, post
free. Send for complete lists.
A package containing an assortment of each of the
above, for ONLY 55., post free; or double the
quantity for 10s., post free. We guarantee each packet
to be SPLENDID VALUE, and you will be well
pleased.
Handy Pocket Postcard Albums.
Hold 6 cards. Fold up and can be sent through the
post for Id. Only 2d. each, post free ;or Is. 6d.
per dozen.
French Booklets. Life-sized photo, produc-
tion on each page, Is. 3d. each, post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO.,
6 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
RODS
For Locating MINES*—
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps .
Edw. NORTON.. 64 Hunter Street. SYDNEY.
For Sunburn
or Sore Eyes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
S''-'
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return ijh’e'lwi'famount paid if
Wright’s Rheumatia /wtimedy, /jthef Canadian
cure, does .hot/ cure your
lurrvbajb, pr ffidpey //roubles/' iOr course,'- this
bpCdone it/ these vyere many failures,
matter fiep/'ttiere have been only
years in which the refund
was claimed, ffyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case, j .
and, /as
thr
instances in;
Ambitious Men and Women,
send 4s. for specialist’s formula of Five Toilet Pre-
parations—made, bottled, labeled at home, cheap—
sell easy—big 1 profits. ALASJO SPECIALTY CO.,
285 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. ForPE.EE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
estionsoler
is a
iar Pipe
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £i6 j 0 £59
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
~ Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
~, Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 uilliam-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS * CO
Agents: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Pe Bank of Qustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chigf cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East,
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W, V. RALSTON.
The Qolonial mutual £ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability,
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
, SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Bank nf north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innas. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—36 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND —Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgooiilie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
lixr. TD. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGEUS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday alter Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Pour Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 47C1 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR. 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 24th NOVEMBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
_LOHM-AN'N & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, EC.
1.9 Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about Ist OCTOBER,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 26 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
S.S. Co. A. & A. LIRTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY I AST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST 1.13 ME FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S. SIERRA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, at I p.m,
S °' ‘‘£ OW,EV^ RD T » ROUaH AMERICA * is an expensive way.
enquire Tor fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., rianaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
* Houpny
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By' Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
l&M#
m
m
CRUISES J
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
opon - all - Classes - of
Security. —-
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
(flont deplete®. $l. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
. EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
I JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn, in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, 'Esq. Melbourne : Hon. P. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 331 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
TJARTIES desiring to go into the CEILING
BUSINESS can get their MODELS,
DIES and MACHINERY, in fact- the whole
Outfits, at the ACORN MODELING WORKS,
IN DIANOPOLIS, IND. SPECIAL
MACHINERY FOR METAL WORKERS. ~
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
royal mail line.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Favorite Steamer
MOANA
Sails Ist October.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Oct. 29, Nov. 26, Dec. 24.
CHEAP
ROUND ~ THE- WORLD
RATES,
First and Second C/ass.
£2T Send, for Illustrated Pamphlets. IBS;
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing' Agents, George-street, Sydne3 - .
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V"
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
x Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdlin°- Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rin<>- or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last Of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H* HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS;
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT .SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & cn
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY. ’
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), Oct. 10.
S.S. Grantala (from
Sydney), Oct. 17
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Imiamincka, Sept. 29.
-S.S. Pilbarra, October 6.
S.S. Marloo, Oct. 13.
Heat <iml Cheapest ttoute to <iolil.iiet.ila.
Saloon Passage Tickets ate interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions* which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
___ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, oia COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
DUMBEA
SYDNEY
AUSTR ALIEN
VILLE DE LA
OIOTAT ..
Ade-
laide,
1 p. m
il Oct. 13
8 Nov. 10
6 Dec. 8
. - 1907.
3 Jan. 5
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
m landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
1* or further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIKR DE'tIIUY. Principal Agent
ESTABLISHED 1872.
British
THE
LEADING COLONIAL INSURANCE
INSTITUTION
’ As to the Security we offer to the Insuring Public,
namely,
I £1,900,000 OF CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED BY SHAREHOLDERS.
ALSO
UNLIMITED LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS, over
and above, the Subscribed Capital.
Invested Funds exceed HALF A MILLION STERLINC.
In Revenue and Funds the second wealthiest
Colonial Office.
|FIRE (Sb MARINE. Every class of
Business done at LOWEST CURRENT
RATES.
ACCIDENT (Sb SICKNESS. Our
UP-TO-DATE POLICY is the Best and
Cheapest money can buy. Inquire for
terms.
Employers Liability, Public Risk, Guarantee,
Burglary, Plate Glass AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE CO.
Office: 12 BRIDGE STREET,
Telephone 4245. GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wi find every omior and convenience at
MRS- TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Paiada-
S I - . HILDA.
T ® Largest Besi-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
pv tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne ™ L T FIVD
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telkphonk 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
U/IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from.
2 Guineas per Week.


•V $2
■
mm
m
r
■
m
X-- ■
4
4
r
\
iy
Hr'
WK
k
If
kM
\
>?. •
«
kta
i-m
?
mfef
sus
'
®s
■ ■ :
W:
,
I 11 : 1
£#j»»§BBlSf
sii,.
ill &mm
-
* u *
W'k'fSMyu v* r &-^
**r:
—Jr
%
Wm
tM
■j
m
m
. V : • -
1- ’•-
IS
X Vost-e
ei>
If
= '’ ' */■
'*.*■ I R »* SP*
.
-m
nr
7
r*, i
C~
-
ip
lit
0
•y.-
f
fit
.-■
: i
f'ffM
)m
P :
' / ..
sat
*
Mv:-


///
907
Former Price 14s
'll//,.
853
Former Price, 18s
XI//.
*
7'
864
Former Price, 18s
! 'v/
V#
67!
Former Price, 16s
• 936.
Former Price 14 s.
\\
Nj
Si
854
Former Price, 14s
N>
130
Former Price, 24s
\ / O V L
e
/' tfVj
A
857
Former Price, 24s
938
Former Price » /4s
y/
%
7//
929
Former Price, 18s
II
EACH.
OUR MISFORTUNE
YOUR CHANCE.
EACH
WE HAVE JUST RECEIVED ANOTHER LARGE SHIPMENT
OF
BARRIOS DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
From our Factory in America, Which was forwarded
to us to open a shop in Adelaide, but in consequence
of our Leases and Contracts expiring, we are forced
to sacrifice these, along with our enormous regular
stocK, REGARDLESS of COST.
THE OPPORTUNITY OF A LIFETIME
OUR LEASE EXPIRES, WE MUST SELL EVERYTHING,
YOUR CHOICE OF ANY
ARTICLE FORMERLY SOLD
FROM 10s. to 24 s. EACH,
To-day
AND
WHILE
THEY
LAST
EACH.
THIS offer includes Thousands, of Designs in Rings, Brooches, Pins, Lockets, Cuff
Links, Earrings, Pendants, Studs, Bangles, Collar Buttons, &c., &c., all set with
beautiful selected Barrios Diamonds.
MAIL ORDERS.
TO GIVE THOSE IN THE COUNTIIY THE
OPPORTUNITY OF THIS SALE,
WE WILL SEND ANY ARTICLE 78
UPON RECEIPT OF . . .
We have the largest Mail Order Department in
the country, devoted exclusively to the sale of
Jewellery. All orders filled the day they are
received. Send us Postal Note or Money Order for
anything you want, and you will be surprised and
delighted with the article you receive. The illustra-
tions or descriptions hardly do the goods justice.
Remember, you send us your order with the distinct
understanding that if the goods are not exactly as
represented your money will be refunded.
any ♦.
ARTICLE
Illustrated,.
GUARANTEE.
>■' «.
We absolutely guarantee BARIIIOS DIAMONDS
to retain their brilliancy for ever, and the mountings
to give perfect satisfaction.
We will give £2OOO to any charitable institution if
it can be shown that we ewer refuse to replace a
stone which proves unsatisfactory. BARRIOS
DIAMONDS will stand acid, heat, alkali, and may
be washed and cleaned the same as genuine
diamonds. They are such imitations that even
Government Experts have been deceived.
This is
Liut of our Different Styles.
{
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
We specially invite you to visit our Shop; and PERSON ALI iY EXAMINE these Wonderful Jewels.
Any Article
4|-
EACH.
The Mountings are Hiavy 14ct.
Gold Shelfj, wM®h are w arranted
to give Perfect Satisfaction.
Any Article
4/-
EACH.
a ;
BARRIOS DIAMOND S are 'the nearest approach to the genuine diamond
ever manufactured or discover ed, and are absolutely guaranteed to retain their brilliancy
for ever. They have all the fin 3, hash, an«d sparkle of real gems, and will stand heat, acids,
alkali, &c., and can Poe was hed and cleaned the same as real diamonds. So nearly do
they resemble the genuine tlh at pawn brokers have been deceived, and jewellers fooled.
THE BARFJO® DIAMOND CO.
52
Swanstcwj St
Melboumr de
9
Open Saturdays
till 10 p.m.
Sydney
935
Former Price, 24s
875
Former Price, 16s
888
Former Price, 16s
552
Former Price 4 s
&
7
&
910
Former Price, 16s
908
Former Price, 16s
I IK
7 I 4
Former Price, 18s
Former Price, 18s
868
Former Price, 18s
601
Former Price, 19s
'/m


z 7
w.
/
m
m
2 -■
/EvferyFiy is
Mmv Killer
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
IT’S hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having its origin in
tilth, it brings with it the bacteria
which breeds in tilth. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicK to
the lips of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
. 1 ’ • • • • • •• . “ • \ .
The high mortality among children in the congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
IHSECTI DANE
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES (ID. other Insedts.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy.
SYDNEY.


“ H.R.” is visited by the devil
I was awakened the other night by hearing lost souls
on the verandah. There were shrieks of anguish ; then
silence. And then arose, on the stilly air, a long,
fresh, complicated, entangled cry, that made me feel
religious. I tremblingly lighted a candle, and tried to
get out of bed ; but my wife clung to me, and said that
if the devil had come he could take both of us together.
She said she heard him hitting the floor with his tail.
But the devil seemed in .no hurry to come in. My wife
fainted after half an hour of it, and I crawled out of bed,
grasped the poker in my clammy hand, and sort of
pushed myself reluctantly on to the field of battle. I
smote the air hard. Then I realised that there was nothing
in sight except the noise, and it wasn’t visible either.
Its invisibility was the only good thing about it; other-
wise it had all the bad qualities going. Gradually I began
to locate something; so to speak, I advanced from the
suburbs of the disturbance to the centre. The centre
was under a verandah seat. It was small and black, and
I smote it with the poker. Then it lifted up its voice in
such a terrifying remark that the street came out in its
night attire to look at me. The black object moved. It
crawled into the light of a street lamp, and I heaved
a sigh of relief as big as an anchor, and dropped the
poker. I stooped down and ■ took a fish ; tin off the head
of our cat. Next day two maiden ladies up the street
urged the policeman to keep an eye on me, for the way I
beat my wife was something terrible. When my wife
heard of it—when she learned that that dreadful noise
was suspected of being her—she had an interval of speech-
lessness. When she recovered her voice, she used it to
announce our early removal to a distant suburb.
“Cocky” : Many Bulletin pars give a
jaundiced view of the cocky. He is pictured as a
mean hound, slave-driving- the casual worker for
little or no pay. Hear the, other side. The casual
worker and awaggie is 95 per cent, worthless for
serious bush graft, and untrained and soft from
idleness and beer. What he honestly thinks hard
graft a bush kiddy would laugh at. If he gets an
occasional day’s tucker for his alleged help, it is
more than he is worth, and is given in the way of
kindness. At the same time, the cocky gives an
ordinary worker ss. a, day ; the cheapest man is
the smart worker who wants 75., or Bs.; but he is
hard to get, as he prefers contracts. The real
bush worker does not loaf along the roads with
“Matilda”; he has a bike or'a horse, and, if a
paying job is not waiting'for him,'he can start
one on his own. A Vagrancy Act is badly wanted
to deal with these herds of often educated wastrels,
who fatten on the, earnings of the; real, workers.
Their report of the.country is misleading, as Law-
son’s is misleading. A tramp on the high road,
smelling of the lakt pub’s beer, is not a reliable
witness. I write this -after; 15 years’ experience
of swaggies.
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOUIiDER LINE STEAMERS. for'Con veyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Froxen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leaden ball-street, London, E.C.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(M0TB “ ) I SOR ns w. 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDIVY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY>
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes pla :e as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, lies. bee. —
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 18.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIEARFTTFS
Difficulty in expectoration Asthma, Nervous Conch r
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and o T ' n < ,ao ° i '<« 1 ,
relieved by GKIMAULT &
ETTES.
Jo’s INDIAN CIGAR
Bold, by all Chemists.
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
❖
&
*
&
S>
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrte
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare booh ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria .Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune ; Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price ,1s ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheaas, etc., Is post.
RosariS, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book' of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IXS“ Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bdsh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Cockle’s Hntibilious Pills.—*
" I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ :
a
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EYERYWHERB.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


Whole Foot Nothing But Proud Flesh
Tried Different Physicians and
Ail Kinds of Ointments —Could
Walk Only With Crutches—Ohio
Man Says:
“CUTICURA REMEDIES
THE BEST ON EARTH ”
■
“In the year 1899 the side of my
right foot was cut off from the little
toe down to the heel, and the physician
who had charge of me
was trying to sew up
the side of my foot,
but with no success.
When he found out
that wouldn’t work,
he began trying to
heal the wound with
all kinds of ointment,
until at last my whole
foot and way up
above my calf was
nothing but proud
flesh. I suffered un-
told agonies for four years, and tried
different physicians and all kinds of oint-
ments. I could walk only with crutches.
It is sixteen months ago since I began
using Cuticura Soap and Ointment for
my limb and foot. The first two
months the Cuticura Remedies did not
seem to work, but I kept on using them
both. In two weeks afterwards I saw a
change in my limb. Then I began using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment often dur-
ing the day and kept it up for seven
months, when my limb was healed up
just the same as if I never had trouble.
“It is eight months now since I
stopped using Cuticura Remedies, the
best on God’s earth. I am working
at the present day, after five years
of suffering. The cost of Cuticura
Ointment and Soap was only $6;
but the doctors’ bills were more like
$6OO. You can refer any one to write
to me about Cuticura Remedies. John
M. Lloyd, 718 S. Arch Ave., Alliance,
Ohio, June 27, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
Office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
®jT“Mailed Free, 44 How to Cure Skin and Blood Humours.**
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
oaSS
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical 'Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing*.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building’s,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
rOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Solk Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
== Britisl)*Jfustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Arj POST FREE, £1 per year,
■ in advance, all over the world.
Managing' Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBUKY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the Jpenefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming-
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
Price
95,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
Food May Nourish
WHICH SHALL IT BE?
Pood nourishes you when it is perfectly
digested and assimilated. All the nutri-
ment it contains is drawn into the blood
and goes to restore the daily waste of the
body. When your food is imperfectly
digested the deadly products of decompo-
sition pass into the blood to poison the
whole system and pain, weakness, head-
ache, constipation, anaemia follow.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
“Ten years ago, when X had suffered a
long time from distressing indigestion, I
first used Mother Seigel's Syrup. I could
neither eat, sleep or work and was in a
wretched condition. In a few days, after
using the Syrup, I began to recover tone
and strength and little by little all my
sickness disappeared. Since then I have
enjoyed good health. It has also greatly
benefited my three daughters." Mrs.
Mary M. Gray, 160 Cambridge Terrace,
York Street, South Melbourne.
MAKES
Food Nourish You
AND CURES
Indigestion, Biliousness,
constipation, headache,
and all Stomach
Troubles.
\VfILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
yy BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
FOR
7(6
7/6
'T'HIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT.
Permanently cured at patients’ own homes
voluntarily or secretly. Sure, safe and effective.
Recommended by the Profession, Clergy and Tem-
perance Societies. No detention from daily routine
work. Write or call for full particulars, everything,
FREE and STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
The “ANALEPTIC” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Letters about
Liver Complaint
From Mr. J. Edwards, Davey-street, East Geelong, Vie., 31st August 1905.
“For about twelve months I had been ailing from aggravated liver complaint, producing indi-
gestion, biliousness, a heavy feeling in the chest and frequent pains in the shoulder blades. I tried
the usual purgative remedies, which had the effect of only temporarily improving my condition. I
could get no permanent relief until I took Warner’s 1 Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that the good
effect of that medicine became apparent almost immediately I commenced to take it, and in a short
time I was thoroughly cured. I have recommended Warner's Safe Cure to many of my friends, who
all speak well of it.”
From Mrs. K. Chapman, 150 Paddington-street, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth February, 1906.
“ For a considerable time I was a sufferer from liver complaint accompanied by severe pains in the
back, depression of spirits and loss of appetite. I tried anything I thought would do me good, but
obtained no relief whatever. I happened to read one of your books giving accounts of wonderful
cures Warner’s Safe Cure has effected, and therefore decided to try its effect on myself. The result
was marvellous, as in a short space of. time I was completely restored to good health, and, I am glad
to say, I have not been troubled with pains of any description since.”
From Mr. Gladstone Mayne, 22 Parade, Norwood, S.A., 14tli December, 1905.
“ For several years past I suffered much pain from symptoms of liver complaint, such as bilious-
ness, indications denoting congestion, heavy pain in the right side, and a dull persistent pain under
the right shoulder blade. I was also affected with dizziness, headaches and loss of sleep. I resorted
for relief to a number of medicines, but did not obtain any good result until I began to take Warner’s
Safe Cure. 1 took only a few bottles of that medicine when all painful symptoms subsided. During
the last twelve months I have not felt anything of the old complaint. Being fully convinced that I
am permanently cured, I am truly grateful.”
From Miss Annie Leleman, Zabina-street, off Thomas-street, North Broken Hill, N.S.W., 28th
November, 1905.
“ I have much pleasure in testifying as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure, having taken that
medicine when suffering from functional derangement of the liver. I was troubled with severe pains
in the back, sides and head, with constant dizziness. Indigestion troubled me a good deal and caused
me many sleepless nights, whilst exercise.of any kind brought on fatigue. Warner’s Safe Cure was
brought under my notice. I procured two bottles of the medicine, and after taking the second bottle
I found a great improvement had taken place in my health. All aches and pains had gradually
ceased to trouble me. I could eat without distress, and get refreshing sleep.”
From Mr. A. McEwan, 6 Princes Place, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., 15th September, 1905.
“ I suffered for months from liver complaint, which caused dizziness in my head and a languid .
tired feeling. I also had severe pains in my side and back. I tried many medicines to obtain relief, "
but-without effect. I was advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure by a friend of mine, and it is a good
thing that I took his advice, as, after taking about four bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, I was
thoroughly cured.”
From Mr. William Tanner, Hawks’ Lane, West Geelong, Vic., 31st August, 1905.
“ It affords me great pleasure to write to you as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure in my case.
For years I had been suffering from loss of appetite and indigestion, accompanied by violent pains in
my stomach and disagreeable symptoms after every meal. I also noticed a loss of nervous power.
When in this condition I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure. The relief I obtained was speedy, and
after I had taken a few bottles the symptoms I have described ceased to exist, and now I feel like a
3 ew man.”
A treatise explaining the action of
Warner’s Safe Cure
will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
[lo]
The Inky Way.
What are the Victorian and N.S.W. Gambling' Bills
going to do with the nuisance who writes to the papers
asking foolish questions “to decide a wager ” ? The curse
I of every newspaper man’s life is the idiot who sends in
asking, “to decide a wager,” if three ones count 19 at
dice ; or if Premier Bent ever played Marcus Superbus.
The Bulletin some years ago struck its two most memor-
able samples of this idiot in one week. One wanted to
know what was the heaviest load a horse had drawn up
Brickfield Hill (Sydney) within the last 20 years. Another
asked whether Jones and Smith (or some such names),
who were breaking horses at Billa-Billa, or Jacko-Jacko,
or some equally obscure western station, in 1886, were
the best rough riders in the district, and if they weren’t,
who were ?
* » * *
“ K.”: I have just been looking at the September issue
of The Dairy-farmer and Agricultural News, published
at Melbourne. The journal is one of a number which
are, judging from the contents, run by the big
Melbourne produce agents. The paper is sent free
—though marked “ one penny,” ; perhaps it would have
little or no circulation if it weren’t sent free. I wouldn’t
ask you to advertise it, only for one reason. Iywant to
know how this paper gets hold of Government advts.,
especially considering what appears in its alleged news
columns. For example, the first article has a black head-
ing, “ Privileged Slander,” and, it consists of a savage
attack on Graham, M.L.A., who was chairman and moving
spirit in the Butter-swindle Commission. Graham is
attacked for upholding Government expert Crowe against
the Melbourne agents. Yet, bn the opposite page, there
is a big displayed advt. concerning the Government
j Land Bank. On the next page there is an insulting attack
on Crowe himself. Further on, there is a three-
page advt. of the Vic. Closer Settlement scheme ; and, a
couple of pages on, over balf-a-coluiun of a railway advt.
Isn’t it a fair thing to ask the Government’s reason for
giving advertising patronage to a print of this sort,
which, apparently, has to be distributed gratis to keep it
circulating ?
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : Newspaper reporters are strange beings.
They take the stamp of their respective rags as easily as
the chameleon takes the color of its surroundings. One
John Smith raises a poker to his wife, and of him we read
in the Herald : “John Smith, laborer, assault on Jane
Smith ; £5 or three months;’’ In the Ananiagraph,
Smith is “ hauled ” before Mr. , S.M., and one finds a
precis of Mr. ’s remarks anent the poker as a wife-
chastener. Perhaps, on Saturday, “Snoutis” grows
ponderously humorous upon Smith’s troubles. In the
Evening News one notes the light touch, plus villainous
construction. As thus: “Mr. John Smith, who still
holds the somewhat antiquated notion of a man’s right to
beat his wife, who offends him, with a poker, was called
upon to answer a charge of,” &c. The Star adds bad
grammar and headlines: “Jane Smith’s Old Man.—A
Happy Household. John Smith, under the influence of
beer, attempted to discover how Mrs. Smith regarded the
new Liquor Act by means of dissecting her brains per
medium of a poker. For this, he appeared this morning
before Mr. ■, S.M., who sentenced him to £5 or three
months. Mr. —— declared the use of pokers were a dis-
grace to any civilised man, even if they were drunk. The
accused elected to pay the fine.” And the Sunday paper !
Ah-h-h ! ! “Brutal Bully Smith Balefully Bashes his
Bulbul. The Pernicious Persuasion of the Primordial
Poker.”
* • * *.
“Garryowen”: Latest London literary atrocity is a
new weekly paper, edited by Thomas Power O’Connor,
M.P., who is Irish member for the Scotland division of an
English constituency. The new paper is styled P.T.O.
(Petticoats, Trifles, Obituaries), and comprises a choice
selection of items carefully compiled from the personal
experiences of the gentleman’s gentleman and the ladies’
young person. There are always a few pages of twaddle
by T.P. himself, who is the uncrowned king of bathos.
T.P. was once, in the early days of his Parliamentary
career, a Home Ruler, and even yet makes an occasional
pilgrimage to the land of the shamrock, delivers a fiery
oration, and then relapses into political silence for a year
or two —it is a sort of sacrifice to ease his political con-
science. In olden times it was T.P. who was responsible
for the term, “Judas” Chamberlain; now he would
devote a page of his latest sickly journal to
describing J.C.’s latest style of necktie, or how Mrs. J. C.
doesn’t look half her age. When conducting the London
Sun, T.P. had for sub-editor a fiery little Irishman named
Tim McCarthy. At the beginning of the Boer war T.P.
was away on one of his usual jaunts to Wiesbaden, or
Marienbad, or the Riviera, endeavoring to find out what
sized stays the Countess de Jones wore, or where Lord
Fitzblanky got his railroad socks, or some other equally
interesting piece of domestic journalism. An awful leader
appeared in the Sun denouncing the Government—a
leader written in Tim’s best style, which was not exactly
milk and water. T.P. returned in haste, and it took |
months of grovel and of accurate tottering on the fence to
wipe out the stain. There seems to be no end to the
demand for weekly literature of the T.P. style—literature
dealing with men’s clothes and women’s want of them.
To be mentioned in one of T.P.’s journals would appear
to be a sort of passport to polite sassiety in Bullopolis.
* * * r
“ The Plover ” : Adaptability is what you require to
become a bush journalist. At one moment you are
pouring Sheol on the domestic policy of the German
Emperor in a leading article ; at another, in company
with the worthy proprietor, you are vigorously assaulting
Bathurst burrs on a bit of a run outside the town. Some
time ago I undertook to care for the rag of an out-back
dust-heap. Staff consisted of self and two promising
youths. Said youths being ardent ’possum-trappers,
much time was devoted to the manufacture of snares.
First publication day found the staff in a state of resolu-
tion, wages being six months in arrears. One em-
barked on the more lucrative employment of parading the
town with a hand-bell in the interests of a visiting
circus; the other betook himself to his beloved snares.
Boss accepted this industrial upheaval as a usual hap-
pening, and reckoned he would aid me o’er the throes of
publication day. Two hours later he lay, a helpless
drunk, on a pile of exchanges underneath the editorial
table. Then I hustled. Single-handed I finished, jammed
the large district circulation of 150 into a chaff-bag, and
streaked for the post-office To catch a mail that had left
ten minutes before. Next day I coaxed a little cash out
of the boss with the aid of a local magistrate, and caught
the mail—for myseif.
OLD PEGASUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alc -
I rode in a whirl of dreams
At a headlong’, reckless pace,
Bj' the pallid and fitful gleams
Of the stars that crackle in Space.
And on Pegasus’ back I swam
In a billowy, cloudy sea,
And—l muttered a bitter “ Damn ! ”
When it duly came back to me!
I saddled the brave old steed,
And I galloped him past the Moon,
And I scribbled and watched him feed
On the banks of a lost lagoon,
Where it hangs in the midnight air
O’er the lights of the sleeping town ;
And—l spoke things in wild despair
When they sent me a single crown !
Then I urged him with whip and spur,
And my lance was a goose’s quill,
And I wrote me an ode to Her,
On the crest of a dreaming hill,
By the river of Memory
With the treacherous, haunted banks ;
And—they posted it back to me
With a simple “ Declined with thanks ! ”
Now old Pegasus paws and snorts,
But my soul it is filled with fear,
The gallant old crock cavorts,
And he breathes in my offside ear ;
But I quail when I meet his eye—
Though he never yet funked a fence—
For he’ll gallop and dash and fly,
And— we'U get about eighteenpence !
KODAK.


Consumption
Can Be Cured.
■&
St
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, whoss
discovery of a Cure for
Consumption has startled
the World.
Marvellous as it may seem after the centuries
of failure, a cure for consumption has at last
been found. After twenty years of almost
ceaseless research and experiment in his
laboratory, the now renowned specialist, Derk
P, Yonkerman, has discovered a specific which
has cured the deadly Consumption even in its
far advanced stages. In many cases, though
all other remedies tried had failed and changes
of climate were unable to check the progress of
the disease, this wonderful specific has conclu-
sively proved its power to cure.
Whatever your position in life may be
if ycm are in consumption, or suffer from
asthfna, bronchitis, catarrh, or any throat or
lung trouble, this cure is within your reach,
fir it is a home treatment and need not
iterfere in any way with your daily occupa-
tion. Prove for yourself its healing power
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Simply send your name' and address
to the Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd..
901 Dixson Buildings, Sydney, and they will
post to you a free trial treatment of this
remarkable remedy.
Don’t hesitate or delay if you have any of
the symptoms of Consumption. If you have
chronic catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, pains in
your chest, a cold on your lungs, or any throat
or lung trouble, write to-day for the free trial
treatment and full instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & 00.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, top action, choke bore, walnut stock.
Usual Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, with cartridge machine and cleaners
complete. Usual price, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Pair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
9
1
Hair Worries.
That ever falling hair is worrying'you—it’s
no use trying to delude yourself into believing
that it isn’t. You know where it is leading
you to —don’t you ?
There can be no mistaking the ultimate end
of it all, it MUST mean baldness.
Take the matter in hand NOW, use
CAPILLA
I know that you have tried almost every other hair restorer. I know that
you are disgusted with the strenuous efforts wasted. Ido ask you not to class
“ CAPILLA ” with the preparations you have been using. It is different from
them all in composition and its power to produce hair. It is at once a
medicinal and antiseptic Hair Food that will do your hair positive good. It
is unequalled in its power to make the scalp clean and healthy, and to produce
a luxurious growth of “ nature’s chief adornment.”
All Chemists sell “CAPILLA,” Is. Gel. and 2s. 6d. a bottle. Full course
(6 bottles), posted direct, 17s. 6d., from
W. O. RICHARDS, Inventor, 12 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
Marif. 7 !;
PLASMON
The Food for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmon. Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, &c.)
At “The Christian.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT “The Christian.” Stalls, circle
and gods foil of women eating choco-
lates, doing their back hair, and nerving
themselves for the ordeal. General atmosphere,
scandal and hat-pins. Different women telling
how much they love Hall Caine, and how they
hurried through the washing-up to get there. Other
women reciting how they rushed to get the train,
and how the guard kept it waiting. Hundreds of
women all round giving monologue entertain-
ments, describing everything that happened,
from the time they told the old man he’d have to
get his own tea and mind the kid, to the minute
they flopped into their seats and started the
yarn. Whole place buzzing like an immense
hive.
Orchestra crawls out and starts to play wild,
stormy music, descriptive of H.C.’s brain evolving
“The Christian.” Music all sudden, nerve racking
yelps, and kettledrum—as if someone had thrown
a packet of crackers into an undertaker’s. Man
with the big drum hits it whenever he feels in-
clined. General effect very dreadful.
Suddenly—lights down ! Curtain rises, disclos-
ing fishing scene. Buzzing dies down, as if the
bees had knocked off for the night. All house
cranes forward, and has a final grab at its back
hair to make certain. Soliloquy of unnaturally
decrepit stage ancient at last audible. After the
lay figures have maundered round long enough to
explain what everyone already knows, Glory
bounds on, with the Dreadfully Wicked Lord in
attendance. Wicked Lord has the reputation of
having ruined about 80 per cent, of the women in
England. Play indicates he has made a special
trip to ruin Glory. Can’t accomplish the business
in a day or so, and leaves in a hurry for London.
Possibly he has a pressing engagement to ruin
some women who have been accumulating in his
absence. People who know Wicked Lord tell
the audience London is all Ruins.
Then—slow music and John Storm !! Beauti-
ful John, in his clerical rig, his pale face, and his
hair carefully brushed over one eye.
John stands transfixed on the edge of the
wharf and looks like an instantaneous photograph
of an anxious half-back hovering expectantly on
the edge of, a scrum. Glory stands with her
lips parted and eyes carefully sparkling, gazing at
John. House fairly sobs with delight. (The Old
Man never did it like that !)
John’s father (sensible, gruff old chap) casts
John off, and goes in for a drink.
John yells at Glory, and tells her to come to
London. Glory jumps at the chance (also at
John).
Curtain falls with a thud.
Act II. —A London hospital. Whole act de-
voted to portraying the troubles of a nurse who
has been ruined by the Wicked Lord—otherwise
the Complete Ruiner. Everybody gets the sack
or gives it. John has a row with Glory, and
rushes off to the Monkery. Glory signs a con-
tract to go on the stage and be ruined; Curtain
falls with a thud.
Act lll.—The Monkery. Brothers walk about
with their arms crossed on their breasts and
groan at one another. Everybody—having taken
vows to stay in for ever—wants to get out, but
can’t because the gate is locked; (Audience con-
cludes that either the fence is 5000 feet high, Or
the Brethren are frightened of tearing their
underskirts.) Stage fearfully gloomy, and full of
paper-snow —suggesting a poet on a roof throwing
out old torn-up manuscript. Brothers groan
some doleful hymns in the dim chapel, and
come back bearing lighted tapers about two
yards long. (Audience concludes they’re going
to read in bed.) The superior gives John
the key, and the crowd goes off to
bunk, leaving John bareheaded-in the snow, mut-
tering. Then a Brother leaps out (without a hat)
and implores John to let him out for the night.
John groans, lets him out, and jangles the chapel
bell. When the Brethren arrive, fully dressed
(evidently they sleep in their habits), John tells
them All! Brethren nip off some of John’s regalia
and turn him loose. John clasps his brow and
staggers out.' Curtain falls with the usual thud.
Act IV. —Corinthian Club, London. Wicked
Lord in the midst of his Ruined Women —some of
them. Glory, superbly dressed, has made money
by being cheerful in music halls. John bursts in
hatless and tells her that Gloom is the Right Thing.
Also talks of going back home. Beautiful, kissable
Glory, in a burst of enthusiasm, proposes to John.
John wants her, but thinks he doesn’t deserve so
much happiness. Rejects her. Wicked Lord
comes in with bodyguard of Ruined Women and
makes aspersions. John tries to kill him by
shaking the front of his vest. Glory leaves for
home with the Deputy Ruiner, and John decides
to follow and kill her. Goes off without securing
a knife or other visible weapon. (Audience con-
clude he’s going to give his patent vest-shaking
method another trial.)
Act V.—Glory’s lodgings in the small disreput-
able hours. Glory, in her low-necked evening
dress, succeeds in getting deluded Deputy Ruiner
to behave like a perfect gentleman and go home
quietly. Sinks into a chair to think in the dark.
Hears John coming in through the window, and
greets him by Deputy Ruiner’s name. John
stands over her waving a knife until she lets down
her hair and sobs, “ Kiss me, John !” John hesi-
tates, groans, and grabs her to his chest, as if he
were going to bite off her ear. (Fearful enthu-
siasm—curtain goes up and down -35 times.) Why
doesn’t the Old Man do it like that?
Act Vl.—John’s chapel. Full of angry unem-
ployed looking for John. Unemployed tell Scotch
lady in attendance that John told them London
was to be in Ruins, and it isn’t in Ruins. (Evi-
dently unemployed don’t understand proper deti- j
nition of word “ Ruins.”) Scotch lady—who puts
in her spare time repairing Ruins —chases unem-
ployed off the premises.
John arrives, half-crazed, from nowhere, and is
told unemployed are howling outside about the
Ruins of London. Says he must go out and ex-
plain all about the Ruins. Goes out, and is
mortally wounded by having a bottle waved at
him. Glory arrives in her old nurse’s uniform,
and holds his head up while he marries her.
Bride given away by Deputy Ruiner. Then John
makes her a widow. The title really ought to be
“ The Ruins of England.”
VIC.
KODAK.


VICTORIA
Collins & S wansfon St? Melbourne^
WEST. AUSTRALIA
Hay S.T Perth
QUEENSLAND
Queen a Edward St? Brisbane^^J
NEW ZEALAND
146 a 145 Queen St. Auckland
18-3 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
236 a 235 H ig h S\
Princes a DowlingS'? DunedinJ||
£
Si If its from
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
Tshe STEWART DAWSON advertising' is distinguished from
most others by the omission o/ “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Coods; then yon will be fully satisfied.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
No. E96S0 —9cfc. Gold .. £1 17s 6d.
Size Larger ~ .. £2 ss.
Size Smaller ~ .. £1 7s 6d.
U'A'ffi
No. F9sss—Handsome 9ct. Gold Plain and Fancy
Hope Twist Bangle, £2 ss.
|i n i nnn' l| neMi'inu | iinimniiu l |„„„„„^,-,-^ S ;
Am
No. G 8479 —15ct. Gold Bangle, Set 1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires or Rubies, £8 10s.
No. Gso23—Exceptionally Pretty Cinnamon Brown Topaz
and Pearl Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, £2 7s (id.
No. FsBll—lset. Gold and Fine Pearl and Ruby Bangle, £9 10s
No. G2639—9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bracelet, 2 Sapphires
and 1 Rose Diamond in Centre, £3 3s.
No. F 4553 —15ct. Gold and Fine Quality Pearl Bracelet, £lO 10s
If with Diamonds and Sapphires, £lB 10s.
I
No. G2Bl5 —9ct. Gold New Style Knot Bangle, £2.
No. F6B3 —9ct. Gold Engraved Band Bracelet, £2
No. 137—9 ct. Gold Boat Set, Pearl and Sapphire Doublet
Bangle, with Fancy Wire Edging, £3.
-No.- G4B6l—9ct, Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £2 15s.
No. 142 —9ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in Morocco
Case, £3 10s. ; Massive 15ct. Gold, £6 6s. ; Extra Heavy,
£7 10s., £8 10s. ; Extra Heavy, £7 55., £8 10s., £lO 10s.
No. 143.—9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle,
in Morocco Case, £2 155.; 15ct. Gold, £5.
No. 144—9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in
Morocco Case, £2; 15et. Gold, £3 15s.
No. 134A—15ct. Gold and Fine Opal Half-Hoop Blacelet,
£lO 10s. ; a Cheaper Style, £6 10s.
No. G264l—9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £3 10s.
No. F 7642 —The Latest Style in Loose Link Bangles ; 9ct. Gold, Three Bow,
£3 10s.; Four Bow, as shown here, £i 4s.
No. E3245—9et. Gold Curb
Chain and Padlock
Bracelet, in Case,
£3.
No. E96oS—9ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, £2los.
No. G 3284 —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bangle, £2 ss.
Larger Sizes for 555. and 635.
No. F9ss4—Very Strong and Handsome Plaited
Gold Bangle,.Oct., £2 10s.
No. G 8437 —Oct. Gold Bracelet, Set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3 3s.
No. 149A —15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond Set Band Bangle, £5.
No. 794 —Oct. Gold Trellis Work Bangle, £2 7s 6d.
No. Gl722—Fine Gold Bangle, Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Diamonds and Sapphires, £2l. ■
The Ever-Popular Nellie Stewart Bangle, made in four sizes.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 4s, £5;
15ct. Gold, £4, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s.
3
No. C 2619 —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll and Circl
Bracelet, with 3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. F9ssB—New and Stylish 9ct. Gold Bangle, with
Safety Chain, £1 15s.
Vo, F9557—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Bracelet, £2.


/
Him
KUTNOW’S *"!
improved CrrcßvcsccNT Carlsbad
POWDER.
m
Hirschcnsprung or Deer Leap
L?
London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.t
Den TD*nr m« dv
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. 5
— ♦—W
*-►
Purifies the Blood.
. “Stirton, Southsea.
Kutnow s Powder is most refreshing and clears the system
of Uric Acid, and acts on the Liver and Kidneys. I have
recently been very ill from Rheumatic Fever, and since I have
taken it I feel a great deal better, and I firmly believe it is a
grand blood purifier.
“ A. GRAHAME-HARVEY.”
THE INTESTINAL BATH
AND HOW
Kutnow’s Powder Cleanses the System.
The body is a form through which a stream of matter flows, or at least should flow. But un-
fortunately many people are greatly troubled with stagnation in the alimentary canal, which is
termed “ Constipation." The constipated man is like a stagnant pool from which noxious odors
arise, while the active man with clean intestines is like the mountain stream, bubbling with
activity. To insist on eating without insisting upon getting rid of the debris is to pay the
penalty of natural law. The food becomes poison, the body is not only like a stagnant pool,
but becomes even like a cesspool, ready for the germs of disease. The once energetic, shrewd
and brainy man becomes weak, vacillating, and incapable. He is haunted by a perpetual
dread of some impending evil—he knows not what. The blood thus poisoned gives rise to
imperfect digestion. Dyspepsia, biliousness, liver disorder, excessive uric acid and constipation,
all proceed from irregularities of the digestive organs which affect the nerves and irritate the
brain. Kutnow’s Powder clears the brain and renders the body physically fit. A dessert-
spoonful taken before breakfast will thoroughly cleanse your system, and invigorate you in the
most refreshing manner.
REMOVES ALL YOUR LIVER TROURLES.
How to Detect
Fraudulent Imitations.
The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder
is' strongly recommended by all leading
physicians for the stomach, liver, kidneys,
and bowels. You can obtain it at all con-
scientious chemists throughout the world.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
will then avoid imitations and know
How to get Genuine
Kutnow’s Powder.
Captain Barclay whites :
“Kirsfceen, Cisbury Road, Brighton.
“ I am very unwilling to testify that things
have worked wonders, but really I cannot
speak too highly of Kutnow’s Powder. I
have suffered for years from constipation and
liver troubles. Your Powder has done all
that it claimed, and, more than that, it has
given me comfort. I have since taken two
bottles, and have to-day sent an order to my
druggist for three more. Its action is sure
and gentle, and at the same time certain,
without any distressing effects.
“ Faithfully yours,
“R. BARCLAY (Capt.)”
Sole Proprietors; S. KUTNOW (& CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, CONDON, E.C.
: [4 —10].
At the recent annual meeting of the M.C.C.,
the members spoke pretty firmly to the committee that
runs the Football Club. The blessed club won one game
this season, out of 17 played, and something was evidently
wrong. What that something was is indicated by the
answer flung at President Murchison when he said,
“ There is a great deal of the professional element in other
clubs. Do you want it here?” “Certainly we do!”
Also the secretary remarked that a new committee would
be chosen shortly, and it would be more “amenable” in
future —“ if a man said it cost him 10s. or £1 a week to
devote himself to football they would do as others did.”
So much for the amateurism of the M.C.C.
* * It *
Just now papers that consider themselves to be
of sport sporty are indulging in long-winded “ reviews of
the season ” in connection with the Rugby competition
in Sydney. So far, not one that this writer has waded
through has made mention of a growing evil which had
become quite bloated by the end of the term. The Marked
Man was very much in evidence during the semi-final
stages, and if next season starts where this one left off
drastic steps will have to be taken to prevent the com-
plete downfall of the game, as the attainment of any
proficiency will mean a broken neck, or, at the very least,
six months in hpspital.
The Argus resuscitates a suggestion that Mel-
bourne footballers should combine to form one league, or
association, to boss the game, from the State school
kiddies up to the League premiers. The present League
teams would form the first grade, the eight best Associa-
tion teams the second grade, the other Association, the
best metropolitans and the best juniors the third grade,
and so on ; and the lowest club in each grade would swop
places each season with the highest in the next inferior
grade. It is a good scheme, and would make far better
and cleaner football. But to keep the scheme in healthy
working- order, it should be combined with district or
electorate football. Unless the residential qualification
be adhered to, the club with the wealthiest “patrons”
would capture the best pla.vers, get to the top, and stay
there. Something will have to be done with the League,
anyway. For the last three years the same four
clubs have had the semi-finals to themselves, and the
permutations of Fitzroy, Collingwood, Carlton, and
Essendon get monotonous.
* * it *
Mike Williams, of Africa, seems to be a
decent, jovial kind of an Irishman, and the newspaper
criticisms of his little bit of a mill with William Smith,
Australian, have let him down quietly, many of them
even asserting that he was going strong, and might
have pulled through had the referee continued to blink
at his fouling. But no one who knew the game could
reasonably have given Mike a ghost of a hope. It was
James, the Tasmanian champion, versus Peter Felix once
again, granting in Williams as much superiority over
James as Smith has over Felix. Mike is the short-armed,
heavy fighter who must get right in to reach the bull’s
eye, while Smith is a long, reachy man, with
one of the best lefts now operating on earth. He
hits with it like a thunderbolt, and where that left
lands it leaves its footprint. It beat the African-
Hibernian to nothing inside two minutes, and if the fight
had lasted it could only have been to the working of dire
mischief for Mike. William Smith experienced no diffi-
culty in holding him off and hitting him hard, and made
him look nothing but a liig mug. William’s corner was
not a hit surprised, for Tom Fennessey, the big timber-
shifter, who put up the best fight against Squires, got all
over Mike in the training stable. A tremendous reputa-
tion broke when the S’African went down.
* * * •
“ The Stork ” : Hackenschinidt is always spoken
of in Australia as a ’rastler who depends solely on his
strength for success, and who, as regards cleverness, may
be inferior to turkey-legged Buttan Singh. Experts are
now convinced that the Russian knows more about the
game than all the other boss wrestlers combined. In his
late match with Madrali, llackey was underneath, and
the Turk was master of the situation, with every chance
of success, yet llackey reversed the position and placed
his opponent’s shoulders on the mat. The Russian never
resorts to tricks if he can down his man with sheer bump-
ing ability, as likely opponents invariably muster in
force at his matches for the express purpose of benefiting
by his brains. The Hackenschmidt presented to Aus -
tralians was a purely holiday-making gent, who served
out a programme of average stock holds, and left the
interested person to imagine what such magnificent
physique could do when called on to down t’other fellow
for a big pile of dollars.
» * * *
Amurkan papers are whistling loudly over the
performance of l’ercy Megargel, who has just motored
across the Amurkan continent and hack again by a
different route, covering in all 11,742 miles. This the
Yankees are proclaiming to he a world’s record run,
which this paper does not believe. Charlie Gliddens must
have done nearly twice the distance in his Napier car.
This disposition on the part of the Yankee to re-
gard the territory under his own flag as the whole
airth is a fine thing from a Yankee standpoint, but it can
lie overdone. In point of time Percy’s ride was a dead
failure —the young man was five months behind time.
Possibly he stopped to mash a nice girl en route.
* * * *
Australia lias lost the World’s All-day record,
which was put up by Messrs. Janies and Kellow on a
Dunlop-shod 10-12 h.p. Humber over the Victorian roads.
The new winners are a pair of Americans who drove from
Detroit to Chicago and back again, a distance of 606
miles, in 21hrs. 50min. The Australians covered 556
miles in 24 hours, but the Yankees had the advantage of
a Packard car of 24 h.p.—twice the h.p. of the little
Humber which the Australians drove.
U.S.A. automobile builders are making special
efforts to construct cars which will keep the anderbilt
Cup in the land of its donor. The past two for the
utensil have been won by Frenchmen, and this time
Amurkan builders have engaged some of ™ie brat ot
French drivers to manipulate the steering-wheel. One
Yankee firm has engaged the Belgian driver of
whom it has most fear. It declares it will not allow him
to drive the American car ; but being engaged and under
contract, lie cannot drive any of the foreign cars which
has a very Beef-Trustv flavor about it.
* * * *
France has shut down on the Yankee hog in his
car bv sentencing an owner and his chauffeur to two
months’ imprisonment for furious driving through the
streets of Paris. The chauffeur was actually' controlling
the machine, but the court held tliaL he was merely
driving to order, so they jugged the owner for issuing
illegal orders and the driver for acting upon them, and
bagged both hogs. #
The Cambridge v. Harvard University boat
race, rowed on the Thames, the other day, was an eiglit-
oared matter, and the Americans, seemingly, got beaten
for both speed and stamina. The Englishmen, starting
off with a lead, were not seriously threatened by a Har-
vard spurt at half-distance. They scored an easy victory
with two lengths to spare. In 1569 the same American
University sent a champion four to England to tackle a
picked quartette from the Oxford crew, which had
smothered Cambridge earlier in the year. The race, in
that way-back time, was an object lesson in the difference
of styles. Oxford had a long swing, and trusted mainly
to the strong catch of the stroke, recovering slowly.
Harvard, a lighter crew, rowed a shorter stroke, pulling
it right through and finishing hard. It served to give
the Americans a good lead for the first two miles or so,
and then the Oxfords, with their “ drag ” stroke, came
up, came away, and won by lengths in dandy style,
whilst the short-strokers finished raggedly', with the
coxswain scooping water from the river and splashingit at
their faces. Good judges reckoned that the Yanks had
bad luck in meeting an exceptionally heavy' lot of first-
class oarsmen. Weight must tell if properly distributed,
and when the details of the Cambridge-Harvard event
come to hand it will probably be found that the visitors
were leaner chan their opponents.
* * * *
The sailing season will open in N.S.W. on
October 6, when the Flying Squadron will shake out its
sails and skim over Port Jackson once more. In spite of
the increase in the number of motor boats, the white
winged fleet will be numerically stronger than ever, and
the fact that the provisions of the Anti-Gambling Act do
not apply to races held on the water will probably make
the open boat sport boom like the bittern in the spring-
time when the mud is soft.
* * * *
The Sydney swimming season commences in
October, and will he marked by the appearance of a new
club, to bo known as the South Sydney District. Last
season was one of the most successful on record from a
financial standpoint, and the clubs have been spending a
lot of money improving and renovating the various baths,
making smooth, sandy bottoms where Nature had placed
ooze.
* * * -*
A golf club should surely be the home of Pri-
vate Enterprise, yet some iconoclast lias arisen in Sydney
to cry r out for a Socialistic, State-owned golf links, where
one and all could engage a State caddy, and go round for
3d. a time—as if he were going a ’bus ride. London,
where our Socialistic legislation is said to be regarded
with alarm and dismay, already has a Socialistic golf con-
cern, owned by' the County Council, and is going to start
another. But the London golf Socialist has to part with
Cd. for a round ; the Sydney anti-Socialist wants hisgame
for half the money.
* * * *
Melb. Argus comments foolishly on the Vie.
Anti-Gambling Bill proposal to prohibit publication of
“the odds” in newspapers: “If publication were pro-
hibited bookmakers would be able to make their own
odds, for it is quite certain they and the people who want
to bet with them will be able in some way or other to
evade the law against betting.” But Christian Moses
(the booky profession being at least half Gentile nowa-
days, this name should about fit) makes the odds now ;
the papers only quote them. And, whether quoted or
not, they will continue to be just what Christian Moses
makes them, though the prices quoted are not always
the best prices he is willing to lay.
* * * *
Citizen Wren already moans about the iniquity
of Bent’s new anti-gambling Bill. He claims that he is
now spending money at such a rate on his doomed ponv-
course that 500 men are making a livelihood where
before he took charge, a bare 50 were doing so. Wren
evidently reckons that the more parasites he can fasten
on to Victoria, the better pleased Victoria ought to be.
“Robert Hap” tells of his crushed
acquaintance :
The groom had borrowed my knife to cut his tobacco
with, and while the operation was proceeding he told me
this, to fill in time : —“ I was groomin’ an’ drivin’ a dog-
cart onct for an accountant bloke. ’E wasn’t much of a
toff (no billy-’at an’ Wellin’ton boots about me job, y>
know). ’E was managin’ a few mining joints up the
o ountry. One night when I was drivin’ *im ’ome ’e sez
ter me : ‘ Stubbs, you’ll very likely ’ave a real live lord to
drive inter town an’ out agen shortly. Lord Vertigo (or
some bloomin’ name like that) is goin’ to take a seat in the
orfis for a month or so. He’s one of the biggest share-
holders in the Salt an’ Carbine mine.’ Well, I wasn't
put out much, ’cause I reckoned as ’ow ’e’d be
good enough for a few bob now an’ agen. Enny’ow,
when ’e come, ’e stopped at the boss’s ’ouse, a.V I 'ad to
drive ’ini into town an’ out agen at night. ’E was
a pretty stand-off cove, an’ I couldn’t get ’ini into conversa-
tion at all. But one day, after a Board meetin’, ’e opens
out. ‘ Look ’ere,’ ’e sez, ‘ when I go back to England 1
must take a few native pets with me. I’m told the
bush in these parts is alive with kangaroo, emu
(this wuz out Long Bay way—mind yer) an’ monkeys.’
‘Some one’s been pullin’ yer leg, sir,’ I sez, ‘there’sno
monkeys about Sydney 'cept on barrel organs.’ ’E didn’t
seem to understand me, but ’e sez, ‘ Try an’ capture in e
some bandicoot an’ other reptiles, if you can.’ Now,
I knew there was plenty of diamond snakes
out Little Bay way. So 1 went out one day
and captured two boomers. I was so anxious to show
’em to his nibs that I put ’em in a sugar bag and took ’em
down to the orfis. One of the clerks showed me ’is room,
an’ I passes in. ’E was busy writin’. ‘ Well,’ he sez,
lookin’up, ‘wot is it?’ ‘I got a couple o’reptiles’ere,’
I sez, an’ with that I upends the bag, an’ wollops the two
diamonds out on the floor. Struth ! you should ha’ see i
that lord 1 ’E gives a yell an’ a leap, an’ lands up on top
o’, the iron safe. Then ’e picks up the biggest book to
perfect hisself. ‘Tal e ’em out o’ ’ere !’ ’e yells. ‘Con-
found you; I didn’t ask for beastly boa-constrictors.
Take ’em away—this instant! ’ It was no use me tryin’
to explain they was ’armless. ’E wouldn’t come off
’is perch till I put ’em in the bag again. An’, what’s
more, ’e wouldn’t come ’ome with me that night, but
went in the tram, an’ ’ad a dooce of a time findin’the
boss’s ’ouse. But this is where I come in. I thought
I’d made bad friends with ’im, so next day I went to the
bird shop an’bought a ’possum an’two guinea-pigs. 'E
seemed pleased when I gave ’em to ’im. I was sure then
of a pound or two when ’e was leaving—if only for drivin’
’im about, an’ the like. An’ what d’ye think ’e gave me?
A china mug with a blackfellow an’ a sailor on it, an’
some printin’ underneath which said, ‘ Yew-nited we
stand ; divided we fall.’”
N.S.W. and Victorian statists still per-
petuate the folly of giving their population statis-
tics “exclusive of aborigines.” The practice
originated in the day when Billy and Tarpot
were unknown quantities, and every distant range
was supposed to conceal battalions of him so
numerous that it was impossible to guess their
strength. To-day, the aborigines of Victoria
could be counted by the infant class at the nearest
State school, and in N.S.W. they are known to
the last half-caste baby. Why should the abori-
gines be excluded fi-om the total population while
Ram Chunder and Khyhab Khan and Ah Skunk
are counted in as citizens of this mighty Common-
wealth ?
THE “TONE"-RAISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Geelong, Tnursday.—The piety of the Geelong foot-
ballers was referrecLto at the Christian Endeavor Con-
vention to-day. Mr. Northey instanced the trip of the
Geelong Methodist footballers, who last month visited
Tasmania. They stayed at a hotel, and prior to having
their first meal at the hotel, rose in a body and sang
grace. They conducted themselves so well that the
proprietor remarked upon it.—Melbourne Argus.
Come, let us sing a tuneful :ong,
With fervor and sobriety,
Of “ Christian athletes,” who belong
To quite a new variety—
The football-players of Geelong,
Renowned far for their piety.
These good young men, of whom we sing,
Live lives that flow pellucidly
As any gushing mountain spring ;
They dwell apart reclusedly—
From Sin and all the joys that sting
Us wicked folk so deucedly 1
They do not box or punch the ball,
Or skylark devil-darefully ;
They never objurgate at all—
Excepting it be prayerfully—.
And if they get a bump or fall
They choose words very carefully 1
At times, of course, they kick some goals,
But very reverentially,
For well they know within their souls
They get them Providentially—
Prayer took the hall between the poles—
(For football’s prayer—essentially !)
And so through life a shining band
They move along religiously,
And point us to the Heavenly Strand,
Not coarsely, or litigiously,
But mildly ; thus they cleanse the land,
And raise its tone prodigiously !
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


A Discovery in Soap.
VAe NUP^ERY.
..Ur =/i*
/
Li
>'• • - ... *', /■ •
£1 TOILET.
•r
&
?s
V:‘
ZAM-BUK IN A NEW
AND USEFUL FORM.
HOW TO SECURE A PERFECT SKIN.
The question has often been asked why the elements which have made
Zam-Buk Balm famous the world over were not embodied in soap form.
One thing that sufferers from skin diseases need is care in the choice of
a medical soap to supplement the healing influence of the balm already
applied.
The good effects of Zam-Buk Balm may easily be nullified, if not quite
lost, by carelessness in this direction, and it is only natural that the pro-
prietors of Zam-Buk should have anxiously occupied themselves with investi-
gations after the right medical soap.
They felt that it was far better to market no soap at all if the right
methods and the right substances were not forthcoming, lliis explains why
the present demand has remained so long unfilled. r lhe idea was too lofty
to reach so soon. What the proprietors sought for, and for a considerable
time in vain, was a soap pure enough and good enough to contain similar
soothing essences of Zam-Buk Balm.
Most medicinal soaps, medicinal in name only, possess no specific action
on the skin. Moreover, they usually contain too much soda or other alkali,
a grave danger to sufferers from skin trouble.
They often contain, too, certain useless and mischievious additions -
water to artificially increase weight and scents to conceal the cheap and
coarse materials used in the process of manufacture, and lastly they are
made by the “cold process,” that is, without boiling, resulting in an im-
perfect chemical mixture and an article worth little even as a toilet soap,
much less for medicinal or hospital use.
It is generally a case of too much alkali, too much fat or bad mixing.
These were the preliminary obstacles which the chemists had to over-
come, and when after great pains and expense the right base was at length
secured, means had to be derived for impregnating the soap with similar
soothing essences of Zam-Buk itself. This had to be done in such a manner
that the essences would be released in the rich creamy lather during washing
and instantly soak through the pores to the seat of disease.
To-day the proprietors are able to announce the attainment of their
highest ambitions. The Zam-Buk Soap is no longer a dream, but an actual
fact, and an invention which is destined to prove invaluable to all skin-
disease sufferers, and be a boon as an every-day toilet and nursery soap as
well.
There is no free alkali in Zam-Buk Soap. It is delicate enough for the
tenderest-skin, yet efficacious for the most horny hands of toil.
Zam-Buk Soap does not gloss over the surface-skin as common soaps do,
nor does it rob the skin of its natural oil. It opens and cleanses the clogged
parts, gets down to the true skin, uproots disease, and imparts a beautiful
flexibility and a velvety softness to the whole tissue.
Make this test to-day—put a tablet of Zam-Buk Soap (it is cheap and
economical) on your washstand alongside the old soap you have been using.
Use the two soaps on alternate days. The disappearance of that rough un-
comfortable “ feel,” that parching, chafing, and stiffness, and that reappear-
ance of perfect skin-comfort with the daily use of Zam-Buk Soap, will con-
vince everyone that its claims have in no sense been overstated.
Beauty and health are the two good spirits that make each tablet of
Zam-Buk Soap their dwelling place. With their daily help you may keep
your skin young for all time.
ZAfI=BUK SOAP may be obtained from all Chemists
at Is* per tablet, or a dainty box of three tablets
for 2s. 10d., or direct from the ZAM=BUK MFG.
CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SEND TO US TO-DA Y for a FREE
We are so certain
of the many virtues
of ZAM-BUK SOAP
meeting-with general
approval, that we
are prepared to Post
Free to any address
a Sample Test Tablet
for use in the home.
All applications must
be accompanied by
Id. stamp and ad-
dressed to the ZAM-
BUK MANUFACTUR-
ING CO., 39 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Bulletin, Sept. 27, ! ()6
SAMPLE TABLET.
0 0 0
iiiiiiiiHiiiii
iiiiiiiniiiiiiiii
WllllM
"imii'n
""H
l""MI|lll||
111,
& TQ!,^
I ' 1111111111111111111 l S


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Victoria, October 20 •••
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 3
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
MELBOURNE CUP, „ „ November 6
MELBOURNE CUP Special, Drawn Morning of Race, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 6
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTA-INTT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
6s» Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
Booicing Fee,
3d.
per Parcel.
HEARNES^rgr 8
WORTH IN ONI ORDER
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. LIM°
WHOLESALE DRUGGISTS
AND DRYSALTERS.
.iuiy,....24,th,
Mr. W. G. Hearne,
Chemist, GEELONG.
Dear Sir,
We have much pleasure in enclosing to you herewith our order
for £9,600 worth of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Our sales for this remedy have always been large, but at no time
has the demand been so phenomenal as at present. We believe this forms
the largest straight-out order for any Chest Medicine in Australia.
We heartily congratulate you on the splendid reputation and
enormous sale which Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure enjoys.
We are, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing
power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difliculty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to
those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It
is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and
it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Con-
sumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with
this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally
sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain*
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, is sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.


Radium
Wo RT Hjof soooo
PER OUNCE j
Marconi '
Wireless
TELEGRAPH
V-'v
€
°a
r *Ab£
VARk
Co u
°Hs
Go
t-Os
Co/v
sy/ifp
r, O/y
''/Vn
''it
8*
O/Vch
'4L
4 /Vo
u Ltoa
"Any
/Ip
f £ct
'O/Vs
Of
th £
Thr
°4T.Lu
NOs
4 No
CtlF
Sf
zPep
fL^Eo
of To
gpc
° s rd
USA
Hs.w
Cures
Sore
Ungs
S° lP
iflfi
3 /-
5 /'
her*
Greatest
of ale
DISCOVERY
for COUGHS COLDS
and CONSUMPTION.
TME TRIUMPH ©F
MIEIICM SCIENCE
The Greatest Discovery
of the 20- Cerxbury
Guararvbeed bo cure
all Lu r\g Troubles.
SWELDoa-,-.
’ NEW S
Purely Vegetable.
Always Effective.
I They purify the blood, invigorate the digestion, and a
I cleanse the stomach and bowels. They stimulate *
Ithe Liver and carry off vitiated bile and other ■
"depraved secretions. They are a tonic medicine*
that regulate, purify, and fortify the whole system.^
N
IJ*
Established
17-SZ.
Constipation, Dizziness, Coated Tongue, Bad
| Breath, Headache, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Liver
I Complaint, Bilious Headache, or any disorder if
''arising from an impure state of the blood.
Each Pill contains one grain of the solid extract of Sarsaparilla.
40 pills in every box.
By Rail and Semaphore.
WHEN MACK BLEW UP!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD long known that when Manager
Mackenzie contemplated something un-
usually villainous he always looked excep-
tionally benevolent, and was extraordinarily win-
ning in his manner. So when I opened the win-
dow and caught sight of his ruddy face and silver
beard wearing an expression of benignity itself, I
could not help wondering to the telegraphist what
particular devilry the Old Man was up to that day.
“ Something absolutely fiendish, I should say,
judging by his brotherhood-of-man expression,”
said that officer as he retired.
When the Old Man walked in he was more than
affable. Placing his tall silk hat on my papers,
and unbuttoning his elegant, fawn-tinted, box-
•cloth overcoat, he gazed demurely at the little
gas fire.
“ A scrap of fire makes a room very cheerful,
does it not ? But make de Clifford ” (the office
varlet) “ stick a basin of water under it to keep
the air moist, as I’m particularly anxious not to
catch cold to-day, my boy. ”
He subsided into his arm chair, leaned his head
on his hand in deep thought, and then, turning
suddenly, inquired :
“ How are the incidental expenses this month—
pretty low, I think ?”
“Well, we haven’t paid many yet, but when
we square up I guess they will be just about the
same as usual. I’ll ask Fluter ”
“Ask Fluter nothing, darn him ! Look here,
it would be much better if you kept that book in
this room, and I’ll attend to it myself. Don’t you
think it would be better ?”
I had more regard for my position than to dis-
agree with him. I had sworn, when I entered
that office, to devote myself body and soul to loyal
service of the Old Man, and from that standpoint
it would certainly be a vast improvement, so, with
a great snort of honest conviction, I acquiesced.
“I’ll write to Fluter about it right away,”
he murmured, swinging round and grabbing a
memo, form, which he signed with a grand
flourish, and passed over for me to fill in at his
dictation.
Dear Fluter.—lt seems to me that you are working
most atrocious hours, while this whelp of mine hasn’t
enough to do in here to keep him out of mischief, and
has taken to smoking my cigars to fill in time.
(Here the letter-writing stopped with a bump
while I argued on the untruthfulness of the state-
ment, but he cut me-short bypassing over his
box, which I nearly emptied.)
I’ve been thinking over various plans by which he
might relieve you of some of the routine worries, and it
has occurred to me that those incidental expenses take a
lot of checking. I think this young devil might be safely
entrusted with that, as your time is far too valuable to
be wasted on such rule-of-thumb toil. Just tell him
exactly how you want the thing done, and then if he
doesn’t do it, just let me know, and I’ll deal with him.—
I am, my dear Fluter,
Yours faithfully,
Alexander Mackenzie.
* * * ■*
When I handed this humane document to
Fluter he read it over carefully with what can
only be described as a “dirty smile.” Then he
produced from a side drawer a thin book and a
thick bundle of vouchers.
“ Are there any particular points in the keeping
of this book that you desire me to note, sir?” I
said, in my most winning manner.
“ No ! I don’t care a tinker’s benediction how
you keep it, or whether you keep it at all. I shall
not see it again, and well you know it.”
“ I’m afraid you give me credit for too much
knowledge, Mr. Fluter.”
Mr. Fluter made no reply, but bent his back,
and once more applied his nose to the grindstone.
I retired to the manager’s room.
“ Did he seem grateful for my consideration ? ”
inquired the Old Man.
T e did not; and doesn’t care a hang how it’s
kept. ”
j. .ic Old Man sniggered.
“Now, my boy, we must reform the incidental
■exes, system. I think it would be better it we
■opened a Manager’s Advance Account, and you
can open a cash book and a ledger. Cash a cheque
for £5O, and we will keep the money here in our
own safe. Don’t you think that would be a great
convenience ? ”
“ Certainly. It’s most awkward having to rush
down to the cashier with a separate cheque every
time we require three or four bob.”
“Of course it is—why, it detracts from the
dignity of the office. Dammit! I can’t under-
stand why I’ve put up with the inconvenience so
long. Shows to what an alarming extent we are
-creatures of habit.”
I drew the cheque and passed it over for him to
sign. As he took it he glanced at my clothes :
“ I say, my boy, those pants are getting a trifle
baggy at the knees —you’d better order another
suit from Sutherland. That £6 10s. due to you
for expenses incurred on that tour of inspection
■down Carson’s River sidings will pay for it. I
like you to be always well dressed.”
I had only spent about 10s. on that trip, but if
the manager valued my work at an extra £6, why
should I decry my services?
“ Have that cheque turned into gold by mid-
day, my boy. And, another thing, fix up with
the Most Perfect ” (his abbreviation for the Most
Perfect Gentleman on the Maoriland Railways;
the name by which the local S.M. was known)
“ to have a special compartment reserved for me
•on No. 29 South. I’m going out to Maraeama this
afternoon. Take a sovereign, and see that there
are some chocolates, a few flowers, and other
things in the rack. Sprinkle a little of Atkinson’s
Wall-flower over the seats, and make a nice atmos-
phere. I always like a nice atmosphere when I
take a niece for a run to Maraeama. Lovely
weather on the Lake just now, don’t you think ?”
The cashier hadn’t gold. He offered notes, but
I made a grimace, and said they were malodorous,
and that I must have gold. Well, he would get
gold to oblige the epicures of the service, but
we’d darned well have to wait for it. When I
returned to the manager and reported the delay
he reached for his hat.
“ Well, I’m going up to the club, and if I don’t
come back here be sure to meet me with the
money and my portfolio at the train.”
* * * *
I took the large and impressive-looking port-
folio in which Manager Mackenzie was supposed
to carry his valuable official papers when he
travelled up and down the lines in pomp and
dignity. Usually it contained whisky, but to-
day it was stuffed with choice sweets, a couple of
tiny sample bottles of fine liqueurs, and a
parcel of perfumes. In each of my waistcoat
pockets reposed snugly a rouleau of 25 sovereigns.
I splashed the perfume around the compartment,
put the gorgeous hot-house blooms in the l'ack,
and then went to look for the Manager, carrying
the portfolio with the chocolates and liqueurs.
There was no sign of him in the S.M.’s room,
neither was he in the first-class waiting-room,
nor did the private bar of the refreshment-room
reveal any trace of him. I met a Vision, most
expensively dressed, inquiring for him, and took
her to the reserved compartment, where I gave
her some chocolates to keep her quiet. Then the
bell rang—no sign of the Manager. Guard
Mereditli shouted, “All aboard, please!” twice,
and the Most Perfect looked at the clock, took a
second glance at the starting signal which sud-
denly dropped, and waved his magnificent arm
with a majestic gesture. Where was my fool
of a Manager? The Vision was looking out of
the window of her reserved compartment with
a frightened expression in her blue eyes. The
train moved out slowly.
Suddenly the Manager appeared from heaven
knows where, and made a wild dash for the nearest
carriage, which, of course, was the one containing
the Vision. I sprang on to the footboard and
opened the door for him. He scrambled in with
as much dignity as a hog falling into the trough.
I gave him the bag. The train made a sudden
bound. I felt there was something else, but what
it was I could not remember for the moment.
“What the devil are you hanging therefor —
jump, jump, you ape ! ” yelled the Manager;
“you can’t come in here.”
The rail-joints were clicking faster and faster.
A street crossing rushed at us, and as we ran on
to it I swung outward and dropped, and when I
stopped rolling the train was round the office and
out of sight. I looked at my dust-stained clothes,
and started for home —my pants were wrecked at
the knees.
As I left the dining table I felt in my pocket for
a match. Good heavens ! I had forgotten to
give the Old Man his 49 sovereigns ; and there
they were reposing safely in the pockets of my
tight-fitting waistcoat while he was rushing away
to the Waters of Maraeama with, in all pro-
bability, less than a pound in his pocket. As a
matter of fact, I learned afterwards it was a
solitary half-crown. I rushed for my bicycle, and
in ten minutes was in J;he Traffic Office, breath-
less, trying to persuade Pluter to run a light
engine, or some sort of a train, out to Maraeama
to give the Manager important documents he had
left behind.
Fluter was inflexible :
“ Let me see the documents, and if they’re so
almighty urgent we can telegraph the contents—
that will be cheaper than a special train. That’s
too blanky much altogether.”
I rushed across to the platform and scrambled,
with my bike, aboard a train that ran down a
branch-line to within 15 miles of the Waters of
Maraeama —or at least that end of the Waters
where was situated the hotel in which the Old
Man always stayed while on these “tours of
inspection.”
* * * *
When the train pulled up at the little branch
terminus I asked the S.M. to come over to the
pub. and mention a name. Having decided on a
name, I started to talk about riding to Maraeama
Hotel. He assured me there was a fairly level
road, hard and smooth, the whole distance. He
did a bit of cycling himself, and had often cut out
the run to Maraeama in an hour, and he was no
flier. So, after mentioning a name myself, I
started at top speed for Maraeama along a road
that was certainly hard, and wound between walls
of trees which the farmers had planted along the
boundaries of their properties.
I had left the branch terminus at 3.30, and had
great hopes of arriving at Maraeama before the
Old Man discovered that he had left his affluence
behind him. In a little over half-an-hour the
afternoon sunlight suddenly flashed on a sheet of
blue water, and I put down my head and flew on
with increased energy. But blue water is always
deceptive, and it was another good half-hour
before I suddenly ran through a shingle gorge and
saw, half-a-mile below, the yellow railway build-
ings, and in the background the Lake Hotel,
bowered in trees and high hedges.
I called in at the railway office and spoke to
“Splash” Lamont, the sub., who looked me
straight in the eye, and calmly assured me he had
seen nothing of the Old Man.
I made cabalistic signs at him to indicate that
I understood that little fiction. What I wanted
to know was had he been “performing.” But
“Splash” stoutly denied all knowledge of him.
“Oh, well, in that case come over to the Lake
Hotel and wa’ll have sixteen whiskies and soda
just to pull me together again.” The energetic
emphasis with which “Splash” declined the
invitation put that young man right away.
“Come up to the Belle Vue,” he remarked.
“ They keep better soda there.”
“ When I’ve seen the Old Man,” I said, wheel-
ing the jigger up to the front door of the hotel.
I walked into the vestibule. It was empty. So
was the bar. There was some sort of a disturb-
ance going on at the Lake side of the house, and
I walked round. The landlord and all his staff
were assembled outside a door at the end of the
verandah, and a dishevelled caricature of the
Vision I had put into the reserved compartment
was imploring some of them to go, for pity’s sake,
to the poor gentleman. He had a fit—she was
sure he would die. Were they all brutes ? And
all the time from the interior came weird sounds.
“Is that Mack performing?” I ask the land-
lord, whom I knew.
“By heaven, he is performing. He’s mad all
right. Think you could do anything with him ?
He bit me when I tried to soothe him.”
“ What’s the row, anyhow?”
“Well, last time he was out here he paid me
with a cheque—and it took a deuce of a time to
get it cashed. I swore I’d never take his cheque
again ; and when he came out here to-day he was
putting on side something awful. Ordered cham-
pagne, and when he felt in his pocket for the cash
he had only half-a-crown. ‘ Lend me a cheque,’
says he. ‘No fear,’ says I—‘took 10 weeks to
collect the last one. You pay cash, Mr.
Mackenzie, and we won’t fall out.’ ”
“Well, what happened then?”
It took some time to explain just what hap-
pened then. It seemed that Mack had turned a
beautiful pink and had got slowly on to his two
feet. Then he opened his mouth to curse, or
something, but he choked and couldn’t curse. He
had left his mouth open. He had next turned
bright red, and reached up as high as he could
with his left hand and dragged down a sample of
the atmosphere. He reached up as high as he
could with his right hand and fetched down
another sample of the atmosphere. He threw
both samples wildly at the landlord. His large
mouth was still open, and he was still speechless.
He looked at the landlord with a terrible expres-
sion, and turned dark red, and his head began to
smoke. He scratched the atmosphere with both
hands, and wore an expression of concentrated
rage—the kind that could be put up in a
tin and sold as American pressed beef, it
was so solid. He threw up one foot to
kick the universe, and it accidentally came
down a yard ahead of him, and that started him
walking. He turned purple and his head swelled
to twice its usual size, and he walked round the
table choking and tearing the air into shreds.
Finally he presented the awful spectacle of a blue
man fleeing round the room in speechless anger.
And just here he got his mouth shut, which he
wanted to do for four reasons. (1) He wanted
the use of his mouth to foam at, which he did. (2)
He wanted to gnash his teeth, which he did. (3)
He wanted to bite the landlord, which he did.
(4) He wanted to speak, in which, however, he
had failed up to the moment of my arrival, though
he had made a curious arrangement of sounds
which were not speech. And all this because he
was away on a secret holiday with a girl who had
also to be kept secret, and he dared not telegraph
for money, and he found himself with only half-a-
crown, and a landlord who refused to even look
at his cheque. Mack was an excitable man.
“Well,” I said, “it’s not what you’d call
pretty. I’ll go in and quiet him.”
“ Well, look out he doesn’t bite yer jugular. I
think I’d better send for the sergeant. No good
anybody getting hurt, you know.”
“Sergeant be darned! You can’t give a
gentleman like him in charge.”
“Oh yes, I can; and I’d do it quick and
lively if he was breaking things.”
I stepped into the room from which the weird
sounds came. The blinds were down, and the
room was almost in darkness. At last I saw the
Manager rolling about the floor, his beautiful
silvery beard stuffed into his mouth, and he kicked
at things as he rolled. When he saw me he
scrambled to his feet, leaned one hand on a table,
and strove desperately to speak. It was no good.
A huge objurgation had stuck in his throat and
stopped the flow of cuss language.
At last he got it out. As the landlord had said,
he just literally barked. I took no notice, but
drew out a handful of gold, and counted out 49
sovereigns slowly, and with great care, just as if
it was an important chemical experiment. The
sight of the gold soothed him at once. He sank
into the chair, and placing both hands over his
heart, held tight. I rang the bell.
A head peeped round the corner.
“Brandy and soda, quick; the gentleman is
ill.”
It was the trembling Vision who brought it in.
I held it to him, and he took it unsteadily and
gulped it down with a convulsive effort. Then
he sat back.
“ You » * >f. -j. .j. son 0 f a * * * an( j a * * *
You * * *—* !! ! If I don’t have you out
of the adjective service to-morrow my name’s not
Alexander Mackenzie ! You pup ! ”
“Well, put that money in your pocket before I
go,” I said, pushing it over. He swept it into
his pockets without counting it; and I turned
to go.
“Sit down, you devil ! ”
“All right! ”
“ How did you get here ? ”
“ On my bike.”
“You mean to tell me you biked all the way
from Romahapa ? ”
“No. I took the train to Havelock, and biked
across.”
“Eh ! That’s a wild road, isn’t it'? ”
“Yes. I was chased for my life by wild cattle
and wilder dogs ; and it’s only a miracle that I
got here alive. Can I catch No. 32 back ?”
“Does this publican know you brought this
money ?”
“ No. I’ll explain that you often get these fits,
and that you’re all right as long as you’re left
alone, and allowed to have plenty of floor space.”
“Yes, that’s all right. Tell him some sort of
plausible lie, and make him think I had the money
all the time. Let him think you came out here
in the natural way, just to attend to secretarial
duties. By gad, that means you’ll have to stay
till to-morrow morning. Oh Lord—that’s more
expense. How on earth did you forget to give me
that money ? Do you know I had only half-a-
crown ? ”
“No wonder you went mad, with a girl like
that on your hands and only half-a-crown in your
pocket.”
“Here, you keep your miserable, puerile wit to
yourself, you impudent lout ! Get across to the
station, and have a look through the truck journal,
or anything, but get to Hades out of this, and be
busy officially.”
I did. I went across to the station and took
“Splash” up to the Belle Vue, where the good
soda was.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


Aclie ! Ache ! Ache 1 Takes all the
life, all the energy, out of you.
Makes you miserable. There is a
danger in it, too. Neglect the
warning of a had hack, you ne-
glect an appeal from the kidneys.
When the back is bad—when
it’s lame or weak
—when it aches
—when it's-tired,
the kidneys are
sick demand
attention.
Dean’s
Backache
Kidney PiHs
relieve quickly
the aches and
pains and weak-
ness of a bad
hack. If you fail
to help the kid-
V/i v
neys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease, are sure
to follow. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
You think Backache comes from fatigue. Sometimes it does. But ,
when it comes again and again, it is Kidneyache. The kidneys lie under the
small of the hack, and a pain in the kidneys is felt in the small of the hack.
SYDNEY WOMAN CURED OF
BACKACHE and KIDNEY TROUBLE.
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this City, says :—“For about three
years 1 suffered with kidney derangement. The worst symptom was a constant
backaohe, which became more painful whenever I stooped much. I tried many
remedies for this complaint; but the results were anything but beneficial.
However Doan s Backache Kidney Pills permanently cured me. When I say
cured, I mean that it is over twelve months since I used these pills, and I’ve
had no return of the old pain. I have advised many people to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and some have obtained very good results from their use.”
Mrs. Mullins informs us that she is still well. She says “ I have never
had a sign of the complaint since. They are splendid Pills, and have made a
great difference in my health. My permanent cure, for it is over five years
since I used the Pills, speaks for itself."
Are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per Box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
\
DOAN’S OINTMENT,
ITCHING PILES CURED.
Mr. Edgar Wood, Engineer, Randwick
Tram, whose private address is 23 Young-
street, Redfern, says: “ For seventeen years
I suffered with itching and protruding Piles.
During that time I was treated by several
well-known Sydney doctors; I also tried
chemists’ prescriptions and remedies adver-
tised to cure this complaint; but nothing
gave me the slightest relief. The irritation
was so great that it caused me annoyance and
inconvenience during the day, and kept me
awake for hours at night. I almost despaired
of ever getting anything to relieve me, as I
had experienced so many failures. How-
ever, I saw an article in the paper stating
that Doan’s Ointment had cured a Sydney
man who had suffered for twenty years with
this complaint. lat once got the Ointment,
and I am pleased to tell you that the first
application gave me relief. I continued
using it, and am now perfectly cured, and
this means a lot to me, and is wonderful,
considering I had been afflicted for 17 years.
Since my cure I have recommended Doan’s
Ointment to other sufferers, and I will
always do so. I wish you to publish par-
ticulars of my cure for the benefit of other
sufferers who do not know the value of
Doan’s Ointment.”
ECZEMA CUBED.
Mr. H. Watson, Alfred-street, Annandale,
this city, says:—“A couple of years ago I
had eczema break out very badly on my
chest. It was shortly after a trip I took to
India with horses, where I contracted fever,
the eczema seeming to me to be the result of
this sickness. It started severely, and spread
rapidly, until I was in such a bad state that
the irritation nearly drove me mad. When
I went to bed at night my sufferings were
worse, and it would be nearly morning before
I could get to sleep. A fellow I know ad-
vised me to get Doan’s Ointment, saying that
he had heard of great results gained by using
this preparation. I thought it a good idea, and
obtained a pot. The first application was
cooling, and the second soothed the itch, and
after that I got along splendidly ; every time
I ajiplied the ointment there was a marked
improvement, until I was quite cured.
Within a month from the first time I used
the ointment, not one trace of the ailment
remained. lam twelve months cured now.
Doan’s Ointment is a splendid preparation
for eczema, skin irritation, and to take in-
flammation from the skin, and to heal.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases
of the skin, eczema, piles, hives, insect bites,
chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe, and very
effective. Very often two or three pots have
cured chronic cases, which have resisted
other treatment for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney , N.S. W.
REMEMBER THE NAME-DOAN’S.
Cavalry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A CLATTER of hoofs and a jingle of steels
Hear the King’s cavalry !
Round the street corner they swagger
and wheel—
See the King’s cavalry—
The King’s proud cavalry !
As waves of the sea are their quivering ranks—
. Waves that have galloped and won ;
Such glitter of breastplates, and shoulders, and
flanks,
In the glow of the afternoon sun.
Great chargers plunging,
Reefing and lunging—
Way for the cavalry !
Grim troopers riding,
Like centaurs bestriding
The horse of the cavalry—
The King’s own cavalry !
Hot heads are tossing the flakes of white froth
Over the cavalry.
Troop sergeants ride like the great gods of wrath,
Watching the cavalry—
The. King’s proud cavalry !
Like breakers in leash that are fretting to fly,
See how the great horses prance !
Ah ! to be there when the guns gallop by,
And trumpeters sound the advance.
Ho ! stand aside there ;
The cavalry ride there— -
Way for the cavalry ! , *
Pacing disdainfully,
Reefing so painfully,
The bottled-up cavalry—
The, King’s proud cavalry.
The foot-soldiers, wearied by sortie, and tramp,
Envy the cavalry,
Who clatter their scabbards and ride into camp—
Swaggering cavalry,
The King’s own cavalry.
The plash of accoutrements deafens the ear,
The high walls echo and ring,
There’s a jingle of harness and creaking of gear
As they pass with a clash and a swing.
Spurred chargers dancing,
Plunging and prancing—
Way. for the cavalry !
The line and artillery
Are only auxiliary:
This is the cavalry—•
Cheers for the cavalry !
There is no pomp on God’s earth like the pride
And the pomp of the cavalry—
There is no death like the deaths men have died,
Swept by the cavalry—
The throat-cutting cavalry.
They are barbaric in bearing and glance,
Relics of Tartar and Moor,
Who met the fierce foe at the point of the lance—
Fighting that they might endure.
So, stand aside there,
The cavalry ride there —
Way for the cavalry !
The guns and the Tommies are
Useless as dummies are ;
God made the cavalry—
So say the cavalry.
Once ’twas a glorious way to meet Death—
To ride with the cavalry
Where great gods of battle blew smoke at each
breath,
And yawned for the cavalry.
Mad with sheer courage they’d gather and charge,
Horses would whinny and dance—
Ears would lie flat and the white eyes enlarge
When trumpeters blew the advance.
Then would be throb of hoofs—
Thunder and sob of hoofs
As the wild cavalry
Raced forward heel to heel,
Foes setting steel to steel—
Raced in like cavalry,
Tall, stalwart cavalry.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
A Bush Call.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CUDDLING a Hatful of baby quail, I
argued hotly that bush-life was exciting.
I found them fluttering and crying in the
stubble of thB “ twenty-acre,” where the men were
busy with the reaper-and-binder. •
My hostess smiled quietly, and her face wore a
spitefully humorous twist. She said she would
take me next day to pay a bush call—l might find
that exciting. So, on the morrow, we set out.
My hostess tied the horses to a gum-tree, close to
a small cottage, half-hidden in a sweet, old-
fashioned garden. Flocks of turkeys fed in the
paddocks across the creek, and the running water
made music as it tumbled over the big boulders.
With deep breaths I drew in the sweetness of the
stocks and wallflowers, and once again the charm
of the bush smote my senses.
We went up to the house. It was Sunday.
Several small children, in royal blue hats and
violet silk hair-ribbons, fled before us. We stood,
and knocked at the open door. A quiet-looking
woman came slowly from the back. My hostess
introduced me. The woman shook hands limply
with us both, making no remark whatever. We
stood and looked at each other for some time. I
wondered vaguely if the lady we visited were
dumb. She was not, however; the English lan-
guage had eluded her, and that was all. I spoke
of the garden. The lady looked at me, suspicion
in her small eyes. “ Yairs,” she said, slowly.
Just then it seemed to strike her that we might
like to go inside. My hostess inquired solemnly
for Mr. Hobbs ; she said she hoped he was very
well. Mrs. Hobbs paused thoughtfully, then
answered slowly “ Yairs.”
We sat in the stuffy sitting-room. My hostess,
who can talk when she likes, was deliberately
silent. I thought her a cat. I noticed some
highly-polished picture frames made of fir cones,
and, in desperation, I said how much I admired
them. The lady whom we visited said “Yairs,”
Some time after she remarked that her sister had
made them.
My hostess spoke of the new piano. Mrs.
Hobbs’ eyes lit up, and her face was almost in-
telligent. She turned to me. “Can you play
thepianner?” I said modestly that I managed
to struggle through my accompaniments, but
that was about all. The lady regarded me again
with suspicion. “ Couldn’t you play one o’
them, ? ” she asked, sourly. I looked at my
hostess—an appeal in my eyes. She walked to
the piano and played several jigs and polkas,
pressing hard on the loud pedal, and now and
then improvising and sticking in a shocking bass.
She thumped the time-payment implement
steadily for 30 minutes, and again I thought her
a cat. Round the front door all the royal blues
had collected. The baby cried loudly. Project-
ing half-way through the back-door was a shock-
headed man, his mouth wide open, and his eyes
glued on the piano. Mrs. Hobbs sat in an ecstasy.
She didn’t even hear the baby crying. My hostess
stopped, exhausted. The royal blues faded away,
but the shock-headed man came slowly in. It was
Mr. Hobbs. My hat, worn at a city angle, seemed
to fascinate him. He regarded it thoughtfully
for several minutes. My nerves were very much
on edge. I wanted to scratch or bite him. “ Don’t
you like it ?” I snapped madly. He lowered his
eyes to my face, and, after consideration, an-
swered “Yairs.”
At four o’clock we repaired to the kitchen for
“lunch.” We were all there, mother and father,
royal blues, baby, and the rest of us. We ate in
silence. At the risk of being thought rude I re-
marked that the cakes were delicious. (They
weren’t; they were greasy and beastly, but I had
to say something or burst.) “Yairs,” said Mrs.
Hobbs, simply.. I ground my teeth. Flies flew
into my eyes and mouth, and fell into my tea.
The top of my head was getting a tight feeling
about it, my hands were cold, and my lower limbs
felt as if they belonged to someone else.
“For ’s sake let’s get out of this,” I whis-
pered hoarsely to my hostess. She only grinned.
She told me afterwards it was not etiquette to
leave till dusk. I couldn’t stand it any longer,
and made a bolt for the open. When I saw the
horses being put in the trap, I returned to say
good-bye.
“Well,” my hostess remarked as we drove
away, “do you still think bush-life exciting?
One day this weel* Mrs. Hobbs will call on me.
She will bring all the children. She will remain
till dusk. She will only remark, ‘ Yairs.’ Some-
times I receive five visits a week from my neigh-
bors. Their conversation is no more brilliant
than Mrs. Hobbs’. If I talk about anything but
crops, weather, or rabbits, I am looked upon with
suspicion, so I restrict myself to those subjects
and say ‘ Yairs,’ as they do.”
She brought the whip down on the unoffending
horses, and her eyes snapped. “ Bush-life is very
exciting,” she said, savagely.
GIP.
Diplomacy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE poet sat. in deep thought. His
publishers had requested a dedication to
his book of verses, to be printed shortly (at
his own expense).
“ A dedication ! ” He smote his high, white
brow in desperation.
His eye wandered around the room. Fair girls
smirked at him from the mantel-shelf; dark
damsels gazed archly at him from the walls;
while, from above the piano, quantities of assorted
girl ogled him fatuously.
The embarrassment of riches !
Then, with a spasm, he remembered his rich
aunt. Dared he pass her over? Anything but
that! Rather the rest must go. And yet
An idea struck him.
His aunt’s name was Lucilla Drew. Good !
Initials. L.D.
He took up his pen and wrote :
My dear Aunt.—
lam taking-the liberty of dedicating- my book of verses
to you. It is to be issued on Thursday next, and I trust
you will mention it to your friends. You will see the
dedication—simply “To L.D.” Let it be a secret between
you and
Your attached nephew, Percival.
The photo, of a freckled-faced girl with an in-
delible smile next caught his eye—Lily Bourne.
He wrote:—
Darling.—
According to promise, I am dedicating my book of
poems, which comes out on Thursday next, to you. Let
it be a sweet secret between us. No one else is to know,
dear. The dedication will read —“To L.D.” (Lily,
Darling.) That’s you.
Your devoted, Percy.
A moment later the poet’s pen was busy on a
fresh sheet, to be sent to the angular female with
the aesthetic air, whose photo, stood on the piano
—she was Dorothea Winton.
Dear One.—
My book— the book— our book comes forth on Thurs-
day. I have not forgotten your permission. The dedi-
cation is, simple, but fervent. It will read: “To L.D.”
Loved Dorothea. The Philistine will not understand. We
alone shall know.
Yours for ever, Pbrcie.
Next to that of the aesthetic girl was the photo,
of a chubby-faced'colleen. Her name was Kathleen
O’Rourke. ,
Dear Old Girl.—
You know what happens Thursday? The ded. will be
as we arranged. Simply “To L.D.” No one will know
whom I mean but you and I. I always think of you by
the pet name wherewith I christened you, “Lorna
Doone.”
Yours till death, Perc.
The poet groaned as he signed his name. “ It’s
getting a bit strained,” he muttered.
Four more letters were written and sealed, and
the poet breathed triumphantly. “ One more
only ! ” he cried, as he rose from his chair, stepped
across the room, unlocked a drawer in the bureau,
and, drawing out a photograph, gazed at it long
and ardently.
It was a tall, flaxen-haired girl, unmistakably
German. The signature in thin, scratchy charac-
ters was Gretchen Zeigletauff.
A hunted look gleamed in his glorious eyes.
With puckered brow he strode to his desk, took
up his pen, and wrote on the blotting-pad, “G.Z.”
Underneath he inscribed, “L.D.” The puckers
on his brow deepened. He sat back in his chair
and gazed at the ceiling for inspiration. There
was nothing there except cobwebs. He sought
out a German dictionary, and feverishly turned
the pages. The puckers "on his high, white brow
still multiplied.
“G.Z. !” he groaned. “Z—good heavens! 1
Z—zebra, zodiac, Zambesi ”
As the dying sun recalled its straggling rays,
and twilight crept slowly out from the corners
where it had been hiding, the Poet raised his head
from his hands, and, with a great cry of anguish
and defeat, collected the letters he had written
and hurled them into the fire.
On the following Thursday, from the publishing
offices of Messrs. Snarett and Kopp, a little
volume of verse was issued— “ Dewdrops in my
Garden”—by Percival Gibloid. The dedication
brought joy to many female hearts. It read •
simply: “To Her.”
ALF. BASCH.


Impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and n-
riches the blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store*
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story:
i
“In tlie year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
woid3 than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
fered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER’S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name-AYER’S SARSAPARILLA-is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DR. J. C. A.TTER & CO., Lowed, Mass.. O’. S.
FRE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and.address and we will forward you 12 packets,
each containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards re-
turn us our 65., and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery whioh we send you. By,
continuing the sale of our cards you can earn a Ladles’ or
Gent.’s Silver'Watch and Chain ; a Photo Camera
loaded for use; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes. Re-
member, we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. We take all the Risk. You oan return the cards if not sold. We have
no connection with any other firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards
in Australia, and import our Jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be
the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. Every month we
are changing and improving our post cards, which are all copyright and cannot be ob-
tained elsewhere. Our illustrated gems of Australian poets, Lindsay Gordon, Patterson,
&e., are unique. Our Actress Series is a collection of popular artists, comprising Grace
Palotta, Sarah Bernhardt, Nelli* Stewart, and many other artists renowned for their
talent and beauty. Our London Series contains world famous historic London buildings.
Our prizes give full satisfaction and are as represented in illustrations. We refer to any
trade agency, or to our many well-pleased agents. We have thousands of testimonials,
having built up our large business by giving full satisfaction to all.
REGAL POST CARD CO.. BK O'Connell St., Sydney, N.S.W.
F
R
E
E
m
A
k
/"•
S;
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card -with your name
an 3 we will arrange to forward one of our
laths' improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is themost perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism', Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
THE
DEAF
.HEAP,
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter ot
I how long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St*. Melbourne
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used (or over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or font quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
8t Melbourne ; F. H. Fawldlngr & Co., 16 O’Conneft St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy eure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele,.etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedv
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address I HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
How
are
you
?
Everyone is familiar with this expression. It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for "How are you? n Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all sickness comes directly from
indigestion, or a torpid condition of the li-ver and bowels.
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
up and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
Natures warnings of disorder. BEECH AM’S PILLS keep people
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for giving strength to the stomach, correcting the digestion and
regulating the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
Keep You Fit.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 j (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
FREE!
MAKE BIG_MjONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can.be used at all
entertainments, in ativ size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae, printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed, this is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
JUOO
at WeeK
Given
Away
Free
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution-—IGenuine 1 Genuine Chlorodvrie.
Every bot tle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1896, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chi.OKODYNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 4.3
hours without
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name tjr
ftIDY
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
j ft Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free o» charge, to any-
° n Ad<Jress: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
A Good Knife
For the Coon try,
4(6
This is an extremely
strong and handy knife,
with speying and lamb
foot blades, tweezers
and pick—price, 4s. 6d.,
post free.
The same style, with speying
and pen blade, but without
tweezers— 3s. 6d., post free.
The blades are not fancy
stamped as shown in the illustra-
tion.
Other things -for men’s use are
illustrated in our Catalogue.
May we send you a copy ? Post
free on request.
Every article sold by “ the
Store where Quality counts ”
is sent out with the distinct
understanding' that if on
receipt you are of opinion
that it is riot exactly as
represented, you can im-
mediately return it and we
will cheerfully refund the
amount paid.
Wc are making a
special display of
LADIES' BACK AND
SIDE COMBS. Come
in and inspect.
ARGUS
COOTE,
George Street,
Cor. Royal Arcade, Sydney,
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V.
Markets.
DR. M.D., Consulting Physician, &o.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of rien and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
MEN
"OMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito tlrinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OP MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6; or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This mag-niflcent medical work contains 692 payes Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


WATERPROOF
BEDSHEETING
For Households & Hospitals
361 n. WIDE, 1/9, 2 9, and 3/6 PER YARD.
(Other Widths and Prices.)
PATTERNS POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
AIR PILLOWS and CUSHIONS
FOR THE COMFORT OF INVALIDS
AND FOR TRAVELLING, 5/6 Upwards.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^.
270 Qeorge St.; Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,.
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
HARDY’S
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
‘LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181b*. Operated by compressed air, oonsuminir about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
•OLEJKENTS J/f & j, (.EMPRIERE, «“
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As wall as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
HA/VIES JUST STirKTir
AH Kinds of Engineers'Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting:
Hangers
Valves
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, ali kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. .FOR..
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGOESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
ilffi
mu
A TRIAL OUTFIT.
'
AERTEX CELLULAR DA y SHIRT,
Neckband and Cuffs.
ILLULAR SINQLET,
Hal f-sleeves.
AERTEX CELLULAR TRUNK
nD a wane
AERTEX CELLULAR HALF-HOSE,
Hand-make.
FOR
12/6
Try one of these Outfits for Spring and Summer
wea/r. Recommended by doctdrs, and an abso-
lute safeguard against colds and chills.
Sole Agents—
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
Price Lists and Patterns Post Free. All Orders over
£2 Parcels Post Free.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin” Writers.
The Book is adoknbd . . .
By “Bulletin” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN GOOD YARNS— AO.
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the Price Post Free lirom this Office.
Sol
by \
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8170 J 2-BLABE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 2/-
Stag Handle • ■ « 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD ENGLAND.
PAM PA 5
POCKET
KNIVES
are the.
BEST.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
STTOKTHY.
GARDEN
AND ALL ACCESSORIES,
SEND FOR PRICE LIST to
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER COY.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPiOVED CARD
New Patents embodying 7
New and Valuable Features
not possessed by any other
CONCENTRATOR.
Sole Licensees :
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd
Sydney & Melbou
The Two-Plane
Adjustable
Deck is the
Greatest Dis-
covery of the
last 20 years
made in the
Concentrating
Art
