

THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
107. Kent Street,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Sydney,
Machinery,
9
Mining Requisites
HOBART.
— —
[jadley’s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
McLaren’s
Compound
TRACTION
are SIMPLE, EFFICIENT,
ECONOMICAL, DURABLE.
Large Stocks of Engines dfc Duplicate Parts held in Sydney.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SOLE AGENTS—
Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent St., Sydney
\8
"Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
m
16 A
Economy m Cvkrkmt.
Eqvawty or Light.
'JHE
EDISON l m
Hailed Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queentslaral Depfit:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
r
u ‘fit* u£&t
au ,
ADD
WINGS.”
Milton.
TO
THY
SPEED
Are the Wings that
give Speed to tho
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle .
Unsurpassed for Durability & SYDNEY Address: 225 Clarence St.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
igs
TEA!
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED 13W QUALITY. PT I3ST BOTTLER
No Other in
the World ,
ENGINES
EQUAI-S
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
,'XHM wi ■¥»!!!
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
lift a’Beclcett St,
MELBOURNE.
USE . .S|
DELMO BROS.
ti
99
mm
-I
<
LUZ
bcM
Ui UJ
79-81 COPPIN $T h
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
HELIDON SPA. Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1376.]
[Thursday, June 28,190&
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY^
THE JUNGLE.
SPECIAL AUSTRALASIAN EDITION.
By UPTON SINCLAIR.
Cloth 3s. 6d. ; mailed to any part of the Common-
wealth, New Zealand, or Fiji 6d. extra.
By Cable iKedt£„°!ror h l S&Tt we have and Panted locally a
a in act“e ° f Th taken -?P bef ?f e P^licatL,
American edition which sold there at one dollar fi"ty cents P ° BS ' b *"" the
At all Booksellers, or direct from —
& Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For thr Curb or
Bronchitis !
and Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or -windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
mt- HUDSON’S EUIVIENTHOL JUJUBES li
~n). CO.TA.N. NO COOA,H 6 S &£
itSJfrSSSSfSi Age Sin all Australian States and N.Z.,andat 320 Regent Street W.. London.
THE RED PAGE.
CREDO.
O to be strong again !—to feel each muscle build
anew
Its olden arc of might; to taste the air as when
the sun
First found me sound and whole, in every branch-
ing vein and thew
As hopeful and as glad as Adam when the world
begun.
To know that life once more holds something to
be striven for—
To laugh at stings of storm, to lift above the
languid mesh
Of lust and love-gone-mad ; to smite the Satyr to
the core
And well-spring of his heart; to rise with winged
heels a-thresh...
To cast all doubt away, to grasp the issue of my
fate
And make it on my deeds; to seek good enemies
and friends —
To let my conscience rule, yet not create
One coward sentiment; to give wide berth to
sordid ends:
This is my stubborn creed. And tho’ the whirl-
ing earth to-night
Were scarfed about with flame, and Babylon urged
through the shade
Her scarlet-coloured beast, and ancient men of
muckle might
Came trooping to be judged...
Away ! I will not be afraid.
H. McC.
SAID DATTILO RURBO
YES, Igo away. I leave Australia.
Not now, in a few months. When I
come back I do not know. I have
business. Perhaps six months. But I tell
you if I get my money I should prefer to
stay it may be. Yes, though I have
so good students and friends. You see
Australia is not a good country for
the artist. There is no field. It is not a
matter of liking or not liking. When you
begin to get known in the Continent you do
not stop. When you are known in Australia
—that is all. You have not a field. When
you make yourself known here it is quite
easy—and then you stop. Now, in the Con-
tinent it is a little difficult to make yourself
known, but then you have got such a good
field you could not stop imtil you die.
How to make yourself known is by en-
couragement. If I take encouragement with
this painting,* next year I might paint some-
thing different. But if the Art Gallery does
not buy I have to send it to the auction. In
Italy there are thousands and thousands
coming to buy your picture. The King of
Italy buys for 30,000 or 40,000 francs at
every exhibition he is asked to open. Every-
body who is asked to open an exhibition
buys a picture: it is a great compli-
ment to them. But here, if you in-
vite anyone to come and open an
exhibition, they are paying you a compliment.
The Governors do not buy—if tney did I
never heard of it. And when you go to the
exhibition you hear them say, ‘ ‘ Look ! look !
there is the man that painted that picture ! ”
“ Where ? ” they say. They look at you and
they say, “Oh ! that fellow ! ” That is all
you get for your trouble. Art is not prized
here as it should be. If I’m an artist I’m
always clever" because lam patronised. If
they have a motor-car.
. ,
In Italy a man may live at the bottom of the
staircase ; but/we appreciate his opera, we
appreciate '-fiis painting, we appreciate his
talent, and we find out that some day or
another he - should be recognised. It is
different in Australia. The rich man never
comes to buy the pictures. We are put
down in Australian art that here we are a lot
of frauds. It is not so. There are many
and many of the paintings here that in Italy
they would be only glad to praise. But if
you live in a big place, where there are
thousands of people to appreciate, and
thousands of people to think about art, they
are different. I exhibit Bose, Thistle, and
Shamrock, and people say “Very nice!”
and nobody buy. I send it to a friend of
mine to show to a dealer in Paris, and he
bought it on the spot. “ What! ”he say ;
“ did that come from Australia ?” “ Yes.”
“ Then why do they not buy it ? ”
At my sale last week there are a
hundred paintings sold. These paintings
have been eight years’ or nine years’ work.
I can say that most of the time I refused
students very often to carry on my paint-
ings, because if I would take the teaching
only perhaps nowadays I would not have
been able to sell the pictures at all. Those
who bought the paintings were the poorer
people mostly. Art for the rich people is
nothing. The people who encourage art are
the people without the money. I know
personally they are nearly all the middle
classes.
What have they got in their houses —the
rich ? I know they go in the Continent and buy
refuse ? and they are satisfied; and Australians
are good for nothing. This country’s in a
way that if they want a master here, if they
want a commissioner, they have to write to
the English Government—the people here
are good for nothing ! You know everything
has to go away. There is no one in
Australia ; we must send for one. We want
a nurse—we must send to America or else-
where ; those we have here unfortunately
are nothing. You know by experience
better than Ido these things. And we have
the people here, and they have gone away
from the country. In Italy we don’t expect
that the poor are to patronise—different,
totally different. Everybody buys a picture
for his means. But it is the wealthy people
who buy. In every good house in Italy
they have a private gallery ; they have got
any number of pictures, and they are buying
all the time. There is no one in Italy who
is not fond of a picture.
J*
In Italy people who go to see a public
Gallery have to pay for it except on Sunday :
other days you pay a sum of 2s. 6d. or 2s.
to go there. The same thing all over Italy.
Take the Gallery of Rome : they have to
pay. My mother has gone and paid for it
rather than go on Sunday. Supposing lam
in Naples, I go and pay because on Sunday
I shall not be in Naples. But this country
is against the feeling of Art : in Italy the
people are fond of art. But it is to keep
the thing going, and not to make a bigger
profit of it. They give it to educating the
nation. You find many people here who
say, “ Oh, we love Art very much ! ” Yes,
they will talk about it—what you call ski.
I hear them—pooh ! Talk ! Talk ! Ski !
Ski! In Italy it is genuine ; in Australia it is
the sham. Here in Sydney we got £3O
a-year prize given to the landscape ,and
sculpture by Mr. Wynne ; that is the only
prize—landscape or sculpture year after
year. There is no prize for the figure work,
yet to one of those rich people living in this
way 30 guineas for a prize is a mere nothing.
And the teaching ! In Italy every academy
has got 20 or 25 teachers, 25 professors.
They have the salary from 3000 a year to
6000 a-year francs; that is £l2O to £3OO,
and they all have to be watched by a super-
vision of artists. At Rome, Florence, Yenice,
Naples, Milan—five academies—directed by
a board of well-known artists. Perhaps each
academy costs £5OOO a-year to keep—and
it’s not much. The money comes from the
Government. They have the profits from
the Galleries, and they add what is wanted.
They are depending on the Minister of
Public Instruction. He has with him a
board of artists, with the seat in Rome, and
they direct all the galleries. Every academy
elects its president to the Board. Morelli,
my teacher, he was president, and he took
the school of painting because there was no
one to suit the school, and he was paid for
it; but if he had only been the director lie
would have had only an honorary position.
Now here we have not that. We import
the men : we have men brought here—one
idea, one sentiment. He puts a charcoal in
your hand, and puts a brush in your hand. No
matter how good he is, it is not right to have
one man, one idea, in a National school. The
pupils do not see enough. In Italy there are
thousands of artists and thousands of pic-
tures to be seen, and thousands of exhibi-
tions. When you leave Morelli you have
passed through 25 professors. If there is a
school here there should be four or five men
at least : one for each subject. You could
get them for the same money as in Italy.
You would want a director still, but it would
not be the direction of one man
Jt
Why you want to make a school ? Because
the progress of every nation is to put its
people towards art and literature and every-
thing. If they become artists and so on,
the artistic sentiment will be grown in Aus-
tralia, and will be a better nation. The
thing is to encourage. If they go away—
anyway, he’s always Australian. Let them
go where they like, and let them find what
the world is like, so far as they keep Aus-
tralian. It would always be the credit of
the country. He might always come back
if the things get no better.
In the painting here I think the artists
should try and get the Australian sentiment.
In Italy we paint the Italian sentiment: in
Australia it should be the Australian. An
artist should paint bis own country. That
is what I admire in Lister-Lister. He puts
the landscape j ust according to the feeling of
the nature. We ought to form our school
here ; and if I paint in my Italian
style I have to give it up because it
is not Australian. We have to make
a history of Australian art. I hear them
say Lister-Lister is monotonous ; but so is
the coast of Australia that he paints. If you
see Coogee Bay you will see Bondi and many
others. v One day I went to Coogee and
thought it was Bondi. That was my observa-
tion. Piguenit has grand work, but I do not
find him the characteristic of the Australian
landscape. He does not get the Australian
feeling for me. The best Australian men were
forming a good school—Maliony, Fox, and
Longslalf. Nerli he preferred Fox : for me
I like Longstaff—“The Lady in Black.
McCubbin has the Australian feeling, too.
Heysen—no. He paints in a French way.
His gum-trees were very good, but they look,
to me like trees that were growing in Paris.
In those pictures of Power’s there was the
Australian feeling. That is a man I like
very much.
A MEETING OF CREDITORS
A CHAPTER FROM “ CHILDREN OF THE SUN.”
“ Hear the Planets' battle-cry :
Add, subtract, and multiply."
SIX o’clock.
Down the steps of the Gas Company s
Office came a girl in a white frock, a white
chip hat, and a face that was equally colour-
less.
“It’s over !”
She hurried along Pitt-street like one in a dream.
Dozens of familiar faces passed her, but she saw
none of them. The spires and towers of the White
City rose into the gold mists dtf evening. But she
was blind to everything about her.
One, two, three. She had seen them all, and
the dreaded interviews lay behind her.
Yet, far from being pleased or elated, she was
now as miserable as anyone could be.
To win that victory had seemed absolutely
necessary two hours ago. It had made itself out
a matter of life and death.
But now that it was won, and she walked along
victorious, the smallness and meanness of her
cause made her heart sick with contempt for her-
self in particular and life in general.
Ah, Life, Life, ’t is a favorite trick of yours !
Not with the glamour of laurel-wreath do you
tempt, but with the stern grey cross of “ absolute
necessity.” For that we agonise, we fight, we
put forth our noblest and bravest, and perchance
we win. Andthen? Then, Life, your mocking
laughter !
If our desire had been laurel or roses or dia-
monds, we could have born the mocking. We
might ourselves have mocked. But it was only a
stern grey cross we fought for, and the laughter is
hard to bear.
The butcher had been a little difficult. He
had to pay for his meat as he got it, he said.
Peggy explained that he had the money to pay it
with, otherwise he could not possibly do so. iSlie
clearly showed him lioW different it was with her
mother.
“ She had been ruined by the Land Company.
Otherwise she would never keep anyone waiting a
minute. Please, please don’t think we would n’t
pay you if we could. We’d love to. Really we
would. In a month it will be all right. My
Mother will be released from calls then, and will
soon be able to pay all her bills.”
And that interview had ended with the
butcher’s query —
“ Any orders for to-morrow, Miss i ”
Then came the grocer.
“It’s not getting answers to our letters to your
Ma that got our bade up,” he declared.
“Oh, but that wasn’t my Mother’s fault. I’m
sorry. But you see, L put them m the tire as they
came, so she should n’t see them.”
“ That’s a nice thing to do, Miss.”
“ They would have worried her so.”
“ But it isn’t business, Miss.”
“I suppose it isn’t, but she was ill.”
“It certinyly isn’t business.”
“But you see, you feel you can forget them
better if you burn them.”
“Well, that’s a nice thing to say to me, Miss,
considering who writ the letters.”
“ Oh, but you understand what I mean.”
“ Where’s your Ma now ? ”
“ In Tasmania.”
‘‘ Who paid jor her going there ? ”
He let off the question with such directness
that it caught her right in the middle of her un-
armed thoughts.
“ I paid for her going there,” he said, finding
himself unanswered.
He looked Peggy hard in the face.
“That’s the truth of it, Miss. Your Ma
doesn’t pay me. Biie pays to go to Tasmania
instead. With my money. That’s the truth of
it.”
Peggy writhed inwardly. The impudence of it
made her blood boil. But her face was calm and
quiet as ever.
And she thought to herself that at any rate she
had not replied with Alfred’s name. That would
have been a terrible blunder. It might have
brought down upon her another question : “ Why
then doesn’t Mr. Alfred Earle, your cousin, pay
my bill for your Ma ? ”
“ Yes, I paid for your Ma’s trip to Tasmania,”
he repeated, dusting some sugar off his counter,
so as to avoid Peggy’s eye.
“ It was very kind of you,” said Peggy.
The grocer was taken aback now.
“Well, we’ll leave it at that,” said Peggy:
“You’ll see that nothing is done for a month at
any rate, won’t you ? After that my mother will
be released from paying calls, and will be able to
adjust her affairs. And I think we want some
flour. Six pounds of self-raising. W ill you let
me have it by nine to-morrow morning ? ”
“Yes, Miss.”
“Nine sharp," said Peggy.
“ Nine sharp,” said the grocer, unable to
recover.
J*
Lastly came the Gas Company.
Perhaps by this time Peggy’s vitality had been
too heavily strained. She was shown into the
Manager’s room, and saw a grey-haired man with
kind eyes sitting writing at a table. But when
she tried to speak to him she found her voice
fading away from her.
Not a word came.
Heavy, pounding heart-beats were there in-
stead.
And something monstrously large seemed rising
in her throat.
“ Do you wish to see me?” asljed the Manager.
Peggy tried to answer. In vain. The whole
machinery of her throat and tongu# had turned
topsy-turvy. She could not utter a syllable.
Suddenly, as in a dream, she saw a water-bottle
and tumbler on a window-sill, and made a dive
towards them.
The Manager sat and stared.
His unknown visitor, this little girl in a white
frock and a very pale face, had walked in, turned
her back on him without a word, and stood away
there by the window drinking water out of his
tumbler.
“Did you wish to see me?” he apked a little
louder, after this had gone on for some time.
From Peggy’s attitude it seemed improbable.
She drank some more water, still keeping her
back towards him.
At last he beganito understand.
He took up a pen and wrote away rapidly as
though there were nothing extraordinary in the
way his unknown visitor was behaving;
Peggy struggled desperately for composure.
She drank glass after glass of water, bit her lip,
frowned, clenched her hand, and at last turned
round and went towards the table
“ Is it about an account ? asked the Manager.
Peggy nodded.
“ What is the name ? ”
“Raymond.”
That was the one and only word Beggy spoke
at the Gas Company’s Office. All the water
she had gulped down proved vain against the
lump in her throat. It was there again, and
bigger than ever. She could only sit silent,
clenching her hand over her handkerchief.
“ I will gd and look it up,” said the Manager.
When he came back a curious thing happened.
He made the speech to Peggy that Peggy ought
to have been making to him.
“Mrs. Raymond has been a sufferer from the
Land Company,” he said. “ They are still mak-
ing calls upon her, are they not?”
She nodded. • '- J j
“Now, child, go home and don’t worry. I’ll
look into it all, and we’ll see what can be done.
When your Mother is free from the calls, per-
haps . . .”
She nodded again.
The Manager took her hand, shook it gently,
and gave her a kind, assuring, paternal glance,
saying once more, “ Don’t worry.” .
So Peggy got through a business interview with
one word.
Mrs. J. P. Creed, better known to Austra-
lian readers as Louise Mack, for some years
has been residing in Florence ; but her new
book, Children of the Sun (Lond., Melrose
5s.) has only a faint tinge of Italy. It
breathes devotion to Australia, and is occu-
pied with that gay, pathetic Sydney family
which, under one guise or another, has pro-
vided the author with so much material.
Here is a literary family that has puzzled the
publishers. The record of its deeds and dreams
is neither precisely in the class of “Juveniles”
nor obviously in that of adult fiction. The
personages, indeed, are “grown-up” : they
fall in love and marry ; they have ‘ ‘ grown-
up ” ailments and worries ; yet always in a
childish way as if they were descending to
life from a land of dreams. Real they are,
made intimately and uncommonly real by a
thousand little graphic touches, but with a
reality that has an air of illusion, as if all the
time they are making-believe in a game
that does not really concern them. An atmos-
phere of the Golden Age surrounds them even
when they are struggling for sordid pence; and
one thinks it must be this atmosphere that
leads English reviewers to apply to Mrs.
Creed’s work the unusual adjective beautiful.
The new book is as childish and sweet and
sincere as the others. Mrs. Creed’s homely
matter has meditative human interest, and
her distinctive manner is always quaint and
fine. The chapters are adorned with touch-
ing little fragments of verse—many from
The Bulletin book of Dreams in Flower, and
others new. The passages telling how a
heroine met her mother’s creditors have the
individual savour that justifies entire quota-
tion in another column.
————♦ -
Recently writing of. Heine, H. B. Samuel
says: “To the Sphinx-like riddle with which
every thinker is confronted, ‘Is life poetry or
prose, tragedy or farce?’ Heine made answer
that the pathos and poetry of life were contained
in the fact that life was so essentially grim and
unpoetical, and that the real tragedy of the
world lay in the ghastly farce of it all. ’—Which
possibly contains more than an opposition of
epithets.
Ibsen was another who stimulated his brain by
starving his stomach. A visitor of years ago re-
ported that when he began to work out a play he
took no more food than he found absolutely indis-
pensable. A morsel of bread and a small cup of
coffee were allowed in the morning before sitting
down to his desk. And he prepared a little room
to write in. He explained this by the fact that he
never shut hiniself in when at work ; he liked to
walk about in and out of two or three rooms.
Thus he spent his four hours per day alternately
walking and writing, from time to time taking a
few whiffs at a very short pipe. He never smoked
at any other time.
A.G.S.


Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
Pistols arid Revolvers,
Derringer Pistol.
Mick
Simmons
Pocket
Pistoi.
Pocket Pistols, No. 1, nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight SJoz. (Postage 3d.)
2s 9d, 3s,
4s 6d
5s Od
12s 6d
. WSUy* 22 •**»** **.«•«”“'1 „ M
vest Pocket Revolver!’ E"”"'"*, * bh ”' d ° r nickel - weight 4*o* ‘(Postage* 4d.) .*.* 10s 6d l2s 6d
Ve!t g evo ve, 3 > Hammerless, 22 lib, nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) - “
r ns” 0C * e t Revolvers, llammerlcss, 22 It . F niniroi n*. c „ , i
• , wciguv uoz. osutge u\.)
!t.K, nickel, weight 5 z., pearl handle (Postage 4d.)
red, douole action, nickel, weight 9|oz. (Post 9d. N.S.W.
is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. v ° u "• •
’ U,, KS 2<l° Inter-State) m^erC< *’ l,Hublu action - nic^el ° r blued, ” horn handle (Post.’
BU ‘|9d g N R S. w! V ;T s B’2 8 ’2d o ln^r-Stoter bei ' ed ’' d ° Uble nicke ‘ ° r blued > weight lib.** (Postage*
Blll 'ls!^(? 3 lnter-sl;atef °' F ’’ f b harah|red, doubli action, nickel or blued, 18oz.. ’(Postage 9d. N.S.W.”;
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered! double
( , Posta^e n (3d) el ’ 2in> barrfcI > B ±°z., ios ofi : blued, 13s (id.
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above with
4jm barrel, 9|oz., nickel, 12s (id ; blued, 15s (id.
(lostage, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F., safety hammer, 5
chambered, 2in. barrel, B|oz., nickel, 10s Od. (Postage Od)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.F., nickel or blued, auto-
£ 2d. ttState!), b ?3s e 6 d VUloanite (P ° Stage 9cL N ‘ S ‘ ' V ’ =
S * <Tw' (k| at v e ! ll w ßei/ 1 0lV^ 0, T 3 . 8 ° 9‘ F ‘\ same as a bove, 3£in. barrel, 18oz.
(Fost. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State), 15s Od
Hopkins “Forehand” S.&W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers, 32 eal. 0.F.,
State)! 17s c^ eiB ' ht llb ‘> a llmifced quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-
-133 6d
16s 6d
6s 6d
7b 6d
9s 6d
10s 6d
I' |iwiw»^
v^f^Tipr^w” l
rr ~
&£
Young
America.
The “ Bullscye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3|lb
Postage— Is 9d N.S. YY 7 . ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to SOOvds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long-, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb. &
"THE MAINE '
Pifle
Sheu/ing Qifle AparT.
POSTAGE ON
PRICE 15/6
RIFLE—N.S. VV., 1/3; INTER-
STATE. 2 12 EXTRA.
'suotuiuis
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“ Winchester ”, Single Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. R.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight- aiibi
(Postage. ls:V( N..S.W. ; g s inr.-r-Stat.e).
18s
Winchester
1904
Model*
- 0 .......
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22’ short or longriin fire cartridges,
-lin. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sig-ht, length of rifle over all 37Ain., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
REMINGTON. No. 6.
Remington S.S. Rifles, New Model, 22 Calibre R.P., 20in r(
wiih >iid, " s <i ■
iiind blued steel
(Postage, Is 6d
Stevens
Little
K r»g\
Stevens’ S.S.
barrel, 20in. long:
sight, with V sigl
weight about 3£lb.
Little Kra.g,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
it if required 6d extra, length over all 36in
(Postage, Is 6d N.STW. ;2s Sd Inter-State). ' ’
21s
\
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
Are, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 411 b. (Postage Is 9d NSW ■ A .
3s 2d Inter-State) . b ’ r>-|
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight onen '
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S. W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d S ’
10s
£2
A-iVtMXJKHT.'LOKT.
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
?°i 1 > 6d > 9(1 ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
„ 22 Long-
it .22 Long Rifle .
» 22 Extra Long.
$lOO
Is Od
Is Id
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s Od
$lOOO
9s 6d
10s Od
12s Od
13s Od
ISs Od
Illustrated Fishing 1 Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing
r—Post
Leading Sports Depot.
Postage—2s 6d N.S.W.;
4s 8d Inter-State.
m
1
Stiff
as
SB
-o*
Harrington & Richardson's 5.8.8. L Gun,
top action, automatic self-ejecting de-
carbonised steel barrel SOin., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding locks, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight fi-t
about 6Jlb / S DU
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.B. B. L,
Gun
MICK BIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock :
weight about 71b.
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 455. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d J7.5.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
35s
MICK
BIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D-B-B.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
V
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top leve:’, steel and twist barrels, rebounding bar locks, left choke
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 50s. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S. W. ; 6s 2d Inter-Sta e.
40$
£3
Postage on X Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b. ’
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding- Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
“The Reliable,”
£6.128 6d
.'.-T: --V.
.
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib.
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the g-j
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.-rg^g
ON
Hay market,
ydney.


INCREASED
Th£
e L£„ c
lIIH 1111 MB
w .
HEALTH Ti|[fp Sf „?'*«
.■ - Ic gfk^
A. '
* '* ; . P- 1| \ |
*.<| . *< •» , , X J«
’
mm.
&S!WGIC\L INSTITUTE
- L
U
Ei% ‘U 4
m
»i
* * .
THE INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
SALARIES
READ THESE LINES AND REMEMBER THEM.
you amyous, l^nZrsZlTtßA
SSLS2? sztzsssjzr^. -»
?—«—
„oo «.. »MUO*»of «o EARTH'S WEALTH to
O/E, a ““ 7™'^ s “"a"", WBKOCEU, RUPTURE, COR -
S=E2S?£S«
Talnlnllrnininr, His constitution Hy consuming
the SPECIALISTS in.MEN’S DISEASES of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE Institute
luTJtairin Australia, and W e guarantee absolutely our cures.
We have cured so many thousands of cases of the above complaints that if there is a
“gas ss-i“=sZ=::
take to cure! Inexperienced treatment is malpractice m its worst form, and may result
in permanent paralysis or death.
FACTS THAT
DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases
annually, and is it not reasonable to sup-
pose that we understand such cases better
than those who are treating only a few
hundred? Practice makes perfect in any
line, and it is none the less true in the
treatment of disease. You get the benefit
of Experience when you place your case in
our hands. Do not despair. Order your
treatment at once, and let us add your
name to our long list of cures.
********
If the slightest doubt exists in your
mind that our treatment will not cure you,
it is a duty you owe to yourself to write to
some of the references we herein publish,
and send an addressed envelope for reply.
Ask any of the attestants who have given
these testimonies to us if they think we
can benefit you. We court the closest in-
vestigation. Our Parcel Post System is a
blessing.
We have several expert Specialist who are paid high salaries in order
treat you. Come personally if you can ; If you cannot call, write lu j
nature and symptoms of your ailment; a quick and certain cure is a wa a
possible by our perfect Correspondence System. A man may be treated
his own house by this method as well as if he visited the Specialists persona . J •
We make no charge for friendly talks. Read the following testimonials. .1
prove our skill and guarantee our reliability in intricate medical cases.
.. OUR -•
MAIL ORDER SYSTEM
IS PERFECT.
ONE MIX-LION
LETTERS
left our Offices last year to our
patients, which shews our facility .
for handling large mail business, /}
extending throughout Austral*
asia, South Africa, England,
China, Singapore, and all
parts of the civilised
globe.
Testimonies Prove Skill
GEORCE E. VIDLER, Crookwell Butter Factory, N.S.W., says :
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace :—“ In writing’ you a
report of my progress under your Electro-Medical Treat-
ment, I sincerely and truthfully say I never felt so well for
years as I do at the present time. I have derived great
benefit from the Electro-Medical Treatment.”
W. ROMANIS, M. 8.5., Dallarnil, Queensland, states
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace “ After being under
treatment with you, I had recently occasion to consult a
local doctor, and'he informed me that there were no traces
of the disease for which I was treated by you.”
Mr, F. C. DYER, Little Barcom Street, Sydney, says
“ I have been an inmate of two leading Sydney Hospitais
without receiving apparent benefit. I consulted your
Institute, and am completely cured of Hydatids of the Liver.”
INSPECTOR FOWLER, N.S. Wales Police, writes:—
“Since adopting your treatment, my health has im-
proved.”
Mr. SAMUEL COOK, Squatter, Springvale, Queensland,
says:—
“ I bless the day I consulted you. You have made a new
man of me.”
Mr. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P. Sydney, testifies
“ I adopted your treatment for a few weeks. I am
satisfied it gives health and vigor to the system.”
All these Testimonials are genuine, and are given by
eminent men, whose names are beyond reproach. Anyone
suffering should adopt this treatment if they are tired of
their doctors. They will find it will cure when all other
means have failed.
WE CURE WITH SUCCESS DEADLY VARICOCELE,
AFFECTIONS, CONTAGIOUS BLOOD POISON, LOST _,J I ®®^I_®^ KNESS
IN MEN, RUPTURE, PILES, AND ALL REFLEX AILMENTS.
MEN!
The Specialists ask you to read the following statements
concerning Serious Diseases. They will appeal to you.
If you similarly suffer, consult us and be cured.
VARICOCELE.
We can cure this disease without operation,
and under our treatment the congested blood
vessels within ten days disappear. The parts
are restored to their natural condition, vigor
and strength, and circulation is re-established
by electricity and electro-medication. It is
the twentieth century treatment.
RUPTURE.
We cure in 30 days, without operation or
hypodermic injection. No use in wearing
trusses. Our treatment is painless, blood-
less, and with no detention from business.
Old standing or maltreated cases specially
invited. These, of course, tax all the skill
that science’can devise to palliate conditions
created by maltreatment, apathy, or neglect.
Progressive treatment is the only kind that
will reduce the chronic conditions and ulti-
mately cure. Our methods are those of
continental scientists.
LOST VIGOR.
You may be lacking in the power of
vitality. If so, we will restore you the snap,
vim, and vigor of manhood, the loss of which
may he the result of indiscretions, excesses,
and unnatural weaknesses. Electricity and
medicine will work wonders, and establish
cures where cures were despaired of. Physi-
cal hopeless wrecks have been made happy,
powerful men by us. Nerve diseases are
especially amenable to the curative effects of
electro-medication, because electricity is the
basis of the animal magnetism at all times
pervading the human system.
WEAKNESS IN MEN.
Weakness is merely a symptom brought
on by early dissipation or improper treat-
ment of contracted diseases. The cure lies
in restoring the system to its normal healthy
state. This we accomplish rapidly without
the use of a long course of internal remedies.
Our treatment is original and scientific, and
has proved absolutely effective by thousands
of tests. We are convinced that by no
other methods can permanent restoration of
strength and vigor be accomplished.
NERVO-VITAL DEBILITY.
There is certainly no victim of Nervo-Vital
Debility but who hopes to be rejuvenated
some time. You should not lose your grip
on life because inferior remedies have failed
to benefit you. Our special treatment for
this trouble, varied and modified to suit each
individual case, is an unfailing cure to which
a vast army of restored men to-day owe their
sturdy health and happy condition in life.
Under our treatment all anaemic conditions
disappear, and a man regains his health,
strength and vitality.
URINARY AILMENTS.
We cure without the knife or instrument
by an application which acts directly on the
parts affected, dissolving the trouble com-
pletely, by our galvanic electrical medical
treatment. It is painless, and in nowise
interferes with your business duties. Our
method is new, reliable, and immediately
effective. Write for full particulars con-
cerning this wonderful system.
BLOOD POISON.
It may be in its primary stages ; _it may
have been hereditary, or contracted in early
days. We cure all its complications. We
stop its prog'ress, eradicate every vestige of
poison from the system, and this without the-
use of mercury or potash. This is a serious
disorder, and" all men should be careful in
selecting their physician. It is a matter of
Life and Death. Maltreatment means death
as sure as the sun shines. Our cures are sure
cures of this dread disease.
KIDNEY TROUBLE.
We cure all irritation, stoppage, pain in
hack, brickdust sediment, and catarrhal
condition. We cure to stay cured. We
do not experiment. We know what these
diseases involve to a sufferer. We have
cured many thousands during our extensive
practice. Kidney troubles may be termed
an Australian disease, accelerated by
climatic conditions. They are deadly
■destructive. Do not trifle with them or
they will kill you.
PILES.
~We cure without operation in 10 days ; no
detention from business ; no acid injection
or ligatures used. Electricity and gentle
medication. This system is adopted by the
most scientific Continental practitioners, who
have intimately studied these distressing
complications, which are so prevalent in
Australia. The conditions are so delicate in
Character that no one but skilled specialists
should attempt to treat them. Aggravation
means operation.
MMM
* m
3*
OUR 700=PA GE MEDICAL WORK ,
POSTED FREE TO SUFFERERS.
CORRESPONDENCE.— AII letters sent to the Institute are replied to promptly and
are supervised by Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E„ L.F.P.S., E„ L M who has
graduated and is diplomaed from some of the most important professional scats of ieamingr
fn England and America. He is registered by Medical Boards of the Australian States.
He is an expert in the treatment of Men’s Serious Disorders. He is one of a Staff of
, Tnati't-ntp His Medical Work, “Clinical
Specialists always m attendance at * General Diseases, 150 medical illus-
Experiences,” a book of 700 jotJI chapters ijnjoen® F| , BR
SonV.nf.dS 'AVXapplicant hXh shonld lend it totas friends. It
IS a valuable health adviser and standard medical wor .
Women’s and Children’s Diseases.
The department for the treatment of Women and Children at the
Institute is under the supervision of Dr. Elizabeth White, a famous lady
doctor and expert diagnostician, who is registered by the Medical Boards
of New South Wales, Victoria, New Zealand, and America. Dr. White
is possessed of valuable experience gained at the most famous American
and Indian colleges, and has travelled extensively in India, China,
japan, Australia, and America. She has studied under some of the most
famous Specialists of the day, and has the unique honor of being a Host-
Graduate of New York Hospital. She has had extensive practice and
experience in the treatment of Women’s and Children’s Diseases. Any
sufferin'*- woman can consult her at her elegant rooms, 225 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney or if unable to call, by letters, which are treated confidentially.
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Howard Freeman, Direct or of p ~ „ ptf physician-in-Chief.
DR. Richard Wallace, M.D.,
Bit, Elizabeth White , M.D., Principal Womens Dept.
And at Melbourne
IMPORTANT.
-Our dispute with the F.d„al P~*al PatientS
may direct tbeir letters to tine ab ove address wi


Doctors, lawyers, ministers, bank-
ers, merchants, business men every-
where, all rely upon
Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, whenever
they have a cough
or a cold. They
keep it on hand, at
their home, at thei*
place of business.
They carry it with
them when they
w
w
travel. They say there is nothing so
bad for a cough as coughing, and
there is nothing so good for a
cough as
Mger’s
'Gherni tfeetoral
It is the best remedy in the world
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping-
cough, influenza, and all throat and
lung troubles.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
The first
PcCPn//fl t for t * le Preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use,
Sold by local Chemists ana Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Your Age
makes no differ-
ence whatever «£
Young, old or middle-
aged, Scott's Emul-
sion of cod liver oil
and hypophosphites of
lime and soda will
cure your cold and stop
your cough with the
same promptitude and
certainty. **B^B4B^4*
Here is a case of a grown man:
Fern View, Nundle, N.S.W., Oct. 19th,
1905. “ For a very long time I had a
bad cold which settled on my chest, and
I was also a sufferer from indigestion.
I took Scott’s Emulsion. My cold has
entirely disappeared. lam better and
stronger in every way.” W. A. Wooley.
And here is a case of a child:
Arcadia Street, Merrylands, N.S.W.,
Nov. 2nd, 1905. “My son Alexander
suffered with colds every winter, and
was attacked by croup. After taking a
few doses of Scott’s Emulsion he was
completely cured, and he has not had
the slightest return of the trouble since.
He has gained in weight, and feels and
looks thoroughly well. ’ ’ Mrs. C. E. Reid.
Why does Scott's always relieve ?
Because it is the finest food medi-
cine in acting especially
on the organs of the throat and
chest, building up sound flesh all
over the body, and helping the
vitality as nothing else can.^^.^
Always get the Emul-
l)on with this mark—the
Fishman—the mark o£
the “Scott" process!
Always secure Scott’s,
No other emulsion can
touch Scott’s for the
chest. If you would
care to try it free, send
for a trial bottle gratis
(enclosing 4d. for post-
age and mentioning this
paper), Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483, Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
s
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The best remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS.
Ask for Harming ton's co L D br ONCH 0 NCH mS .
and see thauyou qet it, AST H MA.
BASED UPON THE WELL KNOWN'hONTSERRAT"LIME FRUIT JUICE.
THE AGCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Acoordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £i
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £\ 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Piano 9 and all kinds of Musioal Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
“Ku-Klux”: I was anxious to reach
Fahey’s by a short cut. This was Murphy’s de-
scription of the cut: “Ye go out by the big tree, j
and whin ye get to the corner ye’ll pick up Ryan’s
block. Take that on yer left shoulder an’ straight
forninst ye ye’ll see the burnt block of Gorman’s.
Whin ye”reach the far side follow Gorman’s fence
—the one the fires burnt last week—until ye pick
up Quinn’s haystack. Keep that square on yer
back till ye get Casey’s farm on yer right shoul-
der. Then there’s three tracks ye can take. If
ye take the first one ye’ll be out ter blazes, an’
the second one’ll fetch ye back to Gorman’s. The
third one takes ye straight to Fahey’s, only the
bridge is broke over the creek, an’ ye can’t get
through any other way, so ye’d better go round be
the main road.”
“Dux”: Read much in The Bulletin
re the casual Australian, but, as King Dick said,
we are working out our destiny apart from you
Australians. I put forward our champion casual-
cove and wish you to give him a hearing. At
Taihape (M.L.) recently a beer-chewing father in
an advanced stage of delirium tremens rushed out
into a paddock full of youngsters, brandishing an
open razor and shouting in wildly excited tones
“ I’m goin’ ter cut me throat.” The majority of
the crowd kept on kicking the football, but the
excited person’s only sen (a lad of eleven
summers), more dutiful than the rest, removed his
cigarette, took a mental survey of his prospective
bereavement, slowly withdrew' a grimy paw from
his trousers pocket, and, holding it out, said
resignedly “Oh well, if yer must, good-bye, dad ole
man.” The old man “took to” his dutiful off-
spring, and by the time he had finished walloping
him on general principles he had forgotten about
his projected suicide.
Years ago the manager of a Victorian
Murray-side station found a bit of open land,
about 30 miles through the mallee country, and
resolved to put a lot of sheep to graze on this no-
man’s-land. As dingoes were plentiful and fences
nil, a shepherd was necessary. The sheep were
driven out with a deputy-boss, a cook and
a man in charge of the outfit, and the
very first day two things happened —the
shepherd disappeared and the dingoes got
at the sheep. The shepherd remained disap-
peared. Cook was put on to do some temporary
shepherding, while the sub-boss raged round the
country looking for the lost man, and found him
not, neither did he find his tracks. If a crow had
carried him off he couldn’t have disappeared more
thoroughly. Then the deputy-boss rode 30 miles
to the chief station, reported to the great superior
boss, and impressed a swagmanasa new shepherd.
They got back and found the cook lost. This time
the thing looked like fatality or the working of a
local curse, and the police were brought from afar
off, and they nearly destroyed all the mallee in
their search for the cook and the shepherd, and
found neither of them. After that, months rolled
on—in the eloquent language of fiction —and one
da,y the new shepherd saw a heap of bones in the
middle of a clump of mallee. He was a super-
stitious man, and hated touching bones,
but the next time the sub-boss was round,
he reported off-hand that the remnants of the lost
shepherd and cook were found. The sub-boss
carried the news in haste 30 miles to the head
station. The chief boss sent in haste 60 miles to
Swan Hill for the “ trap. ” The “trap” rode 90
miles in haste to the scene of horror, and had
pointed out to him the fleshless framework of an
old man kangaroo. That night there was another
shepherd missing; the fearful threats of the
“trap” had made him run for his life.
By Eoyal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty
The King and
Koyal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIB. AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
«✓ (Regd.)
iUG
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says :—“ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.” :
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Hymn of Delight.
Up from the cool life-giving sea
A grand wind rolls luxuriantly ;
It opens wide the half-closed eyes
Of virgin roses to the skies ;
It swings the spider in his net,
Between the vine-rings slyly set,
Until he seems a dazzling gem
In Oberon’s bright diadem.
And thro’ the bean-leaves see the sun
In floods of golden liquid run,
And all the scarlet buds outshake,
Like gills of minnows in a lake.
Blow, blow, wind blow—trouble and care
Flee with the clouds across the air.
Love is the song I sing to-day ;
O let me sing that song alway !
Blow, blow, wind blow—trouble and care
Flee with the clouds across the air.
n.s.w.
HUGH McCRAE.
A Pessimist.
I’m a-sittin’here in sackcloth with hot ashes on
me head,
An’ I’m tearin’ at me beard in futile scorn
At ther thoughts of all I’m missin’ fcr the want o’
bein’ dead,
An’ of all I missed fer want of bein’ born.
At a period onspecified romantic writers tell
There existed onst a gleamin’ Golden Age,
An’ a-lookin’ at these very copper-colored times
—oh, well,
Do you wonder that I’m much blowed out with
rage ?
Then the parson calmly tells me as the cove what’s
stiff an’ cold
Has departed on a blessed treasure trip.
Where ther metal rings on metal as ther boshter
golden crowns
Fall spinnin’ from the angel gaffer’s kip.
But what’s the good o’ dyin’ now when p’raps
ther school is broke
An’ the precious pavemint’s in the meltin’ pot ?
An’ what’s ther good o’livin’? Was there ever
such a bloke
Fer bein’ where ther Golden Age is not ?
vie.
JEACH.
Science.
In the days before Darwin was famous,
In the times before Huxley was known,
When never an ape dared to claim us
As relations, remote, of his own.
We knew how the Earth was created,
And the Sun, and the Moon, and the Stars,
And believed they would all be cremated
At last —like cigars.
We read of the voyage of Noah
In that liner of old, called the Ark,
Nor thought how he managed to stow a
Heavy cargo like that in his barque ;
But iconoclasts scientific
Now have stirred up whole oceans of strife—
Their probings have given us terrific
Conceptions of life.
The Stars they have charted and measured,
They have mapped out the face of the Moon;
They have traced back emotions we treasured,
To a hairy and vicious baboon.
They care not what idols they shatter,
But rather delight in the r6le.
They leave little mystery in matter,
And none in the Soul.
The years that by thousands we counted,
They have stretched into aeons of time ;
They ride when their hobbies are mounted,
Regardless of reason or rhyme.
For long they were stuck at Creation,
But at last they have got it to work,
And “radiobes” owe their formation
To one Mr. Burke.
No doubt ’tis a wondrous progression,
As they say, but to tell you the truth,
I’d rather see some retrogression
To the simple beliefs of our youth.
One must seem as wise as one’s neighbor
When such subjects come up for debate —
And oh ! it’s a bore and a labor
To keep up to date.
MAOKILAND.
TAIWA.
Stars.
Wild eyes, and faces ashen grey,
That strain through lofty prison bars
To see the everlasting stars,
Then turn —to slumber as we may ;
Even as we are, so too are they,
And here is peace for all who know
The stars still follow where we go,
When heaven and earth have passed away.
Obedient to the Unknown Power,
From out the ruin of a world,
A clustered galaxy is hurled,
To glimmer through its steadfast hour;
The blazing sun of Shakspeare’s soul
Shattered to star-dust, fills again
With meteor-flights the immortal brain
That seeks a yet more splendid goal;
And still a voice—that now is ours—
Repeats for aye the unknown word
That thrilled the heart of beast and bird,
Ere man had learned to love the flowers.
N.S.W.
DOWELL O'REILLY.


t 6
JZ f 27 Si
F PRIZE
:*vMEdals
-That is your Cue”
When ordering Billiard
REQUISITES OR
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Alcock"
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites tn every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, PERTH.
Wellington , KZ & London .
G00d...
Positions
G00d,,.
Pail....
You can’t expect to obtain a Good Position
with Good Pay, working in (he overcrowded,
ordinary trades. We can alter this for you. We
can ensure you a good position, by training you
by mail, direct to your home, for a good
position as an Ele'ctrical Engineer. This pro-
fession is not overcrowded, and ensures you a first-
class salary. We have qualified thousands, and
can do the same for you. It doesn’t matter
where you live, we can give you the training.
Distance is no object.
WE PROVE OUR 'STATEMENTS,
we don’t want you to take our word for it. When
we say we can train you, by mail, for a good
position in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Electric Light and Power, Electric
Tramways, Dynamo Tender, Mechanical Draw-
ing, Telegraphy, Telephony, etc., etc., under the
most successful system. We prove it. Write
to-day for our Free Book, “ How to become
an Electrical or Mechanical Engineer ” ; it tells
you all about it. You will see letters in this
book from our students all over the world proving
our statements. We supply our students with a
complete Reference Library, Free. If you want
a good position write for the free book to
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER INSTITUTE
OF CORRESPONDENCE INSTRUCTION,
5 Norwich House, Southampton St.,
Hclborn, London, England.
Kollbrl Arc Lamp .
THE BEST ELECTRIC LAMP
for Dwellings, Shops, Show-
windows, etc., etc., is the
Kolibri Arc Lamp
MADE FOR DIRECT AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT.
It gives 160 candle power, and consumes less than
half of the current required by the best incan-
descent lamps.
Sole Australian Agents—
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr. HANNA and KAVANAGH STS., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
[2
Oldsmobile 7 h.p. Touring Runabout, £225,
The Oldsmobile is America’s most successful motor car.
~ Itj s so stronglj. and perfectly built, so durable and reliable, that it has successfully accom-
plished a 3000-nnle endurance run in England, a 30-da.v continuous trial trip on the Continent
and a 3500-mile race across the United States of America.
It is especially adapted for use in this country, because of its construction, economy of
operation, mechanical simplicity (repairs cost practically nothing- with intelligent handling) and
its ample power. 6/ ’
The Oldsmobile Touring Runabout is really worth twice what it costs—and is sold at a
remarkably low price, because we know how to produce the. highest automobile efficiency at a
minimum cost. J
Investigate the merits, and save money by owning an Oldsmobile.
'-Tec Catalogue, showing an Oldsmobile line of Runabouts, Touring Cars, Delivery Cars, and
Railroad Inspection Cars. ' ■
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing:, Mich., U.S.A.
AGENTS :
MOTOR GARAGE OF SYDNEY, Limited,
HERBERT GARRATT
W. PHILLIPS
R. GAUT
Directors.
253 Elizabeth St,, Sydney.
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONI*., U.S. A.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay «
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
I
«
RUBEROID red ROOFING.
The house roofed with RUBEROID RED ROOFING has a handsome
appearance as well as a durable roof—a roof that is not only warm in
wintei and cool in summer, but fire-resisting—in short, a perfect roof.
Wholesale
Agents:
E-. RICH (El CO., LTD., Sydney (Si Brisbane.
m
w/wS®
s'..S' ■
i'W/M
tin
>
PifS
li
I i t
i M
«
V
w*
*S|
ft


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1376.
THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1006.
Pbiok 60.
IN GRATITUDE.
Victorian Labor League (to Higgins ): “ Yes, you helped Labor considerably, and thank you very much. Now, I propose to
hang you. Call up Mauger next.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ A irst ml in /or the A astral ions.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-stree't North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Howto Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the othcial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it •will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hi act.', anil "hi.tr.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for uhu ct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be %laid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drarvn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ■which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <Sc Co., 28 liiebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.- —Brewer and Co.
A rjents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x Him.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7%yS3vlletia..
THURSDAY. JUNE 28, 1906.
OUR UNDEFENDED LAND.
The need for a large, efficient, and, of necessity,
somewhat costly system of defence for Australia
grows more urgent every day, and each day seems
to bring efficient defence very little nearer. At
the same time it doesn’t seem to get any further
off for one sufficient reason —it couldn't. Even a
few years ago the policy of relying on Britain for
our protection looked dangerous as well as
cowardly; to-day it looks as if it might be
suicidal. Britain has given up the old profession
of being the showy and obvious ruler of all the
seas ; it has left the Pacific to Japan, and the
South Atlantic to Uncle Sam of the Beef Trust, and
has called in its fleets to guard its own shores, just
as Honorius called in the Roman legions and left
Britain to be conquered by the Saxons. If
that hint is not sufficient for us, this is an
obtuse land and a mentally-sluggish con-
tinent. And some British writers—not a few
of them—begin to look forward gloomily
to the time when the British navy may fail
to adequately guard even Britain itself. The new
British Government has come in to “economise,”
and like all Liberal Governments it has one
special idea of economy. The scanty army—
already a mere skeleton—is to be cut down, and
there is to be a considerable abandonment of the
building of new warships. Meanwhile Germany
is putting on another huge spurt, and has voted
£250,000,000 for new battleships, and its
rulers now reckon that they see, not far
ahead, the time when old Fatherland will
be able to argue the point successfully with
Britain on the sea and end Britain's marine
domination. Certainly it has no intention of
keeping up the present rate of expenditure ; the
obvious idea is to make a Inure effort and win so
decisively th«.t no further effort on the same scale
will be necessary.
* * * *
There is nothing necessarily grotesque or absurd
about Germanyks dream. All that is wanted to
wipe out Britain's naval supremacy is courage,
skill, energy, men and money. The first three no,
one will deny to Germany. As regards men it has
60,000,000 people to Britain’s 40,000,000, and it
adds 1,000,000 sturdy, well-fed, well-employed
Germans to its population annually, while Britain,
under Freetrade, adds about 400,000, largely
aliens. Britain is being drained of its best men
and women by emigration, while emigration
from Germany has almost wholly ceased, and,
on the whole, that country now receives more
people than it sends out. The German birth-rate
keeps up pretty well, while the fall in the British
one is beginning to cause serious alarm. And the
German, or a large section of him, believes that
he represents the coming race; a number of
Britons, if it is possible to judge by the literature
of the period, begin to think they represent the
going race. They have seen their country, under
its Freetrade madness, drop from first to second
and then to third place in manufactures; they
look at the constant emigration, the decay of
agriculture, the increased bloating of the big
cities, the depopulation of the rural districts, the
ever-growing foreign competition on the sea, the
struggles of the British worker to hold his
own in his own land against hordes of cheap
aliens, the m litary inefficiency and other signs ;
and they have dismal forebodings. Therefore
the German has more than mere numbers on his
side ; he has some advantages in the way of faith
as well. As regards money, Germany has a shade
less debt (State and Imperial) to carry than
Britain, and most of it is represented by re-
munerative public works. Germany’s people
are less heavily taxed, and the country has
a greater reserve power of taxation. It lias
20,000,000 more taxpayers, and the twenty millions
will soon, if things go as they are doing, be
twenty-one millions, and then twenty-two. And
they are taxpayers who can carry a burden ; it
was cabled only last week that an investigation
had satisfied some people at least that the German
workman is now better paid, on the average, than
the British one. And the German army, huge as
it is, costs just about as much as that of Britain.
With a not much heavier military burden to carry,
in a financial sense, than Britain has, and witli its
wealth, manufactures and commerce all growing
at an enormous rate, Germany sees no reason at
all why it 560,000,000 and more of peopleshould not
support as great a naval force as Britain’s 40,000,000
odd. The German reckons that his fleet can't be
surprised and destroyed in the making because the
Ge rmati coast is nowhere approachable except by
tortuous channels amid wastes and wildernesses of
shifting sands, and with the channel buoys re-
moved he is confident that he could lie behind
these natural defences —if it didn’t suit him to come
out—and laugh at any enemy. And the long start
which Britain has got in naval construction
interests him very little. Twenty or thirty years
hence the fleets of to-day will be mostly scrap-
iron. If Germany starts now to build ship for
ship with Britain, this generation will live long
enough to see the two navies level.
* * * *
It is this situation, and the consideration of
only this one possible enemy out of several, that
makes Britain draw in its forces. And if Britain
declines now, in time of peace, to spare more
than a few decayed old ships, that are mostly
broken up when they return, to represent its
power and dignity in the Pacific, it is likely to
spare still less in time of actual war. This set of
conditions makes it imperative for Australia to
look to itS-own military and naval defence to the
uttermost of its ability. And before it can do this
it has these five enemies to abolish in its own
hoyse:—
(1) The Stinking Fish person who says in a general way
that Australians can’t do anything. He is simply a silly
nuisance. Being a cur himself, he thinks his countrymen
are all like him.
(2) The ancient and “ loyal ” Tory who holds th§ amaz-
ing theory that there is some kind of treason to the
“dear old Land” in having our own army and fleet, which
might help the “ dear old Land ”in time of need. This
individual generally proposes an increased naval subsidy,
as if money were men and £2 was the same thingin a
battle as two soldiers. Sometimes he proposes to supply
men to the British navy to defend Britain, but he is bit-
terly hostile to any scheme for the defence of Australia.
If he has his way it can only be hoped that the first shell
which lands on this country will strike his house (when
he is in it), and that the second will burst in the middle
of his bank balance.
(3) The individual who says “we can’t afford it.” This
fool is another variation of the fool in clause 1. Other
communities, smaller and poorer than ours, do afford it,
but for reasons which are never stated this fool says we
can’t.
(4) The patronising ass who asks what chance Australia
with its 4,000,000 people would have against a Great
Power, and what is the use of making a show of defence
when we can do nothing. To this deafening public
mule there are these replies : (a) Australia won’t always
have only 4,000,000 people. If it gets a big Pro-
tectionist tariff and a drastic graduated land-tax
to provide work for artisans and land for agriculturists,
it will soon have 10,000,000—0 r 20,000,000. (b) Even the
aid of 4,000,000 people may turn the scale in a great war
against a Great Power, (c) If no nation armed itself till
it could fight a Great Power single-handled, then there
would be only one army and navy on the globe, and
they would boss the globe. ( d ) No one proposed that we
should fight a Great Power immediately all on our own.
But that is no reason why, if Britain were in difficulties,
and some little State reckoned that the Empire was going
to pieces, and was everybody’s plunder, we should be
bombarded with impunity by Peru, or our cities held to
ransom by Ghili or Argentina.
(5 and last). The easy-going person who reckons there
is plenty of time. There may he plenty of time, or there
may not. It is never safe to reckon on time.
* * * *
In the matter of defence, there are many things
that are uncertain, but there are still more about
which there is no uncertainty at all. We know
that 4,000,000 people can’t efficiently defend a
continent, and we know also that the best remedy
for that is to get 10,000,000 strong white citizens
by the simple process of providing work and land
for another 6,000,000. We know, however, that
even communities of 4.000,000 have done won-
drous things at times, and that, in any case, it is
better to die fighting than to die lying down. We
know that efficient defence costs money, hut we
are equally aware that it is cheaper than being
annexed. We know that a community with even
a small army and navy finds allies where one
without them finds none. Nobody offers to help
to defend a country that has no defence of its
own, for that would be a gratuitous taking
over of the whole heap of someone else’s
difficulties. But the country with a good
defence system can often hope for the aid of
States which regard its enemy as theirs also—
which expect to be attacked by the same foe later
on, and which think it better to fight to-day with
an ally than to-morrow without one. Even
Britain would make far greater efforts in time of
trouble to come to the aid of an armed Australia
than of an unarmed one; the former would be a
valuable ally to be preserved from destruction for
the sake of the assistance it could give, while the
latter would only be an encumbrance to be thrown
overboard for the present, and, if possible, re-
covered later on. No subsidy that we could pay
would have the same effect. The memory of
bygone contributions is merely the eaten bread
that is soon forgotten. They are things of
the past, but the army and fleet that we
could show in the day of need would be
things of the present. In that day of need
it is quite conceivable that Japan would
make it the price of its assistance that Australia’s
immigration laws should be abolished and this
country thrown open to the Jap influx, and unless
Australia was in a position to reply that it was as
valuable an all} 7 for Britain as Japan was likely to
be, it would probably get mighty little considera-
tion. And if Britain really strikes the great
trouble that it fancies it can see ahead, this
country, if it remains practically unarmed, may
have some of Britain’s own friends to reckon
with—kind brown friends who might send an
army here to guard us against German invasion,
and who might forget to go away again. Aus-
tralians who take the trouble to think know
all these things. They know also in a general
way that God seems to help wondrously those
who help themselves well, and that the Devil
helps himself to the rest.
» * * *
There are a few peaceable and sanguine people
in Australia who have talked at times of a scheme
whereby this country might be neutralised and
put under an international guarantee. The theory
is good, but the practice doesn’t amount to much.
Poland had a barrow-load of international
guarantees. So had Turkey before its recent
wholesale dismemberments. Prussia's signature
was hardly dry on the Danish guarantee when it
took the Duchies by force. In any case, an inter-
national guarantee gives, to the guarantors an
insufferable right of interference. Every strong
State that undertakes to come to the aid of a weak
one in time of trouble, if it intends to carry out
its obligation sees to it that the weak State
doesn’t make trouble —say by excluding the
nigger of some other strong State with
which the guarantor doesn’t want to have
to try conclusions. If it were possible to
imagine Australia a neutralised territory with an
honest assurance from the great Powers of im-
munity from attack, that would probably be the
end of the White Australia policy. Almost any
great Power which put its name to such a docu-
ment would sooner compel Australia to admit .lap
immigrants for the sake of peace than tight Japan
in a quarrel that was not its own, and for an ideal
that wasn’t its own either.
Meanwhile, to get down to details, Australia
has no fleet and not much army. But it has a
most remarkable Defence Minister who says that
this country should not have its own arms and
ammunition factories because of the expense,
and who reckons that if it has 50,0U0 rifles—
one for each of the 5U,t)00 men he contem-
plates keeping in a more or less trained
condition —the possibilities of the future will be
sufficiently provided for. The pathetic inca-
pacity of the Playfobd theory is beyond words.
Of the 50,000 rilles many are said to be already
about worn out, as regards their barrels; the rest
will soon be in the same condition, for a year is
about the duration of a gun-barrel with modern
explosives. There is no means of replacing these
barrels except by importation, and the one con-
ceivable time above all others when gun-barrels
and many other things will be most required will
be when imports are cut off. Then—leaving out
the folly of making no preparation for arming
the hundred or two hundred thousand volunteers
who would lise if Australia were in real danger,
and who would be of little use carrying clods and
boomerangs—there is the fact that a force of
50,000 men requires something more like 250,000
rifles than 50,000 at the beginning of serious trouble.
Weapons are broken or captured ; the dead and
wounded are left behind on the field with all their
property. The living lose their rifles or throw
them away in panic-stricken retreats. After the
battle of Bull Run half the Federal troops had to
be armed afresh ; the provision of one rifle to each
man had lasted M‘Dowell’s soldiery just a day.
And there have been many such cases. Among
the weak spots in Australia’s defence its alleged
Minister for Defence is about the weakest. There
are so many weak spots that it ought to be diffi-
cult to diagnose the weakest, but Playfobd’s
incapacity has become so monumental that it
looms up above all other considerations.
GREATER SYDNEY.
Apparently even the one little attempt that was
made at reducing the municipal chaos of Sydney
into something like order has died away ; at all
events, it is so long since anything was heard of
the proposal to add bankrupt Camperdown to the
city proper, that the subject seems tolerably dead.
Sydney and its suburbs again repose at peace
under the shadow of their 41 mayors and several
hundred aldermen, to say nothing of the 40 debts
(by a curious mistake, there appears to be, some-
where, a municipality without a debt), and all the
town halls, rate collectors, inspectors, auditors,
engineers and sundries. At one place (xMarsfield),
there are six plain aldermen, one whole live
mayor, and a council clerk and inspector of
nuisances, and a set of council chambers, and a
debt, to superintend the spending of an annual
revenue of £240. At another (Darlington), there
are nine plain aldermen, a full-blown mayor made
of meat, a council clerk and sanitary inspector,
a foreman of works, a set of council chambers,
an overdraft and a host of sundries, all for 38 acres
of ground—an area which, if cut square, would be
a littie over 400 yards each way. And there are
many other quaint features about Sydney’s 41
municipalities—the 41 local authorities which
won’t make their new streets join with those of
the municipality next door, and which can’t agree
about any improvements, and which would have
left Sydney without water or sewerage through
the impossibility of getting 41 sets of potentates
to climb down off their dignity all at the same
time, if the State Parliament hadn’t, with a strong
hand, taken control of these matters from the 11
sets of cantankerous local germs, and put them in
the hands of a central authority. The existence
of the Water and Sewerage Board is in itself a
loud condemnation of the policy of having 41
bands of municipal microbes all warring together
over the government of one small bit of cheese ;
the only possibility of progress lay in taking the
matter out of their hands. The fact that the
tramways are managed by the State is more
evidence to the same effect. Tram ways should be
a municipal affair, but it is impossible to have 41
tramway managements, and to change about eight
times in one journey, from one municipality s
steam tram to the next one’s electric car, and then
to the third one’s Cable car, and next to the fourth
one’s horse car, and after that to the fifth
municipality’s omnibus, and the sixth one's truck,
and the seventh one’s wheelbarrow, and then to
walk across the backward eighth municipality to
arrive at where the rails resume in municipality
No. 9. So tramway business, like water and
sewerage matters, had to be taken out of municipal
control, which left municipal control with very
little to look after except its pomp and its debts.
* * * *
Then there are other things. Lighting is
mostly in private hands. Two big municipalities
out of the 41 have a municipal electric light
supply apiece, but the rest depend on the
Sydney Gas Co. and the North Shore Gas Co.
and the Manly Gas Co. —all private concerns.
A municipal lighting system which supplied
the whole metropolitan district should pay
splendidly, but 41 municipal systems would be
ruinous. Hydraulic power is supplied by a com-
pany for the same reason. Sanitary arrangements
are anyhow'. Street management ranges from
bad to awful. Interest on loan moneys varies
from 2 5 per cent, to 8 per cent Solvency is of
varying degrees, from the possession of a big sink-
ing fund down to having the bailiff in possession,
and the accumulation of grass on the highways, and
the wearing away of holes as big as graves in the
neglected streets. As for any concerted system
of general improvement, that is impossible when
a road runs through six or eight municipalities
which are hardly on terms of decent civility.
Even a general system of markets is impossible,
and health regulations are suggestive of comic
opera. In the city of Sydney every doctor must
notify cases of consumption; in the other 40
municipalities he need not do anything of the
kind. Therefore, the consumptive in Redfern or
Paddington may expectorate with impunity across
an imaginary boundary into Sydney, but the one
in Sydney may not expectorate with impunity
into Redfern or Paddington—nor even into
Botany. It is all chaos and unpicturesque folly
and mud and muddle.
There is no reason to believe that the people
want this state of things to continue, but the
people are almost powerless and quite hopeless.
They may elect aldermen who approve of munici-
pal union, but the man who approves of munici-
pal union when he is a candidate loses all interest in
it when he becomes an alderman. As soon as he
has attained to that dizzy eminence he fails to see
any reason for his own abolition. The prospect
of any good being done by aldermen, oranyagree-
ment being arrived at by aldermen, looks so remote
that no one takes much interest in it; yet there are
only aldermen to appeal to. The matter is wholly
in the hands of mayors and aldermen, and similar
bumptious cattle, who never can see any reason
why they should sacrifice their little bit of
dignity, and even when they profess to favor
municipal combination they always take every
kind of care that the scheme shall collapse
on questions of detail. As a rule, the collapse
conies over finance, and over the alleged
impossibility of doing justice to the less
bankrupt municipalities as against the more
bankrupt ones, and so on. Yet the financial
problem is capable of easy settlement, if there
was any real desire to settle it. The simplest
device would be to make each existing municipa-
lity for a time a ward in the new municipality of
Greater Sydney, with representation as nearly as
possible on a population basis. Then it would be
necessary to have the profit-earning or saleable
assets that each old municipality brought into
the common stock valued by an independent
Commission appointed for the purpose, and when
their value was deducted from the munici-
pality’s liabilities the balance would be that
ward’s separate debt. After that a uniform
rate could be struck for ordinary purposes,
and also a special rate which would not
be uniform, but which would be calculated in
each case to wipe off the ward’s special debt in (say)
20 years. The debt which was represented by assets
handed over would, of course, become part of the
common debt of Greater Sydney, and so would
any new liabilities incurred ; but the debts exist-
ing at the date of union, which were not repre-
sented by profit-earning or saleable assets, would
remain each as a liability of its own ward, and
each ward would be made by the central authority
to wipe off its own old debt separately. When,
by the operation of the varying tax imposed for
the purpose, all the wards arrived at the same
level of solvency, the old boundaries could be
obliterated and the city subdivided afresh on a
more rational plan.
* ♦ * *
The Careuthers Government might make a
name for itself—a very different kind of name
from the one it made over the Lands scandals —if
some day, when it is not busy talking about its
surplus, or the Australian capital, or the alleged
wrongs of the Ma State, it would pass a Bill
creating a Greater Sydney on these lines—
a Greater Sydney with a liberal franchise and
such large powers of self-government as up-to-date
British municipalities enjoy. It need not make
the Bill compulsory unless it so pleases. If it is
desired to make quite sure that no wrong is done
to any district that desires to stand out, it is only
necessary to draft a measure establishing theore-
tically a municipal union on an equitable basis,
and then to provide for a popular vote in each
municipality for or against union, with the pro-
viso that in municipalities which stand out the
referendum shall be taken again at each succeed-
ing municipal election, so that the subject shall
be kept alive. It is impossible to suggest that
any wrong could be done by giving the
people a full and free opportunity to
have union if they want union, or to
retain their present disunion if they feel
that disunion suits them best. No district need
have its chaos dragged from it against its will. But
at present the majority of the people may desire
union, yet there is no means of getting their rep-
resentatives to meet together and consider the
terms, and it is quite impossible to get these rep-
resentatives to take an unbiassed view of a matter
which means, in most cases, their official oblitera-
tion. The State Government and Parliament can
surmount that difficulty by bringing their gigantic
intelligence to beai, and devising a plan whereby
there can be union on an equitable basis if the
people want it. Then they can, with absolute
fairness, present the result of their gigantic intel-
ligence to the people, and let them accept it if
they are so inclined. The only people who could
object to such an absolutely fair proceeding are
those who, from interested motives, desire that
the people should not have municipal union how-
ever much they want it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Poor as a Crow.
William Lynk, taking the public into his confi-
dence the other day, confessed that he was “poor
as a crow.” The statement was made in half-
serious, half-jesting reference to the accusations
whispered against him, as against many other
politicians, that they were in the game to make
money. After many years of politics, in which he
has held some of the foremost positions, he is
“poor as a crow”; and, he might have added,
blackened as a crow in the envious and evil minds
of scandal-mongers. For the reward of the poli-
tician who devotes his life to the public is not only
poverty but contumely. He makes no money,
and, at the same time, is accused of dishonestly
making millions. If all the yarns Lyne’s
enemies speak of him were true, that gentleman
ought to be able to buy half a city for a poultry
run, or indulge in any whim of the profligately
rich. Yet it is a matter so well known as to make
it no unkindness to mention it in print that when
William Lyne was out of office a while ago (and
part of the time refusing office on grounds of
principle) lie had to reduce his style of living


below that which a very moderately successful
professional man allows himself. (Similarly when
C. 0. Kingston, on a point of principle, left
the Barton Government, he had to move
the next week to a cheaper hotel). Richard
Seddon, who, according to his enemies, was
making money right and left during his long
term of office, died practically without a penny,
and already there is talk of a national fund for the
benefit of his family. So on through a long, pitiful
record. The reward of public service is destitution
and calumny. The calumny is even more cruel
than the destitution. It adds the worst of insults
to grievous injury. As a matter of truth,
public life in Australia is, and has always been,
extraordinarily pure. The proved instances of
personal corruption could be counted on the
fingers. Yet the pay of the politician is paltry
and his temptations enormous. In England
he has very few chances of corruption.
Army store contracts and State secrets offer
certain facilities for boodle to some, but the
number is very limited. In Australia, with its
semi-socialistic system, every Government carries
on a number of vast industrial enterprises.
The landed estates and the railways administered
by the States represent many millions of money,
and unlimited chances of corrupt traffic. But the
opportunities are very rarely availed of. Cases
crop up of undoubted wrong-doing. More fre-
quently there are cases where, without corrup-
tion, Ministers have been injudicious enough to
be influenced by considerations of friendship or
party loyalty. But, on the whole, the politician
in Australia has clean hands. It is almost a
miracle that he has, since the salary he gets is,
taking into view all the circumstances, paltry,
and the amount of slander he gets, no matter
how transparently honest his actions, enormous.
*
The Howl for Dissolution.
A section of the Tory press has struck a new
idea, whereby it hopes to make the present
session of the Australian Parliament a barren
one ; and to send the Government to the country
with the discredit of having done nothing save
exist and be affable. It was suddenly discovered,
a month or two back, that three years ago the
farmers were, to a great extent, prevented from
voting through the elections being held in
December, when they were in the midst of
harvesting operations; that a great wrong had
been thus perpetrated ; that if tlie present Parlia-
ment were allowed to run its full course, whereby
the elections would again happen in December,
another great wrong would be perpetrated ; and
that the only clean, honest, respectable thing
would be for the Government to sacrifice the
bulk of its programme and dissolve, so that
the election could be held in October. The
agitation didn’t commence till the Government
had its programme ready. Then it started with one
mild little paragraph iii a Foreign-trade morning
paper, and from that small beginning it bloated out
in a few weeks to the size of a monstrous black
wrong which covered the sky, and from out this
cloud of obloquy the voice of Joe Cook could be
heard barking bitterly. The elections fall in
December quite naturally, because the British
Government fixed the date for the beginning of
the Commonwealth on January 1; as the Parlia-
ment lasts three years the thing happens of itself.
But the Foreign-trade party professes to regard
the. date as a black and bottomless conspiracy
against the farmer to prevent him voting. He
lives a long distance from the polling place, it
says—which he sometimes does and often doesn’t.
Hecan’tspareaday in December it alleges, because
he is busy getting in his wheat —which he sometimes
is and sometimes isn’t. Sometimes he doesn’t
grow wheat but cows, and the cow isn’t reaped at
any special season; very often he will have already
got his wheat in if the election is held towards the
end of the month ; also, the election could easily
be held on a Saturday, and even the most despe-
rate farmer frequently allows himself a Saturday
afternoon off. But these are side issues. As a
matter of fact, the Foreign-trade party cares
mighty little for the farmer in this connection,
for he largely votes for Protection, and it would as
soon he didn’t vote at all than do that. Besides,
if the farmer were unable to vote through the
harvest operations, his laborers would be just
about equally unable, and, as they mostly vote the
Labor ticket, the Foreign-trade crowd would
as soon they didn’t vote either. Moreover, the
theory that the poorness of the vote registered in
1903 was owing to the farmer being unable to
leave his crop is very thin when the figures are
considered. Taking N.S.W. as an example, the
total was bad enough ; for the House of Reps.,
only 282,514 votes were recorded out of a possible
578,017 in the 22 contested electorates. That was
just about 49 per cent., but the allegedly suffering
farmer had little to do with it. Some of the
worst records were at the Barrier where there are
no farmers (only 40 per cent, of the possible votes
were recorded); out on the Darling where there
are practically no farmers (37 per cent, voted);
East Sydney, where there are no farmers at all
(less than 39 per cent, voted); West Sydney,
where there are no farmers whatsoever (less than
42 per cent.); and Newcastle, which is all coal
(46 per cent.). Against these figures Bill Dyne's
scattered pastoral and agricultural electorate
scored a vote of 54 per cent., despite the alleged
fact that the farmers couldn’t get to the poll;
Hunter recorded 49 per cent. ; New England
about 51 per cent. At the N.S.W. State election of
1904 held in the middle of winter, when the farmer
wasn’t detained by his crops, his voting panned
out in many oasos just as badly as at th© ©d©ral
election in December. In Victoria, the experi-
ence was the same; the poorest proportion of votes
polled in December, 1903, was in a mining electo-
rate, and some of the best results were in agri-
cultural districts, where, it is alleged, the farmer
couldn’t get to the poll. Therefore, the ostensible
reason for the sudden desire of- Cook and the
Sydney Telegraph for an election in October
being plainly a sham and a deception, there re-
main three apparently possible reasons for their
demand that the session should end almost as soon
as it has begun :
(1) To get Parliament dissolved in haste, so that there
will be no time to pass an amended tariff, or a possible
Land-tax Bill, or any one of a dozen other progressive
measures. Then to go to the country and point out that
the Dkakin Government is a discredited affair with a
barren session behind it, which might wreck the Deakin
Government.
(2) To hold the election in shearing time. The farmer
doesn’t leave his electorate when he is getting in iiis crop,
so his vote is all right. The shearer travels into other
electorates and other States, and even with all the facili-
ties for voting bv post, a good many of him would be un-
accounted for. And the shearer is an unregenerate person
who votes Labor.
(3) To hold the election, if possible, before there is time
to close the breach between the Victorian Protectionist-
Labor party and the Protectionist-Democrats, and to go
to the polls with these two parties splitting the Protec-
tionist vote everywhere and letting the Tory Foreign-
trader in on a minority vote. Incidentally, to rush to
the poll before there is time to pass a Second Ballot Bill
to knock out the Tory Foreign-trader, who would other-
wise get in on a minority vote.
And in addition to these three visible causes the
complaint about how the alleged farmer can’t
vote and the wail for an early dissolution help to
obstruct business, and anything that obstructs
business is apparently a joy to the soul oi tne
renegade coal-weigher Cook.
The Labor Leagues in Victoria.
The first step has been taken by the Labor
Leagues in Victoria to carry out the resolution
whereby they declared undying hostility to their
allies. The organisation in Higgins’ electorate
has the discredit of leading the way, and Higgins
is to be opposed by an official Labor candidate.
He was Attorney-General in an official Labor
Government, and faced all the political and pro-
fessional loss which acceptance of that post in-
volved—for the wealthy corporations and classes,
from whom the best briefs come to a barrister,
naturally did not like his association with Labor,
and resented it, so far as they could. 1 n return now
for liis sacrifice on their account, the Labor Leagues
attempt to cut Higgins' political throat. It’s a
fine attitude to take in the name of Democracy !
Fortunately the attempt is doomed to failure by
the sturdiness of the Parliamentary Labor party.
It has decided not to desert its allies, and, without
its sanction and help, Labor League opposition in
any electorate can be, to a great extent,
ignored. With W atson and his party on the one
side supporting Higgins, the Labor vote will
mostly go to him, whatever action any little mis-
guided or self-interested coterie may take in
opposition. The decision of the Labor Leagues
has to be deplored more, therefore, on their own
account than for any practical effect it
will have in the electorates. If there is any
foundation for the fear, which the Leagues are
said to entertain, that the Labor members wish
to secure for themselves a position more indepen-
dent of the outside organisations, then the Leagues
have acted in such a way as to help that develop-
ment considerably. The Labor party is, in the
main, the Labor members and the Labor voters —
the Leagues being intermediaries between the
two. In this conflict which the Leagues have
forced on, the Labor members and the Labor
voter's are in agreement, and the attitude of the
Leagues is out of touch with public opinion,
though it has the enthusiastic support of
the Tory press. They must necessarily, there-
fore, emerge from it weakened in influence
and authority. But just in case they may,
in some few electorates, split the Demo-
cratic party sufficiently to let the Tory can-
didate in on a minority vote, it would be wise for
Prime Minister Deakin to hustle a Second Ballot
Act through this session. The voluble and
deafening approval with which the Tory press
greets the action of the Vic. Labor Leagues is in
itself sufficient evidence of that. Even if the
action of the Labor Leagues leads to nothing,
there are other possibilities of a further splitting
of the Protectionist vote which should be guarded
against.
♦
Tie Income-Tax.
Within the last few weeks a fierce demand has
been raised both in N.S.W. and Victoria for the
repeal of the income-tax. The S.M. Herald
runs the crazy movement in Sydney (the Tele-
graph is on the side of honesty ), and the Argus
howls for letting the finances slide in Melbourne.
As regards logic there is little to choose between
the two papers. Here are some specimens from
the S.M. Herald
When the incoine-tax was introduced there \vas an
accumulated deficiency in the State’s consolidated
revenue account of no less than £2,614,102. At the end
of last month there was a credit balance on the same
account of £500,000, and the financial year 1005-00 is ex-
pected to close with a surplus of over three-quarters of a
million sterling. What, therefore, may have been a
necessity in Mr. Reid’s time cannot lie said to he so now.
That statement was apparently intended to de-
lude the public into thinking that the deficit of
£2,(514,102 had been turned into a surplus of
£50!),0(50 —which it hasn’t, and the fact that it
hasn’t is so well-known that the Herald can hardly
be even suspected of not knowing it. At .1 line 30,
1905 —the end of last financial year—N.S.W. still
had an accumulated deficit of £2,004,517 (Hall’s
N.S.W. Statistical Register for 1005, Part 11,
page 40). Even if the State has the biggest kind
of luck this year, and even if all the surplus is
honestly applied to the reduction of the deficit,
the shortage is still likely to be nearly £1,200,000
at the end of the financial year. When the rich
proprietors of a rich newspaper —men who can
better afford to pay a tax than almost any other
inhabitants of the State—are found clamoring for
its abolition, despite the fact that the State’s
finances are still about £1,200,000 to the bad, that
it is still borrowing £1,500,000 a year, that it is
still selling £1,000,000 worth of the public assets
annually and using the proceeds as revenue, that
it is even stealing the depreciation fund of the
Water and Sewerage Board and using it as
revenue, and that it is making no serious effort to
provide out of revenue for depreciation of the
assets constructed out of loans, the public is apt
to get a very humble opinion of the patriotism of
that rich newspaper proprietary. The Herald
has been breaking out in quite a rush of leaders
on the subject of “our needless income-tax.”
Here is a sample from another one :
The danger is that this plethora of unnecessary revenue
will tempt our politicians once more into wasteful and
extravagant courses, multiplying our commitments and
liabilities, and leading us along the path of excess until
we find ourselves burdened once more with an over-
whelming debt. We shall then need extra taxation to
cope with it, and in the meantime there will be, as usual,
nothing in the shape of solid corresponding assets to
show.
This lament about possible extravagance is
pathetic. The shortest way to avoid that evil
is to enact that there shall be no more loans,
that (say) £1,000,000 or £1,500,000 a year shall
be set aside out of revenue to provide for
new public works, and that there shall also be at
least £250,000 a year set aside as a sinking fund to
accumulate at compound interest in reduction of
the old debt With these commitments to meet
out of ordinary income, the Government would
have to be economical with its revenue, and, with
no loans at all. it would necessarily be very
economical —more than economical—with loan
funds. That policy would lead to economy all
round; the Herald’s idea is merely to be
economical with revenue, and leave the door open
for all the old extravagance in the matter of loans.
So far, Premier Carruthers makes no sign, but
in Victoria the demand for the abolition of the
income-tax lately moved the explosive Bent to
plain speaking. He also has an old deficit, and
he also was lately sympathised with as an indi-
vidual whose back was breaking under the weight
of a surplus that he didn’t know what to do with.
Bent’s reply was that, considering the old deficit
and the fearful mass of loans falling due, he hadn’t
half enough surplus, and that, with a view to pay-
ing off a few of the debts, he intended holding on to
the income-tax with both hands. Wherefore the
whining Argus reckons that Bent is hardly the
man it took him for.
+.
What is an Australian ?
“0.K.” writes:—
Who are the Australians, anyhow ? Which are they,
what are thev, and vvhv are they? I lately read a news-
paper report of the Melbourne Celtic Club’s welcoming
of Miss Marie Narelle. “Mr. Jagburs said they were
all delighted to welcome Miss Narelle hack, not only
because she was a gifted artist, but because, as a native
born, she upheld Australia’s reputation abroad. She had
endeared herself to her felloiv Irishmen and Irishwomen
in Australia by her good qualities,” &c., &c. From this I
gather that a native Australienne can have fellow Irish-
women, or an Australian native can have brither Scots.
Perhaps, also, an Australian by birth can have an English
twin sister, but on this point I am doubtful, seeing that
St. George and the Dragon are not so fully acclimatised
here as St. Patrick and St. Andrew. Again, I ask, who
are the Australians? If Miss Narelle were a native of
America would she have any fellow Irish, and if so, who
are the Americans?
“O.K.’ did wisely in not offering a half-crown
prize with bis conundrum, for it is so easy that he
would have lost the eighth part of a “ quid ” to a
dead certainty. An Australian—the kind we are
thinking of when we demand “Australia for the
Australians ” —is
(1) Any person horn in Australia who hasn’t become a
chronic absentee, a hunter after titles in England, or a
wandering Stinking Fish.
(2) Any white person who has come to Australia to
make it his (or her) home, and who is willing to adopt
Australian sentiment, is willing to learn to be proud of
his (or her) adopted land, and who will stand by it in time
of need.
Therefore, a native Australian man or woman can
have fellow Irishmen or Irishwomen —and (Scots
and English ditto. Also, an Australian by birth
can have an English twin sister. When one of
two Australian-born twins gathers up his or her
wealth, and goes away to be more English than
the. English, to try to demonstrate his or her Eng-
lishness by joining the Stale Fish brigade and
heaping mean slanders on this country, then that
person becomes an English twin brother or sister
to the Australian twin who remains behind. And
England gets a mighty poor bargain in acquiring
that twin.
—
N-S-W. Arbitration Act.
No definite announcement has yet been made in
regard to the fate of the N.S.W. Arbitration Act,
though the question has been brought directly
under notice by the official statement, from Arbi-
tration J udge Hey Don, that the Act, as now left
by a series of judicial decisions, is practically a
myth. The history of this Act has been most unfor.
tunate. Like all other legislation of the same cha-
racter, it had to depend a good deal for its success
on sympathetic administration, and to some degree
on popular support. Kestrictive legislation which
goes beyond public opinion rarely succeeds. It
either rouses so much antagonism as to secure its
repeal, or is quietly ignored and falls into disuse.
But it is hard to believe that Arbitration as a
substitute for the strike is in advance of New
South Wales public opinion. It certainly is not
in advance of Maoriland civilisation, for in that
State an Act on all-fours with that of N.S.W. has
been successfully administered for many years.
The trouble in N.S. Wales is that from the
outset the daily press carried on a campaign of
slanderous hostility against the B. R. Wise Arbi-
tration Act. It was misrepresented at every turn,
and hardly any lie concerning it was too absurd to
print. This steady flood of slander had, naturally,
some effect in shaking public confidence and in
encouraging employers to “ take points ’against
the law. The High Court did the rest. With
the work of the High Court The Bulletin gene-
rally sees cause to agree, but there is no doubt
that towards the N.S.W. Arbitration Act it has
shown a steady hostility. Every point that
could be taken against the Act was taken, and
the evident intention of the Legislature was fre-
quently frustrated. Now it comes to the turn of
the N.S.W. Parliament to do something. It may
leave matters as they are and face the practical
certainty of the returning tide of prosperity being
checked by a great strike. Or it may re-enact its
previous determinations, putting them in such
language as the most hostile Bench will not be
able to ignore.
Australasia’s Sugar Monopoly.
The Queensland State sugar mills have made such
headway under capable management that the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. —which is something
of a Trust in Australasia —is just now faced by an
army of clamoring suppliers. These suppliers are
asking the Monopoly a large quantity of distress-
ingly coarse and interfering questions. They
want to know. Up in the Ear North, the Central
mill at Mulgrave paid as high as 2Us. f>d. per ton
for cane, yet it was able to provide for interest,
redemption, and for depreciation of machinery,
to subsidise insurance and other funds, and car-
ried forward £4(JOO to reserve. The adjoining
C.S.R. Co.'s factory only paid its suppliers 13s.
7d. per ton. which is an eloquent difference of
several shillings per ton of cane. Although other
Central mills did not do quite so well as
20s. sd, they mostly did well enough to pay
much better prices than the sugar co.
The co.’s method’s are unsatisfactory in several
particulars. It has been paying on analysis tests
—a bewildering process at the best of times, even
if each man’s cane were crushed separately. But
the co. is in the habit of crushing the produce of
several farmers together, and then giving them an
average analysis, which looks distinctly unfair,
and would not be tolerated if these suppliers were
not tied as purchasing tenants or through lack of
any other conveniently-situated null to send .their
cane to. It is significant that where there is a
central mill making a bid for cane—which is not
often, as the State plants generally have enough
to do to crush for the guarantors—there the
Sugar Co. offers better terms than where
it is in undisputed possession. There are
phases of this sugar industry which the
Australian Parliament should investigate. The
sole object of the excise rebate—miscalled a
bonus—was to assist the farmer to do without his
unlovely Kanaka and objectionable Chow, but the
farmer begins to have grave doubts as to whether
it is he or the company that gets the rebate. He
can’t quite figure the thing out, but, after
doing the sum frequently with chalk on
the back of the house, he grows more sus-
picious than ever. The results shown by the
central mills have made him excited as well as
suspicious, and 600 cane-agriculturists are now
asking “Why” very loudly, and going into
sordid and mercenary details. The anomalies
exist to a still more glaring extent on the Northern
rivers of N.S.W., for there the company has no
opposition. Last year several growers, it is said,
were obliged to accept from the Monopoly rates
as low as per ton for frosted cane, which the
co. did not fail to crush. It was either worth
nothing at all, or it was surely worth more than
the abject bawbee. So far N.S.W. growers have
made no definite demands ; they are accustomed
to the Monopoly, and regard it as a matter of
course. But the Queensland men want more
State-managed central mills—enough to run the
whole business —with State refineries to match.
„ ♦
Our Neglected Timber Resources.
Evidence given by timber-merchant Chidgey
before the Tariff Commission set forth effectively
the timber-headed way in which this great natural
resource is treated. Timber is, after all, the only
really natural resource, apart from minerals, that
Australia has, since kangaroos, bears and ’pos-
sums are hardly important enough to count.
Cows, sheep, pigs, horses, dogs, domestic cats,
billy and nanny-goats, wheat, oats, rye, sugar-
cane, potatoes, onions, maize, hay, grapes, hops,
tobacco, apples, barley, etc., all represent arti-
ficial industries, and some of them are the ac-
cursed result of State interference. But, perhaps
for the reason that there was a dismal fear
in the Foreign-trade mind that cutting down
timber in a sane and ordered fashion might lead
to the iniquity of making that timber into chairs
and tables and waggons, this natural resource
has never been in any way coddled ; on the con-
trary, it has been ruthlessly sacrificed to other in-
terests, and it has been quite the usual thing to
burn off valuable timber to make place for far
less valuable grass. The timber position now in
Australia is that, in spite of past waste, the con-
tinent still contains a vast amount of most valu-
able hardwood—the best in the world—which,
with judicious conservation and afforestation,
would never be exhausted ; also, some splendid
softwoods suitable for most purposes ; and orna-
mental woods of the highest quality. But
whilst we burn off our own woods we im-
port those of the foreigner. In 1904 N.S.
Wales alone imported 81,000,000 feet of
foreign timber of a value of nearly £500,000,
and nearly half that quantity of Maoriland tim-
ber, worth about £200,000. All tins could be
replaced by Commonwealth timber —even the
butter-box wliite pine of Maoriland isn’t required
here. But the importing disease has such a grip
of N.S. Wales that it would rather use an in-
ferior imported article than a superior local one,
and it still clings pathetically to the foreign tim-
ber which is just now responsible for the dis-
astrous collapses in the Broken Hill mines. The
disease affects the State Government as well as
private individuals. Whilst the Commonwealth
Government patriotically insists that in all its
contracts local timber shall be used, the N.S.W.
State Government put foreign timber into the
new grain sheds at Pyrmont, and the entire super-
structure of the Owe’Sullivan railway station at
Sydney is of imported wood.
The Stinking Fishermen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One night, when men had slumbered long, I
paced upon the shore,
To fashion forth a bitter song to reach Sham’s
utmost core.
I marshalled thoughts amid the rain—they
marched exultantly
Across my meditative brain beside the misty sea !
When lo ! I saw a shadow-sail come crawling
through the gloom—
A craft so gray, so coffin-pale it seemed a Ship of
Doom !
I asked what was the vessel’s name ; a groan rose
to the skies:
“We are the Stinking Fishermen who trawl the
sea for Lies ! ”
Then through the night came spectre-wails, and
scraps of moanful speech,
Behold ! I saw yet other sails slow-creeping to
the beach !
The ghastly moon did chance to peer, athwait
the palsied sea.
And showed this fleet of vessels sere approaching
dismally !
They came like corpses from the tomb —I saw
their spectral shrouds
Like haggard phantoms strangely loom against the
rifted clouds,
And from each pale sea-denizen this grief-gray
chant did rise :
“ We are the Stinking Fishermen who trawl the
sea for Lies ! ”
I stood, and saw the dismal crews wade o’er the
queasy sands;
They came in mournful threes and twos, with
queer fish in their hands.
“ Strange prey,” said I, “you gather in. What
ocean-fruits are these?”
One said : “ They are the products of the Stinking
Fisheries !
We fish all night that we may feed the Freetrade
press by day.
We rake the deep for Reid and Cook and Smith,
and such as they,
And here and there, and up and down, we seek
what most they prize.
We are the Stinking Fishermen who trawl the
sea for Lies.”
“Good brethren, what of treachery and perjured
souls? ” I said ;
They answered me in hollow tones : “Alas, our
souls are dead !
No scribe whose conscience is his own with us
may sail the seas,
The breath of Ananias and Sapphira is our
breeze.
With fragments of dead minds and souls our
streaming lines we bait,
We have no other use for them, such things are
out of date!
Not ours to question who or when, not ours to
trade in whys—
We are the Stinking Fishermen who trawl the sea
for Lies ! ”
The fishers passed me with their loads—their offal
and their draff—
I read their fish next day ; ’twas in the Daily
Telegraph.
I saw it in the Herald too, and also did peruse
Much left-off product of the sea in Sydney
Evening News.
Now oft I see these shadow ships come crawling
through the gloom,
The flavor in their wake suggests the newly-
opened tomb.
They rise upon a putrid sea like ghosts when sun-
light dies—
All night the Stinking Fishermen are busy
trawling Lies.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


gpp^
U.
ooo^qpr
j
A BIG DIFFERENCE.
Host : “ There is no
smoke like cigar smoke.”
Guest : “ Isn’t there ! You try Gallaher’s Tobacco! ”
BY
POST
Shorthand, Bookkeep-
ing, Engineering,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
. Moore Street, Sydney [2
250
<3\
SASH pR '^LLEC roRS
W TO ,; OF
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
Q/ e>
FROM
, DELICIOUS
(Chocolates,
CAILLER’S. p o box 136.^
SYDNEY m
Imported Officials.
Brisbane’s unspeakable Water Board, which is
incurably afflicted with the importing craze, has
practically decided to bring out American “ex-
pert” Hazen, to advise about a water supply.
He is to get a fee of £3OOO, and three guineas a
day expenses, and he only undertakes to stay a
month for all that money. Inside that month he
is to advise about filtration, about the S trad broke
Island and other supply schemes, and about many
things besides. He won’t have time to half-learn
the lay of the country before he takes his big cheque
and goes away. He will see the district in a good
year, and will probably assume that moisture is
permanent where, five years out of ten, there is
no moisture at all. There is a complicated salt-
water problem connected with the Stradbroke
Island scheme, and Hazen admits that he
knows nothing about such problems. The anti-
quated darn fools of the Board have set their
own engineer, who knows the local conditions,
to draw up a report, aid now they don’t
even wait for it in their has. e to spend £3OOO on
the hurried Yankee stranger. Some years ago
Brisbane brought a man from the land of the
Harvester swindle to dredge the Brisbane River,
and he sold the desolated inhabitants £200,000
worth of dredge plant which proved almost worth-
less. Then the State brought out an irrigation
expert to show where water could be conserved in
the valley of the Upper Brisbane River—a thing
which every local engineer who had studied the
country knew quite well. That expert s costly
plans have remained in the pigeon-holes of the
Department ever since. Queensland also had a
bitter taste of the imported harbors and rivers
expert Coode, and a sour taste of a few others of
the same class. Now Brisbane wants a water
supply—a whole lot of clean, wet water, not
another dry, dusty, microby report. The great
difficulty is money, and the leather-headed old
Board apparently hopes, if it imports enough
“experts,” to ultimately find one who will show
it how to get water without money.
♦ ;
To the great distress of many ship-owners who
had been watching the proceedings, the settle-
ment of the Melville Island case last week was a
complete triumph for marine Labor, which, as far
as the merchant service is concerned, appears to
be the most enslaved class of white Labor within
the cognizance of the Law. But for the vigilant
intervention of solicitor Woolf the crew of this
precious “tramp” vessel would have been com-
pelled, through the agency of autocrat Panton,
P.M., to resume duty, as prisoners transferred
from the custody of Melbourne gaolers to the
charge of the ship’s captain. Again, when they
were at length restored to liberty, the captain
might have got away to sea with a crimped crew,
leaving the malcontents to whistle for the
money due to them, had not Woolf got a
warrant from the Vice-Admiralty Court for the
arrest of the ship. Finally the unscrupulous
mariner, who had proposed to sweat the men’s
wages when he saw no more hope of retaining
them aboard or escaping his liabilities altogether,
agreed to pay them in full and give them their
discharge from the ship’s articles; also he con-
sented to pay the sum of £3O to their solicitor,
and treat the convictions and orders of Panton,
P.M., as quashed absurdities. The settlement
leaves the police magistrate without any show of
justification for his arrogant championing of the
captain’s cause ; clearly he is unfitted to continue
to rest his aged bones on the Bench which has
supported him for so many years. The
crew of the Melville Island having been
discharged on full pay, it is time for Panton,
P. M., to retire on a small pension.
Throughout his career as a police magis-
trate, the man who committed these unfor-
tunate sailors to prison has repeatedly shown a
tendency to strain the law in favor of the influ-
ential side. Years ago when a disrespectable
bookmaker was charged at the Melbourne City
Court with the crime of pushing his fist against the
cheek of a disrespectable lord who owed him a lot
of money, Panton endeavored to put the book-
maker into prison for 14 days, for the reason that
the lord was an aide-de camp to the local Governor.
The sympathies of ar. autocrat are ever with the
representatives of '.uthoritv, and Panton is one
of the hardest-shrilled autocrats who ever sang the
National Anthem.
*
The final doses of evidence thrown at the Tariff
Commission consisted of the same weary old tales
of the treachery to Australia of the Foreign-
trader sitting in the Commonwealth Parliament,
and of the blazing folly of the Freetrade Laborite.
The tale was of bags and their manufacture ; and
bag manufacturer Gadsden, just returned from
inspecting the bag factories of Britain, America,
and India, gave his sworn facts. Bags are prac-
tically unprotected in Australia, there being
only a small duty on a very trifling per-
centage of the different classes made. In
Dundee, Mr. Gadsden said, the hours were 9J per
day and the wages from Bs. to 10s. per week.
“He had seen bareheaded and barefooted men
and women, clad in rags, carrying home heavy
bundles of bags from the factories to sew by hand ;
for this work they got sixpence per bundle. In
America the factories were more numerous, more
extensive, and the appliances better ; and, though
their hours were longer than those worked in Aus-
tralia, their wages were 25 per cent, higher. In
Calcutta the hands toiled 15 hours per day forfrom
6s. to 10s. per month, while children of from
eight to 10 years were frequently employed for
the merest trifle. After Gadsden had finished,
Freetrader Walmslky chipped in : “ Seeing the
condition of those Dundee women, do you think
bag-making fit work for women?” “ Un-
doubtedly ; but we don’t make those bags here;
we cannot touch them.” “Then your Dundee
illustration is not apposite.” “It only shows that
without Protection the Scottish workers are
brought clown to the level of the semi-naked,
semi-slaves of Calcutta.” That is the case for a
protected bag-making industry. There is no need
to say more. If the Freetrade Laborite wants to
see his fellow Australian men, women and babies
of eight brought down to the level of the Calcutta
blacks, he has only to continue his present course.
♦
N.S.W. Court of Marine Inquiry has decided in
the case of the Electra-Energy collision, which
might have sunk a passenger ship, but happened,
instead, to sink a tug, that no one was to
blame. The trouble arose, to a great extent, from
the fact that the people on board the Energy, even
the nominal look-out, were asleep, and the
reason of their somnolence was that they
were worn out by excessive hours and
overwork. The court mildly suggested an
alteration of the law to provide that a tugboat
should carry at least one certificated officer besides
the master. But even if the foolish law allows a
tug to go to sea on the assumption that the master
can keep awake all round the clock, the owners
who took advantage of the foolish law and its
foolish assumption were to blame, and the court
should have said so at the roof of its voice.
♦
It is hardly possible to believe that the Deakin
Government, fresh from a courageous announce-
ment of a policy of “Australia for the Aus-
tralians,” intends to import a Governor for Papua.
Yet that is freely stated as a fact, and even the
name of the gentleman, who is considerably
advanced in years, is mentioned. If such an
appointment is made it will be a pitiful anti-
climax to the oratorical professions of patriotism
put forward by Alfred the Affable. Papua—or
that part of it which used to be British —isnow an
Australian Possession. So far, the Commonwealth
has not fully assumed control, and during a
kind of interregnum the affairs of the island have
drifted into a very parlous state. That drift was
excused on the ground that when control was
taken over a vigorous era of administration would
be entered upon. The time has come for that
vigorous era to show itself, and the best way to
bring it to pass is by the organisation of a
typical administration, headed by a young and
vigorous man whose capacity is known not an
aged importation. That administration may
fail (The Bulletin does not believe it will).
But anyhow the experiment must be made. We
took over Papua to govern it, and it would be
cowardice to shirk the responsibility. If Australia
isn’t fit for the task, it had better hand the
Possession back.
Someone took the trouble to cable this out last
week:—
London.— At the annual meeting of the South Aus-
tralian Company to-day, Mr. H. Joslin, the chairman,
complained of the drastic Land-tax Bill in South Australia,
and stated that all the company’s lands, both town and
country, were being sold as opportunity offered.
Mr. John Bakewell also referred to the attitude of the
Commonwealth Parliament, which, he said, gave rise to
the greatest misgivings. All Australia was now in the
grip of tyrannous legislation.
S.A., at all events, prefers being in the “grip”
of the present legislation to being in that of the
unspeakable sharks of the South Australian Co.
That co. got its huge area of land for next
to nothing, at the very beginning of the his-
tory of the province, on its assurance that it was
an association of purely philanthropic English-
men, who had no idea of profit, and only wished
to export the English poor, and settle them
happily in a new country. Then it developed
into about the most brutish and merciless
rack-renter in the country. It got its Wealth
by lies and hypocrisy, and even now the worst
that happens to it is that it is charged very much
less taxation than it would have to pay on pro-
perty of similar value in England. The “invest-
ment of foreign capital to develop the great
natural resources of the country,” makes Aus-
tralia acquainted with strange bedfellows and
gives it strange hogs to sleep with. England is
full of supercilious beings whom this country sup-
plies with 25 or 30 per cent, interest on their
original investment, and who tell us in return
what a poor, mean lot we are.
——♦
The Sydney consumption-curers, whose letters
were lately quoted in The Bulletin, have made
another touching appeal to the Melbourne
widower of their deceased patient. Still wanting
to know why his wife doesn't try another course
of the infallible treatment, they wrote him, the
ocher day, in terms more of sorrow than of anger:
With health perhaps almost within her grasp, you
surely will not permit any further delay.
The letter seems to assume that the poor woman
must have almost regained her health through
abstaining so long from the marvellous specific.
“ Melb.” : F. R. Godfrey is a worthy
citizen, with a record as Legislative Councillor,
hospital committeeman, and Anglican church-
man. He has just issued a guide to our St. Paul’s
Cathedral. In 1872 the site was fixed. Founda-
tion stone, 1880. Opened 1891. Yet in 1890 the
cathedral narrowly escaped being pulled down.
A boom syndicate’s offer of £300,000 for the site
was only rejected by one vote in the church coun-
cil. The reredos cost £2OOO, donated. The organ
cost £OOOO, half donated. The peal is of 13 bells.
The central spire is to be 275 ft. high. That of
St. Patrick’s will be 350 ft.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “To Sight of St. Pauls.
Criterion Czerny.
Her Majesty’s “The Little Michus.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co. _
Centenary Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers.
Palace Theatroscope Co.
Lyceum..’.. Macdermott’s Biograph and Pro-
fessor Scott.
Prince Alfred Park.. Bostock and Womb well’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Man from Mexico.
Her Majesty’s “ On the Quiet.”
Theatre Royal “ Hands Across the Sea.
Oi'era House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall and I West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
Town Hall. j
-V
“In Sight of St. Paul’s,” revived at Sydney
Royal on ‘Saturday, strikes the lurid note from
the first. It’s the story, in effect, of a great
courtesan, who flares through life in yellow dresses
and red hair, who lives in a palace, to which she
summons to supper all the chief priestesses of
Venus in sight of St. Paul’s when it’s her mood to
be festive, and who ruins lovers as freely as other
women ruin gloves. Aside from this Panther
(Miss Harrie Ireland), there are many other
characters—the young lady in a black frock (Miss
Ross), who gets her only big chance when she gets
to grips with the Panther in her gorgeous den and
asks her and her attendant nymphs to think of
Death and other gloomy subjects ; the good young
man (Mr. Baker), who loves the good young girl,
and who takes the sin of his naughty brother on
his head, and is much suspected and accused, and
finally avoids being hanged, and is married
instead ; a comic cabman (Bland Holt) and his
sweetheart (Mrs. Bland); a villain, ha-ha, of the
deepest sneer (Mr. Albert Norman); and others
two multitudinous to enumerate. But it is “the
Panther’s ” yarn essentially, and when an exceed-
ingly well-designed fire scene, in which electric
lights, lurid ribbons, and electric fans combine to
give an impression of real Blazes comes along, it
seems just to fit the lady with the red tresses
and the yellow dresses. Still out of the multitude
must be meritoriously mentioned Miss Jennie
Pollock, who is a sort of junior Panther, and
Charles Brown as an attorney in the process of
earning a citation in re Gent. One. Probably
there are others who deserve a kind word, but
this column cannot become a catalogue.
** * *
“ The Little Michus ” continue the tuneful
current of their way at Her Majesty’s (Sydney),
with Miss Alma Barber in place of Miss Thomas
as the little Michu who was a grand lady hut
didn’t want to be. Miss Barber sings and acts
with charm. Miss Florence Young now shows
more emphatically as the senior partner of the
firm, so to speak —the one with the most voice
and experience in the capital account; hut that
is all the difference. The co. will conclude its
Sydney season with this opera whose name sug-
gests too little sneezes.
* sfc * *
Next Saturday, Leila Doubleday, who’s
hardly old enough to be Miss, plays violin and
piano at theY.M.C.A Hall, by way of asking
the Sydney public whether she is fit to go to
Europe for further training or not. Leila has
marvellous technique and some real “tempera-
ment.” She is, in short, a prodigy who really
prodigs, .and those attending the concert can be
safely' promised something stimulating.
* *
Spencer’s American Theatrescope, at the
Sydney Palace, has a spine-thrilling series of
flickerscalled “ A Tragedy in a Train. The
smart girldrivesup to the railway station in a smart
carriage. The smart thief eves her, waits till the
train is moving, tlien dashes into the compartment
with her. There are no other passengers in that
compartment. She goes through the usual fixing,
up of her luggage and hair, then sits down and
closes her eyes. He chloroforms her, takes her
rings, opens her hand-bag, and js searching for
more loot when the girl wakes up. They
struggle, and she is. thrown out and bills
on the opposite set of rails. Railway officials
rush up. She is not dead. There is a flicker
in the telegraph-room of the station as a
frantic station-master dictates a catch-the-thief
wire to a flurried operator. At the next
station the police do a grand pounce upon
the criminal as be makes a dash from the
carriage. The rest of the flicker shows him pro-
testing his innocence, then being, confronted-by
his victim, and falling into a state of collapse like
a worn-out telescope that shuts up when stood on
end. The views of the San Francisco earthquake
results are promised on the arrival of the Sorioma.
Meantime there are films of the places quaked- as
they looked before the quake came. A view of Cliff
House may remain unaltered. It only got a slight
wobble, and did not slip into the sea as alleged.
“ Living Flowers ” is a weird effect in color films.
** # *
Such fat houses welcomed Miss Narelle
and Mr. Fentress last week that the gratified
management made up its smart mind to put on
three extra frills—that is, three extra concerts
—at Sydney Town Hall. So the “ Wearin’ of
the Green,” and “Donald Aboo,” as well as
Scotch and English songs, had an increased air-
ing. Tenor Fentress, whose portrait is beginning
to inhabit the dressing-table of the matinee
girl, has caught on with his cultivated style,
although there’s no chance of anyone catching fire
from his intensity. Miss Brandon-Usher’s fine
work on the piano gives an added color to the pro-
grammes. The company starts its country tour
on Saturday.
** * *
Czerny, who introduced himself to Sydney
at the Criterion, last Saturday, as a magician, has
a fine stage appearance to help him, and his
manager “ mounts ” him excellently, the Egyptian
temple scene being striking and impressive.
Further, Czerny is a good speaker, with a faculty
of humor, and often gets much amusement out of
the assistants, professional and amateur, whom he
gets on to his platform. But his “ magic” is not
very new or wonderful, and he makes the mistake
of drawing out some of his tricks too elaborately.
A card trick, in particular, is not worth a tenth
of the time it takes, a.nd a bit of “ magic ” which
involves six explanations, several dictionaries and
frequent repetitions of the alphabet does not pay
for the gas. Withal, there are some very merry
moments in Czerny’s show as well as some very
dull ones. If he is wise he’ll cut out the slow
tricks, develop his patter and his sense of fun,
which are his strong points, and make the feature
of his evenings mirth rather than magic.
*# * *
It couldn’t have been the air of religion
which induced Mr. Macdermott to transfer his
Bio. show from Sydney Centenary Hall to the
Lyceum ; both places suffer from religion, so it
must have been a question of seating accommoda-
tion. In addition to the Bio. films and Prof.
W. E. Scott (who is an entertainer of considerable
merit), tenor Arthur Ford has been added to the
show, and patrons of the Lyceum in Pitt-street,
these times, come away with a feeling that they
have bad a good night’s entertainment for their
money.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli audiences have taken young
Cliff to their hearts, and that precocious youth
reigns as the star turn. A new feature of the
current week has been a series of biograph pictures
showing how Hackenschmidt wrestled Madrali.
It is a quick and comfortable way of seeing a
wrestling match, which, as performed m reality,
generally suggests a long, long time between
drinks. The O’Natis, jugglers, and shapely M lie.
Omega, wire-walker, pass from the Tivoli after
this week, and will be much regretted.
** * *
Melbourne City Council has unconsciously
arranged a musical celebration of the Glorious
Fourth of July. The first performance on the re-
constructed organ at the Town Hall is fixed for
that day, and the Yanks in Melbourne will doubt-
less see that “The Star Spangled Banner ” is in-
cluded in the programme. Meanwhile every good
Australian in Melbourne snorts at the official
announcement that not one of the native or
naturalised organists of the city is considered
good enough to deal with this expensive
lustrument. Mr. Lemaire from England, will
have first chance at the keyboard, and
the Council proposes to import another
practitioner from the Cold Country on a
12 months engagement. Seventeen years ago
Ernest Wood, then a young and comparatively
inexperienced organist, was accepted as a capital
performer, which he undoubtedly was. He was
then a newly-imported Wood, so he commanded
great respect. But now he has lost the odor of
English sanctity, and the fact that he is a fully
ripened artist doesn’t count with Melbourne City
Fathers. That is where the beauty and the
loveliness of the importing craze comes in. lhe
imported man is reverenced by the aldermanic
mind. Then time goes on, and he becomes
greater and better and more worthy of reverence.
But, through seeing him about so much, the alder-
manic person forgets that he was imported, and
gives him the sack or the go-by under the
erroneous impression that he is a mere Australian.
** $ #
Melbourne is now offered a choice of
American farcical comedies. “The Man from
Mexico ” arrived at the Princess’s on Saturday,
and the town was there in great strength, charged
with a desire to be hilarious where its old favorites
are concerned. “The Man from Mexico wi 11
probably feel the benefit of having come to hand
at a time when old favorites are scarce and a rural
farcical comedy is void of song and dance items.
The story has an old moss-grown founda-
tion and a partly new superstructure. A
trembling husband pursued by the awful con-
sequences of his bachelor night - out, and
involving himself in a mesh of lies, is one of the
earliest propositions in light dramatic literature.
In this case the incredible idiot expiates his razzle
with a term of 30 days in gaol—a gaol where the
convicts act as they please and nothing happens
save the impossible. After doing his little
“stretch” the ex-prisoner returns to home and
wife in a gaudy comic-opera costume, saying he
has been to Mexico. She believes him. Then he
closes the proceedings by telling the truth. It
seems to be the rule in farcical comedy for a crazy
husband of this kind to recover his reason at
about ten minutes to 11 p.m.
* * * «
The situations have no color of truth in
them, which is to say that they are not strictly
humorous. But the movement is brisk and
dialogue is sprightly, and one laughs at “The
Man from Mexico,” for much the same reason
that one laughs at Thomas Bent. It has a
breadth of absurdity. Also, it bursts into comic
song on slight provocation, and one song is re-
markable for a weird trombone accompaniment.
The Bulletin has lately said many pleasant
things about the performances of Hugh Ward,
George Willoughby and Miss Palotta in their re-
spective parts. There are other people—new to
Melbourne —in other parts, and it seems to the
present writer that these brethren and sistern,
imported or otherwise, are not likely to leave
deep footprints on the local sands of time after
the show has moved along. The season is limited
to four weeks.
*# * *
Collier and Co. are getting a little more
credit for “On the Quiet” than they got for
“The Dictator”; nevertheless, the audience at
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) any night except
Saturday could easily be crowded into a smaller
theatre. The vastness of the house gives an
appearance of insufficiency to the Collier produc-
tions, perhaps. A less artistic performance
would be more effective. Or perhaps a stronger
infusion of female character interest is essential
to a popular success. Something seems to be
the matter with the work of Collier, from the
point of view’ of many people in Melbourne. He
is one of the lights that have failed, comparatively
speaking, and a brilliant light at that. The fore-
going remarks are by waj of advising Sydney to
skin its eye for Collier and see how he shines. A
new dramatic co. from America falls due at Her
Majesty’s on July 7th, and the nights of “ On the
Quiet” are numbered accordingly.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS,
SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. O. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
“Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup.” You may
just.as well fill it with the purest spirit available.
Wolfe’ ,s Schnapps is the liveliest and best tonic
known for mind or body. If your back aches it
may be your kidneys— Wolfe’s Schnapps cures
kidney diseases.*
A FAMOUS DRINK.
FOR. VIM (SL CONDITION,
Dr. Morton s
FAMOUS
SARSAPARILLA
WITH LEMONADE
Cools (Sl Purifies the Blood,
Sole Manufacturers
FISHER & CO., 337 George St., Sydney
Distributing Agents
TUCKER. (Sb CO., 389 George St., Sydney.
'* l/f)J J//J
rt/?wm
\ H
“ Hands Across the Sea,” which scored 4
record run when Charles Warner brought,it to Aus-
tralia, and the late Elton was. the Tom Bassett of
the period, is back Again at Melbourne Royal, by
the grace of William Anderson. The old drama
seems to have shrunk somewhat in the wash
of years, but in its dwindled form it
is , still an estimable narrative of its
kind, and the sanguine young man who
wastes his substance at the twq-up school
can take it for a moral lesson if he feels sq
disposed. Good acting opportunities occur in
HAnds Across,” so good in some places that the
Ariderson Co. doesn’t quite know what to do with
them. All the same, .there is a distinct tendency
to play up to the author’s intentions and give the
characters a more human aspect than is expected
of pightmare creations in common or gory bellow-
drama. Miss Duggan draws the heroine milder
than usual, and George Cross, in his gloomy
Rignoldian way, is an impressive young man Jack,
with a fine free manner of scattering his money.
Bert Bailey asserts his notion of humor with un-
necessary emphasis; Willard walks like a villain
afflicted with an impediment in one of his legs; Miss
Guildford, Dunbar, and Edmund Duggan appear
to more or less advantage ; and Nunn is the
British mariner who gives the orchestra a strong
hint to strike up “Rule Britannia,” a hint that
no orchestra has ever failed to take, unless it was
suffering from a suspension of salary. In the.five
acts of “Hands Across” there are many bright
scenes and numerous supers, some of whom needed
straightening-up on Saturday night.
** * *
The ’Frisco Earthquake is striking Mel-
bourne in two places this week. West’s Pictures
and The Breseians, appearing some nights at the
Athenaeum Hall and other times at the Town
Hall, announce “The Doomed City Before the Fall
—and After.” Also, the Taits undertake to thrill
the public to its core with moving views of “ ’Frisco
Fallen and Burning”—the Taits having hired
the Bijou in order to supply their thrill. Seeing
that neither of the Earthquake films could pos-
sibly be set going before Tuesday night, this para-
graph is based on the advt. (inly, and may yet
prove to be premature. At time of writing, Mel-
bourne hopes that the Horrors will be as ample as
the ads.
* * * -:K-
The musical market continues in a state of
activity. To-night (Thursday) the Melbourne
String Quartet gives it third concert at Glen’s
Concert Hall, and on Monday next Miss Jessie
Masson’s pianoforte recital comes due at the same
spot, and there are more to follow. Also, a series
of Saturday Pops has started at the Masonic
Hall, and the new organ at the Town Hall will
get its baptismal performance next week.
** * *
Burglar Bill, who plays the pianny during
business hours, is still the newest and most
potent attraction at Melbourne Opera House, and
Vasco is coming in a respectable second. Larola,
Slade Murray, and two or three other “turns,”
are under marching orders, a considerable change
of programme being imminent.
ifc sfc * *
The Sanford American Co. of Players is
concluding at Adelaide Tivoli what is said to be
the record dramatic season in Adelaide. It is in
its 12th week. Providence, working at long range,
via the ’Frisco ’quake, sent a blank week at the
Royal (Collier and his “Dictator” being the
missing attraction), and the Tivoli people joyously
put on the best play they had, “The Sign
of Four,” a Sherlock Holmes episode. The
Royal has now re-opened with “Dr. Wake’s
Patient,” and this simple story of the
fashionable doctor and his awful People
arouses much enthusiasm. Adelaide always had
a warm feeling and a strong practical sup-
port for Robert Brough, and it tried hard to
express the warmth in the reception it gave to his
widow on the opening night. Herbert Flemming
was also welcomed after a long absence. (He was
ill last year and Brough played his part in “The
Walls of Jericho.”) The Glee Club and the
Lyric Club and the Orpheus Society have been
giving concerts, and the Bach Society is under-
stood to have something up its sleeve. Adelaide
is full of music these times. Also yet another
Biograph has opened at the Town Hall, but the
Earthquake pictures have failed to arrive, and the
public is waiting till they do.
Just as Brisbane was sending abroad for
an engineer to advise about its waterworks (on
the ground, seemingly, that the present muddle of
a waterworks, for which an imported engineer
was responsible, could only beset right by another
importation), N.S.W. Commercial Agent Suttor
reaches Sydney with a commission from Asia to
get eight or ten Australian engineers for a large
work there. The Australian engineer is good
enough to attract foreign attention, but he cu f .s no
hills in his own country.
The masterful and strenuous man, so
sorely needed in Australian politics, will be known
by the brand he attaches himself to—of politics and
of whisky. The brand of true greatness is
D.C.L. Assisted by that noble spirit a strong
man shall some day lift Australia to the height
that it has thusfar attained only in the visions of
its patriotic dreamers.*
Melbourne University Senate last week
rejected, with scorn, a proposal to squelch the
“ professional schoolboy ” —a development of un-
scrupulous advertising on the part of certain
colleges, mostly connected with religious bodies.
These establishments are wont to proclaim loudly
on their prospectuses that “24 pupils passed the
last matriculation exam.,” and the fond parent,
looking for a suitable place to deposit his kid, is
deeply impressed, never guessing that perhaps 12
of the 24 are whiskered persons of 35 or 40, paid
by the schools to present themselves for exam,
year after year. It is questionable whether a
parent who had been duped by this swindle
could not institute an action for obtaining
money by false pretences. Certainly his kid
ought to be able to charge the school with
assault, on the ground that he was caned under a
process of swindle, fraud, and imposition. It
looks a low-down practice, but when Prof.
Spencer brought in his motion to suppress the
practice, the clerical element arose as one white
choker and threw his attempt at honesty into
oblivion. Were John Wren guilty of similar
tactics in respect to the running of his tote, there
would be an outcry that could be heard all the
way to Carpentaria.
AT POVERTY POINT.
CHESTER FENTRESS, TENOR.
Albertp Zelman, the musical veteran who is about to
receive a benefit in Melbourne, had some curious wander-
ings in Asia before reaching this country about 30 years
ago. One of his first inquiries in Oollins-street was as to
the market value of his industriously-compiled manu-
script Arabic dictionary. The work is probably still
unsold, and reserved for private solace.
Phil. Wirth has had another exciting experience coming
on top of his unrehearsed dive into the Tweed River after
his wife. He was putting his Maoriland thoroughbreds
through a new turn t’other day, when Blue Spec, the
pick of his ponies, got close up to the jaguars’ cage,
and three of them put out simultaneous paws and grasped
the pony. Some vestiges of the pony were recovered
after the jaguars had been bitterly admonished with a
crowbar, and Phil, hopes to put the animal together again
with the aid of the best surgical skill.
“0.K.”: Compared with past performances of “The
Village Priest,” the best feature of the Brough-Flemming
Co.’s revival w 7 as the Armand of Carter Pickford, a
young actor who is always satisfactory but ordinarily a
little too stiff and restrained to suit the taste of Aus-
tralian audiences. As the young lawyer troubled by the
discovery of his father’s crime, Pickford was most impres-
sive. His quiet manner came natural to the part. He
has a bea'utiful voice, and a wide range of intonations
which he uses most artistically.
“ T.D.” : Surprised to hear a growl the other day by a
basso who had toured Australia with conspicuous success
that in the whole 12 months he spent there he failed
to receive a single invitation to any private house. My
idea had been that the popular singer was simply raided
with requests for his presence in fashionable drawing-
rooms, and pretty men like Charley Ryley and William
Pauli were certainly pestered by celebrity-hunters and
the young (or old) lady who dotes on platform idols. But
in this case the celebrity w 7 as just a plain, blunt, big man
who didn’t carry around a pair of ravishing eyes as part
of his stock-in-trade. Also, he brought a wife with him,
and that may account for a lot.
Miss Gertrude Alger, the clever Victorian violinist, set
out for Europe last week ,on the strength of her recent
benefit concerts. Great things are fairly expected of the
tall, unassuming Gertrude. She has all-round ability at
the back of her special musical talent, and she should
develop into an imposing platform figure as well as an
exceptionally fine performer.
! -foi e saddest theatrical news this country has ever
heard is that somebody was lately prevented by
legal injunction from advertising.a show as “The Fatal
Wedding,” with a view to getting it mistaken for the
original horrible melodrama of the same name. In a
wiser world the reputation of the genuine “Fatal
Wedding” would have protected its title from plagiarists.
The intense foolishness of Meynell and Gunn’s drama
ought to have spared them the trouble of going to law
abput it.
1 There are some good things in Sutro’s new play, “ The
Fascinating Mr. Vandervelt,” now running at the Garrick
Theatre, London. As one sample : The colonel (who has
all the rough virtues claimed for the Australians in the
“ Walls of Jericho ”) begs Lady Clarice Howland to save
silly little Mrs. Brevrell from the bold, bad attentions of
Mr. Vandervelt. “ There are some things w'hich only one
woman can say to another,” he finishes. “ Yes, and those
are just the things which Mrs. Brevrell will say to me if
I interfere !” answers Clarice, with conviction.
Printed again that Melba has definitely decided upon
visiting Australia next year to see her father, Mr. David
Mitchell, of Melbourne." She will be accompanied by her
son, Mr. George Armstrong, who has not been in his
native country since his infancy. The Bulletin made
this announcement some months ago, but doubt was cast
upon it then.
“ A.G.” : Pressmen should pass a vote of thanks to
American playwright Augustus Thomas, for at last giving
to the public adecent reporter. The average pressman on
the stage, like the average detective, is an impossible
and contemptible person. The reporter in “ The Duke
of Killiecrankie,” for instance, was a servile creature, who,
not unnaturally, tempted a Duchess to give him half-a-
crown. On the other hand, Ilix, the pressman in “On
the Quiet,” is the real thing. He neither grovels nor
blusters. He goes about his business in a business-like
way. He takes no notes, but trusts to his memory, until
names and addresses are given, when he produces, not the
note-book usually seen on r,he stage, but the bunch of
copy-paper which the genuine article carries. Hix is the
first real reporter I have seen staged.
Mr. Southwell reports that booking for the Leila
Doubleday concert already ensures its success. The
winsome girl gains friends by her manner as well as her
music. Before he left Sydney, Hugh Ward had her and
her mother to dinner ; the girl played a little and talked
a little, and so pleased him that he started thinking out
London friends who would help her in Europe. Miss
Marie Narelle’s manager, Mr. Shipman, was prompt with
an offer to assist in any way he could. Brother musician
Laurance Phillip went round waving the raven plume of
his hair in Leila’s cause. Evidently the girl is blessed
with the faculty of making friends.
“Lantana”: “The Green Room Book, or Who’s Who
on the Stage” (190(5) doesn’t mention J. Knight, of the
adorable legs. This slight ought to do Julius good, for
he is very much gone on himself. At the same time, it
does mention others, who are not fit to polish his brass
helmet in the “Sign of the Cross,” supposing he wears
one, about which 1 am not certain just now.
The most strangely original play going is on the
subject of Abraham Lincoln, just presented in New
York. Chapin acts Lincoln to perfection. One episode
is in the Civil War. The public is greatly touched by a
family scene, Lincoln with his wife and little son. Then
some of the war stress is indicated, Secretary Stanton
and General Hooker (“Fighting Joe Hooker”) being
characters. The last scene is very touching, with Lincoln
and Mrs. Lincoln going into the theatre where the Presi-
dent met his death.
“ Melb.” : A number of young fellows, giving an enter-
tainment in the suburbs, have knocked on the head the
worn-out nigger rubbish. Instead of this they present
the “ Bushmen’s Band.” Scene in the back blocks, with
the station manager for interlocutor. Such characters
as Nelly of the creek, bush Kate, the rough-rider, boun-
dary rider, stockman, cook, shearer, and so forth are
introduced, with the rouseabout, bushwhacker, sun-
downer, the inevitable Yorky, Shorty with his concertina,
and Warrigal the black boy. The programme is made up
as far as possible from Banjo Paterson’s Bush Songs.
This is going to be an unmistakable success, and the hint
only requires to be flung out to make it a rage.
“Sha”: When the religious people let their church-
halls for theatrical shows I always patronise such shows
—one gets a real good laugh or two. A while back the
Lyceum, in Sydney 7, used to ring with applause when the
“ Kin ” showed a gang of thieves knocking spots off a
squad of police ; and the audience went frantic watching
Charles Peace break and enter and commit murder. In
another church-hall I saw a ventriloquist’s dummy, of
the name of Stiggins, which was made to burlesque the
preachers who occupy the adjoining pulpit when the hall
is devoted to religious entertainments. The burlesque of
a parson is the funniest thing I have seen in a church—or
a theatre.
When Wagner’s operas are played at Covent Garden,
London, the performances begin early : “ Tristan ” at 7,
“Die Walkure” and “Siegfried” at 5, and “ Gotter-
dammerung,” which sounds very cuss.y, at half-past four.
One would say that the last couldn’t begin too early so as
to get it over.
Is God’s country run by the Teuton ? A month or two
ago Heinrich Conreid, director of New York Metropolitan
Opera House, w 7 as arrested by police-inspector Schmitt-
berger for giving a musical performance on a Sunday.
He was defended by ex-Judge Dittenhoefer, and Justice
Deuel gave a decision in his favor, in which decision
J ustice Olmsted concurred.
We have received the following
“Editor Bulletin.— Sir, the statement (21/6/’o6)in the
‘ Ladies’ Letter ’ concerning myself in re Mr. George
Stephenson is not correct.— Roland Watts Phillips.”
We therefore express our regrets to Mr. Stephenson.
“Hamlet the Mummer”: The strangest performance
I ever took part in, and one of- the most novel perform-
ances I’ve heard of, happened down on the Snowy River
(N.S.W.). We were to appear in a hall (which was really
a shed) and were to produce “ The Kelly Gang.” The
back of the shed consisted of two large doors. There was
no platform, and as we w'ere rigging up things
in the afternoon I was struck by the idea
of my life. That was to have the doors opened for the
scene where the Kellys stick up the coach, and use our
own touring vehicle and horses. I w r as in front of the
house when the scene came on. It looked magnificent.
A hundred yards or more in the distance the Snowy River
flowed gently along. It was brilliant moonlight and the
neighboring bush looked weird and beautiful. The grass
was green, and now and then a curlew wailed mournfully
in the distance, and the mountains were all there. Our
Cobb and Co. coach came on and was stuck up in a
realistic manner. And most of the audience didn’t recog-
nise its own Snowy River, and its own bush, and its own
mountains, and its own curlew, and its own Australian
moon, and thought it was all paint and scene-shifting.
Gip " : Scene, backblocks hall. Concert in progress.
Lady, with marked accent, sings about someone who is
resting under the “ vi’lets and d’isies,” and bows sadly.
Audience .yawns. Back part, nearest the pub., begins to
make remarks. Pretty little visitor from Sydney, who
reminds ope of Carrie Moore in her i don’t want to
play in your yard ” days, flits on in yellow draperies and
ballet skirts, kicking as she comes. She bows low, send-
ing her fluffy hair over her face, and smiles, showing
dazzling teeth. Audience gasps. She sings. After first
verse, she dances, kicking over her head easily, and
smiles again. Sings second verse, and throws coquettish
smiles over her shoulders as she dances off. Audience
yells. Loud calls from back. l “By , she’s orl right.’’
Little girl dances on again and sings naively, “ If no one
ever marries me.” Offers from 1 all parts. “By ——,
I’ll marry you now. S’elp me goodness, I will".
Ain’t she orl right 1 ” Little girl amused, smiles
and dances some more, and goes off to louder yells than
ever. Comes back and does a buck-dance. Little girl
bows low and shakes her fluffy head. Extravagant offers
from back. “If you do it agen, you can’ave me bay
’orse.” Large hairy man in old felt hat jumps on form.
“ You can ’ave me team 1 ” Little girl laughs outright,
shakes her head again, and goes off finally with daring
kicks in a whirl of lace. Audience still yells. Young-
man in glasses comes on and smiles nervously'. Audi-
ence greets him rudely. “Go back !We want the girl in
yaller.” Young man opens his mouth, he seems to be
singing. Audience mostly leaves in disgust, and four
fights take place in opposite pub. over the little girl’s sup-
posed age.
“ Lil ”: They take their musical competitions mighty
seriously in Victoria. I called with some others at a
Northern farmhouse a few weeks ago. Just as we were
about to leave, Mrs. Farmer flopped down on her knees
and asked the company to join in a word of prayer for
the success of her daughter Doris in the under-16 tam-
bourine solo, which was being judged at about that time
some miles away. Doris didn’t win. This is 24-carat fact,
but the Christian Witness has refused to print it.
“ T.D.” : The plays which run to 300 and 500 nights
in the Big Smoke are never regarded seriously by
the Londoner, but they count for a lot with British pro-
vincials. At present they are putting up two-hundredth,
and three-hundredth, and four-hundredth night per-
formance placards outside several of the playhouses, but
examination of the interiors shows that the places where
these records are setup are seldom even half full. Truth
is, that nearly every recent musical comedy (almost the
sole form of theatrical entertainment in London just
now) has paid miserably so far as the metropolis is con-
cerned. But a record of hundreds of consecutive nights
in London, and no mention whatever of the empty
houses, mean a great rush in the provinces when the
Nos. I. and IX. and X. companies trot round. Even
were the “Little Michus” and “Spring Chickens” and
numerous “Girls ’’attractiveenough to fill the toy London
playhouses, not enough audience could be crammed in to
make the thing pay. The toy theatre is a natural de-
velopment of the managerial intention to have a record
run, if oidy by the skin of his teeth. “Florodora,”
which minted money in the British provinces and in Aus-
tralia, had a tremendous span of life on the London
boards, but it would be interesting if a reminiscent
manager one day opened out with a statement of revenue
and expenditure in keeping his West End theatre going
so as to advertise the show.
More rumors of newspaper enterprises are
floating around Melbourne at present. The first
is that John Wren is on the eve of bringing out a
daily with a staff, specially imported from
America and engaged on account of its total
ignorance of all Australian matters. It is to fight
the cable combination and have £lOO,OOO behind
it. The second rumor is that David Syme has
disposed of the Age, lock, stock and barrel, to the
Harmsworth Brothers for £300,000. The very
mention of the figure should kill the rumor dead ;
it would probably take about £1,000,000 to drag
the Age from David.
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
The Sydney University Senate is arguing
on the expediency of providing University in-
struction in naval architecture. As ship building
in N.S.W. is restricted to the construction of a
few shallow-draft scows at some of the river ports
for the coastal timber trade, or the building of an
occasional ferry-boat for harbor use, any “ naval
architects” turned out by Sydney ’Varsity would
feel pretty lonely. The Senate would be better
employed in founding a Chair to teach the rising
generation the necessity of a national Protective
policy, under which ship-building might get some
shred of encouragement. ■
Not only were the Victorian police autho-
rities exceedingly good to that truculent Bluenose,
Captain Larkin, of the Melville Island, but they
probably did him the greatest service of all quite
unintentionally, when they removed two deserters
from his vessel and returned them to their own
craft, the Russian brig Ocean. On the orders of
P.M. Panton, the two were carted on board on
Friday last, and, after expressing their intention
to slay the captain and mate, retired to their
bunks. |,On Saturday morning these two, with
another sailor and a boat, were missing. Also
the bo’sun, who acted as watchman, was not
to be seen. He was subsequently found at the
bottom of a 20ft. hold, with his hands tied behind
him and his mouth stuffed full of white lead and
tallow. The deserters had fallen on him in the
night and toppled him down the hold. For-
tunately, he fell on his feet, but when last heard
from the hospital doctors didn’t view his case too
favorably. To lie three or four hours with one’s
mouth stuffed full of white lead is scarcely con-
ducive to robust health. The ship’s boat was sub-
sequently found at Port Melbourne; and, at
latest, the deserters whom Captain Larkin was so
anxious to get were very badly wanted.
THE HAPPY ACTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I would the fates had made of me
An ordinary actor bloke,
With every noble qualitee
Imagination can evoke,
To strut upon the.sounding stage,
And posture in heroic rage,
Bewildering .the female sense ,
With my most amorous eloquence.
Superior to mortal woes
The transcendental actor is ;
He nought to fickle Nature ow’es,
And all to trusty artifice.
The poet’s lamp burns late and dim
To make a very god of him,
And rouge and powder hold in sooth
The secret of eternal youth.
He struts it in the limelight blue,
“ Oh, splendid soul 1 ” the lady says.
For all things come to actors who
Do heroes in the tragic plays.
They have the sparkling wit to show
Of Henry Arthur Pinero,
The gallantry that Shakspeare draws,
The irony that’s Bernard Shaw’s.
The most attractive attributes
Of noblest men that history knew
The actor puts on with his suits,
And takes full credit for them too.
Napoleon fought his hour of strife,
Napoleon lived his busy life
To be revived, ’mid finer light,
As dear, delightful Julius Knight 1
The actor ’tis who, w’hen grim war
Is waged with neither sense nor right,
As some deep-bosomed warrior,
Spouts Jingo speeches every night.
The hated foe he slays in forts,
And spills his made-up blood in quarts.
Then, when the baffled Boer withdraws,
Bows low to rapturous applause.
But soon the simple fact is known,
The strife was but a rogue’s device,
And bitterly the people groan,
And curse their shameful sacrifice.
Again the actor comes out strong,
And with a gallant speech or song
Earns hearty thanks and plaudits for
Rebuking those who caused the war.
The hero meets the murderous hordes,
Unseen, unknown ; the actor chap
Repeats the deed on mimic boards,
And how admiring thousands clap !
I, too, shall be an actor, so
That I may be desired to show 7
No virtues of my own, and yet
The credit of all men’s may get.
VIC
EDYSON.


Furred vSKins
Rabbit >SKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNHENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY .
Sk
What Ladies
Are Saying:
I lb is a little gem.”
—Lucy.
I I never thought it
was half so simple.”
—Gladys.
‘ A perfect Ladies’
Camera.” —Rosie.
‘ I am charmed with
it.”—Beatrice.
Harringtons
No. I.A. FOLDING VICTOR CAMERA.
An Inexpensive, Neat, and Well-constructed Instrument for
taking Portraits, Groups, Views, &c. Size of Photo. 4J x 3iin.
Takes remarkably good Photos., is simple to operate, and,
when folded, it is j Price Complete ftC / Postage
compact as a book. ONLY OU' Extra, 9d.
Cameras from ss. to £5O. Illustrated Catalogue— FßEE.
The Largest Photographic Emporium in Australasia.
386 GEORGE ST.
NEAR
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, and 93 Queen-st., Brisbane
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The way of the Law is a weary way, and
its ultimate end is Costs. A Melbourne man was
fined £1 and costs a while back by a suburban
bench for taking sand from Edward VII. ’s high-
way. He appealed (with costs), and the magis-
trates were ordered to re-hear the case. They did
so, and fined him the same old £1 and costs. He
appealed again (with costs), and failed. He has
paid the £1 and £2O out of a sizeable bill of costs,
and lately appeared in court once more about a
further sum of £6 lls. of costs. A fresh order
was made for the £6 lls., with more costs, A
strenuous animal is Costs.
HIS MARK.
“ Who was that stingy-looking fellow I saw you
with yesterday? ”
“ I’m sure I don’t know—unless it could have
been my husband.”
There’s a policehidh. at large in Melbourne
who has been charged at headquarters with an
audacious attempt at blackmail. The accuser,
after lodging his complaint, was called away to
another State on business, and he heard no more
about the matter ; therefore, he presumes, that it
was hushed up by the authorities. He was, he
said, walking down Bourke-street one night after
12 o’clock, when the policeman stuck him up
with a demand for a sovereign and offered him
the option of being “run in.” The astonished
citizen elected to be taken into custody, and told
his captor to lead him to the nearest police station.
As they walked along together the policeman
reduced his ransom charge by degrees, until he
got it down to half-a-crown. Finally he slunk
down a right-of-way and disappeared, but in the
meantime the “captive” had got the number of
his man, and he went to the station on his own to
report the strange proceedings. That’s his story.
Retail shopkeepers in Syd-
ney have petitioned the Govern-
ment that when they are
charged with selling adulter-
ated goods in packages, the
manufacturer, and not the
seller, should be proceeded
against. But it would be absurd
to open that escape door to
the person who distributes un-
wholesome goods. For then the
cheap-jack retailer would simply
deal with a manufacturer who
was out of the jurisdiction of
the court; the whole anti-adul-
teration movement would end
there ; and the only thing done
would be to give the foreign
manufacturer the right to supply
cheap adulterated food to the
Commonwealth without hind-
rance, while the local manu-
facturer, being within the court’s
jurisdiction, would have to be
honest, to supply a pure article,
and to see his business ruined
by cheap and villainous foreign
competition. In the matter of
adulterated food there are three
parties chiefly interested—the
maker, the seller, and the con-
sumer’s stomach. The con-
sumer’s stomach isn’t respon-
sible, but it has to take the
consequences. The seller may
not be responsible, except by
negligence in dealing with a
swindling manufactured, but he
must take the consequences*
The manufacturer must take the
consequences, too, if the law
can get at him ; if it can’t, then
the only thing for the retailer
to do is to learn to deal with an
Australian manufacturer who is
within reach, and whom the
law can compel to supply pure
goods. The Bulletin would be
quite willing to let the middle-
man off on the ground that he
isn’t primarily responsible, if
the middleman could show any
way of letting the stomach off
on the ground that it isn’t re-
sponsible. If Providence says
that the stomach must take the
consequences, responsible or not,
then the rule is a good enough one
to apply to the middleman. Who are we
that we should be more just than Providence ?
A private Bill before the Australian Par-
liament proposes to prohibit alcoholic liquor at
all military camps or barracks. Yet there is no
suggestion that the military canteen is ever
abused ; indeed, the system is such that abuse is
almost impossible. The Bill simply represents
the fanatical opposition to beer, which is, after
all, a more wholesome beverage than tea as usually
made. Now, if it were proposed to abolish all
pubs and have liquor sold only at State-regulated
canteens, it would be a more sensible story,
* * » *
“T.D.”: Of course there are no
tralians who admittedly take an interest in the
Cafedel’Europe,
the elaborate re-
sort which used
to be the central
attraction of
giddy Leicester
Square (Lon-
don). Some, how-
ever, may quietly
grieve to hear
that the cafe has
undergone a woe-
ful change of
late. Some time
ago its proprie-
tors were over-
come by a sud-
den accession of
prudery, or the
authorities had
said something
to them, and they
issued an order
that no lady who
went there
should remain
for more -than
half - an - h o ti r.
That kind of
lady took offence
at once, and the
word went round among the sisterhood, and the
Cafe de l’Europe sees them no more. Likewise the
gentlemen who used to drop into the Europe be-
cause (they said) such good music was played there
don’t drop in these nights, although the music is
still there. Meanwhile the little Spaten bier-
haiis opposite has a great rush of custom, and
lias become cosmopolitan instead of German, [TiIE
Bulletin publishes this for the benefit of its tony
subscribers.]
* * * *
There is something radically wrong with
either the construction of Bent’s motor ’buses or
the management thereof. Those on the Prahran-
Malvern route were run by Railway Commissioner
Tait, and, what with breakdowns, accidents and
wretched time-keeping, were so poorly patronised
that they have been taken off. Of course as soon
as that happened the tramway monopolists
abolished the penny sections that the competition
had forced on them. The Brighton-St. Kilda
electric tramway, though nominally part of the
railway system, is managed independently by
electrician Bradford, and has paid so handsomely
that more cars are being built as fast as possible,
and the line is to be duplicated and extended
before summer. During the six or seven weeks
the line has been open, each of the five cars has
run 161 miles a day without serious delay, or a
breakdown of any sort.
IN SUSPENSE.
H E: “If you don’t marry me I’ll go and hang
myself in your front garden.”
SHE: “Oh, don’t do that I Father doesn’t like
anybody hanging about.”
There is again talk in N.S. W. of establish-
ing a home for destititute incurables. The horroi
of the Liverpool Asylum—where in one ward are
densely packed poor consumptives, making it a
sort of culture broth for the phthisis bacilli, and
in another are massed hopeless cases of cancer —is
apparent to everyone, The Bulletin five years
ago exposed the “Consumptives Hospital,” It is
a home for bacilli —the patients are merely the
food thrown to them. But nothing was done.
Now Joseph Carruthers has a belated fit of horror
—John See also had a slight fit of horror—and
talks of doing something. Probably it will end
with that, for John See also talked of doing some-
thing. A responsible Minister with any real con-
science would not allow the Liverpool Asylum
tragedy to continue for one week.
For point-blank contradictions, the evi-
dence of one of the parties in a Melbourne will
case last weelc would be hard to beat. The lady
who gave the evidence was showing cause why the
will should not be upset on the ground of her
undue influence over the testator. This is how
her cross-examination went: —
You swore at the inquest you were married to Janies
Kemp in Scotland about 12 years ago. Is that true ?
Yes.
Have you two children, 18 and 20 years of age ?—No. J
have only a little boy.
Did you ever say you had other children ?—No.
Had you two children living in testator’s hut after his
death ?—There were two children, but not mine.
If your sister says they were yours would that be true ?
--No.
Were they not living with you and your sister in the
hut ?—Not my children. They were children of friends of
mine.
What are they called ? .
The witness did not answer for some time. At length
she said : Their names are Kemp.
What are the names? —One is Lily and the other Bobby.
Well, are they not your children ? —(After some hesita-
tion) : They are my children.
Why did you not say they were yours?—They have not
been good to me.
You were lying, then ?—Yes.
You were married 20 years ago to Kemp?—{Yes.
The variability of woman !
* * * *
A case before the N.S.W. Courts last week
impresses again the evils of the hospital system in
Australia. Hospitals are supported partly by
Government endowment, partly by private sub-
scription. The private subscribers elect the com-
mittee of management, and, in small communities,
these elections are the fertile seed-beds of quarrels.
It’s a fair guess that 75 per cent, of the hospital
towns in Australia have on hand now, or have
had, “hospital rows.” More hatred, envy and
uncharitableness spring from hospitals than
from any other rural institutions. This at-
mosphere of partisan strife in which the
rural hospital is almost constantly plunged
makes efficient work impossible. Cat-fighting has
first call on the hospital's energies and gets in the
way of real business. This is not all the trouble.
Private collection of hospital funds is costly and
allows of a good deal of peculation. In some dis-
tricts infirmaries overlap, whilst in others there is
a scarcity of hospital accommodation. The State
should take over all the hospitals and maintain
them directly out of the public treasury. That
Would save grievous waste of money in paying the
stipendiary cadger, much peculation, much cat-
fight and hen-scrimmage, and occasionally a
human life.
» * •* •
The secretary of N.S.W. Bung Association
trotted this little disquisition into the papers the
other day
The experience of the hotelkeepers is that the restric-
tions of the new Liquor Act with regard to bars arc
encouraging men to drink. When there were several
bars in a house Smith and Jones would go into one and
have their drinks, each shouting for the other. That
meant two drinks. Then they would go out. At the
same time Brown and Robinson, friends of Smith and
Jones, were in another bar, but neither party knew of
the other’s whereabouts. Brown and Robinson would
have their two drinks, and they would be satisfied at
that, too, Under the new conditions the two parties are
necessarily thrown together, and instead of each man
having two drinks he has four, because each wants to
“shout” in his turn. What the Act is doing is pro-
moting the system of “ shouting.”
And, by a simple process of deduction, if there
Were no bars at all, Smith would necessarily have
to shout for the universe. And the universe
Would have to shout for Smith. And the two
drunkest things on record would be Smith and the
Universe.
* * * *
The assertions that there are no unem-
ployed Worth mentioning in Melbourne, apart
from the odd Hundred that follow' Tom Mannikin
to church, were knocked out in one round the
other morning, when a bogus advt. for six laborers
drew a crowd of 400 eager men to Little Collins-
street. Those who say the unemployed don’t
want anything to do might have been disillusioned
had they seen the eagerness of the 400 to do for
the man who played the hoax on them.
* * * *
The Brisbane Anglican Diocesan Synod
smacks itself approvingly on its own back—so far
as it can get round to that part of itself— over its
intentions concerning tbeLongreach Hotel. _ That
pub. is the property of the church, and in the
interests of Christianity the diocesan authorities
—if they don’t change their minds—intend re-
fusing to renew the lease of the premises for
liq nor-selling purposes. A loss of £5OO per annum
will be sustained thereby, but the synod faces this
disaster with the calm fortitude of an early
Christian fixing the lion with his eye in the amphi-
theatre.
NOT WHAT HE MEANT.
SLIGHTLY : “Were forming a Pianists’ Club;
will you help us? ”
PORTLY : “ Certainly. Which pianist do you in-
tend to club first?”
There is a heaven-born genius who “does
the Royal Academy for London Tailor and
Cutter.' He treats the pictures from a “trousers
and vest” point of view. He writes: “This
year’s exhibition is by far the worst we have seen.
Last year we thought there were signs of improve-
ment, but this year makes itself notorious for its
sartorial monstrosities, so that we came away
feeling that we had escaped from some dreaded
nightmare.” He goes on to say that “ Bobs ” has
“the top button of the tunic missing; there are
no holes up the front of the tunic, and no seams
indicated in the breeches,” and that Lord Nozoo
has the edges of “what is supposed to be a
D.B. frock coat fearfully wobbly,” which cer-
tainly does suggest a d b frock coat. It
is all very interesting.
“FOR HIS COUNTRY’S GOOD.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Malcolm M'Eacharn, who come back to Melbourne
recently, expressed satisfaction at a Town Hall meeting
that during his absence in England “ the Commonwealth
turned the corner.”
He heard the cry of Stinking Fish from many a Tory
mourner,
And he tip-toed off to the Dear Old Land in his gloves of
delicate grey—
But he wandered back one day to find that the Common-
wealth Turned the Corner —
Yes, the Commonwealth Turned the Corner when
Malcolm was Away 1
He left his country for its good, and—it got along with-
out him !
In Spite of the Labor Man in the Path and the Socialist
in the Way.
His pet particular theories did never a thing but flout
him,
For—‘the Commonwealth Turned the Corner while
Malcolm Didn’t Stay !
The carol of Ancient Fish is dumb, and silent is the
scorner,
For the Commonwealth’s done a malevolent thing behind
its Malcolm’s back—
As soon as ever it ’scaped his eye it galloped around the
corner,
And While he wasn't regarding it, set out on the National
Track,
And he stood by in his shiny hat and made direct oration,
Having tip-toed hack from the Dear Old Land in his gloves
of delicate grey—
But he can’t get over the horrible fact that Australia
struck salvation,
And the Commonwealth Turned the Corner while
Malcolm was Away.
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
A FRIEND IN SEASON*
A Nice, Warm, Well-fitting,
Tailor-made, To Measure
OVERCOAT
55/-
SIX DIFFERENT STYLES. Send for Fashion Plates,
'Patterns, and Self-Measurement Forms FREE.
R. C. H AGON, Merchant Tailor, King St., Sydney.
The inquiry (in Melbourne) re the alleged
“ capture ” of Captain Crouch and his company
at the recent Battle of Langwarrin is a beautiful
lesson in military honah, of which one hears so
much talk. On the word of sundry officahs and
gentlemen Crouch is declared to have given him-
self up as a hostage, after which he was released
on parole, his company being duly retired from
the firing line. But Crouch, on his word as an
officah and a gentleman, denies that he ever
surrendered or gave himself up as a hostage, or
was released on parole. There seems to be strong
evidence of his having conferred with members of
the enemy whilst the sham fight pretended to
be raging, so possibly he thought it was he who
had taken the other fellow prisoner.
There is a heavy enough case against the
tenth-rate pubs and wine-shops of Melbourne as
matters are ; wherefore it is foolish for parsons
like the Rev. Woodfall to stretch the facts and
Eut an undue strain on the truth. The other
unday this good man told a greedily-listening
audience how he, in company with three plain-
clothes police, had visited certain hotels the pre-
vious evening, and had seen short-skirted damsels
sitting on men’s knees, and being served with beer,
which they drank like navvies. Also he narrated
other circumstances. Thereupon R. H. Lemon,
secretary of the Licensed Victuallers’ Association,
wrote for names of the hotels and of the con-
stables, promising that his association would
prosecute. Woodfall replied that he proposed to
keep the names secret for the present. Lemon
then wrote three more times, urging that publicity
and punishment were what the trade wanted, and
what Mr. W. presumably wanted, too. But a
silence like a row of dead ancestors was all he got.
And now a scornful public sniffs at Woodfall.
CONGRATULATIONS.
EDITH: “ Both Herbert and Harold proposed to
me yesterday.”
ETHEL: “And you refused them both.”
EDITH : “ Yes, but how did you know?”
ETHEL: “ Why, I saw them shaking hands over
something in the street this morning.”
Once more the ex - Cohentingenter is
heard of—he may of course be innocent this
time. First of all, a little girl, 12 years of
age, was cruelly outraged at Ascot Vale (Vic.).
Police and detectives searched the locality and
informed everybody that a brilliant arrest might
be made at any minute, but at the end
of a fortnight the offender was still at
large. Then a young woman on her way
to a church prayer-meeting was waylaid in a
dark, lonely road in the same locality by a man
who answered closely to the little girl’s descrip-
tion of her assailant. This time the victim’s
screams brought assistance, and the prowler eva-
porated. A few hours later, at the same place,
another girl was grabbed and thrown to the
ground. The man charged with the last offence
is one of Victoria’s remnant lots of Boer war
heroes. The police found him in the local pub.,
with his drawn beer in his hand.
AMBIGUOUS.
CLERGYMAN : “My lad, do you know anything of that person but for whose coming the in-
habitants of this fair land would be heathens ?”
BOY: “ ’Sped your talking about Captain Cook wot landed out at Botany."
In N.S.W. Taxation Department the
cleaning and scrubbing used to be done by seven
women, each of whom had to scrub and sweep
3000 square feet of flooring for the munificent
wage of £5O per annum. Premier Carruthers re-
duced the number to six, thus increasing his
surplus by £5O. Recently he discovered that the
affluent charing ladies were being paid £26 per
annum—divided among the whole of them—for
washing the towels used by the staff (200 strong),
and he issued a regulation by which this washing
is to be added to the official duties of the cleaners
without pay. This adds another £26 to the
surplus.
* * * *
Mr. Publichouse had an anxious time
when annual licensing-day happened round in
M io; Hand, especially in drouthy spots where
the Prohibitionists occupied the biggest part of
the Bench. All over the State applica-
tions were deferred for three months,
and more, to allow of the allegedly
venerable buildings with much froth on
their whiskers being renovated or de-
molished altogether, and brewers are a
depressed race. At Christchurch some
weighty remarks were passed in an in-
dignant tone of voice about mana-
gers being put in by brewery firms—a
species of dummyism which is in con-
travention of the spirit of the spirituous
Act, and is the worst phase of the tied-
house system. Also, dives were con-
demned, and entrances to bars from
alley-ways, productive of so much gar-
rotting at night. The only place in the
State where the barmaid subject was
touched upon was alcoholic Auckland,
where the allegation was made that
smiling Hebe was the cause of young
fellows getting tipsy on Saturdays. The
reason why the average young fellow
has a nip or two on Saturdays is
because he has a shilling to spend.
And if Hebe is responsible (which she
isn’t) for him having two drinks on
one night a week, she can’t be doing
him much harm. Ordinary people don’t
care who serves them, and the only
classes that want to do the girls out
of a living are the screeching sister-
hood, and the snuffling and economical
brotherhood that never buy s beer under
any circumstances, because it costs
monev. However, Auckland committee
has hinted as to the advisableness of Mr.
Publichouse considering the barmaid
question between this and the next an-
nual meeting. If Silken Locks is abol-
ished from the “Queen City,” another
ornament will have departed from a
very plain world.
Something like the story of the ‘ ‘ Blue
Alsatian Mountains”—as far as its commence-
ment went —was told to Coroner Candler, of Mel-
bourne, the other day. The stranger dropped
into the bush township, and “whiled away the
hours ” till the little bush girl’s heart was all his
own. Then he took her to Melbourne, where,
“about two years ago, in a house in Collins-
street,” a presumed C.E. clergyman duly married
them. They had barely returned from the honey-
moon ere a wire from his mother, over in the West,
informed the bride that her husband had a wife and
children already. She ignored this till a letter came
giving proofs so convincing that she straightway
packed up her things and left. Burying her
shattered romance, she went to work and kept
herself and the baby that presently arrived ; and
it was the infant’s death, while boarded out, that
gave the coroner occasion to investigate matters.
He wanted to see the “ marriage lines,” for death
registration purposes, and the girl had not got
them —her husband kept them, she said, and
always put her off with some excuse when she
asked for them. A search at the llegistrar-General’s
showed that no marriage under the names given had
taken place since ’Ol. The girl had forgotten the
exact date, and, being a stranger to the city, had
no hope of again finding the house where the
ceremony took place. The minister’s name was
Palmer, but there was no Palmer on the clerical
list. Apparently the girl had been tricked by a
bogus marriage—and that was all there was to be
said. Except from the girl herself. Her verdict,
to an inquisitive reporter, showed a glimpse of
her woman’s heart: “ But he was always good to
me.”
* * * *
“Sub.” from Melbourne, in a mood of
subdued admiration
Saw Chapel-street, “ Pra’n,” in the convulsions of a
mighty battle on a recent Saturday night. I had never
been da-own Chapel on a Saturday before, but I was
privileged to behold John Devine, a celebrated local
resident, in the act of gaining great glory, wherein his
wife shared. John walked da-own Chapel, butting with
his head the pale-faced counter-jumpers as they plodded
wearily home. A police constable intervened' and for
half an hour a roaring fight raged up and down the
Chapel-street gutter. Mrs. Emily Devine took a
hand, and clutched the constable’s throat till he gurgled
dreadfully. When the constable grew' purple, a big civilian
hauled Emily off, and, by using the bobby’s handcuffs as
a guard and his baton as a rapier, kept her at bay. A
helmet flew out of the scuffle, and Emily danced on it till
it might have been anything or nothing. The constable
had lost coat, helmet, and one boot—besides much skin —
when three other bobbies appeared. The four seized
John in about eight different ways, and carried him to
the lockup. Then John began to swear. The language
he used was a revelation—the Revelation of St. John the
Devine. I never knew such artistic modulations of ob-
scenity. He ceased shouting his swears in order to sing
them, and he sang them to a simple little tune that
mothers hush their babies with. John vanished, feet
first, into the lock-up, still singing, and I afterwards
learned from the newspapers that his one glorious hour
cost him a little over £l3 in fines.
As well as being known as the land of the
wooden ham and fried nigger, America, in the
light of recent events, is likely to be alluded to as
the land of the Rendered White.
The craving for drink in a drunkard seems
to be pretty w'ell equalled by the craving for
beer-money in a teetotaller. Home of the poor
old girls at Melbourne Benevolent Asylum were
lately discovered to be getting “squiffy” by
unaccountable means. One of them was at last
caught in the act of buying a pint of beer from an
aged male person for whom it had been ordered
medicinally, and when the vendor was asked why
he didn’t take the prescription, lie said he was a
total abstainer with strong religious leanings.
His soul had prompted him to sell all the pints
he could get for threepence a time, and give the
money to the church. But as an abstainer he
regretted that his customer had got so very
drunk. Rather than sacrifice his devotion to the
cause to his love for the church he was prepared
to deny his beer to his unsober lady friend, and
sell it where it would have no disastrous results —
sell it to a more seasoned vessel, in fact.
WHO CAPTURED CAPTAIN CROUCH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The inquiry into the question whether Captain Crouch,
M.H.R., was captured or not at the Easter manoeuvres
was continued to-night. Evidence was given by Captain
M'Veigh, of the Scottish Regiment, that Captain Crouch
was brought to him by a color-sergeant, and admitted
that he had been captured. Captain Crouch, who was
subjected to two hours’ examination, denied absolutely
that he had ever surrendered.— Daily paper.
Now, things have reached a pretty pass
Concerning Captain Crouch !
The point is : Was he captured as
Important persons vouch?
The Melbourne milit’r.v brigade
Manmuvred in its brass and braid
And lovely stockings (which are made
At Ashby-de-la-Zoucli !)
A Scottish captain says his man
Had captured Captain Crouch
Before the solid work began—
Which shows he was no slouch !
The trouble is : Among the lot
They’ve tied things in a blessed knot,
And no one seems to know, God wot,
Who captured Captain Crouch !
Although no braided person could
The slightest insult pouch, .
One question this civilian would
In courteous language couch :
How comes it that our heroes hot
Don’t know if they are caught or not ?
It seems a mass of dreadful rot
This case of Captain Crouch !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
THE WOMAN WHO WANTS TO KNOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A new league for “chivalric protection of womanhood ”
is about to be instituted in Victoria by Archbishop Carr.
Members will bind themselves by a promise to “ show the
utmost reverence for the honor and innocence of woman,
and as far as their influence will reach, to defend them
from anything that would be injurious to their virtue
and purity.”
Sing hey for the lovely innocence
Of a virtuous womankind,
That seeks delight in a brave pretence
Of having been born to take offence
At the questions which plain common-sense
Suggests to a human mind.
Sing hey for the woman who lives and dies
Unruffled by joy or woe,
Whose thoughts are fixed on the far-off skies.
But what of the woman who’d fain be wise
And looks at matters with worldly eyes—
The woman who wants to know ?
What ho I
There’s the woman who wants to know.
If all of the sinful men conspire
To treat her with reverence,
They cruelly thwart her fond desire,
And" her heart’s consumed by a secret fire—
(“ Alas ! ” says the poet who twangs the lyre,
For her sufferings are intense).
Sad is the woman who can’t complain
But never can wiser grow ;
If the truth’s withheld from her yearning brain
She gets no ease for her mental pain.
Perhaps it were better to make things plain
To the woman who wants to know.
What ho !
There’s the woman who wants to know.
vie.
O.K.
ASTHMA.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ After seven years of misery Dr. Williams
Pink Pills cured me for good, of the worst case of
Asthma, that any doctor up in this part of
the country had ever seen,” said Mr. Robt.
McLaughlin, a sugar-planter, whose estate is
situated nine miles from Ayr, and some fifty miles
south of Townsville.
Mr. McLaughlin was one of the first men to
enter the sugar industry in the Townsville dis-
trict. For the last twenty-four years lie has been
closely identified witli Ayr plantations, and
enjoys a reputation of being a thoroughly upright
man, whose word is as good as his bond. Every-
one there knows how the seven best years of his
life were wrecked by Asthma.
“ The long hot summers played havoc with my
health, and my blood got in a very bad state, "
said Mr. McLaughlin. “ I lost weight, and began
to suffer from my nerves. I worked in all sorts of
weathers—and one bad cold brought on Asthma.
I had such a good constitution that I thought I
would shake it off in a week—but the Asthma
stuck to me for the next seven years. Although
I really had no cold, I was coughing morning,
noon and night.
“This Asthma pulled my weight down3st., for
I had no appetite. I never touched breakfast.
A mouthful of food in the morning set me vomit-
ing and coughing. My blood got worse and
worse. It took weeks for the smallest scratch to
heal. I do not know how I got through my
work. The least exertion set me coughing, and
gasping for breath. What little strength I had
was drained away in terrible night sweats.
“ I never had one night's sound sleep during
those seven years,” added Mr. McLaughlin. “ I
lay awake coughing and struggling for breath. I
was always worse in wet weather. Often I
thought I would choke to death. The cough
seemed to tear the inside out of me. My wife
was afraid I would break a blood vessel—and she
used to give me a nip of brandy to strengthen my
heart. All this told on my nerves, and made the
Asthma worse.
“Mrs. McLaughlin rubbed me with liniments,
and poulticed me with mustard, till she nearly
blistered me. When these failed, she called in a
doctor. I had four other doctors after that—and
each one failed in turn. At last I went into the
Townsville Hospital, where the best specialists
treated me. But I came out worse than I went
in. After that I wasted a lot of money trying
every remedy that people told me about. And
all this time my strength was failing fast. My
life was a misery, and I wished myself dead.
“ Then my wife made me give Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills a trial, and somehow I felt better after
the first box or two,” Mr. McLaughlin went on to
say. “I got a tip top appetite, and slept well.
My nerves grew stronger, and people told me
how much better I was looking. Soon my chest
began to loosen, and my cough did not rack me as
it used to do. My strength came back by leaps
and bounds. My cough eased off, and I breathed
freely again, for the first time in seven years.
You see me now the picture of robust health—and
I owe it all to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. During
the last few years I have worked in all weathers
—but I have never had the slightest return of
Asthma. When Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured
me, they cured me for good.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mr. McLaugh-
lin’s Asthma because nothing can strengthen the
lungs and nerves except good, rich, red blood—
and nothing but Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills can
actually make new blood. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills do just that one thing, but they do it well.
They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They just root out from
the blood the cause of anaemia, indigestion, head-
aches, backaches, kidney diseases, liver com-
plaint, skin diseases, general weakness, and the
special secret troubles of growing girls and
women. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers, or may be ordered by
mail from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes 15s. 3d.,
post free. Write for free medical advice.*
Dr. Brissenden, counsel for the plaintiff in
a recent Sydney slander action, got a severe rebuff
when cross-examining the defendant: —
Barrister (solemnly): What did you say to that? Did
you not say that your surmises were now confirmed by
reason of that fact ?
Defendant (hurt and indignant) : Never in me life ! It
’ud break me jor to try it 1


Taking everything into account, the progress
is not very good. The small increase of business, the in-
crease of expenses, the reduction in interest, and the
very small addition to the assurance fund, even
with all explanations and allowances, does not speak well
for the policy—which the Colonial Mutual has carried
further than any other Australasian office—of spreading
the business widely over the globe. In the matter
TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
Durvlop
Rubber
Belting
is more efficient than
leather betting for Out-
door & Wet Work.
.Sample & Price on application.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. p/ Am. Ltd
108 flinders Jr. Helb. tr All States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The speech at the opening of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment contained promises of financial reform which
looked large at first, though on close inspection their
vastness diminished somewhat. Here are two of them ;
“I rejoice in being advised that, at the close of the
present financial year, the Treasury returns will
show a substantial and unprecedented surplus. The
loan expenditure for the financial year will
be the lowest recorded per head of population,
whilst if credit be taken for the surplus revenue and the
payments in reduction of the deficiency accounts of pre-
vious years, it will be found that the year’s revenue has
almost covered the whole of the State' expenditure on all
accounts. With a continuation of such results the neces-
sity for adding to the public debt will rapidly diminish,
and the period be speedily arrived at when further State
borrowing may safely cease.”
“Amongst other special accounts to be established,
there will be a public works fund, so that the revenues
from the sale of our public lands will be set aside for the
construction of permanent works, and for other valuable
undertakings, thereby replacing one asset by another.”
The first statement boils down to the announcement
that N.S.W. has had the best year on record, and in
Carruthers’ view the time when its borrowing is to
“rapidly diminish” hasn’t quite arrived yet, while the
stoppage of loans is still far away over the bowl-like edge
of the horizon.
The second statement looks like a carefully-
devised trap. • The land-sale revenue is to be set aside for
“ permanent works and other valuable undertakings
thereby replacing one asset by another.” But it
won’t really replace one asset by another unless
the land-sale money is spent 'oh reproductive
works, and the Governor’s Howl at the Opening of
Parliament says nothing about reproductive works. If
the productive land is swopped for the unproductive
work, and if the permanent land is sold and the proceeds
spent in buying the fleeting and temporary job, patch or
repair, there is hardly any real reform. Reading between
the lines of Carruthers’ guarded remarks, it seems that
two things are going to happen
(1) Instead of the land-sale money going into revenue,
and a lot of Unproductive works (road repairs and so on)
being paid for out of revenue, the land-sale money will go
into a separate fund, and the repairs will come out of
that fund.
(2) The money for productive works will still come out
of loans, even though the productive work may only be
productive to the extent of £1 per cent, and the loan
money with which it is built may cost £3 10s. per cent.
Compared with Victorian Premier Bent’s
sledgehammer announcement that he isn’t going to bor-
row, that he is going to pay for his public works somehow
out of revenue t and that he is going to knock at least a
small corner off the State debt, Carruthers’“ reform ”
looks a very poor and dodgy apology.
+ * *
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurano
Society Ltd. :
Added
Provided to
Income. Claims. Expenses, to cover Assur-
Depre- ance
' . ciation. Fund.
1895.. £393,686 £179,163 £78,429 £57,198 £7B 896
1896.. 392,705 193,941 78,180 120 584
1897.. 397,012 196,092 80,403 120 517
1898.. 412,898 220,073 79,996 112’829
1899.. 409,744 209,907 75,832 124005
1900.. 406,428 . 218,526 77,735 67,969 42J98
1901.. 412,816 226,783 79,577 106 456
1902.. 429.263 226,512 81,002 121’749
1903.. 438,825 236,874 87,731 IU2W
1904.. 454,758 248,313 95,175 111’270
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,’132
These figures are not so cheering as they might be. The
income has increased by only £6905, while expenses have
grown by £6701, therefore almost the whole of the new
income seems, on the face of things, to have gone in the
cost of procuring it. And the increase of income is smaller
than the average increase in recent years. A well-de-
served bonus of £2532, paid to the office staff, accounts
for nearly 11s. per cent, of the increased expense rate,
which makes the position rather more excusable ; still,
even with all allowances, it is a very high rate and a large
increase. The exact proportion which expenses bear to
total income is shown in the following table (expenses
there include allowances for depreciation of furniture,
&c., but not, of course, sums written off securities)
Expenses Compared with Total Income,
1896 .. £l9 18 2 per cent. 1901 .. £l9 5 6 per cent.
1897 .. 20 5 0 ~ 1902 .. 18 17 6
1898 .. 19 7 6 ~ 1903 .. 19 19 10
1899 .. 18 10 1 ~ 1904 .. 20 18 7
1900 .. 19 2 6 ~ 1905 .. 21 17 10
Interest earnings are the next consideration.
These are calculated on the average of the funds for the
year, including depreciation fund. It is assumed that
the amounts written off cover ail depreciation that has
actually taken place, that the fund remaining is a pro-
vision for depreciation that may happen in the future,
but that at present it represents cash or interest-bearing
securities just as much as does the life assurance fund.
And as the balance-sheet shows cash or securities on hand
to cover the depreciation fund, this seems a fair assump-
tion :
Interest Earned on Average Funds Including
Depreciation Fund.
1898 ..£4lB per cent. 1902 .. £3 19 4 per cent.
1899 .. 319 4 „ 1903 .. 319 8
1900 .. 317 11 „ 1904 .. 4 1 4
1901 .. 317 11 „ 1905 .. 317 11
The actual amount of interest earned in recent
years is set down as follows :
Total Interest Earned.
1898 .. £90,130 1902 .. £105,157
1899 .. 92,197 1903 .. 109,931
1900 .. 95,074 1904 .. 116,554 ■
1901 .. 99,165 1905 .. 115,183
It was stated at the annual meeting that the falling-
off arose from “an alteration lately made by the board
in the book-keeping of a certain class of accounts,” but
as nothing was said as to the nature of the alteration,
or the nature of the accounts, or the reason why an
alteration was necessary, and there was no state-
ment of the exact amount of the difference caused by the
change, it is impossible to offer a very definite opinion on
the subject. It can certainly be said that the falling-off
in interest earnings is a regrettable circumstance, and
that it is a large falling-off. If the interest were calculated
on the average funds for the year less the Depreciation
Fund it would show about £4 os. 6d. per cent, which is
again a very low rate, though as the society’s estimates
are based on a 3£ per cent, rate it leaves a fair margin.
The position of the fund for depreciation of
securities shows as follows :
i Investment Fluctuation Fund.
Written off. Balance. Written off. Balance.
1896.. £3,446 £47,865 1901.. £2,577 96,756
1897.. 8,147 39,718 1902.. 10,789 85,967
1898.. 4,515 35,203 1903.. 6,254 79,713
f 396 1 1904.. 5,855 73,858
1899.. 1 Added V 102,776 f 5,809 j
1.67,969 J 1905.. 7 Added - 115,049
1900.. 3,443 99,333 150,000 J
of the amount of new policies issued, the Colonia
Mutual comes fourth this year—after the A.M.P.,
National Mutual, and Citizens’ Ordinary branch. (As a
redeeming’ feature it only comes fifth in respect of the
amount paid away for surrenders). As regards additions
made to funds(including the addition made to Investment
Fluctuation Fund)it ranks sixth—after theA.M.P., Mutual
Life Association, National Mutual, Maoriland Govern-
Jment Department, and the Citizens’(Ordinary branch).
The exact amount assured by the policies in .force this
year is not available, but the N.S.W. Official Year Book
states that the total amount of the Colonial Mutual’s
policies in force (excluding bonuses and annuities) was in
1892 £10,827,028, and in 1904 (12 years later) £10,856,439.
That represented hardly any increase of business, though
the funds, as the policies grew older, increased by about
£1,398,000. The whole result does not create an im-
pression that the system of doing business in many
distant cities is a good one. It seems to lead to two
things more particularly—high expenses and low interest
earnings—and it seems to produce no more business than
might be obtained by staying in Australia.
* « * V
The Kew Asylum building stands on the loftiest
point within the suburban area of Melbourne. A few
years back certain individuals, some of whose names
revived unpleasant recollections of the Boom, started to
work out a scheme whereby the site was to be sold for
residential purposes. Apparently they struck a kindred
soul in T. Bent, who is obsessed with the spirit of land
jobbing. The Cabinet has decided that the Asylum
reserve, with the exception of a narrow and precipitous
edging to the river, which is to be reserved for a National
Park, is to he sold by gradual stages. Kew Council now
desires to hurry up matters, and proposes offering the
Government £5OO an acre for the whole 420 acres (a
special loan to be floated for that purpose if the idea
comes off), the offer to be contingent on the connection
of the old disused Outer Circle line with the Collingwood
line through Yarra Bend grounds. This little scheme
would give the “shindycate” person a great chance.
There are large tracts of land about Ivanhoe, Heidelberg
and Doncaster held by syndicates which cannot realise
the fancy prices their souls crave for whilst the line
which taps the properties is covered over with the undis-
turbed weeds of a dozen years. The Outer Circle and
Collingwood connection would be a God-send to these
syndicates, and they would almost feel as if the fine old
Boom had come back,
* * * *
Premier Bent is at present not playing speaks
with the Melbourne insurance companies. He has dis-
covered —what no other Treasurer seems to have noticed
before—that the offices that insure the State buildings
insist on the payments being distributed to the different
offices by a broker, who charges £lOO for the simple job.
Thomas says the Public Works secretary shall do the
distributing for nothing, and if the companies won’t
agree he won’t insure any more—and that’s all about it.
* * + *
The water-gas bore at Roma (Q.), has turned
dog on the town. For two or three years the bore gave
the place an adequate Water supply, while the gas ran to
waste. Then the inhabitants thought the gas seemed
permanent enough to justify them in putting up a
gasometer and lighting the town. But tu> sooner was the
plant in use than the gas ceased to flow, and in its place
oil appeared and mixed itself up with the water. A
syndicate had been formed to try the deeper levels for
oil, and it was subsidised by the State to the extent of
£2500. This syndicate suddenly finds itself oil a good
Wicket, and shares have gone up considerably. The rate-
payers, however, who have on their hands a useless gaS
plant and a tainted and fish-like water supply, are cursing
their luck. The water belt wasoriginally reached at a depth
of 1400 ft., but it was decided to go further dowh, mainly for
scientific purposes. At 3000 ft. the gas was met w'ith.
With the aid of a small pipe thrust to the bottom, the gas
was carried out withou t injuring the water. It is thought
that the oil has come in somewhere between the water
and the gas, and shut the gas off. Anyhow, Roma’s
water Supply now smells like a decayed shark.
» * * *
The once-great wool-firm of Goldsbrough,
Mort and 00. has suddenly risen out of the dust of
disaster and depression, has paid an extra 1 per cent, to
its B debenture-holders, has paid its shareholders a 5 per
cent, dividend (they are certainly a considerably written-
down lot of shareholders, but even then the 5 per
cent, is acceptable, especially as it is the first divi-
dend in 12 years), and has added substantially to the
reserve fund. By the terms of the reconstruction;
the first call on profits is the claim of the. A and B deben-
ture-holders for 4 per cent, interest. Then a primary
reserve of £75,000 must be accumulated, which has been
done. Next, shareholders may get 3 per cent, dividend,
but before they can get more than 3 per cent., the inte-
rest paid to B debenture-holdets mUst be raised to 5 per
cent. As the shareholders get 5 per cent., the B deben-
ture-holders also get 5 per cent. The accounts in recent
years have stood thus :
Gross
Earn- Interest paid on Deben- Written Re-
Mar., ings. ture Stocks, &c. Off. serves.
1897.. st^ k 1 £675 Nil
1898.. 60,257 A ” 4 59,656 601
1899.. 60,102 A „ 4 „ 59,656 446
1900.. 65,338 A „ 4 „ 59,565 5,773 „
Added
to Re-
serves.
1901.. 69,8101 g ” 4 » | 66,351 3,459 £3,459
1902.. 83,897 All 4 ” 82,398 1,499 4,958
1903.. 79,136 All „ 4 „ 78,771 365 5,323
1904.. 84,723 All ~ 4 ~ 78,089 6,634 11,957
1905.. 95,459 All „ 4 ~ 78,023 17,436 29,393
1906.. 181,817 B ” 5 ” } 85 ’ 102 1 68,765 98,158
5 p.c. dividend .. 27,950 J
By the complicated terms of the reconstruction, after the
debenture-holders have received 4. per cent., and the
primary reserve has been raised to £75,000, one-fourth of
the profits must go towards a secondary reserve, till it also
reaches £75,000. The figures now stand : Primary
reserve, £75,000 ; secondary reserve, £14,596 ; undivided
balance, £8562 ; total reserves, £98,158.
The improvement is even greater than it looks
(and it looks remarkably great), for whereas the amount
written off plant and premises was only £3134 in 1904,
and £3073 in 1905, this year it is £38,043. Of this, no
less than £37,305 comes off premises. These were valued
12 years ago at £546,068, and are now written down to
£310,053. But, seeing that the co. has now £307,721 cash
in the bank, it seems rather surprising that a great deal
more has not been done towards the repurchase and
extinction of debentures—unless some section of the
reconstruction agreement which this paper has over-
looked stands in the way. This is the record in recent
years:—
Debentures Reduction
Outstanding. During Year.
1901 .. .. £2,167,660
'■ 1902 .. .. 1,974,960 £192,700
1903 .. .. 1,952,230 22,730
1904 .. .. 1,952,220 10
1905 .. .. 1,945,620 6,600
1906 .. .. 1,940,107 5,513
This is a very gradual process. Still, if there are a few
more years of good rains and good prices there should be
a marvellous difference in the position, and the famous
old firm should become a most prosperous institution
again.
* * * *
“Goolwa”: So much depends on the rapacity
of the landowner. Will make inquiries.
The unwatering of Junction mine (Broken Hill)
has revealed very little damage to the working stopes, so
far as they are uncovered. In the creep end, about
M’lntvre shaft, fire and water made a wreck of things
generally, but, south of MTntyre’s, no damage to cry
over has yet been discovered. The Junction’s chief con-
cern is the temporary loss of a winze sunk on a rich patch
of ore at the 775 ft. level, near the Junction North boun-
dary. _ Work had just been started on this ore body—
105ft. in vertical depth—when the men were smoked out.
Another promising- stope which was being opened up at
the 676 ft., south of M’lntyre’s, is still, accessible, having
escaped damage by both fire and water.
In the old days of the Junction, the friable ore
was torn out with feverish haste, leaving large supplies
of milling- ore in the stopes. A full knowledge of the
extent of these reserves is perhaps given to no one man,
but the old workings are being gradually explored, and
unexpected, though often poor, resources brought to
light. With a better directorate, the Junction may yet
rise out of the mire of unprofitable working into which it
has floundered. The present Junction board is about the
deadest thing in Barrier mining.
* * * *
The Junction North (Broken Hill) management
has found sufficient to occupy its attention in its much
battered shaft. Its 570 ft. level connects with the Junc-
tion working's in the centre of the fire area, and when an
examination of the shaft in that region comes to be made,
the wisdom of flooding the mines will probably be made
more apparent than ever. Investigation has shown that
the initial measures adopted for arresting the fire in the
Junction hadn’t the remotest chance of success.
From the 550 ft. level the fire swooped down on the forest
of broken timbers between that and the 675 ft., following
the winzes and drives in a serpentine wriggle, and being
fed by the draught which, after descending to the 675 ft.,
rose through the southern workings to Browne shaft.
This latter was acting as an upcast. And while the
flaming head of the serpent was slowly eating its way to
the surface, the fire trust was solemnly pouring water on
its tail to drown it! Such is the limited nature of even
the most experienced mining man’s knowledge regarding
fires in mines.
» ♦ » »
The British is the most-talked-of mine in
Broken Hill this week. The long-lost lode, which had
been bored for at the 800 ft. with much assiduity for
weeks, has been located, having taken a westerly sweep
and gone very flat, thus evading the anxious prods that
were made for it with the drill at the 800 ft. This ore
body started very narrow at the first level, but made to
90ft. wide at the 600 ft. The drill was set to work to
locate between there and the 800 ft. Exploratory work
in Thompson’s, Block 16, has likewise panned out well,
while at Marsh’s, close to the Junction North boundary,
prospects are looking even more promising. The plat at
the 300 ft. has been cut in splendid-looking sulphides,
while a good body of high grade ore at the 550 ft. is await-
ing the sinking of the shaft, In about three months'
time the serial tram should be complete as far as Thomp-
son shaft, and Marsh’s ought to be supplying good grade
ore to the mill. A vein of chlorides and native silver has
been spoken of in connection with the carbonate develop-
ment in Marsh’s, but although this ore is worth nearly
IOOOoz. of silver to the ton, there is too little of it to
count for much. Just now the British outlook is more
hopeful than it has ever been before.
* * * »
To Mir. W. E. Wainwright of South (Brokeii
Hill) mine belongs the credit of re-ihtroducing the old
grinding pan for preparing ore for concentration. Ex-
periments at the South mill have been successful, and
nearly all the mines along the line of lode are following
what seems to be a strong scent for high recoveries.
Nearly every week now the South mill conies out with a
73 per cent, recovery of had. With the new mill and the
grinding pans in operation, an 80 per cent, recovery seems
a foregone conclusion.
& & jfc
The Central intends to instal 20 Card tables in
its new mill, and is going to experiment with the grinding
pans in the emergency plant. If they pass, in they go to
the new mill, dnd out go the ball mills.
* * * *
“M.C.”: The nature of the Broken Hill ores
is almost as important as their quality. Silicious ore is
the best concentrating material, and garnet and
rhodonite ores are the worst. It was rhodonite that the
Junction North tried to deal with by magnetic separation.
The North mine has both refractory and silicious ore, and
by blendihg, call get a good recovery. The more refrac-
tory ores are the richest in silver. Block 10, British, and
Junction have all more rhodonite and more silver than
the South or South Blocks, or one portion of the North
mine, but this is discounted by the fact that less than
half the silver is recovered at the mill. The Junction
dnd Junction North have ores poor in zinc, at the lower
levels (they contairi only 6 Or 8 per ceht. of zinc) but the
heavy artd refractory minerals, rhodonite and garnet,
take the place of the zinc. With a silicious ote aS a blend,
a much better recovery might be made, and this may
prove the most practical way of overcoming their diffi-
culties. Fortunately for the British, they have some
good milling ore near the Junction boundary, and since
they have been working this, their mill returns have im-
proved considerably.
* * * *
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.WJ, of late cussed with an
unwelcome visitation from the diamond drill and a sad
slump in its share values, again begins to take notice.
It is now doing what it should long-since have done—
systematically prospecting its upper levels in the vicinity
of the rich carbonates, and postponing any further
inquiry as to the happenings in the sulphides until the
new shaft gets down. Since the drills left behind their
sorry tale, manager Bryant has plugged steadily along
and opened up fair bodies of high-grade carbonates in the
various crosscuts, and, according to general-manager
Blakemore, ore now blocked, only taken 20ft. above back
of present drive, is computed as showing a profit of from
£20,000 to £30,000. Cockle Creek, which treated pre-
vious parcels showing a net return of £4 10s. per ton,
now handles another 160 tons as part of a 300-ton contract.
It is understood C.S.A. has been asked to supply 300 tons
per month of the high-grade stuff. Question again arises :
why not erect a couple of reverberatories or a water-
jacket, and avoid the objectionable practice of loading up
a mine with carriage and treatment charges? With the
alleged profit of £30,000 in sight, and a huge water
supply already conserved, a modern equipment on a small
scale shouldn’t be difficult.
* * * *
Gardner’s Blocks, Cobar, adjoining the C.S.A.
Mines On the south, are about 25ft. into a body of car-
bonate ore of alleged good value, and, as crosscut is 90ft.
above C.S.A. lower levels, appearances point to an opening
up of the C.S.A. continuation. On the Central and North
Blocks good gossan formations have been cut at the
shallow level of 40ft., but until prospecting is continued
into the deeper levels and a good deal of exploratory
crosscutting done, it is impossible to say that either pro-
perty has any connection with the parent lode.
* * - * *
Mt. Boppy North (N.S.W.), lately held under
option by the Royal Oak of Hauraki (a Bull crowd
holding kindly remembrance Of Maoriland), instances by
the strike of a lode 24ft. in the sulphide zone what can
be got by pluck and deep sinking. Boppy North never
had much pretensions as a mine in the upper levels, but
sulphides tell a different tale. Assays are fair in gold,
silver and lead, and the chances are that a rich chute
may happen in either the north or south drives. Stone
is identical with that in the parent mine, and it isn’t an
unreasonable conclusion to arrive at that Boppy North
has cut the Boppy lode north of the fault. Bull expert
Frecheville always hankered after the North, but was
just too late to secure it for his co.
Occidental (Oobar), whose shares have fluctuated
between 7s and 8s during the past twelve months, despite
the fact of only an occasional threepenny dividend, now
looks like passing under option to Oobar Corporation
(late purchaser of the North Cobar mine). Conditions of
option are : £50,400 cash, and 31,500 fully paid shares in
new company. Optionists ask to 31st July, 1907, to de-
cide the business, and it doesn’t appear that beyond sink-
ing main shaft to 600 ft., they are bound to develop.
Anyhow, the mine has been one of Cobar’s solid things
from the inception, and has paid for all its machinery out
of its own output, and, seeing that under the option the
vendors are entitled to all the gold won, shareholders
might do a good deal worse than back the directors up in
the matter.
* * * *
Cobar moves up, and the latest move— the
establishment of a stock exchange—gives the public what
is required. Cobar was ripe for the move long since,
but petty jealousies and other things stood in the way
After the lAth July the position will be altered, ant.'
metropolitan holders of Cobar outside scrip can look for
ward to a better knowledge of actual local values anc
happenings.
* * * *
Mt. Drysdale (Cobar), whose shareholders ap
last grew weary of calls and the pursuit of another of the,
old-time rich chutes, looks at present moment as if it
hasn’t quite passed out. Not far back, in a dull, thick
mist or an irresponsible moment, Drysdale entrusted
itself Londonwards in the hands ,of one Henry B. Cole,
but, as was expected, Cole failed in his mission to excite
the pulse of J. Bull, and shook himself quite clear of the
business. Then Weiderman and party, tributors,
slipped into the gap, and, as Weiderman himself is a
metallurgist and knows something of the Drysdale, it
isn’t surprising that 6oz. ore is already in the face, and
first clean-up panned out for £lOOO. Shares have, in con-
sequence, moved up, but market isn’t always a correct
barometer of values. Weiderman has practically tied up
the mine, the tailings, and the slimes for two years, and
as present company only benefits to the extent of 10 per
cent, of Weidennan’s gross receipts, there isn’t any
sound reason why shares should fluctuate niuch one way
or the other until something tangible is located.
* * * *
The Sydney Morning Herald was wrong in
its mining intelligence of Friday (22nd), re Common-
wealth mine at Wellington (N.S.W.). It stated that the
mine was “ shut down owing to difficulty in treating the
ore.” Ashcroft, the new general manager, has proved
that he can treat the ore. It is true that the furnace
was temporarily shut down, but that was a mere small
temporary question of alterations or repairs or some-
thing.
* * * »
According to the Maoriland Mines Record,
£1,000,000 worth of gold has been won from a small
patch of ground near lvumara, Westland, by hydraulic
sluicing. Kumara is a monument of the fleeting pros-
perity of that “great primary industry,” gold-getting.
In its glorious da,\s it was full of men and beer and gold
and pubs and fights, and other things that make a lively
community. To-day the place is so deserted that two
out of every three buildings seem empty. There are only
about three really sound buildings in the town, one being
a sparsely-attended public school. No trouble is taken
to effect repairs to an}' of the houses ; when a wall looks
like falling it is propped up by a beam on the outside.
Kumara isn’t worth repairing. Practically, an entire hill
has been heaved into a valley in the process of gold-
getting ; and Kumara has the aspect of a blasted, done-
for hole in the hill. Its population consists chiefly of
old men who tell of the great past, and wonder why it
didn’t continue.
* * ♦ *
“Distant fields look green ” is an aphorism as
old as the Immortal Bard, and, on the same reasoning,
the Melbourne investor is being asked lo take up
and carry a little load of North Queensland copper
shows, which were snatched up when Baillieu-cMm*
Robinson-cwm-B.M. and Co. jumped into the Hamp-
den. The Duchess sale, an aged transaction, is allowed
to leak out; the Mt. Elliott, wound up like a patent toy, is
set going ; and Mt. Cannandah, up to £207, fills the role
of a humming-top to furnish the melody to the share
symphony. Then, jumping up eUmbersomely in the
background,Tike the grotesques in a pantomime, are
Mungana and Ohillagoe. Ml. Cannandah may be as good
as gold, Mt. Elliott may be tons better, and the Hampden
may be the abode of a houri; but the grim spectre of
Ohillagoe stands over the lot as a warning to the public
that they had better wait to see if expectations are ahy-
Way realised before they help the Bull crowd to unload,
the whole boornlet depends On the railway being carried
to Cloncurry ; that depends on the will of the Queensland
Parliament, and should there be serious opposition to the
line, there, may be a repetition of the old Hampden wait,
and a repetition of the old Hampden share slump,
* 4* * *
“Vigilans” writes: Mining in the Northern
Territory becomes worse and worse under the present
regime. Daly River State smelter, after four months’
work, is again shut down, owing to the collapse of the
stack and reverberatory furnace. Yam Creek’s 120-ton
wateivjaeket is about to close down, after going for three
months, putting out 70 tons matte per week. Tin
scratchers at Bynoe Harbor are idle for the want of
water. Pine Creek shows ate a dead letter. The Govern-
ment bore at the Union is pegging away Without much
Satisfaction. At Port Keats, the Government boring
party, after going down for 600 ft. for coal indications,
has COme to the end Of its tether without finding ahy
coal. The only field that keeps the Territory alive is
Horseshoe Creek and Mount Todd. It is a good field, but
the white miners have no coin and the Chow has come in
with capital, and is erecting a 15-stamp battery. In time,
they will have the whole place.
* * * x
A country with one-eighth of its population
dependent on mining should be thankful for the new
lead mines discovered 90 odd miles from Derby (W. A.).
J. H. Grant, who used to boss the King Conrad,
Inverell (N.S.W.), sends good assays—so per cent, lead, 8
percent, copper, and lOoz. of silver. It Is a lot of metal
for a ton of crude ore to carry, and if the ore keeps up to
that mark, the district wall require a railway. North-
west Australia has some great mineral possibilities.
Hans Irvine and the Victorian Western District
squatters who followed him have made a fair punch over
the Black Range mine (Westralia). This is not altogether
to be wondered at, for did not T. Robertson go there
with his divining rod and prove by the witchery of-the
hazel twig that gold and water lived below ? Of course,
the mine is not very deep (200 ft. or so), and has not got
down to the tightest of tight diorite yet to prove how the
lode lives. But the stone crushes well week by week.
The present fly-up of shares from £8 to £lB came from
the striking of the lode in the drive south at 200 ft. To
54ft. from the crosscut there was stone but no gold.
Then, as if a wizard’s wand had touched the face, good
value quartz appeared. This was not unexpected, con-
sidering that the drive had got below the shoot, whence
good gold was got in the 100 ft. level. Now it is
stated that the lode is getting disturbed. If a
break means the end of the shoot, there will have been
a material contraction in length, as at the 100 ft. level the
lode was over 180 ft. long. Mihe does not depend on this
block of stone, however, and it has plenty of room for
prospecting on its other lease. Railway Commissioner
Tait patronises the co., but the fact that it has a reserve
of £lO,OOO is in no way due to his cigar-laden suggestion
but to the fact that the men who run the co. areof the
race of pastoralists. These having learnt the lessons of
bad seasons, have imported a little canny caution into
the co.'s management. So they have got a reserve of
£lO,OOO and a few thousands to the credit of current
account to come and go on.
* *, * *
The Fremantle Smelter (W.A.) is not having
quite such a good time this year as it formerly had.
During 1904 Golden Horseshoe smelted 24,100 tons, worth
301 s. per ton, and the smelter paid divs. totting up
£62,500. During 1905 Golden Horseshoe only sent to the
smelter 15,700 tons, w'orth 2475. 6d. a ton, and the smelter
only divided £25,000. As smelter only pays on 90 per
cent, extraction, and pays only 80s. instead of 85s. for
fine gold, the richer the ore the more the smelter scores.
The Horseshoe rich ore is now only worth about 3oz. per
ton, and seems hardly worth smelting, while the average
value of the rest of the mine is now only lOdwt. In fact,
last year, in addition to the ore smelted, 215,000 tons of
ore, worth 405., were milled on the mine. The seven per
cent, of ore smelted represented 31 per cent, of the total
value produced. The future prospects of the smelter look
rather dreary, unless the Phillips River copper field pans
out all right.
* * » *
Emerald mine at Yalgoo (W.A.) is undergoing
resurrection. In the early days of the Murchison the
Emerald gave some sensational returns, and was on the
point of being acquired by Gibbs Bright, when an adverse


2%e Best Tobacco
the world can
produce.
6d.
per
ounce.
3 STRENGTHS
AI Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.
&
/
Jr
X?
A
Q
4?
/
'2oz. Tins 1/*
4oz. Tins 2/*
Boz. Tins 3/9
Sold Loose only by
A. A. MARKS,
376 George St.
310 George St,
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by VV. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Shjßkrbeug and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cose
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Meplian Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriution of cast or wrought iron work.*
*■ * * •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, • Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsby ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
The New Havillah Gold Mining Company has
just installed a high lift pump to make all necessary pro-
vision against any increase in the volume of water now
that they are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This
installation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71’5 per cent.,and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering-
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.* [a]
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grinnvade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid, It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* » * •
The Review (London) August 19, 1904, writes :
—“The Colonial Mutual Life Office does quite a big
business, some three-quarters of a million sterling in new
policies, and nearly i'330,0U0 in premium income. The
funds are now running close up to three millions sterling,
and as the oldest colonial office established in Great
Britain, it will always be entitled to respect and con-
sideration.”*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* » * *
George D. Meudell, Money and Mining Broker,
A.M.P. Building, Bendigo (formerly of Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).*
• • • •
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy- in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
Charters Towers.— -Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
• • • •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
ARTISTS, Photographers, &c., are
invited to submit DESIGNS OR
IDEAS SUITABLE FOR REPRODUC-
TION AS POST CARDS to
HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Hone Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
report was made upon it, and shortly afterwards the
bottom fell out, and there was no stone left that would
pay crushing expenses. The riehest ore was contained
in a crater-shaped dyke, and all around it loose stones
and boulders containing: gold could be picked up. The
quartz was of pale emerald color, beautifully laminated
and peppered with gold. Cut and polished for bar
brooches, pendants, and other articles of jewellery, the
stone was far too good for the battery ; but the owners
put everything through, and were content with the
result —sometimes as high as 12oz. to the ton. Jimmy
Thomson, who wrote a series of articles in Melb. Aon at
that time on the Murchison fields, said that it would not
be surprising to find gold even in mulga. Shortly after-
wards a large stone was found firmly embedded in a
mulga stump. The mulga had grown solidly around it,
and on the wood being burnt, the stone was cracked and
found literally "full of gold. The new owner of the
Emerald is named Thompson. After lying idle for nearly
10 years the mine is to be started again. Stone good
enough to be dollied is already being obtained, which
shows that the abandonment was a trifle premature.
* » * *
That deep mining can be made healthy, and
the lives of the miners be prolonged to something like
their normal span, is shown by what manager Rickards
has done at the Victoria Quartz Mine, Bendigo, where
the thermometer registers 75° P. in the plat at 4024 ft.
Says Rickards, “ The expense incurred in adequately ven-
tilating the shaft has been far more than compensated
for by the increased amount of work the miners have
been able to do.”
* # * *
“Bethanga” would be the word of all others
that should have been written in the mining “ In Memo-
riam ”of dead J. A. Wallace. The money spent over this
claim, up Beechworth (Vic.) way, is without parallel in
the State. All through it was a good mine, but a heart-
breaking stringer. The paradox was this : Gold in stone
was high, well above an ounce, but the mixture was
worse than a chemist’s modern pick-me-up. There were
arsenic, zinc, and copper, so that it needed a mountain
digger gnome to separate the gold. In after years David
Syme joined forces with Wallace, and Agar Wynne was
supposed to be interested. German chemists had a shot
at the problem, but failed, and then the mine was trundled
into that capacious receptacle, Bull’s lap. Result was as
usual. Claim was sold the other day by the liquidator for
£2500 to Miller and 00. More Bull money is talked about,
and if supplied it will no doubt go the same way unless
capable hands are put at the helm. The ore needs the
specialist and the mine needs opening up after prelimi-
naries have been settled. Said preliminaries are to deter-
mine how the gold is to be won, so as to avoid the fence
that brought J. A. Wallace down. Not much sorrow can
be expressed over Bull’s luck at Bethanga. He was
miserly with his cash. Then when at the end the men
wanted their wages the co. was forced into liquidation.
The wage claims have remained unsettled until now,
when it looks as if 20s. in the £ will be forthcoming, but
whether with interest this deponent knoweth not.
* * * *
New Loch Fyne, Matlock (Vic.), is one of those
unconsidered mining comets which flash on the horizon
and then go into the limbo of the past. Co. struck it
rich out of gold got in a quartz matrix in a big dvke for-
mation. Then it had to repeat the history of Gaffney’s
Creek, Woods’ Point, and a host of other places, to which
sinking on the dyke has not brought wealth or strength.
There was a whisper that Jack Rippen wanted to float the
mine on to an English co. some time back when he was in
England, evidently not on poor bovs’ mission business.
Shares then went to about 20s.—but Bull had the sense to
keep off. Now the same crowd is reviving the idea, long
since dismissed, of what the dyke would do if it was
milled en bloc. What it would do would be to smash up
stamps into what old Jack McElhone used to describe as
“an ’L of a mess.” This warning may be superfluous, but
dyke mining for gold in the Woods’Point district hasn’t
proved profitable for long of late in any of the local
shows. All the same, it would seem as if some stacking
away of Loch Fyne scrip is going on. What for?
* ■* * *
Odd things happen in mining, and the alleged
fraud attempted over the Rob Roy mine, Stirling (Vic.),
comes under the description. Co. was in the hard-up
state of most of the mines in the district, when there
came a telegram that the Oversight shoot had been struck
worth 3oz. to the ton. Shares vitalised as quickly as Dr.
Faustus shook off decrepitude. The Board, in its hilarity,
sent £35 to the manager to go on with, and sat down to
wait for the 3oz. stone. It possessed itself in patience for a
week or two, but, probably impelled by a sceptical market,
set the wires to work for more news. An ominous
silence was broken a week later by the manager
telegraphing that the whole thing was a fake.
To drive the nail home, he added that the
board ought to be aware that the mine had been idle since
June 7. Five solemn-faeed directors and one heavy-
hearted legal manager took a rush through the letter-
book, and then sat down to consider. It was all too true.
The mine had been shut down, the telegram was a fraud
on the manager, the market was ditto, and, worst thought
of all, someone was smiling slyly at them. Who was the
culprit, and what was his motive. Shares bought and
sold were few. Directors don’t see the joke, whatever
their friends may do, and have shoo’d the police on.
* » * *
Maryborough (Vic.) reefs, like Maryborough
leads, don’t improve with depth. Behold the waning of
Duke United, and of Main Leads North when latter got
on to the Duke lead. And look at the tally of the
Leviathan quartz. Since 1899 this show has been
pounding away on stone for Bull with sorry
results 110,009 tons sent to the battery for
29,0000 z., or a shade over sdwt. per ton. Divi-
dends impossible. Still, had sdwt. dirt been con-
sistent there might have been a bit left in hand. What
could be done was done by manager Nicholas. In 6J
years he opened up the mine to a depth of 900 ft., did
16,000 ft. of development work, put up his battery, and
only went to the bad £4OOO, outside of the £16,000
originally subscribed by Bull. His earnings totted up
£120,000, but as his service just lacked the luck that
gives good stone, neither mine nor manager were made.
* * * »
Fortune follows some of the Ballarat co.’s. If
they cannot get much gold out of the mine they seem to
do fairly well out of the bank till. Just the other day the
South Star owned up to a trifle of £20,000 borrowed from
one Coliins-street freestone institution. Its neigh-
bor, the Star of the East, by slow degrees worked up the
tidy overdraft of about £6OOO before it came to recon-
struction. It will be seen therefore that more than mine
shareholders are interested in the realisation of the Star
directors’ prediction that “ the incoming term will be of a
very much more prosperous nature than some co. has
had for some years past.”
» * *
Frank Gee Duff, having landed Mt. Lyell Co.
with the Blue Tier flounder, is on for another hilly ven-
ture. This time he aspires to Mt. Reid (Tas.), and so has
surrounded with pegs a little block of 1000 acres on the
Mope of that pill-box. Duff is an old West-Coaster and
an ally of Grotty long before that dead worthy fell out
with Bowes Kelly and the latter-day Mt. Lvell crowd.
Rumor hath it that Duff brought those two 'hot-headed
Irishmen together originally over Mt. Lyell. Fact hath
it that he got \V. R. Wilson into Lyell Blocks, and held
on to scrip long after Wilson’s estate was realised, which
may show faith, but not sense. Blue Tier scheme was
looked on as a dream, but somehow it materialised.
Therefore, what Melbourne folk want to know now is
who are Duffy’s pals to-day. Is it Mt. Lyell sneaking up
towards Mt. Reid, or is the objective the promised nest of
smelters at Rosebery ?
•* * » •
Gladstone Development Tin (Tas.) balance-
sheet is out, and there isn’t half the sound in it that
there was in the last, nor a twentieth of that in its pre-
decessor, when Grayson and his friends were on the flute.
The profit for the term is microscopic—£l6 on six months’
work, or £2 13s. 4d. a month. That would just about run
to accommodation at a Model Lodging House. Dredge is
said to have done 55,000 cubic yards in six months, or,
roughly, 2000 cubic 3 r ards a week for the term. This is
about a third of what was expected, but with stoppages
and alterations, and removal of dredge, what else
could be looked for? Question maybe put: How is it
that the area dredged has only come out now? Looked
at broadly, the co. has not been altogether a failure,
though it has not gone far off that mark. It has proved
the wash to be profitable— by £l6 ; and it has proved that
the costs are not excessive. But it has also shown that the
plant was far below par, that dredging experience was
absent from the co.’s early counsels, and that it would have
paid to have given a premium to the man who bought the
plant to drop it overboard-on the way to Tass.v. Co.’s
call of 20s. per share falls short of helping it into finan-
cial safety. There is over £lOOO of debt to meet, and
with only about two tons of tin a fortnight being raised,
this must mean a further call. There is a lot for share-
holders to criticise and a deal for someone to explain.
» * * *
Thermometer suddenly dropped at Bris-
bane the other day when there arrived a letter
from Mr. Bryan Lynn, agent for Mr. Daniel Cud-
more, of Adelaide, offering to take over all the
Kanakas waiting deportation, and put them to
work for a few years clearing an estate on the
Herbert River without wages, tiurely philanthropy
couldn’t go farther!
Senator Keating has a useful Bill in the
Senate safeguarding copyright in industrial de-
signs. Australian thought is turning a good deal
nowadays to the “applied arts,’’ and excellent
work is being done in metals, cabinet-making,
and so on. Protection of this brain-work against
the pirate is a matter that calls for attention.
It is officially estimated that it would cost
nearly £2,000,000 to eradicate the prickly pear
curse on four adjoining runs in Southern Queens-
land. The rapid spread of this curse, like that of
the rabbit, is one of the evils of large holdings.
Yet the inept Land Court, against the wishes of
the Government and despite the clamor of intend-
ing settlers, renews leases for ten years with unfail-
ing regularity.
Tom Seddon, whom the Wet Coast (M L.)
miners will return in hisdead father’s name, is the
most like his dad of the boys, just as Mary and
May Seddon most resemble him among the girls.
Tom is a great favorite, and is proud of the fact
that he finished in front of the Yankee sprinter
Duffey when Dutfey was in Maoriland. A man
who can run like that ought to run for Parliament;
if he doesn’t he is wasting his life and his velocity.
A Russian Hebrew farmer (he farms land,
not taxes) in Queensland writes the Jewish
Chronicle advocating that 500 Jewish families
should be introduced into Australia and settled
upon the land, the Jewish community to loan
each family £l2O to start with. He says that
until Jews turn to manual labor there will always
be anti-Semitic trouble. But the Jew has been off
the land so long that he would take up a selection
with difficulty.
It has just leaked out that arrangements
for a naval and military conference at Tokio,
between Britain and Japan, have been in the
making for a good while past. Time was when, if
Japan wanted to “confer” with Britain, she’d
have to voyage humbly to London ; but the capital
of the British empire steadily slips Eastwards
nowadays. It will be interesting, by the way, to
know what the conference fixes up regarding
Australian defence, should trouble happen along
during treaty-term.
Hall-Jones, who has temporarily stepped
into Seddon’s big shoes, is an amiable political
nonentity—a builder from Timaru. Seddon pre-
ferred to surround himself with nonentities. In
the Ballance Ministry, besides Ballanee himself,
Ward, Seddon, McKenzie, and Reeves were all
able men and strong men. Among Seddon’s col-
leagues, only Ward counts. There was a great
cry after last Maoriland elections for “new
blood,” and Dick was called on to jettison some
lumber. But he didn’t. He never would throw
over a weak Minister till he found a weaker one.
Even a Conservative paper like the Napier
Telegraph has risen to reprove the President
of the Maoriland Farmers’ Union for his wild
language. This rather dangerous potential rebel
said that the time had come (the time is always
coming) for the farmers to show that they would
not have the manhood crushed out of them by an
Act of Parliament. He also went on to declare,
as a responsible official of the Union, that the
farmers would be justified in using force to
prevent the administration of laws of which they
did not approve. If a Labor agitator talked in
that strain the Farmers’ Union would demand his
immediate arrest and imprisonment.
“Fitz”: Beats me what good the Mel-
bourne unemployed expected to derive by the
deputation headed by Torn Womann to St. Paul’s
Cathedral. ’Tvvould have been more to the point
had they all caught the first ’bus to the cause of
the whole trouble, i.e. G. H. Reid and Co., and
given that said cause a knock-out blow on the
bingey, or other parts of his face. Are the un-
employed open to take some sound advice ? If so,
here it is :
(1) Do away with Freetrade holus bolus.
(2) Do away with the large estates.
(3) Do away with Tom Womann.
All three can be easily accomplished with a little
common sense.
Is Julius Caesar the rightful heir to King
Billy, of Cardwell (N.Q.)? The problem hap-
pened this way: K'ng Billy died in Goodna
lunatic asylum, last July, intestate. The only
property left was his inscribed brass-plate, with
chain attached—the insignia of royalty. The Cura-
tor of Insanity, or the Distributor in Lunacy, or
somebody, was entrusted with the regal bauble
pending evidence as to the succession to the
throne—which is a stump. The officer felt satis-
fied that the regalia did not fall within the Statute
of Distributions, and so he awaited a claimant.
From St. Helena gaol, Julius Caesar (who was, in
181)8, at Townsville, to 10 years’ penal
servitude, along with the dead King Billy, for
murder) lodges a claim for the imperial decora-
tion. Accordingly, Julius Caesar’s right and title
are being investigated by the Aborigines Depart-
ment. Julius is pressing his case with great
vigor, and there,seems to.be no valid reason why
Caesar should not get the crown.
Rev. J. Hornby Spear, of Wollongong
(N.S.W,), is distributing a kind of secular sermon
against shop-sweating, and his text is the sad
case of the young Hobart girl (reported Bulletin,
5/4/’ofi) who committed suicide rather than face a
charge of dishonesty brought by the drapery
emporium which paid her 7s. 6d. a week as
cashier.
M'Cullagh and Hawkins have put out an
ample pamphlet on Dowie, and the things they
say about the whiskered profit are calculated to
make the hair stand up like pork upon the
quillful fretupine. Reports of two years ago
notified that the TJnkissed was engaged to
an heiress. M‘Cullagh and Hawkins say this
was only a “stall,” to enable Elijah to cart her
round with his wife and son. Dowie heaped
riches on her. The Unkissed hated her like
poison; so, of course, did Overseer Jane. Once
Jane caught Elijah lying on a sofa, while the
lady was stroking his forehead to cure a head-
ache, and language poured like rain. The Un-
hugged Offspring says his hairy parent is crazy.
When a German war vessel fired a salute on enter-
ing a Mexican port, Dowie, who was just then
decorating the town with his presence, declared
the vessel was firing at him, and that the great
conflict between him and Kaiser Bill had com-
menced.
Dr. Kelmar, of Balmain (N.S.W.), is
seeking to arouse public interest in the phthisis
problem, and circulates these proposals for
grappling with it: —
(1) Prohibition of phthisical immigrants.
(2) Compulsory notification to health officers of cases
of phthisis.
(3) Precautions against the dissemination of phthisis by
public conveyances.
(4) Supervision by public health officers of the treat-
ment of all phthisis cases whether in sanatoria or in
private houses.
The proposals are on sound lines. The stoppage
of immigrant consumptives could be effected at
once, and is a necessary preliminary to the treat-
ment of the disease locally. Since it is practically
impossible to segregate all consumptives in
sanatoria, the next best thing is to closely supervise
their treatment in their own homes, especially
with a view to safeguarding others from infection.
Phthisis, it cannot be too often repeated, is a
disease foreign to Australia—one of our imported
blessings—and a courageous campaign for a few
generations might easily banish it from the
Commonwealth.
Typhoid is being spread in Sydney by the
consumption of infected oysters from Middle Har-
bor. The Water and Sewerage Board recently
set down a so-called “ septic tank ” at the head of
one of the lovely bays of Middle Harbor. The
affair is no more a septic tank than a pig is a
high-flier. It is simply a cesspool, and discharges
into Middle Harbor a vast mass of untreated
sewage. Results : the poisoning of the water and
air of one of the loveliest spots in Australia, and
the poisoning of the community by the oysters
gathered from this plague-spot. In a more truly
civilised country the Water and Sewerage Board
would be ducked in its own septic tank until it
promised to abate the nuisance. Sydney is a lazy,
dolce fur niente city, and merely makes tired
efforts to prevent the typhoidaloysters from going
into consumption.
From the matrimonial columns of the
West Australian (Perth)
A WIDOWER, 50, Protestant, professional, well-
preserved, gentlemanly, fair circumstances,
desires introduction refined young lady, view above.
Almost the saddest thing in life is to be “well-
preserved.’' It suggests the carefully propped-up
ruin—the person who is with difficulty holding
age off at arm’s length, but reckons that the
bony opponent will climb all over him before long.
To be a “ well-preserved ” man is almost as bad
as to be a “fine woman” —which is a term that
ought to be actionable, and suggests the broad,
red, full-blown person who seems to have lived
on pork-pies and beer—or to have “the remains
of great beauty.” The last remark ought to be
criminal. No person should be allowed to call a
woman a remains.
There are some humorous persons in
Maoriland. At the gold-mming town of Waihi
the Hospital Committee has just earned much
public opprobrium through the discovery that it is
in the habit of working its night nurses, or allow-
ing them to be worked, 77 hours per week. One
woman who had been on night duty for the better
part of a month on these terms, and had had her
rest disturbed for a week by the hammering of
carpenters near her bedroom, recently dozed off
while on duty. This brought about her suspen-
sion and she left the institution, but public
opinion demands that she shall be reinstated.
And this is where the humorous part of the busi-
ness crops up; the white-robed matron defies
public opinion, and resolutely declines to lein-
state the nurse till she apologises to her—the
matron. The public and an angry press sugge-d
that the matron be made to apologise to the nurse
for sweating her.
A biographical item from Maoriland :
John Wren’s double (not the double event), William
Henry Judkins, has tackled a varied assortment of jobs
in his time. He first appeared in Maoriland as a
Methodist parson and kept his Bethel in a flourishing
condition until his voice gave way. Then the little man
became secretary to the Maoriland Alliance, and editor
of The Voice— it was a curious thing that he should 1 e
driven to edit The Voice by the lack of one — a small
Prohibition weekly. Again ill-health necessitated a
change, and William Henry started an auctioneering busi-
ness in Masterton (Maoriland is full of parsons who have
taken to auctioneering). The business kept right side up
till the auctioneer's voice gave out—William Henry
Judkins had dreadful ill-luck with his voice—when
William fled to Australia, I.ast heard of him here was
that he had been appointed editor of the Australian
Review of Reviews. In spite of being a rabid Pro-
hibitionist W. 11. Judkins was popular with all sorts and
conditions of men—about the only Prohibitionist who has
been liked in this country outside the teetotal herd, and
hut for the constant giving out of his voice he might
have put up a big record.


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY
K-esclxs Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David vStorer (Q, Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark] IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
<& BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
(EL STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING oe
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE. PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
“ Big Mary ” : Gundagai, on the Murrum-
J?t a 1S J? n . e °f the most picturesque towns in
JN.b.W. It is noted for its culture. The streets
bear such honored names as Homer, Iliad Virgil
Dante, Byron etc., and one green hill (not far
away) is called Mt. Parnassus.
WOULD LOOK ’EM UP.
THE SPOKESMAN : “To decide a wager , Mr.
Brown , what is a carpet snake like?”
MR. BROWN : “ I disremember; but it’s me birth-
day to-day. You ask me in a couple of days
I'll see some soon.”
The noble forests of our land
Beneath man’s devastating hand
Soon will have vanished, leaving there
This country lying, gaunt and bare.
No wooded clothing, now she’s old
To save her from her death of cold ’
/L ew w oods’ arise with healing sure,
All hail them—Woods Great Peppermint Cure !«
A SIGN THAT IS USUALLY FATAL.
PHEGAN : “For Hi van’s sake, Hinnessy, are ye dead intirely?”
HINNESSY (under the case): “ Oi don't think so.”
PHEGAN : "Sure, phwat a start ye give me. Ye was breathin’ so heavy I thought ye was.”
“Elmore”: Wombats and foxes don’t
seem to be friends. Going through the bush
t’other day I nearly rode over a fox, which
promptly did the land agent’s disappearing trick
into an adjacent hole. Presently a terrific snarl-
ing and growling started, and dirt flew out of the
hole thick as the promises from the mouth of a
candidate. Then came a disgusted and somewhat
scared fox, followed by an old man wombat, who
seemed angry. Reynard scratched gravel for
parts unknown. The wombat scattered a bit ot
dirt about and retreated back to the hole.
“Squeaker”: Those blokes camped round
Ihe Bulletin office have the bulge on us poor
far-away coves. We get
The Bulletin sent
through a news agent,
and it arrives about a
fortnight after date. So
Tin afraid I shall be too
late for every discussion,
on bad smells or other-
wise. I will start one of
my own. Can anyone tell
me the origin of the word
“jaekeroo."’ A station
jaekeroo is a young fellow
(when they get old they
cease to be jackeroos) sent
up from town. His people
may, or may not, have
influence with the owners,
and he may, or may not,
have paid a premium. A
station jaekeroo always
tuckers with the boss.
Some of them have pretty
stuff in them, some have
no stuffin’ at all. lie-
member one who came
straight from England.
He was educated for a
parson but became a
jaekeroo instead. Watched
lnm trying to yard a
mutinous calf one day.
The calf was having a
good lark. Jaekeroo was
walking slowly after it,
talking softly to himself.
Heard him say, “ I’ll
swear. I will. I’ll swear
directly. I will. Damn !
There. I’ve said it. Per-
haps now you’ll go in.”
Ihe calf went in. Agreed
that a jaekeroo is a new
chum (although a new
cLum is not necessarily a jackeroo). New chums
were originally called Johnny Raws. From that
it got to Jacky Raw. And from Jacky Raw to
them™ 0 13 bUt aSIP ° f the ton £ ue - That’s my
“R.”: While the slang discussion is on,
Jet me mention the claim that “ oof ” or “ ooftish ”
is German Yiddish “auf tische ” (on the table}—
the careful Hebrew, when he plays cards, insist-
ing on the money being on the table.
* * ♦ *
-• : The deter ioration in the Pil-
hga (N.S.W.) scrub lands during the last 30 years
is most remarkable. In the sixties great
herds of cattle were bred and depastured
there, but the ruins of many old cattle
stations are now the only relics of the
palmy days. The country is unfenced
unoccupied, and lonely, and the stench of
the bloodwood scrub permeates every-
thing. . Old hands say the land was fairly
open in the early days, whereas now a
snake can hardly crawl through parts of it.
Ihe reason assigned for the increase of
scrub is the periodical bush fires that have
occurred since the advent of civilisation.
Water obtained from creeks there often
turns black when boiled, probably through
the presence of substances acquired when
the water was draining through fire-scorched
vegetation.
* * * *
While N.S.W. and Victoria are
Pothering a good deal of money from the
rabbit curse, Bananaland suffers the pest
without any return. This is due to an
astonishing law which prohibits both the
catching and the selling of bunny for
profit, in the dead of winter a few enter-
prising providers bring consignments of
wile rabbi’” from Sydney and run the
risks, and, so far, the authorities have not
interfered. When the prohibition clauses
of the Act were passed it was urged that
the commercial aspect of the curse should
not be tolerated, lest people should en-
courage the curse. It is “upto ” the Government
to have this embargo removed, for the work of
trappers must tend to diminish the number of
the enemy.
* * * *
“W.E.D.”: In Esperance (W.A.), the
once prosperous seaport and “natural harbor for
the goldfields,” things are not what they were,
borne of the local publicans eke out a living by sup-
plying liquid poison to the blacks. Johnny was
charged with being drunk, and was suavely asked
by the beak to disclose his supplier. Johnny
wasn t going back on a pal, and so gave this lucid
yarn: “I tellum you true fellow. I walkum
along beach ’nother day. My foot hittum some-
thing hard. I look an’ I seeum bottle. I pickum
up. It beer. Drinkum up. Funny thing, might
walk along beach heaps times and never happen
again.” “ Seven days hard,” said the unsympa-
thetic Bench, but Boniface thought well of Johnny.
Hamer ; There has been some discus-
sion about over-pubbed townships recently How
about under-pubbed districts—places where the
sale of liquor is legal, the demand is high and
MT f°T n,° supply limited? Tai’hape
(M.L.), at the head (Wellington end) of
the great trunk railway, would about take the
prize if the past two years haven’t changed it Tt
had, when I knew it, two pubs and a large thirst
and it took anyone half-an-hour to fight his way
to the bar of either hotel on a wet day when the
, me ™ w< r re , J , u ‘ S P irits were 9d. a time ;
beers, 6d.; English beer or stout and some of the
fancy M.L. brands, 2s. Gd. a bottle. The res®
dents wanted more hotels, not only for beer pur
poses but for residence, but the local Prohibition-
ists united with the publicans in resisting further
licenses and so helped the two Messrs. Public-
house to their fortunes.
* *
“H”; “Dux” (Bulletin, 7/6/’O6) dis-
coyered his champion over-pubbed districts on
the West Coast of Maoriland ; but most of the
pubs he struck in Kumara and Hokitika are
places where the people who used to sell drinks
in better times live on the memories and the
savings of the past. Kumara, in its best days
go C nnn ing f° vei ’ ac T l ? u , a . .inhabitants, contained
00.000 people, and Hokitika was then a metro-
polis, and boasted an independent West Coast
Governor. The glories of both—and most of the
people—have departed. When I was in Kumara
there were only six hotels where it was possible to
obtain anything like accommodation, and the
pub that robbed me of several shillings a day had
walls and ceilings and floors sagging all ways, the
floor outside my bedroom door being so sunk that
a pool of water leaking through the roof (it is
generally raining in Westland) had formed, into
which I stepped at midnight. Westport has a lot
°* P u )S ’ but before I could count them I got
muddled and sank to sleep by the roadside.
* * * *
Publication of some of the early reminis-
cences of Maoriland’s late Premier reveals that
the Kumara gold rush broke out quite acci-
dentally. I here was a good trade to be done in
illicit grog on the Wet Coast in those days, and a
few individuals established a still out in the bush,
nigging the foundations for the still they touched
gold but said nothing of the find, as they reckoned
whisky would pay better. The secret got out
owing to a wanderer getting bushed between
Ehllmanstown and Kumara. Seeing the smoke
from the still, he made for it, and found other
things besides whisky. He reported the find
subsequently. Seddon and a party of other diggers
rushed the spot and dozens of tents were pitched
aU round the illicit groggery within 24 hours.
* * *
The ancient officials of N.S.W. knew how
to grant themselves large areas of land. In a
recent Heal Property notice were five applications
to bring land under the Act, each of which dis-
closed an old grantee. In one, the land was in
Kensington-street, part of eight acres granted to
Ceorge Druitt, retired major, who had also large
grants elsewhere. Next, was an application to
bring under the Act 1096 acres, parish of Narellan,
part of 2000 acres granted to William Campbell
and Part of 1600 acres granted to George Molle, a
colonel ( Modes Main” is named after him).
Next at Granville, some lots, part of 1125 acres
granted to Garnham Blaxcell, who flourished in
Governor Bhgh s time, and helped to depose that
potentate. Then followed two applications from
Urummoyne, on the Parramatta River, part of
LjJ( acres granted to John Harris, a first fleet
surgeon, of the Ultimo Harris family.
THE FATAL FASCINATIONS OF WOMAN.
MRS. PLUNKETT: “I'd ask yer to stay and ’are
a bit of dinner with us, sir, but my man’s
away, and he’s that awful jealous he can’t
abear me ter entertain gents when he ain’t
’ere.”
Y\ liile the chap from the bush was fur-
nishing Easter amusement for cityites, the city
“blokes” who went on tour .to the Clarence,
Kichmond, and Tweed rivers supplied comedy for
the bucolics. One enthusiastic botanist mistook a
held of dead maize-stalks for ripe sugar-cane,
“ a <h a lov fy a stalk, and then opinioned
that he couldn t see how sugar could be extracted
from such tasteless stuff without black labor.
BOSHTER BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ot s°me Australian poet do for his country
h r B do '! e for London ?—Remark at
meeting of the Australian Literary Society.
He was only a larrikin dirty,
But the eye of the push bedews,
1\ lien it thinks of the way he led it
As king 1 of the Bouveroos.
And the p’lice in their lonely stations
Talk over his battles still—
How they fought in the dim bar-parlors
In lumbering Boshter Bill.
The push never knew his equal
In throwing a bottle true ;
There were none who could wield a sling-shot
In the manner that Bill could do.
He was game as an ironstone pebble,
He never knew he was beat;
And they called him a perfect artist
At using his fists and feet.
When the push got on to a stranger,
They’d land a rock on his head ;
Then Bill would wooden him lovely
And leave him pretty near dead ;
While the shops would up with their shutters
When Billy had made a start—
But, with all his play and his humor,
He’d a kind and a tender heart.
But the Fates grew sullen and angry,
And a rally in “Little Lons ”
Left Bill with a battered headpiece
In the hands of the mighty Johns.
And they gave him a thumping sentence
The biggest the law allows—
For he’d dealt in a manner thorough
With a couple of harmless Chows.
He came from the door of Pentridge,
And he wandered the streets alone,
Becalling his bygone glories—
When there broke on his ear a moan
From a poor old woman beside him,
And his heart grew hollow and sick
As she cried, “ Oh, give me a thrummer,
For the pubs, won’t give me tick.”
Bill thought of his mother in Heaven,
And the memories made him think
How she might, if she’d lived, been wanting
The price of a thrippeny drink.
He thought of his baby smackings,
And there coursed down his cheek a tear
At the sight of the poor old woman
Crying aloud for beer.
But Bill had no worldly riches ;
He’d never been holding much,
And he’d left the prison at Pentridge
As stiff as a cripple’s crutch.
But he took to the nearest passer,
And walloped him gaily out,
And handed his cash to the poor old girl
Saying, “Missus, this here’s my shout.”
When people saw that they’d wronged him
They hurried to take his part,
And found him an easy billet
Befitting his tender heart.
So the Bouveroos are converted
And the schools on Sunday fill,
And an earnest, eloquent worker
Is the teacher, Boshter Bill.
vie.
C.N.


To cure a cold in one day take Laxative
Bromo Quinine Tablets. All chemists refund the
money if it fails to cure. E. W. Grove’s signa-
ture is on each box. Is. ljd.*
* * * ■»
To those who cough, and those who need
Too frequently to blow their noses
At church or public meetings, heed
The secret that my pen discloses.
No need to be a nuisance now,
To man or child or maid demure.
How can you stop ? I’ll tell you how,
Dose up with Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Bacß Combs
Are all the rage, and, judging by the enormous
prices paid for them in Europe, they are likely
to be fashionable for another year.
WE are mounting the All Gold and the Jewelled Combs as fast as
hands can make them.
WE thus save all duties.
Gold Mounted Combs from 15s.
Jewelled Combs, with Pearls, Opals, Sapphires,
Turquoises, &c., at London Prices.,
Plain
Figures,
Strictly
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
House to 23 HUNTER STREET.
1 sct. Gold Mounts and
Whole Pearls, 48/-
“The Prooshan ” : We hear a lot concern-
ing the crow’s alertness and the difficulty shootists
find in potting the sable gent. Well, I have
accounted for a good many crows in my time,
and, before showing how the thing is accom-
plished, I shall submit a few don’ts. For
example : Don’t try to shoot him from a window,
as he “Willises” too abruptly. Don’t try a
frontal attack if you see one on a tree, even if you
have the gun in your inside ; crows are experts on
the X-ray business. Don’t plant behind a tree
that “ the bloomin’ wretch ” is alleged “to sit on
every inornin’ after breakfast.” The crow you’re
after does nothing so consistently foolish; he
merely sits there every other morning, and he
circulated the report of his regularity to deceive
you. Now for the trick. First sight your crow
on perch. Then walk backwards and obliquely
till within kill. Then turn like a serpent and let
the gun bark. If a good shot (and don’t go
“crowing” if you aren’t) you will kill him, just as
he is on the Nicholas Willis, 2ft. 9fin. from the
limb he perched on.
» • * *
“Janor” : At one time I gave the horse
credit for a certain amount of “savvy,’’ but a
recent happening leaves the impression that
horse-sense is not what it’s cracked up to be. The
moke responsible for this change of opinion was
used by a co-operative party of miners to pull
trucks out of an inclined shaft. He was docile,
and performed the work well, and his owners
reckoned that he could do anything but talk.
The trucker hooked him to the trucks in the face,
rode up on the last truck, tipped them, and
braked the empties down the incline, the gee-gee
leisurely coming along after. One night-shift,
however, the trucker, going to hitch on the
motive power, found it missing. Nor was it on
the dump. It had, in fact, mysteriously vanished,
and the offer of rewards, the efforts of search
parties, and the sagacious investigations of the
local “ John” failed to locate the truant. Some
weeks later a well-developed stench issued from
an unused crosscut that opened off the shaft, and
in the face of it was found the body of the
missing neddy. He had turned into it instead of
following the trucks, and stood with his nose
planted against its “dead end” until he died.
It was too narrow for the poor brute to turn in,
and he hadn’t the intelligence to back out or the
brains to neigh for help.
* * * *
“Nulla”: “Gip” asks is it usual for
gooseberries to grow wild in parts of Australia
(B. 7/0/ 0(1). Well, I don’t know about goose-
berries, but tomatoes grow by the acre along some
of the Queensland railway lines, and bananas and
different sorts of squashes about the Richmond
River. Near Cobargo (N.S.W.) there is a
mountain side literally covered with passion fruit
vines, and down the South Coast wild blackberries
are everywhere—in fact the only thing wilder than
the blackberries are the cow idolaters whose
g.ound they infest.
INTERPRETING THE SIGNS.
MICK THE MOOCHER (where the paint is worn off the finger-post): “ Where are ye goin!, mate ?”
STONY DOWNER: “ Oh, anywhere .”
MICK THE MOOCHER: “ Well, ye're on the wrong thrack. Can't ye read, man? The three iv
these roads is all gain nowhere."
“Elmore” : Rabbit trapping is a fascin-
ating game in the sparsely settled districts. Going
out on a dark night with your lantern, your hear
the jingle of trap plates and chains, and you know
you’ve got something, but it isn’t always bunny.
A fox or wild dog gives you a lively five minutes
before you despatch him. Foxes, if they cannot
pull the trap away, will gnaw away at the caught
leg till they release themselves. A tiger cat puts
up a great fight; so do domestic cats that have
gone wild. A wombat will cover you in a heap of
dirt if the pin holds, but a ’possum takes things
very easily.
* * ♦ *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has IUO
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“ Starr ” : lam a young woman. Lately
I went on a business visit to an old gentleman
who lives in a fairly busy street. Hurrying along,
my mind intently doing preliminaries round about
the matter of my visit, I arrived somewhat un-
expectedly at the gate, and put a hand on the top
rail, not quite breast-high, and vaulted over. The
next second found me standing shamed, disgraced,
outlie inside, facing asurprised, severely-dignified
old Englishman. Hitherto he had considered me a
decent, respectable young woman ; now my
character lay in a little heap on the street side of
those rails. I saw it lying there and knew my
dismantled state. Now, in my childish bush
days, I never got through or under any enclosure
which could be vaulted over; but nowhere this
side of 15 years or my arrival at long dresses have
I ever wanted to jump a fence. Yet, when my
mind was detached from time and place, I obeyed
the childish impulse, and would most probably
never had noticed the lapse but for the elderly
amazement confronting me. Now, will some
aboriginal persons leave off trapping snakes and
pulling scented goannas up by the roots to tell us
some instances in which long-discarded habit took
instant charge of the momentarily unconscious in-
dividual, with direful or other results —the bottle
habit being disqualified.
Dear Bulletin. —Can nothing be done to
lighten the complaint of Constable O’Reilly?
YVhen I met him the other day in a country town
his plaint ran thusly: “I get no chance, d’ye
moind. Av there’s any fine work that requires a
bit of ferriting out, they give it to one of the other
officers, but av there’s a dead Chinaman up the
lane, the order is, ‘ O’Reilly, remove him.’ ”
Acnud.
WHEN THE TEAM COME HOME
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When the teams come home in the gathering dusk,
In the glow of the red sun s funeral pyre,
“ , ? j , ~, ... ...’
’Neath the deep, arched blue, with its stars afire;
when the bright birds homeward are seeking rest,
Faint scents arise from the fresh-turned loam,
While the last flush fades from the fading West,
And earth is at peace when the teams come home,
home . their -j b chains>
. , „ ... , . . : ” ...
And steain from fche horses sweat-stained hides
Hangs low on the frosty air, the reins
All dangling loose by their glossy sides,
The clear air darkens, the stars, aglow,
Flash brighter yet in the darkening dome,
In the dusky twilight the bats fly low,
And earth is au peace when the teams come home,
..
When the teams go forth in the morning light,
The busy earth is aroused from sleep,
The frost has painted the paddooks white,
And iced the pool by the blackwoods deep ;
The merry birds are asliine and gay,
Across the pastures the cattle roam,
But sweeter far is the dying day,
The hour of rest when the teams come home.
seed-time and harvest, sheaf and grain,
The seasons pass with their passing show ;
Summer or winter comes round again,
Green or golden the grasses grow,
Dutalways the sunsets are flushing grand,
When the birds sink silent, no more to roam,
while the mist hangs low on the fallow-land,
A nd earth is at peace when the teams come home,
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALEER.
Nightinare (FOR THE BULLETIN.)
pLATE I stand within Life’s dusty hall,
*■“' fly bag is packed, the door is open, all
The boarders linger round. A pensive smell
Of dinner tints the atmosphere. “ Farewell 1 ”
So with a joyous bound into the night
i rush, and fail exhausted when a
light
Doth beckon me. Then, waking, yell,
because
I find myself, Oh, Lord I
just where I was!
VIO.
KODAK.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
“Scrip” (M.L): “Sosh” is the most con-
venient abbreviation we can find for “ Socialism.” You
will find “Sosh” and “Anti-Sosh” two very convenient
terms in Maoriland politics soon V.L.R. : “Res-
taurant” life-like and well-written, but rather a small
episode to make a story of B. James: “Longings” is
artistic enough, but mere soul-analysis isn’t a very virile
class of literature G.D.L. : Too much incidental
trouble. You haven’t the art of leaving out the non-
essential A.J.W : “Seddon” merely repeats, in bad
verse, what has been said ad nauseam in prose
lI.P. A. : Interesting in its way, but too far out of our
line O.H. Mac.: Very tame and flabby Dynamo:
Shouldn’t advise you to persevere. You don’t seem to
have any literary equipment... .Flabby' Paul: Snake lies
are plaved out Phene: Well-worded, hut too vague
and ambiguous Noel S. : Smart in spots, but lacks
vital interest Bessie Hedley : Sorry it’s of no use to
us Gerald B. : You are improving, but you don’t
“arrive” yet.... Boomerang : Mechanically correct, but
too obscure and inferential... .A.Z. A. : Rather flat and
uninteresting.... F. Norman: Not bright and racy'
enough for verse cf that kind Jimmy J.: Doesn’t call
for publication J.W.B. : Unsuccessful as verse. Would
possibly have made an effective prose sketch F.L.C. :
Form pretty good, but we don’t care for such amorous
hysterics T.W.F. : Neither quite reaches the mark
Carrie M. : Not enough point in it Mundalla : Touch
not light enough for the “situation.” Koala: An
inauspicious beginning... .Judex : Smartly' written, but
founded on a chestnut, and too much spread 0ut....
Eagle : Very sloppy style Sydna B. : Feeble and com-
monplace....E. A. : Facts, doubtless, but you don’t put
them effectively together... .R.O. : A sad story, but the
conventionally sentimental style doesn’t suit us
J.F.B. : Stereotyped eroticism in decently good verse
F.H.B. : Picturesque, hut too stiff in the metrical joints.
W.L.D. : Very weak and ineffective Kelpie: Two
of your verses are worth quoting :
... .Twig : Faintly humorous 0n1y.... William M. : Neatly'
expressed, but too formal and matter-of-fact... .H.A.Z. :
Too clumsv in form Molangool: A rat her crude horror.
.R.W.T. : “Collins” is a bit too rugged for print
j.F.L.: “Old Alice” told too baldly, though you show
some insight; other hopeless Hard Luck: £1 Is.
received for McNamara fund. Many' thanks The
Giaour: Doesn’t quite hit us, and cost us (id. short
postage John B. : Too long-winded Scribbler-Nib:
Far-fetched and fantastic Albert: A truly grievous
production Squeaker : It nearly scored Ellen
Smith: Verse pretty good; sentiments threadbare and
platitudinous....R.G.M. : Rather feeble....G.L.L. : Of
no general interest R. H. Parkes : Scrappy and un-
satisfactory Simon: Too much affected mystery and
profundity. Harry W. T.: A mere outrage upon the
language Mascotte: Inclined to be tawdry and
hysterical C.E.G. : Poem on Seddon arrived too late.
Don’t care for “ Socialism ” poem or “ Suicide ” poem....
Peter K.: Please send address to Bulletin accountant—
O. : Insomnia is a weary subject. Writer has it and he
knows Pippa : Rather tamely told E.H.G. : Very
true but very trite Marmalade: We suppose it’s in-
tended to be funny Halliards: Hopelessly bad
Nulla: “Notice” is not badly written, but it is
too long for its interest W.C.S. : Doesn’t sparkle
as it should T.E.H.D. : Not enough in it
A.C.L. : Not worth print.... Ada R. (Adelaide): Post
cards and photos received. Your color feeling is very
good, indeed. Do not waste time tinting post cards, but
learn drawing and painting, and so give yourself scope....
E. :“ Garden of My Soul ” would make a very decent
hymn. Not buying'hymns Pot-jostler : An insignifi-
cant trifle Agnes W. : Shows no literary gift
Flabby Paul : “Message” is a feeble effort... .H.A.S. :
Very inferior verse.... Maggie K. : Both “situations”
are old, and your treatment doesn’t make amends....
F. : “Life’s March” stopped dead. “ Gettin’ Gold”
only moderate Ejayem : “Blunderer” too ordinary.
C. Victor: Poemlet about “ days gone by ” declined.
Warra: “China” and “Palm Isles” both too
amateurish Eungella : “ Fable ” has some energy, but
that’s about all it has Achilles B. : “ Mulga Menu ” no
use. Other will do. Is that .your real name? Caber:
“ Cook ” tries hard to get there, but doesn’t quite arrive....
Dan F. : Belated Seddon verses of poor quality A.B. :
All old jokes C.F.W.: Don’t know of any books on the
subject, but it is true that there is a State-owned hotel
in Westralia ; that in Russia and other European coun-
tries the sale of alcohol is a State monopoly, and in parts
of Scandinavia, a municipal monopoly, under the Gothen-
burg system Krysner: Verses and yarn not up. A
couple of the picture-suggestions may serve ; if so, will
remit Shakspearian : The Bulletin hasn’t seen either
Mrs. Scott Siddons or Bernhardt in a Shakspearian part,
and therefore can’t say Scotty (Day Dawn): Tatter-
sail’s Consultations were never at any time drawn on
water H.W.S. : Send along a couple of samples
Peripatetic: Not enough sand.... Jim: Not a badly
written little yarn ; but hardly enough matter in it.
....Joss: Better see a physical culture expert—
somebody who’ll teach you how to breathe pro-
perly. That’s the best cure for stammering
T.M.P. : (1) The general account of Sydney' University
shows a yearly expenditure of about £30,000.
There is a big income from private foundations
(according to the last balance-sheet about £9000), and the
institution has its grounds and buildings rent free from
the State. The private foundations capital account
totals £474,730. (2) Students are taught chiefly by lec-
tures and by doing practical work in the science courses.
....H.W. : A strenuous effort to “write fine”; and it
fails John F. : Once again, The Bulletin doesn’t call
the farmer a “parasite,” except in the sense that his
industry has become partly parasitic under compulsion.
But when the Foreign-trader, for his own bad purposes,
misleads the farmer into talking of the manufacturer as a
parasite, The Bulletin points out some facts O.L. :
“Turtle” doesn’t quite get there even now W.R. :
“Shearing” didn’t shear much. Shears too blunt
Bonito : Well written, but gives no feeling of reality'
J.C. (Melb.): You don’t seem to have any metre-ear.
Try prose.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
B.G.K. : Photos, wouldn’t reproduce... .J.A. (New-
town): Both chestnuts....C.H.D. : Drawing not up;
couldn’t see any' joke, only a poor little pun Leo. O. :
Neither verses nor picture ideas suitable Centre:
Yes, we pay ss. for a picture suggestion if suitable.
Doubtful about those y'cu send : if either suits you’ll get
remittance E. Dunbar: Tio crude P.H. : Crud*
piece of work N.D.G. : Nothing humorous about dog
picture... .Master E.D. : Pictures quite hopeless....
Unsuitable : Ernest L., Babs, Brad, Brumby, V. King.
In dreams I see, thro’ stacks of foam,
A misty land of Brose and Bree ;
Altho’ it was my native home,
Australia’s good enough for me.
I’ve been lambed-down. Have woke up sore ;
Next week I didn’t give a damn.
At home I was like many more—
I never had enough to lamb.


No. 2-ANNOUNCEMENT. “ Dearly beloved ; j
on my way to church this morning, I was in-
formed by an eminent authority that I must
V rest.from good work* and have a complete
’V change. Ido not find it fin my heart to
k refuse six months’ leave of absence
on full pay and a purse of
sovereigns if iriy flock insist
u P° n ‘f-"
No 3 .. Hal ha! My flock rose to it
six months’ A , PUrBe ° f soverei K"s and
asked ” Ve “ nd no <fuestio,.s
No. 4 Wickedness, like charity, be-
gins near home. The Rev. Sallow-buck
-Practises the gentle art of mashing at a
neigborlng pub. - just
as a preliminary
N*. canter like.
No. 6--(joes into the land-agency
business, and makes'money enough
in a few minutes to
No. 1-Old Nick (to the Rev. Mr. Sallowbuck): Look f
here, you’re too precious spiritual you are, and you’re suffering
from soul-fag. Give it a rest for six months, hang up that halo of
yours, and try sin for a change. You will come back a new man! ’’
No. 5--Resolves to become .a
land agent, and just to get into
tiie proper frame of mind steals
the washing off a neighbor’s
clothes line..
No. 9 —ln a picturesque
island of the Pacific he
carries on that bad that the
local missionary points a
sermon directly at him on
the sin of frivolity.
No. B—Soon, finding that the girl mentioned in the last picture
bores him rather, he knocks her on the head with a croquet
mallet and throws her into a well.
No;. 7 Elope with the girl of
another man’s heart. The old
girl he left behind him ts here
seen prosecuting a vain pursuit.
No. 10—* * * * * Why shock
the moral sense ol our reader*
by an account of all the carry-
ings-on ol the Rev. Sallowbuck
during that six months feverish
pursuit after complete change V
f No. 11-HIS RETURN.
“ Dearly beloved! I come
back to you like a giant re-
, freshed with new wine, and
will now proceed to give you
an illustrated account of my
• wanderings. I regret to say that
. many of my best films were—
hum—spoilt by the climate. Hence
"my narrative must lack detail.
OFF THE CHAIN.
Based on some recent happenings, and the idea which arises therefrom, that an occasional moral “burst” may be
essential to the human welfare.


if Ifyere- were no life
differ dew,%re Wc«ld
t'e a for Am
c^rclr
v iorrrj a
V ST?eno "t® U S«
o*»'tra«c£ To
|)roceSsion
' ...
"tfe„ -were Icerm;
"*tje T^rn^ids
Kn,sj
SsSJ^ *) •»
/\n Vrta+ A^ouT - ME felloW .
x.-^ cr
%g o*p l i
Chi^Ker-Out”.' — Ih itje.
h Sjme of L°rd A
Out" yoa 50 °n
your e*r !
J)olly lodl\ths evidently
Know tfe Joys of
Ho should fifactice.
lh before fnirrov', Wil£
ofr wAj-Ter A A Candle end i£r .
go forttf &■’ leer— konjer.
-) 5 T fete (noticin^V^
/Sh%de ®t discontent
/on -face At new V
uwvaii) : |
'. 'Afr ’ yowve coirjet
-Jfrom fleltourne. J
/ KlA*S ,oh * rn2{
/*lbeyr« J
discontented J®
when ttrey 9 e ts J||?
u|> here! F*A
L°*al AM*'**’: — "t €t ? 'A '
>
jkttb §etts or. if" \
v/bile rt" crows yp up«-we — orh —we —’or\,
Voice ’.— " Pass it/e I>uns !’
0 H jfcid tf |* 5 0w,€^'rT£ ) *7C to get"
fid ' C^U'v/ryor| Cool<Jr>l~ you do
A\f\.i ~t,ce /T^|
of ffa'fourin. '
? ) 1 *Td!l
'VIAKV CFTKE
OPPOSITION*
ARE SUPPING.
from (pcuric/\L),
VIRTUE*
|WATSO»I]
" ie^
doctrine
(" A t?)
(^«5 V/ 1 ]jov/ dv ? ijt
IN BENT’S CAPITAL.


Jfie.Worids.:
|lj Dentifrice
The greatest benefit
you can confer upon your mouth
and teeth is to accustom yourself
to regularly cleaning them with
Odol.
Such a pleasant taste, and so very
refreshing /
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Tom Mann has now found his true level in
Australia. He’s a professional disturber of church
services.
Although I am a Christian, I believe in
tairplay.”—OouNcnAOß Street, of Richmond , at
a Melbourne anti-gambling meeting.
M. Slattery, once of Sydney, has struck
a stiddy job in America with a shipping firm, and
has sent over for his son to join him there.
V. McKay, of Sunshine harvester fame
when the mail left Fogtown, was in England mak-
ing contracts for steel supplies. But say ! Why
can t we manufacture our own steel as well as our
own harvesters ?
. Croft, well known to a long genera-
tmn of N.S. W. Lands Department trotters, has
laid down Ins official pen at the age of 73. He
wdl devote the rest of his life to fruit-growing,
and hopes to find the land less refractory than the
land-agent.
Major Hilliard, who gives up the Aus-
tralian army to go on the land, has cost N.S.W. a
good sum for military training. He was sent to
India for special experience, and to England for
musketry drill, and is altogether costly material
tor the making of a farmer.
The late Premier Seddon was a very rough
political diamond on his entry to Maoriland Par-
liament 27 years ago. His first speech occupied
pages of Hansard. Frederick Whittaker
replied to it with the scoff that he “thought it
scarcely worth while to fire a cannon at a min-
now.
Bowled out permanently, at Summer Hill
(Sydney), t’other day, after a long innings of 78
years, George H. Gilbert, old-time cricketer. He
captained N.S. W. in the first inter-State match
against Victoria in 1856, and played for N.S.W.
first English team. He was a cousin
of W. G. Grace.
There is no “side ” about Victoria’s acting
C. J. a Beckett’ “ With great respect y’honah°;
18 no * : so ’” a fi arl 'i s te r the other day.
‘ Oh, drop the ‘ great respect.’” “ Well, y’honaii,
without any respect, that is not so.” But, some-
how his Honor didn’t seem altogether pleased at
being taken at his word.
According to the Sydney E. News’ corres-
pondent, Sydney’s Dan O'Connor was at latest date
in considerable form at ’Frisco. He lost his “ valu-
able manuscripts” in the ’quake, it is true, but
was seen “drinking champagne out of a bottle ”
just before the mail left, and he was the only man
m all the city who still continued to wear a bell-
topper and a fantail-banger coat.
Ex-Treasurer Butler (S.A.) is very lachry-
mose concerning the growing popularity of Premier
Price. He is probably the only deposed Premier
in the British dominions wffio writes a letter of
complaint to the newspapers every time his
opponent scores a point. Butler is very thin-
skinned, and always squirms under criticism.
Worse still, he is apparently anxious to let the
general public see just how much lie is squirming.
Councillor John Miller is the Liberal
Pi otectionist candidate for Southern Melbourne
seat whom the Laborites have to defeat at the
Federal election. In the multitude of councillors
there is not an overflow of wisdom, but John
Miller has a name for being a level-headed person.
Moreover, Jie has a special claim on the woman
vote, for he’s a feather-dresser by persuasion, and
the owner of many a stylish hat‘is bound to take
a personal interest in his candidature.
THE FALL OF MAN.
THE FEMALE: “Could I persuade you to con-
tribute a trifle towards helping the fallen
women, sir ?”
CASSIDY: "Fallen wimin, is it? Faith, a
wimman fell on me yesterday. Luk at me! ”
How different is the spontaneous burst of
sympathy evoked by the death of a truly great man
like Seddon, from the carefully engineered lip-
loyalty on the passing of mere trifles like kings.
Mingled with the stereotyped cables from states-
men, potentates and trash on that dreary Monday
were the outspoken comments on train, tram and
boat, ranging from the pot-hatted man’s “Most
commanding figure” to the “Good bloke” of the
artisan and the “’Ard mozzle” of the bottle-o
But perhaps the most significant of all tributes
came from the little newsboys, who called, seem-
ingly less stridently than usual, “Late ’dition.
Death of Mister Seddon.” Come to think of it,
that Mister from the raw, irreverent urchins was
remarkable.
Scotsmen are just now laying great stress
on the fact that three recent British Premiers
have been frae the North, d’ye ken. But
Balfour and Rosebery can by no means claim
to have been successes in the job; and nobody can
imagine Oawmell-Bannerman making a mark in
history to equal Pitt’s. One big British poli-
tical _ figure, by the way, is said to have
put himself practically out of everything through
his fondness for drugs, which also con-
tributed to the ruin of another conspicuous
Parliamentarian of recent times. So that the
author of “John Chilcote, M.P.,” had something
tangible to work upon when she chose a be-
muddled drug-maniac of a politician for the pivot
of her story.
AN EXCEPTION.
REVEREND PERSON: “Ah, my dear friend, we
are here to-day and gone to-morraw.”
THE OTHER PERSON (three years still to do):
“YOU will be, yes; but wot about me?”
J. M. Gillespie, who used to carry on his
shoulders a good deal of the dead weight of the
Kyabram movement and was rewarded with a
billet on the Closer Settlement Board, left for a
trip to England the other day (his salary con-
tinuing), and the backbone of Collins-street and
Ilinders-lane turned up to bid him farewell. A
remark by one speaker that “it should not be
long before Mr. Gillespie was in the Legislature,”
calls attention to the dismal obliteration that has
overtaken the Kyabramapootras who roosted in
the Assembly for a session or two. They sat, a
row of silent, hairy, cow-like men, behind Iceberg
Irvine, and trotted together like sheep when the
division bells rang. But an election came, and
now only one of them is left —Hay Kirkwood,
M. L. A. for Eaglehawk. He sits at the old
address—a gaunt, lonely man with melancholy
whiskers, who never speaks without apologising
for his temerity, and usually breaks down at the
third sentence. He is a most inept and forlorn
figure, but he is nevertheless the one surviving
monument of the great Kyabram movement.
John Logan Campbell, the Grand Old
Man of Auckland—every Maoriland city keeps a
tame Grand Old Man on tiie premises—had a
statue raised to him the other day while he was
still alive. Also he got much press notice—
but then he presented Auckland with the
park in which the statue stands. One
paper gave him more than two pages.
John Logan Campbell graduated M.D.,
and came out to Sydney in 1839 as a
surgeon on the ship Palmyra. He crossed
the Blue Mountains to Bathurst in
search of adventure, and went to the
Lachlan. In search of more adventure
he took schooner passage to the Cannibal
Islands, and settled with a pakeha-Maori
trader—a Yankee sailor—at Waiau Har-
bor, now known as Coromandel (M.L.).
He boated thence up to the Waitemata
before Auckland was; hobnobbed with
the blanketed man-eaters of the Hauraki;
cut out his own canoe m the forests, and,
with a comrade, paddled it up to the
site of the future city of Auckland. He
was “squatted” on Motukorea Island,
at the entrance to the Waitemata, when
the British flag was hoisted ; bought
sections in the canvas and jam-tin city ;
gave up Maori pig-trading for more ambi-
tious merchandise, and in time became one
of Auckland’s wealthiest men. The old
is now 88, or thereabouts, but he
still walks to his office daily, and wears his hair
long, like Parkes. Twenty-live years ago he pub-
lished “Poenamo,” an entertaining book re-
counting his early adventures.
Died, in Adelaide, R. S. Crabb, born in
Cornwall 86 years ago, and vet. to all the S. A.
mounted departments (Survey, Police, &c.) since
half a century back. The veteran has lived all
these years in the oldest stone house in the city,
and at the date of its erection (about 1838) the
finest, at the far west end of Hind ley-street. This
used to be the fashionable residential quarter, but
is now the abode of the Chow and the kind of
lady who marries the Chow.
Quite a community of Angus M'Kays has
been discovered resident on the Nambucca
(N.S.W.); they turned up the other day during
the hearing of a case in Sydney Banco Court. It
proved that they were distinguished by nick-
names—“ Big Angus,” “Black Angus,” “Red
Angus,” “ Baldy Angus,” and so on. Which
recalls an early Highland regiment and a wildly
humorous English officer who used to call the
roll: “Donald McDonald with the Red Hair” ;
“ Donald McDonald with the Big Feet,” and so
on. Some of his descriptions were unpublishable.
He was accidentally shot during a review or some-
thing.
Sir William M‘Gregor, mentioned as a
possible Federal Governor of Papua, is hardly
likely to aspire to the post. He has, at present,
£2OOO a year as Governor of Newfoundland, and
the Papuan post is worth only £1250, and is of
much lower grade officially. It is known that
M'Gregor, who did good work in New' Guinea,
aspired to a Governorship of one of the Australian
States (that of Queensland, for example), and he
would have fitted such a post as well as any im-
ported person The Bulletin can think of just
now.
The ordi-
nary ex-war-
rio r, who
proudly sports
a big medal
like the top of
a meat-tin be-
sto wed for
p i a n o-smash-
ing and farm-
burning on the
veldt, would
double up with
envy if he saw
little soldier-
man Rowley
Hill, of Maori-
land, in his
full war-paint.
Rowley has
about two
dozen war
medals, and
thewholefront
part of him is
occupied. He
is somewhere
about 70 now,
but doesn't
look much
more than half
of it. He be-
gan his shoot-
ing career in
the British
Navy over 50
years ago,
served in the
Baltic and
Black Seas ;
shared in the
bombardment
of Sebastopol
a nd other
events in the
Crimean War;
was one of the
Naval Brigade
that marched to
Delhi and took
part in the relief of
Lucknow in ’57, and was
wounded while serving one of
the guns; saw service as a free-lance under
Garibaldi in South Italy, and was again wounded ;
came to Maoriland in 18(33 before the mast;
deserted his ship by swimming ashore in Auck-
land Harbor, and joined the Water Transport
Corps—a rowdy set of soldiers and sailors engaged
m boating mditary stores up the Waikato River
to General Cameron’s troops ; transferred to Von
Tempsky’s forest rangers, and fought all through
the Taranaki and East Coast guerilla wars, 18(35-
71 ; was decorated with the Maoriland Cross for
a particularly brave act during the defence of
a friendly pa at Mohaka, Hawkes Bay, against
le Kooti and a big force of Hauhaus ; and also
holds two Humane Society’s medals for dredging 1
semi-insensible people out of the water. Now,
tottering under his weight of medals, he looks like
a perpendicular silver mine.
David Watt, who passed out recently at
Maclean (N.S.W.), at the alleged age of 106, was
one of the Clarence River district pioneers. Way
back in the days when the river was hedged with
thick brush, he pushed a primal Australian in-
dustry hewing out shingles and staves. In the
early GO’s, when the Free Selection Act set settlers
seeking land, he turned the knowledge of the
country he had gained at the point of the axe to
account “ laying them on ” to the best spots there-
abouts. And most of Watt’s best spots are the
best spots still.
The estate of old land-boomer, W. P.
Buckhurst, was sworn for probate last week, in
Melbourne, at £45,850. Fifteen years ago Buck-
hurst was a millionaire. He started as a second-
hand dealer in South Melbourne, and put all his
savings into land. As a result he gradually got
into his clutches a great part of South Melbourne
and South Yarra, and when the boom came he
was in the thick of it as an estate agent and boss
boomster. He made an enormous pile of money,
but stayed at the game just long enough to lose
it all, barring the modest trifle he left behind him.
That regrettable deception, Simian Phraser,
told a meeting of anti-Sosh, anti-Labor, anti-
everything persons in Soutii Melbourne the other
night that he was sure the Tories would triumph,
because his gardener, his housemaid, and his par-
lor-maid were all anti-Sosh. The ancient Sena-
tor gave the latter damsel a good advertisement
by publicly stating that she had £5OO saved up—
but, alas ! she has been dusting Simian’s parlor for
£5 years, so she can’t be young as well as rich.
Simian, however, didn’t say anything about the
politics of the most important lady in the house—
his cook. Of what advantage the Tory tendencies
of all the other menials if the cook is a red-hot
anarchist ?
Senator Neild was in Brisbane lately,
slaughtering thousands. He didn’t kill them,
however, with the sword, nor with the jawbone.
He was giving demonstrations of the efficacy of a
new white-ant specific of his own invention. It
consists of a white powder and is called “The
White Ant Destructor, Limited.” Jawbone
appears to have been always destroying things.
He destroyed 35,000 seconds at one attempt; he
was responsible for the destruction of Reid’s
Ministry in N.S.W. ; and he has been all his
political life trying to destroy Australian indus-
tries. Also he endeavored to destroy Federation.
On the other hand, it must be admitted that he
constructed a Nocent Waterspout. The name of
it, if The Bulletin remembers rightly, was
Eftsoons.
As though Victoria, with its millions of
debt and its lasting recollection of the Boom and
the Burst, had not sufficient reminders of Duncan
Gillies, some of his ancient friends put up a
memorial stone over his grave in Melbourne
general cemetery last week. The stone bears the
following inscription:—
The Federal Meteorological Bill having
arrived the prospects of possible or probable
1 ederal meteorologists are already being dis
cussed H A. Hunt, the N.S.W. weather-'
prophet, who has done excellent work for the
btate, is considered in the front of the running
tor the billet, though there is still a yearning on
the part of the importing press to bring in a
genius with a knowledge of Western American
cyclones, or an authority on Indian monsoons
Hunt was an imported man a good long time ago’
but the importing press always wants a fresh, raw
imported man who knows nothing of local affairs.
Among all the honors paid to the remains
of Maoriland s late Premier the most picturesque
was that interval of silent mourning at the
JNewport (Vic.) railway workshops where Seddon
hammered hot iron many years ago. For five
minutes, just at the time the coffin was supposed
to be carried to the grave, work ceased, the
engines stopped, and every workman stood still
and m dead silence beside his unfinished job
Ihe only sound was the mournful clang of the big
bell, which wailed once each minute, and
between wails the clash of a dropped pin could
have been heard. If it was Bent who thought out
that idea, there is more poetry and sentiment in
the big man’s soul than anyone ever suspected.
“ T.F.M.” writes
?? ns l < * e F, TIIB Bulletin, when it mildly suggests
that the Melbourne Dogberry Panton is an autocrat is
too euphemistic altogether. Autocrat! In his own ram-
shackle domain, old Joe is a bigger autocrat than Nicholas
Romanoff. The lean and hungry shellbacks of the Mel-
ville Island who recently approached Joe’s awful presence
got exactly the kind of justice the diggers used to get
54 years ago, when this same Panton—then a lanky
raw, overbearing youth, just arrived from Aberdeen-
played the role of juvenile despot on Bendigo. As William
Howict (of the William and Marv partnership) put it:
. Panton, a very young man, was appointed Assis-
tant Commissioner at Bendigo. I believe the part of the
nelo under Ins surveillance was Kangaroo Flat, but
wherever it was, he very soon managed to produce that
state of feeling which has since grown under his admini-
stration to actual rebellion.”
Ilowitt goes on to relate that the diggers became so in-
censed against Panton, that on one occasion a riotous
assemblage, armed with pick-handles and other lethal
weapons, set his authority at defiance ; and when he
threatened to arrest the ringleaders, the crowd replied
that it would make mincemeat of anybody who attempted
to carry the Pan ton mandate into effect. No arrests
were made. Panton is older now, but no wiser. Fifty-
four years ago he suffered from fearful enlargement of the
head, and he has it still.
Not the least foolish of his delusions is that—because at
one period of his career he owned a noble vessel of half a
ton displacement or thereabouts, with which he occasion-
ally got stuck on a mud-bank in Geelong Bav—he knows
more about the handling of ships than any master mariner
that ever trod a deck.
MAKING HIS DEBT
GOOD.
JONES (to friend, who has asked him to have a
drink): Washer good, ole hoy I You haven't
any money."
SMITH: “ Thash nothin’ I owe the boss half a
quid; he can take it out of that”
“H ” writes :
“ Outis,” in Sydney Telegraph, moralises about Seddon
not having’ put together “ two beans ” during his 13years’
Preirnerslup. Seddon didn’t make money out of politics—
had he been corrupt he might have made much. But he
didn t die a poor man. He had considerable mining and
other interests on the West Coast, and they turned out
well. He had at different times good directorships.
Ihere was a good salary and liberal travelling allowances
as 1 renuer—not what a syndicate or a Trust would give
°5n v , e - n a h ,l s bank or insurance co., for like service, but
still big. When the estate is cut up, I will be surprised if
it isn t worth from £20,000 to £30,000. And, besides that.
Parliament is certain to make a grant to the family.
Iwo girls are married, the eldest son is in the Defence
office, the second in a law office, and a daughter was her
father’s secretary.
DUNCAN GILLIES,
SPEAKER OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF
VICTORIA.
Died 14th September, 1903.
Aged 70 Years.
It is entered on the records that he sat in seventeen of
the Parliaments of Victoria as Member, Minister, Pre-
mier, and Speaker ; and rendered great service to the
State.
Statesman and friend to truth, of soul sincere ;
In action faithful, and in honor clear ;
Who broke no promise, served no private end ;
Who gained no title, and who lost no friend.
This stone was raised by his old colleagues, brother
members, and friends, as a tribute to the memory of a
great member of Parliament.
In addition to this (for not many people visit the
cemetery), a portrait of Talking Duncan has been
bought for the Parliamentary library, and is to
be unveiled by Bent.


Pra<slical Unbreaßableness
Is assured by
the use of
Steel Stamped
ENAMELLED
WARE.
ihis BEAUTIFUL WARE, which, if onlv for its PRACTICAL
UNBREAKABLENESS, must commend itself to COUNTRY
RESIDENTS, to whom THE REPLACEMENT of BROKEN
ARTICLES is sometimes a DIFFICULT MATTER. The
sets following are very COMPREHENSIVE. SINGLE
ARTICLES may be had at proportionate prices.
SETS OF KITCHEN ENAMELLED WARE.
SKT NO. 1.
Set Complete, £J2 ss.
SKT NO. 2.
Set Complete, £3 ss.
Fully
Upholding
the Virtue of
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES.
SET NO. 3.
Grey Saucepans (3) ..
Grey Saucepan, with Steamer
Grey Round Boiler ..
Grey Stewpans (3)
Grey Baking Pan
Grey Fry Pan ..
Grey Coffee Pot
Grey Teapot
Grey Kettle
Grey Gravy Strainer..
Grey Colander..
Grey Salt Box ..
Grey Double Milk Saucepai
Grey Wash-up Basin..
Grey Dipper
Set of 5 Canisters
White Pudding- Bowls (4)
White Mixing Bowl ..
White Milk Jug (2) ..
White Jug, with Cover
White Spoons (3)
White Pie Dishes
Grey Slop Pail
1 each 3, 5 and 6 pints
9 pints
4£ gallons
1 each 2, 4
and 8 pints
14in.
llin.
7 cups
6 cups
6 pints
9£in.
3£ pints
18in.
6 pints
each sin., Gin., 7in., Bin.
15in.
1 each 1J and pints
2| pints
assorted sizes
1 each llin., 12in.
Set Complete, £4 15s
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS JZT &
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
PRICE 10/6
MONEY BACK IF YOU WANT IT !
XShe PLUM RAZOR
Will shave you easier, quicker, better than any other razor at
ANY price. Requires no grinding—gives no trouble—is a
comfort and a pleasure to use. YVe guarantee it for 2 years,
and will exchange it or refund money if it fails to please !
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6. Razoleo Lightning Razor Shar-
pener, 6d. Large Tablet Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 ; Pair in Morocco Leather
Case, 21/- ; Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-; Pair in
Handsome Case, 30/-
POST FREE to Any Part of the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 b George St.,
SYDNEY.
Endorsed by
Medical Men!
Here’s a Medical Battery that is
endorsed by medical men all over
the country. It is a genuine
Battery that will give relief in
case of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, and all nervous troubles.
The finest electric belt ever made
cannot approach this Battery in
any way.
The Osborn iw Jerdan
Electric [Redical Battery
Price 35/-
Post
Free.
MONEY
REFUNDED if
satisfactory.
medical apparatus
WITH DRV BATTER'
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
‘MY OPTICIANS
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Men’s Sac Suits at 03l
Made to Measure in PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Manufacture, and in
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and COATINGS.
SWfe- Send for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
THE...
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER, LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE .... 3 700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE.. .. 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE .. .. .. .. 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSIIAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leaden hall-street, London, E.C.
HIHBNi
leleclionJML
from all M
Gmwweras
/r.J.. ftc-etc-
Recor {
SignorteKLODANl
FIT
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
HICOLEPHOHES
The Worlds Triumph in Talking Machines.
From £3 lOs. to £l2.
Nicolepl)oi)€ Disc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. • - 5/m each. 7in. • • 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
!Oi». - • 3/6 each. 7in. - - 1/6 each.
W* G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George SU
SYDNEY,


os
When
<2:
*
#ST
%)V<l^^
&IL
ra
ifta/Lcn/,
tU-mt
Wvtmcv
jfl-WQW/n
imva/ny
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE .
Dress Fabrics
4 ' 4
TRADEMARK
ARE S Leadu?o B SrIpI R s
THE VARNISHED
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 26, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
The joyful mothers of the young children asked
to the juvenile party at Government House
accompanied their offspring, and few of them
could resist posing a little before the aides and
private secs., and the string of outsiders who did
the inspection act. A curled darling by each
hand (it had been a busy forenoon for the barbers,
crimping, or curling, or cutting the floss-like hair
of the over fives and under twelves), the mothers
stepped along with a “ You-didn’t-think-I-had-
such-big-children - did - you ” expression. Some
two hundred youngsters whose parents are on
the Government House list played and ate and
danced under Lady Northeote’s ken. And the
vice-regal staff in the very opulent and unhidden
treasures of its uniform, graced the occasion.
Graced is a good word, and it was gracious of the
staff to put on its unicorn (no doubt that’s what
the children called the Nabobish clothes) to be
Eart of the Punch and Judy and Aunt Sally show.
iady Northcote seemed to enjoy herself quite as
much as her bud guests. She danced and smiled
and chatted with them through the amber after-
noon, until the rather wan violet, rose and orange
of the winter sunset blent with the orange, rose
and violet of the lighted Chinese lanterns that
outlined the garden ways.
The well-cared-for Australian child is mostly a
beautiful sapling with fearless eyes, hair as if
spun from the sunshine, and not much beetroot in
the bloom of its flower-like face. The picked
youngsters who swarmed through Government
House on Wednesday were no fairer than those
one meets any day in trams but they were broadly
speaking, more plainly dressed. Knee-high frocks
of muslin or thin silk, without elaborate trimming,
and tan shoes and hose were worn by the girls, and
by the boys sailor suits, or the ordinary knieker
get-up. One little Quaker in grey of studied plain-
ness caused an outsider to remark “ that child
must be an arrow in the quiver of a Uni.
Professor. It’s only the Profs, who send out
their progeny dressed with the pride of humility.”
Mrs. Herbert Marks, who was one of the prettiest
young mammies present, trotted out the kind of
infant to whom Swinburne wrote so much poetry.
“What is April’s prime to your face?” Doesn’t
he say in one of his songs that babe is the sweetest
word ever beard, and that there is no rhyme for
it. (He manages one, however, with astrolabe,
and there are possibilities about the front name
of Abe Lincoln).
Another graceful and Spanish-looking mammy
was Mrs. Taylor-Young, who owned a brace of
the finest little chaps present. Two of the George
Lane Mullins boys were jolly little warriors. In
fact, the doctors’ progeny (and there was a lot of it
at the party) seemed of extra special quality.
Perhaps doctors don’t give their milk-teeth young-
sters as much hot bread, pickles and ham as they
ask for.
Most Sydneysiders are quite willing to go in
a body and sing “ Abide With Us” under Lady
Northcote’s window at Government House
if they thought that the melodious petition
would induce her to linger longer on the
edge of Farm Cove. She goes back to Mel-
bourne next Thursday, after a three months’
stay that has been filled with kindly and patriotic
actions. To-day she entertained the children of
the Kindergarten schools at Government House.
She has paid au revoir visits to a string of charit-
able institutions, and further encouraged a local
industry by ordering a lot of livery material from
the Vicars’ factory at Marrickville for the men-
servants at her official residence. Her Ex. wears
this winter, as she did last, Marrickville tweeds,
and the local potteries have profited by her pur-
chases and the example set thereby.
Last week Lady Northcote received little Leila
Doubleday and listened to the child’s playing for
an hour and a quarter. She played, in all, eight
selections for piano and violin. The only Sykes
(and his ever fresh buttonhole) was on the piano
stool. At Leila’s concert, which occurs next
Saturday, there will be excellent support. Mr.
J. C. McKeown, who was the tenor in the recent
“Coquette” production, Mr. Henry Rofe and
Miss Maud Thackeray will spray the air with
song.
The Governor-General is a hard-worked mortal
these times. The itinerary of his N.S.W.
Western Districts tour suggests that he is stand-
ing for the Senate, and is in a hurry to get votes.
Leaves Sydney Tuesday night. At Parkes, the
next morning, to encounter a formal welcome, a
procession, presentation of addresses, review of
children, visit to the hospital, reception and drive
to view the surrounding sheep runs. Travel by
night to reach Condobolin, where the Parkes pro-
gramme is to be gone through again, with the
additions of a hospital ball and visits to the
waterworks and rifle range (he does not visit the
tip; perhaps they have no tip at Condobolin.)
It’s four o’clock next morning before he escapes
from Condobolin. By 10 o’clock he is in the
clutches of Forbes; same programme, with the
exception that a concert takes the place of the
ball. Next morning (Saturday) journey to Lake
Cowal station, and in view of his industry and
good behavior, the G.-G. gets the week end off,
also the Monday. But on Tuesday Wyalong
claims him for receptions, luncheons, welcomes,
visits, processions, banquets, &c. On YVednesday
Cootamundra has a lien on him. On Thursday
Albury seizes him like a brigand. On Friday
morning the Governor escapes over the border to
Victoria. What the Victorians have prepared
for him I do not know.
Just been looking at a newspaper recital of
State Governor Rawson’s list of official fixtures
for a week beginning from last Saturday. Surely
his Ex. must daily read the Book of Job merely
to keep his patience from collapsing. At the
Cricket Ground he sees part of a football
match, and from that goes to a bowling
match at the City Green, where, no doubt,
he’ll be told how badly Lord Jersey played.
Yesterday, as a counter-irritant to the sport, he
presided at a Central Methodist _ meeting. (I
know a Methodist who reverences nis rather drab
brand of belief so highly that sometimes, when he
gets religiously exalted, bethinks it an honor to
wash his own face.) To-day, with plumed horse-
men and blank cartridge, he opens the State
Parliament with an ungrammatically written
speech. (Its not his writing anyway.) In the
evening he’ll put on a ridiculous apron of lamb-
skin and preside at a Masonic installation, to-
morrow he chairs a meeting of the City Mission,
Thursday the Church Society’s Jubilee will catch
him for a speech at the Town Hall, and
he’ll have to listen to eulogies on the past
work of the society (a great writer asserts that
“the past turns to snakes”). On Friday, hell
open the Sheep-breeders’ Show, and at night the
much-tried, dear man will deliver himself alive at
the Town Hall, sit the other side of the water-
bottle that is an accessory of every decent public
meeting, and discuss the affairs of the Prisoners
Aid Society.
And while the chief male ornament of the
family is thus shoving along his heavy official
burden, Miss Rawson, in her sable frock and
white furs, will spend much of her daytime in the
pure prose of Kindergarten Meetings and Sales of
Work for Worthy Objects.
Francis Bathurst Suttor, President of N.S.W.
legislative Council, has sold his western home,
“ Bradwardine,” at Esrom, near Bathurst, which
may be taken as an indication that this branch of
the Suttor family will in future reside in Sydney.
“Bradwardine” has the distinction of having
had an Executive Council meeting held under its
roof in the time when Gus Loftus was _ Governor.
A few hundred yards off is “ Walnier,’’ the home
of Dame Sutter’s father, Mr. T. Hawkins, one
time Gold Commissioner in the roaring days.
The marriage of the very polite Waterfield,
Private Secretary to Governor Plunket of Maon-
land, was a “ quiet ” one, in the strictest sense of
the term. The bride—a Miss Cresswell—only
arrived from England the week before the event,
and went to Christchurch, where she has rela-
tions—the Helmores —who are blessed with cash.
Waterfield left his Ex. fishing on the banks of a
Hawke’s Bay stream, with Miss Kathleen Plunket
for a moral support, and the wedding happened
right away. Rev. C. H. Moreland, head-master
of Christ’s College, did the necessary work, which
was the first happening of its kind in the college
chapel.
“Charlie” Westmacott, once favorably known
as one of the pleasantest Actor-managers m the
profession, has just been heard of after long
vanishment from his old haunts. He is running
a farm on the North Coast, and making much
wealth in the cow business. He says he likes the
cow. She is much less trouble than the leading
lady, and often a great deal more intelligent at
rehearsal. Also a good cow is always letter-
perfect in her part, and you generally know where
to find her when she is wanted.
Fresh-Air League Ball, which occurs on July 3,
promises to be a capital frisk. The Rawsons will
be present, and from the Victoria Barracks will
come a contingent looking like the embattled
seraphim. Mrs. Julius Caro and Mrs. Jack
Sheridan are the hon. secs.
A gold-topped little young Aucklander, full of
energy and allegresse , has been a few days in
Sydney on her way from Europe back to her
native Remimra. She is a grand-daughter of Rev.
Parson Buddie, whose name is written in the
history of the North Island. Miss Buddie wore
an audacious hat achieved abroad. It was the
color of verdigris (which is a lovely green), and in
texture was like that of a man s silk hat—with a
nap—and it had a lot of smoke-colored chiffon and
smoky peacock’s feathers decorating it. Have
you seen that hat ? ” the rubbernecks lunching at
the Australia would ask, and there would be a
general screwing around of heads.
Talking of hats : I don't wonder that, when the
woman with the matinee hat at the theatre is
requested by the woman behind her to remove the
obstruction, she sometimes declines. The manner
of asking is so often like that of Hugh Ward tell-
in°- the detective, in “The Man from Mexico,” to
“ take off that hat.” Perhaps the asker, expecting
a refusal, unconsciously makes her tone hostile.
Saw a girl at the Tivoli remove a big crinoline
straw hat lately, and the shifting took close on
ten minutes, because her hair, which had been
dressed very loosely, was pinned up with hairpins
all around to the brim of the hat. Her hatted
aspect was very pretty, but afterwards she looked
as if an able-bodied hen had been scratching on
her poll.
The Marie Narelle boom has turned Sydney
green. We see green. Shouldn’t be surprised if
Marie were called upon to banish the snakes from
this continent. She has captured audiences of
Irish descent just as Jessie Maclachlan caught
the ear, eye and cash of the Thistle section.
Like the plump, pretty Scotswoman Miss Narelle
has fine shoulders and a personality, and
she sees everyone who calls on her, whether
the visitor arrives in a motor car and wealing
sables, or comes in a penny tram and dressed in a
bashed bonnet and reach-me-downs. And she
can use endearing terms such as “sweetheart
and “darling” to other women without giving
"them a “ beware ” feeling. She exudes affection,
toleration, and gratitude. Opals are her lucky
stones, Friday her lucky day, and thirteen her
fortunate number. (Astonishing what a number
of persons like to hear this kind of news !) As for
Mr. Chester Fentress, Miss Narelle met the melo-
dious cinder-blond tenor at an at-home, given
by Miss Eva Mylott. At first time of asking (to
come out here, of course) he said “No.” But
when he looks at his audiences three thousand
some hundreds strong he must surely think “ I hou
hast led wisely, kindly light.” He is the only
American (barring Mr. J.C.W., perhaps) Sydney
has met who hasn’t a film of American accent.
By the way, he is acquainted with the father of
that genius Nance O’Neil. And the paternal
person is a Hebrew auctioneer.
A number of intruding blue uniforms were
about the portico of the Town Hall at Miss
Narelle’s concert on Saturday night, and as the
tidal-wave of audience looked at the police it
asked, “Is there a defaulting banker inside.
But the Big Boys Blue were only keeping an eye
on the overcrowding tendency and taking a
helmeted interest in seeing the overflow shoved
off the premises. On Sunday the Frank Coffees,
of “ Iroquois,” entertained the soprano at their
Chatswood towered humpy. Miss Narelle goes
to Mudgee on Thursday.
Miss Roxy Barton’s marriage in London to one
Henry Stephen Garraway is announced in the
matches department of the morning papers. She
was a good-looker. Her looks were better than
her acting, and she did not have to wait long for
an engagement when she got under the grey sky.
Her people were well-known livedock (Sydney)
residents, and the family mansion is said to be a
most haughty edifice. But the occupants struck
l(3iin years. An idea was abroad that fair Roxy
is a niece of Justice Toby Barton, but she is in no
wise related to him.
Mrs. Harry Lassetter is down here in the
golden-tissued weather from her Bathurst eyrie.
(Read a short story somewhere the other day in
which Bathurst was called “The Garden of the
Lord.” Modest. Must be news even to the
Omniscient to learn that He has property there.)
She will abide in “ Redleaf.” Mrs. H. L. is one of
the smartest dressers here, but, unlike most other
smart dressers, she doesn’t pound the roadways
when she takes her walks abroad. You’d think
by the way some women walk that their lower
limbs were pile-drivers, and that they were saving
the municipal council the expense of a steam-
roller.
A Maoriland friend tells me that his State s
greatest matrimonial catch is “not the 40-
vears-old man I meant ” in last week’s letter.
There are two greater matrimonial catches.
One is a Buchanan and the other a
M'Lean. Great Haggis! God is good to the
Scotch. However, these gentlemen are into the
seventies, and that’s really too many mile-
stones along life’s road for romance’s dimpled
feet.
Mrs. Parbury, one of the Parbury, Henty com
bine, is said to be the greatest dazzler now 111
Sydney. Looks, clothes and “flick” she s got
’em all, and though all these things are great, the
greatest of them is “flick.” Without “flick we
are but as sounding rags and a tinkling poke
bonnet. Mrs. Parbury is an Englishwoman.
Another visitor staying at the Australia is a
Dutchman, Baron F. Bischoff van Ryck, and the
name displayed on his lustrous pasteboard is sur-
mounted by a coronet. He isn’t quite as frantic-
looking as Herr Bulow von Schmid, who gets run
in, in “The Man from Mexico,” but he isn’t much
handsomer. If he’d only wear his coronet in the
hotel dining-room, Sydney would school itself to
think him very like Apollo.
If you have a baby and if you can sing even
with a small voice, and if you want to put the
baby to sleep, get Miss Fannie Ryan’s “Sleep on,
Dear Baby,” and soothe your infant with the
lullaby. No tender-hearted infant with an ear
for music will insist on sitting up and joining in
the conversation after having had this baby song
warbled in its baby ear.
The only child of Arthur Lassetter, an un-
usually clever and pretty boy of eight years,
died yesterday morning of blood poisoning.
Doesn’t every other kind of loss seem insignificant
in comparison with the loss of an only child ?
Someone sends me a cutting from the WEL-
LINGTON Times, published somewhere in the back
regions" of this State. It is a report of a local
hall, and shows a freedom and breadth of treat-
ment that are refreshing. Two extracts es-
pecially attracted me: —
The men were dressed with neatness and tact, and
danced well. I noticed, however, a strong tendency to
nurse the ladies while dancing.
One feature I have much pleasure in recoroing: the
ladies with few exceptions refrained from looking on the
red wine, and the men behaved with much decorum.
When I read that, it set me wondering what would
happen to a city scribe who put on his boiled shirt
and his bob-tailed warpaint, and went to view a
ball at our Town Hall, and then wrote proudly m
the S.M. Hekald that very few of the ladies
drank.
Tourist-Chief Donne, of Maoriland, gets to be
a much-quoted man because his talks to inter-
viewers cyanide out more richly than twenty
hundredweight of road metal to the ton. A
woman who yarded him on the subject of
“ostrich-raising in M.L. as an occupation for
women” came away with the impression that
“his dough was just full of candied peel.
Speaking of the ignorance of people abroad on
Australian matters: The lord mayor of one
of the three principal cities of the United
Kingdom told T.E.D. with great cheerful-
ness “that he couldn’t teach hivi much
about Maoriland. I know its situation in
Hobart quite well. In fact, I have shares in it.
The civic swell must have meant Mount Zeehan.
From the phalanx of noted personages whom
T.E.D. met abroad in his two years’ planet-
worrying there stand out, far in advance of the
others, two striking personalities—President
Roosevelt and the Pope. Last Sunday, when all
the air was a long, sweet dream and the earth
was a sweet, wide smile, launchers and their
launch ran the visitor up the Parramatta River
past millionairess Walker’s Convalescent Home,
and he did a good imitation of being deeply im-
pressed. Talking of the Australian girl’s admiration
for the American type of beauty, Mr. Donne’s state-
ment that the New York artist Harrison Fisher s
model is a Sydney girl will be a bit of a staggerer
to local admirers of Fisher’s magazine and illus-
trated paper work. The model beauty is a Miss
Foster.
A school-fellow of those recent Sydney belles,
the poetically-named Elaine and Enid Whiting,
tells me (in handwriting like a profile view of a
jagged coast) that the Tennysonian names snared
me. Miss Elaine Whiting married Dr. Phipps
Waugh, of Parramatta, and it is she who has suf-
fered the loss of her first-born. Her sister Enid,
who married Captain Waters, of Melbourne, is
still the proud mother of a baby girl.
Miss Miles Franklin, whose book, “My
Brilliant Career,” caused a flash in the pan of
Australia, has gone to Germany through America.
Her Germanic uncle, who is said to be something
heavily medalled in the Kaiser’s army, sent for
her.
Don’t forget that worthy charity ball of the
Fresh Air League. Mrs. T. H. Kelly and Mrs.
“Johnny” Sandes have a charming set in readi-
ness. Mrs. Julius Caro and Mrs. Sheridan are
hon. secs.
State Parliament opened to-day—it's always
doing something foolish.
Miss Gladys Loewenthal (daughter of a Sydney
merchant) is a courageous as well as generous
youngster. She celebrates her 21st birthday by
giving £lOO to some charitable institutions. As
the papers have acknowledged the gift and its
cause, the giver dates herself.
Miss Margaret Thomas got her lightweight self
on to the Mongolia on Saturday amid great
bouquet-throwing. Her Tam-o’-bhanter, tweed
clothes, huge bunch of violets, and intended hus-
band were right in the shipscape.
Miss Hilda Mulligan, the little Manly soprano
who went to London to have her voice bevelled,
has now had the process completed. At Milan
they thought so much of her chances of becoming
a nightingale that they offered to finish her voice
with three years’ training absolutely free cf
charge, on condition that she bound herself to sing
at La Seal a Theatre for an equal term after her
debut. Having a brother with a good law practice,
and parents who are fairly well provided with the
good things of this world, Miss Mulligan could
afford to reject the offer, and after two years’
residence in Milan went to London, where Tosti
completed the polishing of her vocal gem. When
the process was finished the management of La
Scala Theatre engaged her for the soprano parts in
“Aida,” “La Tosea,” “Madame Butterfly,”
“Un Ballo in Maschera,” and “La Boheme,”
and she will make her debut in that great opera
house in October.
A young gentleman with “flatiron ’ and
“ America-at-work” written all over him is staying
at one of our swaggah hotels. And the dinners
he gives cause the other diners to hurry on with
theirs, and make excuse to pass out slowly by
the route of his table and size up the decorations
and dishes and guests. One evening lately his
table showed pheasants cooked in their feathers.
His company on this occasion were some half-
dozen or so 'of the best-looking of our Leading
Families.
A dame belonging to a “benevolent” society
realised, the other day, that it is a long worm
that has no turning. She took some visitors
around to various cottages in her district to show
liovv excellently charity was organised there-
abouts so as to ensure that no family received
more than about eighteenpence per week. One
of the objects of this “bounty,” maddened by
various insulting questions put to her by the
charitable dame, rounded on her at last with the
well-founded query, “By the way, Mrs. Affluent,
has your son finished his term for embezzlement
vet?” The victim of offensive patronage has to
slave a bit harder to make up for the lost eighteen-
pence a week, but she thinks that moments joy
well worth it.
David Jones’ winter sale is on, and the firm is
clearing out its stock at reduced rates with such
rapidity that you could scarcely catch it with a
motor car.
A Brisbane correspondent:—
All Saints’ Church, Wickham Terrace, was packed with
a crowd that bulged out of the windows, filled the
neglected yard and trickled down the street, when Col.
Henry George Chauvel, Chief Staff Officer, Queensland
Commonwealth Forces, married Miss Sybel Campbell
Jonp. The bridal gown of lisse over taffeta, with square
court train of Irish lace, edged with chiffon ruffles,
was a dream, and the pink and white bridesmaids-elder
sister Dora. Misses Chauvel and Edres Marks, and a little
niece—were an attractive quartette. Also they wore
silver-heeled shoes, which seemed to impress the crowd.
The statue of the late Queen Victoria was unveiled on
Saturday last. There was the usual display of the army,
and the handy man furnished the guard of honor to his
Ex. But, as usual, the mounted police were the brightest
spot in the procession, or, at least, they divided honors
with the battery horses. There was not an overwhelming-
crowd, the Queenslanders preferring as a body to
view the inter-State Rugby display at Bowen Park.
The sun shone and the first westerly of the season let
itself loose with telling effect. It fluttered the white
petticoat under which her late Gracious hid her bronze
blushes in a most unseemly fashion. Incidentally it blew
away the Mavor’s speech, which was on loose sheets, and
this loss caused a slight delay while Ministers of the
Crown A.D.O.’s, and police chased the eloquence among
the crowd. When the moment arrived and the Governor
pulled the ribbon, the wrappings came away with a will,
and descended with extinguishing effect on the top-
hatted politicians around.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
YOUR COMPLEXION!
TF you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
I appearance, or is troubled with blackheads, freckles
and wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can
easily exchange for a skin without a blemish, a com-
plexion radiant with a transparent freshness, a clear,
smooth, and perfect skin that is so much to be admired
This is the kind of complexion that we guarantee if you
will give Valaze a fair trial, no matter how linpoverised
your skin is from the effects of bad weather, or from the
use of inferior skin-foods that injure the t'ssues.
Valaze is the best friend you can rely upon.
Valaze has now a reputation throughout Australasia
that is absolutely unrivalled.
VVe guarantee an improvement in one montn.
We guarantee Valaze not to increase the growth ox
SU Weguarantee Valaze to be a genuine imported skui-
food, made by Dr. L.vkuski, the celebrated European Skm
Specialist, from Extract of Herbs grown on the Carpathian
We guarantee you so much satisfaction from one jar
that you would not be without it for anything.
Try a jar and prove these assertions.
Price 3s. Cd. or large jar (is. (containing three t me- td e
amount.) Postage (id. Leading chemists, 01 direcUtom
Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274 Col ins-street, Melbourne.
Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze Blackhead and Open Pores
C U re—guaranteed to cure most obstinate cases 2s. ...
tin, by post 3s. .
Valaze Herbal Soap, lasts six months, 2s. case.
Enclose 3d. in stamps to cover postage and we will
ward you our latest edition of the new ,.
Beauty,” a book that is full of most ’ valuable inform*toon
concerning the skin and health, and will prove mo
ful and instructive to anyone.


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady selt cured of this
distressing: affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
'gto&m
ORESS
SHIELDS
For Outdoor Costumes. A Perfect Stockinet*
Anatomically Made* uKT FTNFRTS”
Full Sizes.
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar ! In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable ; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &e., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and 6s. per pot.*
o
."Ike Higke/1
AcKieveweKl
irv Corset
M ew~re
for Gr&ce
<S Oes2tt\ce of
of De/Kgrs.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 26, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie.—
To be quite the thing in Melbourne just now
you must skate. All the Very Best Beople
bump various parts of themselves on the ice for
half an hour or an hour every day. They say they
are learning to skate. Berhaps they are, but it
doesn't look like it—not at first anyhow. Two
constant visitors to the Glaciarium are Mrs. L. E.
Groom and Mrs. Isaacs. These two dames, since
their husbands started battling in the same
Ministerial team, have worked up a most ardent
friendship. Eor months they have been vying with
each other in frocks, and now they stand or fall
together at the Glaciarium. In justice it must be
admitted that they stand gracefully and fall
seldom.
One of the sights of the Glaciarium is Willie-
motor Kelly in a new green suit with Bond-street
written all over it, and the very latest style of cuff
direct from Baris—with a stud through the centre.
Williemotor can skate fairly well; but it is pain-
fully evb’" ut that he regards the rink merely as
another piace to pose in. It is a relaxation from
the serious work of motoring and politics.
The Melbourne vegetarians came before the
public eye in a burst of glory last week. They
engaged the restaurant which is supposed to
employ the prettiest waitresses in the city, and
undertook the initiation of the multitude into
their mysteries. Crowds of apoplectic meat-
eaters turned up to sneer, hut managed to wade
through the long pienu with some show of
relish. The most serious drawback to the
simulated meat dishes is that they are
too like the resurrection of the day-before-
yesterday joint, detested by the average diner.
There were chopped walnuts appearing as chicken
cutlets; “protose” disguised as a reohauffd of
anything you like; and celery masquerading as
whiting on the long list of edibles. But there was
nothing which said, plainly and unashamedly, that
it was bran mash. If the vegetable is a good
thing, why doesn't it sail under its own colors?
The vegetarians themselves aren’t exactly an ad.
for their fad. They don’t appear to attain a
happy medium between pallid leanness and soft
rosy fat. I’m not going to become a convert to
their system, but I’m going to all their feeds, it
gives a holiday to your digestion, and the secre-
tary says strength and purity are obtainable with
them, which is just in my line. And the girl who
waited on me was a dream.
0. C. Kingston looks as well as in the days of
tariff framing three years ago. It is only when
he gets to his feet that the wreckage of ill-health
shows. He moves feebly, and for every painful
step he takes, a stout, strong, earnest-looking
dame in the gallery looks troubled—angrily
troubled. Mrs. Kingston is always by the side or
within call of her sick lord. She, resents all
inquiries as to his health, and mothers her ailing
spouse jealously.
Dame Forrest is needed to give Federal doings
a fillip. She comes along presently and starts the
Barliamentary merry-go-round spinning. The
Western matron has a genius for organising. If
it’s only a doll-raffle, she works up the enthusiasm
till it becomes an event of the social season. Like
Dame Fysh, the Tasmanian enthusiast, she cuffs
the members who won t be coaxed or cajoled into
her husband's party, and chaffs the Oppositionists
till they haven’t a word left to cry for mercy with.
The Sandow girl may, in her cheese-cloth drape
on the stage, be delighting Londoners, but she
causes annoyance and disquiet to lodgers in city
flats or Todgers’ establishments in the suburbs.
The vigorous exercises pursued by the physical
culturist who wants to be another Milo, and the
bumping and thumping of her body, and the clang
of her training ironmongery worry, the next door
neighbors and the occupants of thedens below. In
one large boarding-house the Sandow girl is pro-
hibited from practising till all her neighbors have
breakfasted. They object to be awakened out of
a blissful dream by a sound as of Juno hurling
Jove and all his thunderbolts through the house.
The man who marries an income ought to
aspire to control it, and not be just, so to speak,
attached to it and the incumbent life of luxury.
There’s a horrible instance in this city of an
Adonis mated to a handsome home and a rich
tyrant. This termagant insists that he should live
an idle “gentleman’s life,” and he yields—his chief
duty being to solicit sixpence for a tram-ride or
threepence for cigarettes whenever he feels like
dissipating. It’s enough to scare any man from
marrying an income. A hard bargainer so often
goes with the cash.
The Commercial Travellers set their club open
to wives, relatives, and other fair dependencies
last week. The sample brethren exhausted a
whole year’s stock of jokes (last year’s) on the
visitors. “ When the wife turns nasty,” said one
portly bagman, “I come here. Comfy eh ! Now
she’ll see it, and may keep cool for the future.”
He said it in the dame’s presence, and laughter
swayed the company for quite ten minutes at the
small witticism. I never saw such shoulder-
slapping as went on among the hearty
brethren. No clubman said, “ How do ? ” quietly
to another, or nodded cheerfully. A violent blow
on the shoulder stood as a sign of camaraderie.
And the roars of laughter ! They just thundered
round the building. Mostly the bagman’s wife is
a good-looking, well-garbed, sensible type. Con-
veying a brand of soap or pattern of garter round
the country must mean colossal profits.
Mr. Reginald Bright still flaunts the glad
buttonhole of bachelorhood. He lights upon the
Block now and then, whiffing gracefully at a
cigarette. His practised eye travels over the
faces of the fair, and a cynical gleam occasionally
illumines his glance. The Bright bachelor has
been a connoisseur of feminine beauty for half a
century, and his attitude suggests that he knows
too much about it to ever submit to its bondage.
The serious illness of handsome Mrs. S. Oliver
is a matter of deep regret. A few months ago she
challenged comparison with her bride-daughter
(Mrs. Stuart Murray) in the matter of beauty and
elegance. Now she is so seriously ill that a trio
of leading practitioners are dubious as to her re-
covery.
The local girl is about in a lot of tartan draught-
board patterns these days. Even the tailor-made
“suits ” for the second sex run to large checks in
both senses. To go abroad in a quiet brown cloth
or an unpatterned blue is to be right out of
Fashion’s picture.
Senator Staniforth Smith had a gay trip to
Java, which isn’t in the published reports of his
Archipelago jaunt. Furnished with a kind letter
from the Commonwealth G.G., he made ad vances
to the corresponding official of Java. The letter
was forwarded to Booh-bah. A military aide
called immediately with salaams and a command
to the Dutch Excellency’s presence. A convey-
ance run by a quartet of nags and a similar number
of flunkeys arrived for him on the day appointed.
At the mansion he was greeted on the fifth step by
a military scout, on the tenth step by a naval
advance guard, and on the top of the marble flight by
a magnificent civil aide. Then when all this frill
was beginning to make him feel hot and moist
around the neck, he was escorted into a reception
room, and at last the Dutch potentate arrived and
employed good English in a welcome. Then the
call ciosed and the hearse-waggon or double-
brougham took the overdone Senator back to his own
block of ice at the local hostelry. Every day the
great four-in-hand called and bore the visi-
tor to dinner with the Governor or round the
town or somewhere, and he melted in magnificent
state the whole time of his Javanese stay.
Miss Winifred Fraser presided at an afternoon
spree at the Grand the other day. At least, she
intended to preside, but there was an urgent,
extra-special call to the theatre, and she had to
tear off before she had hooked herself into her
party dress. The rehearsal lasted till long after
4 o’clock, and the guests had to pump-handle a
substitute hostess and drift disconsolately to their
chairs. Some of them wouldn’t be prevailed on
to drink the brew provided, and a great air of un-
rest prevailed till the original hostess fairly ex-
ploded into the room with explanations, regrets
and a half-crying, half-laughing appeal to be for-
given. Miss Fraser’s party scored in the male
numbers —there were more of the frock-coated
race than I have seen at any afternoon corroboree
this length of weeks. It was a beautiful sight.
And oh ! the joy of having five or six surplus men
handing a nibble to me !
The Tasmanian cricketeresses deputed Mr.
Rogers, last week, to hand over their united
photos to the Victorian wicket sisterhood, vvith
thanks for all the enjoyments of their recent visit.
The Tasmaniennes certainly had a wild and woolly
time. There were theatre, and dinner and driv-
ing parties galore, not to mention the other game
they professed to play at.
Miss Irene Outtrim returns under engagement
to J. C. Williamson. The frisky footlighter has
been opera-bouffiug and such all through Dollar-
land for quite a while, and had the experience of
being a survivor of San Francisco ’quake. The
Outtrims are strong supporters of the Church in
this Bent State. But Irene early rushed into comic
opera. Now a cousin, Cecil Outtrim, son of
Melbourne’s genial Deputy-Postmaster, has
bounded on to the grease-planks and left off
pedalling the Sunday organ to practise a fling and
to tootle in comic opera.
A photographer has had a show of Lily of the
Valley groups. It’s a great study. Dozens and
dozens of the ivory girleens, bouquets in hand,
hope in the eye, pearls in the hair! Where are
the he-debutantes ? Why aren’t they shown in
clusters, like gems in a show case. No boy gets
snapshotted in his first swallow-tail rig. I spoke
to one the other night. He was blase and weird.
“ Your first dance? Really?” I gushed. “The
first in these duds,” he answered wearily. “I’ve
been out for years—centuries, it seems. The poor
old mater has several old girls to fix up. Yes,
I’ve four elder sisters whom the rust of time con-
sumeth. They had me dancing in knickerbockers.
When I got into an Eton jacket I felt like an old,
time-worn alderman. Now that I’ve got the rest
of the coat on and am marriageable, I feel rather
a Methuselah. I know this ball-room game. I
know the young fools and the old rogues. I’ve
had them all for a waltz or a sit-out. It’s a poor
business. Next year I’ll be twenty-one. The
poor old mater dreams of giving me a Majority
Dance. Good Heavens! After to-night I drop
the game. I want to think of woman as a rare
thing—a furtive joy—a novelty. Here she’s a
vulture.” And the unwholesome young cynic
sauntered off to get a drink.
One suburban Mayoress took the chiffon cake
at her own hop last week. The Hawthornites are
rather a dressy flock, but Mrs. Percy Russell ran
away with the confection easily. She had garbed
herself to tone in with the decorative scheme of
the hall. It was in blush-pink and white. And
so was she. Over a rustling dawn-pink silk,
snowy chiffon frothed from skirt-hem northwards
with most ingratiating effect. The predominant
figure in the glowing scene was Rep. William
Knox. He took a place in the opening
set and swung to corners with the agility
of a top - weight steam - roller. His capers
were as the play of a friendly elephant
joining in ring-a-ring-a-rosy with some sportive
kids. Another notable first-setter was Justice
Cussen—a greying student who has accomplished
no ball-room whisking for many a year. But a
Judgeship brings its penalties. You must pass
capital sentences and take part in opening Lancers.
Mrs. Robert Blackwood puts in time leisurely
this season of the violet. She delays her flight to
Deniliquin till the spring. Meanwhile her Too-
rakety playmates are to the fore in providing
some kind of distraction. Outside of Bridge the
scope is sadly limited.
Talking of clubs! That haunt of the Cream,
yclept the Alexandra, is making a stand against
overcrowding. Both the entrance-fee and the
subscription are to be raised. Also the right of
black-balling a club candidate is to be mercilessly
and scrupulously exercised. It takes the cats to
deal with a eat. It will be a common saying soon
“ scratched for the Alexandra.”
There’s a new maker of melody on the war-
path. His name —Marcus de la Boer Beresford—
has created a great impression on the mind that
browses at Menzies these gusty days. It looks
mythical, but may be real; and, of course, the
platformer has full power to label himself any-
thing he likes. If he cares to be billed as Corne-
lius Damson Plum or Anthony Smart Socks, no
one can say him nay.
Mr. Lachlan Mackinnon has an eyrie in the
bosky heart of Christinas Hills. The other Sab-
bath he collected all his motor brethren at a
mid-day snack. Seven motors rallied to the call,
and whirred from Toorak to the eyrie and back
(tiffin having been dealt with) the same after-
noon.
The most notable dasher hereabouts at present
is an ex-Hebe from Sydney. She owns a rosy
present, having married money at the second knot-
tying. She has a beautiful eye and a face full of
experience. It flings an epigram at one time and
casts a full-sized aphorism at another. I never
before knew a facs to say so much that is cynical
and clever.
A correspondent in the Big Smoke relates that
the Cliveden dowager is much more often afoot
than driving “ these early April mornings.” She
says, “ In the thronged streets, I have met
her over and over again, progressing with
that self-conscious, alert air she always wore
when passing along Collins-street or making a
tour through the Treasury Gardens en route to the
city. I struck her there once, and she had the
expression of one who expected the very elms to
catch her eye and how profusely. She mostly
struts abroad here in spruce tailor-mades, but she
begins to look middle-aged. You know, she has
been seventeen so long, so very long.”
The ever-green—or should it be ever-red ?
J.S. Butters gave away his own chick and child
in marriage last week. The happy man (it is the
one time a man is alleged with certainty to be
happy) was Mr. Frank H. Ash win. The knot-
tying came off at St. Peter s Church, the beautiful
incumbent giving a certain grace and splendor to
the ceremony. The Rev. E. Hughes should make
the two-in-hand benediction his starring part.
Miss Jessie Masson, daughter of the ’Varsity
Professor and a protegee of the Rev. Mother of
Vaucluse Convent, is the next conspicuous young
person to tickle the ears of the public with the
music of the ivories. This piano play is pro-
grammed for Monday next (the 22nd), and if she
strums at her own special recital as she does
now and then to help a musical churn through
hers, the Souls will have nothing to complain of,
and the Bodies will get into their cabs after the
show saying they are glad they came.
Through the Big Smoke gossips comes word
that a daughter of the Philip Nuttings has just
entered the bonds for better or worse with Eustace
Quilter, a younger son of Sir Cuthbert of that ilk.
The Nuttings are one of the fashionable pairs—
they are innumerable—who live at different ends
of the globe. Himself is located mostly in this Bent
capital, where his glad tailorings proclaim the
dude. Mrs. mostly roosts in the Big Smoke, and
on the hitching-up occasion carried over the re-
ception spree to the Grosvenor-square residence of
her sister, Mrs. W. K. D’Arey. The marriage
was a dizzily swagger affair.
At another two-in-hand hymeneal start, when
Mr. Frank D‘Arcy, of Melbourne recollection,
paired off with Miss Violet Baring, nine maids of
the Vere de Vere stamp backed up the bride.
Instead of posies, they flaunted sunshades (why
not churchshades?) to match their particular rig,
and in t’other hand each carried a green leather
bag furnished with a hanky. Both the brolly-top
and hanky-bag bore the stylish carrier’s initials.
The notion may have been to keep off, or mop up
the rain of tears that marks some marriages.
The Cream made a big struggle to flaunt their
chiffons at “The Man from Mexico” first
night. But a close jam, even in the four tenanted
pens of great price, prevented a spread of tail. In
stalls and circle a record rally of fashionables was
heaped en masse. Not even on “Sweet Nell’s”
opening or farewell night was there such a mighty
gathering. A thick fringe of perpendicular on-
lookers showed from the back of the circle and
galleries. The biggest show was made by the
Everard Brownes, whose flock spread over two of
the special pens.
The surprise of the “ Mexico ” farce to
t! .atre-goers in this capital is the youth-
fulness of Palotta. Grace blooms with the fresh-
ness of perpetual spring. Her figure shares in
the young look. In fact, it’s years younger than
when it trailed the Lady Holyrood chiffons in
“Florodora.” The Palotta is all Grace whether
she’s clicking her pretty lingers castanet-fashion,
in a pas A deux with the mercurial and wing-
heeled Hugh Ward, or dashing round in perturba-
tion and an attack of nerves on her own. Her
frocking is a sweet and bright asset to the per-
formance. Old local admirers expressed their joy
at the return of Grace by establishing a floral
nursery on aie stage. H. Ward had another
garden to himself.
“On the Quiet,” the new Collier farce, gives a
chance to half-a-dozen girls, the most-dollared
wearing particularly subdued raiment, and the
cheaper chorus chicks flaunting whole roosters in
their head-gear and much multiplication ot frills
at the other extremity. Miss Grace Hadsell is
the charmer of the farce. Her assets are a little
graceful figure, a mischievous and an
autumn-toned head artistically eoiffed. The
starring She —Miss Mabel Talioferro—is a small,
smileless elf, who helps Collier on to his best
effects by presenting a perfectly helpless and
stupid face when a flash of top-grade intelligence
and divination is expected. W. Collier says
“Don’t you see?” with a brilliant smile of
elucidation, and the foreign-labelled Miss looks
up with a wide-eyed, vacant helplessness as much
as to say, “ Don’t hit me if I don’t.” The house
roars. It’s not every mummer who can look
impressively stupid in the cause of comedy. The
ordinary She footlighter giggles in company with
the audience, which is bad business.
The sweet foolishness of some wives is pathetic.
In one recent case, where a Federalist was disap-
pointed of a certain expected and much-desired
post, his dame showed great anger, and blamed
one prominent politician as the cause in candid
invective. The expression of a husband while
this sort of thing goes on, and he sees his political
reputation as a strong man crumbling away, is
too tragic for words. He daren’t call the wife to
order; he can t silence her with a look for her eyes
are moist, and fixed on the others ; and he daren't
look disgusted. So he sits and makes a
look cheerful, and succeeds at the best in loolv I °
imbecile. About the most injurious charge tnac
can be brought against a public man » «** “-
being disappointed. His public pose must always
be that the job he didn't get was sour. Ana
it is cruel when the wife of his bosom gives
away.
From an Adelaide correspondent
S. A. Societv of Arts show is always a little dwarfed by
the Federal exhibition a few weeks later, when S.l aney
and Melbourne painters send along work on the chance oi
its being bought for the Australian room m the Adeiaiae
Gallery. Also, building is now going on, and the bocietj,
hoping to be better housed next year, is restricted to two
rooms this time. It’s little show, however, is reckoned
the best it has ever had. Several old members ha\e
improved, and a more rigid censorship has kept
amateurish rubbish off the walls. Of the best known
men, Power and Hay ley Lever are both away from
S.A., but Hans Heysen and Will Ashton aie
on hand. The former has a Turneresque impression oi
the Adelaide railway-station—a welter of steam-engines
in the foreground, and at the back the white marble or
Parliament House catching the evening sunlight, tie
has also been working hard at small pictures of gum-trees
and other artistic “bits,” presumably with a view to
ready sale. Ashton has his usual Paris-under,snow
effect, and a line view on the Cornwall coast. His lather,
James Ashton, pegs away at pretty good seascapes, and
has enlivened one of them with a rousing naval battle.
(Price 100 guineas. Local artists are learning to open
their mouths very wide.) There are two other three-
figure canvases shown, and both by men unknown
outside of Adelaide. The most improved painter
is Edward Davies, a leading city architect, "h°
has been taking lessons in his leisure time.
Among the ladies, the wife of Federal Senator Downer has
some Si dney Harbor views, the llambidge sisters show
their usual highly-finished portraits, and beautifully-
painted flowers abound. But the prevailing note of the
show is, as always, timidity. \V. P. Gill, the leading
local authority on art matters, has a conseientiousaiude,
and this is regarded as a daring feat. Adelaide has no
life-school, and its artists, wisely recognising that their
anatomy is rudimentary, avoid composition, and turn
out landscapes, flowers, and heads for ever, with an occa-
sional cow study to break the monotony.
Will some kind Adelaide person arise and suppress the
genius habit. It’s getting on my nerves.. Latest offender
is a twelve-year old damsel, rejoicing in the picturesque
sobriquet of Bertha Jones. Her chief claim to distinc-
tion seems to be that she is sister of a long-haired person
lately exported from Adelaide, w'ho rejoices in the still
more picturesque sobriquet of Brewster Jones. Inci-
dentally the damsel fiddles a bit; but this is no excuse
for letting her give an invitation concert in the Town
Hall, and inflict 1200 unfortunates with an invitation.
No doubt the kid is clever for her age ; but there you
are. And it is certainly foolish for the dailies to say, as
they do, that she has learned in two years everything
about the violin that can be taught her. Or if she has,
all I can say is, that she had better go and bury her fiddle,
and start anew religion, or a patent medicine, or some-
thing. Why can’t the public let Bertha Montmorencie —
I mean Jones—alone for a few years, until she’s ready to
be boomed. It’s not fair to the damsel.
The Adelaide girl has some enterprise—if she does live
in a tram-horse State. Just now she is busy showing the
male item that he is an unnecessary item from an entertain-
ment point of view', and is giving girls’_euchres, girls’
dances, etc., etc., from w'hich he is strictly excluded.
This stringent measure was adopted none too soon. The
Varsity boy and such-like danceable he-males had been
entertained up to a pitch of impolite boredom. South
Australia is rather badly over-stocked with the feminine
element, and said element is addicted to the committee
dance; so that hitherto its brother has had on an
average ten invitations a week through the season.
So he came to think himself a speck of undue
importance. He became patronising and chesty,
and took to letting miles of girl sit out while he disported
himself with a few choice spirits and a pipe in another
room. So the Adelaide girl arose as one man and struck.
Now' her brother is to be given a long, lonely rest, and is
expected in a little while to come crawling on hands and
knees imploring to be put back on his pedestal. The
girls, however, intend to be cold and unbending, and to
tell him they are using his pedestal as a hat-rack.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO„
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
UILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
uout, Rheumatism 5 Rheum itic Uout, Tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neu algia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
or Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
iew days. Sold only in bottles at 1/., 2/6, and
o/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pt£
GrO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr«d. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Sn.K Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustru lia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
We may now say good-bye
To the long doctor’s bills,
To the coughs and the colds
And the various chills.
For the high and the low,
The rich and the poor
Have found all they need—
Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
Lesina, leader of the extreme section of
the Q. Labor party which objects to any
ameliorative legislation until the Millenium can be
served up piping hot, has been explaining his
views at Croydon in a tour hours’ speech. There’s
something peculiar about views that take up four
hours.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—If
anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ” it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
This Elastic Truss
IKS
Elastic
Truss-
Si ngrle, 157-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trasses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Mr. J. Cook is willing to feed out of any
nosebag. ’ Ewing, in the House of Representatives
last week.
A ballot was taken at Merriwa (N.S.W.)
last week for two blocks of land of 826 and 707
acres. For those two blocks there were 60 appli-
cants. Consequently 58 intending settlers can
still listen to the advice “go on the land.”
Cabled that Germany has peremptorily
ordered some 1000 foreign cigarette-makers, with
tneir families—3000 persons altogether—who are
“suspected of intending to undercut their Ger-
man competitors,” to move on out of the country,
that’s anti-dumping with a vengeance.
Clause 3 of the Meteorology Bill lately
before the Senate reads :—
,, T, 'f Governor-General may appoint an officer called
tiie Com monwealth Meteorologist.
And the House should have added “a citizen of
the Commonwealth to have preference.”
A “LABOR CHURCH .”
The political Labor movement is threatened with a
new development. At a meeting- last night of the Ben-
digo (Vic.) branch of the Political Labor Council, notice
was given of a motion in favor of establishing a Labor
Church. a
Tom Mann (minus his moustache) will be the
first bishop.
Members of the Protectionist party who
followed the Lyne-Isaacs cave in support of the
Labor Ministry wereln Victoria, Higgins
Isaacs, Mauger, Crouch, and Huine Cook ; in
N.S. Wales, Lyne and Chanter ; in S. Australia,
Kingston and Bonython ; in Queensland, Groom ;
in .Tasmania, fetorrer. In all 11. And can any
sane democrat allege that any one of those 11
should be out of Parliament ?
Freetrader Poynton, to Deakin, on the
Anti-Trust Bill : —“Will you accept an amend-
ment making it an offence for a local Trust to sell
goods outside the Commonwealth at a less price
than inside?” Deakin: “I do not see how such
a law could be enforced by us.” Freetrader Page •
“Don’t you want to stop dumping ?” Both Page
and Poynton are Laborites—but they are Foreign-
traders first. They want to stop the Australian
manufacturer dumping on the foreigner ; but they
won’t help Australia to stop the foreigner dump-
ing his surplus products on the Commonwealth.
Yet they get angry when they are told, they are
traitors to Australia.
Looking down the list
of motions already on the
notice-paner of the Austra-
lian Parliament, it seems a
grievous pity that something
isn t done to curtail the
waste of time on mere ab-
stract resolutions. About
the simplest idea would be
to limit the man with the
motion to 15 minutes ; a
person who is trained to
brevity should be able to
explain almost any motion
m 15 minutes. There should
be one man heard in reply.
If the Ministry wishes to
oppose in its official capa-
city, it should intimate the
fact when the motion is put
on the notice-paper, and
then it should have the sole
right to answer (for 15
minutes). If it is friendly
or indifferent, it should in-
timate that it won’t speak,
and then opponents of the’
motion should get together
and choose one of their
number to speak (for 15
minutes). They could also choose an under-
study m case the star-performer was absent
Ihe programme might be varied by allowing
two or more men to speak on each side so
bulfthe w| he i V i 1" eX f ed , 15 minutes in’all,
nr A i business should not exceed half-an-
a ie.lf n m aaa , r . ule > lead to nothing,
and half-an-hour for each nothing is quite enough!
Yes-No in the Australian Parliament
n le fuU responsibilit .v for the appointment of
the tariff Commission, and did not shrink from a full
investigation of all problems affecting the tariff A v
ZTZ n -f tion , S , Wade b - V the Commission wol,ld be
p®®b considered, but he could not be. expected to accent a
' otectiomst report, and he would not support any report
that seriously raised the fiscal question. an t
“Ihe farmers,” cries Sydney Twaddle-
r!ot 01 !- ]y Victoria but in other States,
are still asking f<) r the general election to be held
in October. So far as the evidence goes, not one
single farmer has looked up from his hoe or his
cow to say a word on the subject. All tbe words
are being said for him by city wire-pullers who
wouldn t know a farm if they saw one.
Ihe Victorian railways will probably show
a paper surplus of £350,000 this year, and the Arp
demands that freights and fares should be reduced
so that it won t happen again. There is a great
deal to be said for the reduction of freights and
fares, and the best way to ensure a permanent re-
ff A !° apply all - Present surpluses to paying
oft the Victorian public debt. When all tlie dehf
is paid off it will be possible to cut down freights
and fares by nearly one-half.
M'Cay, M.H.R., the Democratic Conser-
vative 1< reetrade Liberal Protectionist, who has
followed every available leader, and now follows
half-ex-Premier Allan M‘Lean, has resolved to
contest Oorio (Vic.) next general election. As
Pungaree in that electorate is an Irish stronghold
he carefully explains that his objection to the
action of the Australian Parliament in expressing
sympathy with Home Pule arose indirectly from
his passionate enthusiasm for Home Rule. Corio
will probably reject M‘Cay as a mark of passionate
esteem.
The State Frights party in general, and
the commercial adulteration crowd in particular
who see in the Federal supervision of exports an
insufferable interference with Private Fraud
will be interested to learn that in London, on
May 2, the council of the Central and Associated
Lhambers of Agriculture “recommended to the
Government that the importation of butter, other
than that in casks bearing a Government stamp as
a guarantee of purity, should be prohibited ”
Sundry speakers alleged that the commercial
morality of the country was being sapped by adul-
teration, and spoke bitterly of Private Enter-
prises cow fat.
Brisbane Daily Wail is just now specially
active in the interest of Private Enterprise.
Suggestions have been made that the Queensland
Central Mill system should be extended, owing to
wu r afclsf! ! ctl , on of su PPhcrs with the C.S.R.Co
Wherefore the Wail wails■
The State must sternly refuse to encroach upon the
preserves of Private Enterprise. It cannot be tolerated
that State-owned nulls should pay for cane so large an
excess over the price obtainable from mills in the hands
of joint stock companies.
The W ail poses, like all Tory papers, as the
triend of the producer, but when it begins to foam
at the mouth because the producer is getting too
much for his produce, it makes the productive
person scratch his head in deep, deep thought.
A Brisbane (Q.) man writes
Barren Joe Platitude rose, the other day, and told the
®i Vd " ey ™ ornln tr P a Pf B that the story about the exodus
of N.s.W. people to Bananaland was a myth. He
quoted alleged figures to show that things were the other
way about. Unfortunately for Carruthers’ case, official
figures published in Queensland are quite different from
The S f£'F e %? n <? that leaves matters rather in doubt.
The State Statistician at Brisbane says that, last
N U s'w r ’ and QqJ e T nS in Queensland from
JN.S.W. and 9942 departed thereto. The 700 odd
Pe°Pj e ' vbo are said to have thus left N.SW for
the North are described as mostly dairy farmers, carrying
with them years of experience, pretty solid bank'baf-
ances, and valuable herds. One has only to occasionally
visit the Lands Department at Brisbane to realise the
value to Queensland of this stream of settlers—and the
loss toi N.S.W., which State they are leaving because they
cannot get land, excepting at a ruinous figure from
private land-jobbers.
In a shriek for the repeal of the Income-
tax the S. M. Herald remarks :
It has been suggested that past deficiencies should be
liquidated out of surplus revenue, and so they should, but
will they be? It has been further suggested that the
product of land sales should not be treated as revenue
proper, arid neither it should. But is it not quixotic to
imagine that after all these years it will be possible to
persuade Parliament to treat it differently ?
Ihe Herald seemingly recognises the cowardly
dishonesty of using our capital as revenue, still
because the practice has endured for many years
it would be “quixotic” to expect to abolish it!
That is so like the pathetic Herald, and its
pathetic worship of anything that is old-estab-
lished.
ON THEIR MORAL STILTS.
At 70 hotels watched we saw 1789 people enter. —W H
Judkins.
At another place I saw girls on men’s knees drinking
like navvies.— REV. T. WOODFALL.
Premier Bent, of A ictoria, in public is an
deal Treasurer; it is only in private that the
ratman bites his ear. T’other clay Kilmore
Hospital committee asked him to increase its
grant from £3OO a year to £440. Thomas fished a
while, and discovered that the institution’s total
income was £BBO, including his £3OO, and that it
cost £225 to collect the other £5OO. Also, he
found that this £BOO a year was spent on an
average of 14 patients. Then he bellowed—“My
surplus, eh? You’ll get none of that. It would
pay to close the institution and send the patients
down to Melbourne. Nine shires only give a
paltry half-sov. to the hospital. Why should I
give money to spare the swell farmers in nine
wealthy shires ? Let the district make an effort.”
J. lion the deputation retired with its tail dragging*
on the ground. &
Charles Kingston spoke in the House of
Representatives last week—for the first time in
18 months. His speech was five words long.
Dugald Thompson was roaring against the
anti-monopoly Bill, on the ground that in
certain fishy circumstances it lays on a sus-
pected Trust the onus of proving that its methods
of competition are not unfair. “A man is to be
thought guilty,” Thomson bellowed, “until he
has proved the contrary. ” Then Kingston spoke.
1 hat is very necessary sometimes,” he said. In
fact, persons like Dugald seem to forget that the
law is perpetually arresting men, and keeping
them under arrest, or under bond, until they have
proved their innocence. It even contains pro-
visions for arresting men solely because they are
suspected persons,” and it is the Dugald class
that howls loudest to have such suspects run in.
AVilliemotor Kelly, M.H.R., should learn
that there are limits to the effrontery which
Bari lament will tolerate even from him. The
other evening Willie desired to make a speech on
the monopoly-suppression Bill, but his oppor-
tunity came at a quarter-past six, and Willie was
anxious to go out for dinner. Therefore he arose,
and, explaining* that he could not possibly return
to Parliament (after its dinner-hour) at half-past
seven, suggested that Isaacs, or Deakin, or soine-
body else in the Ministry, might talk awhile to
g’ v ' e h'm a chance to meet his friends, and leave
off when he came back, wbeieupon he would
re-commence his brilliant remarks. Little Willie
made his request earnestly, but there was such an
absence of any desire to arrange for hearing his
brilliant remarks that he sat down in some
confusion.
Hatter Storey, M.L.A., and Premier
Carruthers don’t swing on the same back gate
nowadays. Seems that Storey didn’t like some
or Carruthers’ performances, and said so. Then
Carruthers remarked that Storey was behaving
nastily because he was huffed at not getting a
portfolio in the blessed “Reform” Cabinet. "At
last Storey couldn’t stand Carruthers’ jibe any
longer, and the other night told a Randwick
audience:—
I now say to Mr. Carruthers—and no man knows it
better than himself—that at his special request I had
four interviews with him, and absolutely refused to
entertain the proposals he made with a view to my in-
clusion in his Cabinet, for reasons which I gave him per-
mission to make public 12 months ago, and which I now
call upon him to make public, or for ever hold his toneme
upon the subject of my alleg'ed disappointment.
The public isn’t wildly excited over the squabble
between Storey and Carruthers. Still it makes a
mental note that if Joe did what Storey says he
did it was just the sort of thing Joe would do
and that if he asked Storey to join his Ministry’
Storey is just the kind of man that a man like Joe
would ask.
AVhen the tenders were opened for the
new mail contract it leaked out that there was a
likelihood of a better offer than that of the Orient
Co. being received, whereupon Sydney Tele-
graph filled the office bucket with tears, and said
that the Orient Co. had carried the mails for 25
years, and this was not the way to treat a faithful
servant. The Telegraph didn’t mention that
recently the faithful servant tried to bounce the
Commonwealth into doubling the subsidy in one
act, and did other remarkable things which if
done by any other kind of servant, would have
been called going on a violent strike and thus
showing the utter unreliability of the lower orders.
The Telegraph did not concern itself as to
whether the Commonwealth might get a better
and cheaper service or not. Its fears were all for
/® e > lmgS of forei " n capital, represented by
the faithful servant who demanded that his wages
should be doubled.
Australia was given to us by the Mnth Q
Country,” says Greid (which is short for GReirii
and he says it with the intention of convincing 2
that we have no right to make legislation that T
Bull does not approve. If Britain gave U s A,,V
trail a, who gave Australia to Britain ? BrifcSn
took possession of Australia by merely coming! a
looking at it; we have taken possession of it S
be.ng born on it mostly, and living on it, building
on it, and cultivating it, and as active possess on
is nine points of the law, our present o«SSffi
very many points better than Britain’s ever was
If we can t cry Australia for the Australians ' ”
because Britain gave us Australia, what are we
permitted to do ? The same objection could be
raised to every act of ours. Greid’s remark if t
is any damgood at all is an unanswerable argu-
merit against Australians having Responsible
Government, or daring to possess anything on
earth—especially Australian earth. In short it
is not a logical contention at all. Greid’s utter
ance is merely the noise a fat man makes when he
is gravelled for argument, and feels that it is
necessary for him to make large rows, so that his
whereabouts may be discoverable in the fog of his
own mental obfuscation. b
“ Maori Mac ” writes :
, , Vhen , fc ' le n ?' vs circulated in Maoriland no one
believed it. It was incredible—preposterous. That
Seddon—the man of untiring energy, the symbol of Ms
country s virility— could die was absurd. Sooner would
they believe that the earth had ceased to rotate, or that
Dinizulu had become Czar of Russia. These things might
be, but that Seddon could die, could cease to exist was
not to be thought of—or rather, could not be realised!
but presently the newspaper offices exhibited one-line
notices Seddon died at sea yesterday,” and the hurry-
ing people paused to read, and, reading, stood gazing
stupidly as if bereft of reason. Standing in the crowd
‘‘MvTin n a V, ne '!'n, rri : a ' read fche notice and gasp
? l r k /- ea l < l Ihos ■ four words expressed
Abe people s belief 111 the great man’s immortality. Men
might quarrel and strive, live and die, but the king was
above all such pettiness ; the king could never die. That
short message from Australia shook Maoriland to its very
foundations. Ministers of State, who usually take all
disturbing news as part of the day’s work, were startled
out of their self-satisfied complacency. When a reporter
tried to glean some information from Acting-Premier
do " es aBfc ° who would be likely to fill the dead man’s
place, that gentleman admitted he didn’t know. The
strong hand of the master was missing, and chaos reigned
in high quarters. When the news was at last understood
—or half-understood—a gloom settled down on the
people. Groups stood about the streets conversing in
low tones, but the conversation seldom got beyond “°Mv
God 1 fancy Dick being dead.” Look where j'ou would
there was written on every face a fear as if everything
held sacred had suddenly become rotten, and crumbled
away to dust. The Tory and the Liberal, the publican
a,nd the prohibitionist, looked into each other’s eyes, and
tried to realise that the strong man, the man whom they
had cheered or jeered at, loved or hated, had passed
(hA V h7 f an ' I th A 7 'l ed ’• , The P assin £ °f Seddon threw
the three-island State into a stupefaction that is never
lingtoii ° ° COUr a ® a ' u un t'l the bombardment of Wei-
A THING OF JOY.
Occasionally, when Mr. Reid is examining- juvenile wit-
nesses, they break suddenly into uncontrollable laughter.
GEORGE: "Now, what the dooce can he see to
laugh at?”
Again is published the wild cry of the
incurable Owe'Sullivan, who has only two ideas
under his misguided hat—to borrow lots of money
and to keep everybody busy on unproductive
public works:—
If Mr. Carruthers were to start work upon some of the
railways and tramways which he has hung' up there
would not only be a chance of getting a fair return for
the money invested, but a considerable amount of
employment would be given to thousands of men out of
work in the depths of winter. Mr. Carruthers seems to
De getting afflicted with the non-borrowing fad—one of
the most absurd delusions that ever struck public men
in Australia. Why, what has built up Australia but bor-
rowed money ?. . . Shallow-pated sciolists who dogmatise
about non-borrowing to a nauseating degree only see one
side of the question.
The poor old Owe’ has sunk beneath contempt
these times, and nobody takes much trouble to
answer him. He has become a political mono-
maniac, borrowing huge imaginary sums in a
wilderness, and seeing a fancied pawnshop on
every rock, and talcing each shrub for an affable
Jew with monish to lend.
“WHILE BO ME IS BURNING.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our public—apathetic, patriotic, but irrational
Is singularly blind to complications international;
It thinks the only crisis is the cricketers’ imbroglio,
Or Reid’s kaleidoscopic anti-Socialistic olio.
And such is its frivolity that all our efforts weary us
lo bring it to a due regard for questions grave and
serious ;
And such at least, we take it, may be numbered, inter
aha,
The care of the integrity of continent Australia.
But, when a foe assails our virgin island’s continuity,
We trifle with a little loan or such like superfluity ;
We bait a trade monopoly, we whittle an electorate,
And then as stalwart patriots we cheerfully expect to
rate.
We think abridge across the Spit would knit a nation’s
unity,
Yet let a savage Frenchman ram the Corso with im-
punity.
We call a band to toot the “ Marseillaise ” in quite inane a
way,
The while he thinks of Waterloo and tries to wipe the
Steyne away.
N.S.W.
WAIF.


The Paling
Piano
Just the
Piano for
the cottage
home; fine
tone, good
touch and
excellent
value.
The Paling
Piano is fit-
ted with. 3
pedals.
Old Pianos taken
in exchange.
Catalogues free
Sole Sellers
Paling'* s
338 George St.
Sydney
60
Talking;
Machines
at Palingfs.
We stock both kinds—
Disc and Cylinder Re-
cords.
*
Band Selections.
Songs by the world’s
leading artists.
Recitations by present
day orators.
Instrumental Selections
by the greatest soloists.
*
Our Disc records are
indestructible.
Reliable instruments at
Lowest Prices at
Paling'*s,
338 George St,,
SYDNEY.
Ronisch
Pianos at
Paling'’s.
Pianos
with a re-
cord hard
to equal.
Their
sterling
qual i ti es
are well-
Known.
“They
stand like
rocKs.”
Come and see our
new models.
Catalogues Free.
Sole Agents
Paling’s
338 George St.
Sydney
63
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO
SAY, WHAT’S
YOUR HOBBY?
Whatever you go in for, we can supply you with a Book that will give you all the information
you require respecting your particular fancy—“ Work ” volumes are brimful of useful hints on
every hobby indulged in by man. These books are published at ss. 6d. post free
Our Price only
Are you a CARPENTER ? If
Are you a CABINETMAKER ? If
Are you a BOAT BUILDER ? If
Are you a PAINTER ? If
Are you a METAL WORKER ? If
Are you a BRICKLAYER ? If
Are you a GARDENER ? If
Do you believe in Beautifying your
If
4s. 6d. for
so, buy a “ Work ”
so, buy a “ Work ”
so, buy a “ Work ”
so, buy a “ Work ”
so, buy a “ Work ”
so, buy a “ Work ”
so, buy a “ Work ”
Home 1
so, buy a “ Work ”
One
volume,
volume,
volume,
volume,
volume,
volume,
volume,
Month .
post free, 4/6
post free, 4/6
post free, 4/6
post free, 4/6
post free, 4/6
post free, 4/6
post free, 4/6
volume, post free, 4/6
It is curious but soundly true that there is not a person of ordinary intelligence
who could not learn from “Work” how in a short time to make a living.
OUR STOCK OF “ WORK ” VOLUMES comprises 12 Different Numbers, any one
of which being a GOLD MINE TO THE BUSY WORKER.
TECHNICAL INSTRUCTION MANUALS
(Edited by Paul Hasluck) '
With Numerous Illustrations in the text—a Splendid Series.
Price 2/ 2
each
Post
Free
Practical Staircase Joinery
Practical Metal-plate Worker
Practical Gas Fitting
Practical Draughtmen’s Work
Practical Graining & Marbling
Painters’ Oils, Colors,
Boot and Shoe Pattern
Practical Plumbers’ Work
Practical Handrailing
Practical Pattern Making
Practical Brickwork
Practical Painters’ Work
and Varnishes.
Cutting and Clicking.
JUST OPENED.
BILLIARDS FOR EVERYBODY (Illustrated)
By CHAS. ROBERTS. PRICE 1/2, Post Free.
Giving full instructions how to play the king of games.
CABINET CYCLOPAEDIA POST FREE, 91-
Coneise and comprehensive, in one volume, handsomely hound in cloth.
N.S.W. Bookstall Go., 476 George St.,Sydney
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
GO CANDLE POWER, for Less than
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene.
sai
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
Extraordinary
Value.
Best British Manufacture.
SI
We now stock
Incandescent
Acetylene
Burners,
with Mantles, Chimneys,
and Globes; also Acety-
lene Gas Fittings and
Lamps.
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
DOES YOUR LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS ? IF NOT, WRITE TO
WELSBACN LI6HT CO.
OP AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne* Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*


GOOD GOOJ GOOD GOOO GOOD
GOOD GOOO GOOO GOOD GOOD
GOOD I cool) - 1 GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
Good for the clothes
Good for the hands
that wash the clothes
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD BOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
PETROL
Highest Grade
American . . .
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
Lack of Energy.
That Feeling of “Not Too Well.”
In almost every instance that lack of energy
is clue to a weak system. Weak, because the
liver or kidneys, or bowels are in a sluggish
condition, and the whole energy of the body is
absorbed by those organs. Have you ever
noticed how much better you can work, or walk,
or play when you feel quite well? Yes; and
use twice as much energy and yet feel less
tired. Yet thousands of men and women feel
weak and tired, and wear that weary look. It
positively becomes a disease in many cases, and
its ultimate results are not to be conjectured.
Stimulants and tonics give temporary relief
only. You must get the remedy that will put
new life into your body, fresh energy into your
muscles, brace up your nerves, brighten your
countenance, and give a silver lining to every
cloud. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Rills tone up
the liver and kidneys, and, by aiding in the
digestion and assimilation of food, they replenish
the system with warm and healthy blood, giving
vigor to the whole body, and a happy issue
out of all your afflictions. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a
positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
RESCN’S
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Amt'aHan Agents—Messrs. E. H. F0THERG1LL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The cricket dispute is practically over, and the
name of the Melbourne Club is just plain dirt. It doesn’t
rise to even the dignity of capitals. The trustees of the
Metropolitan Cricket Ground, hitherto known as the
Melbourne Cricket Ground, have created an entirely new
position. The chairman, with the consent of a majority
of the members of the Trust, has disposed of the use of the
ground to the Victorian Cricket Association fpr certain
days in the coming season regardless of the requirements
or wishes of the M.C.C. In fact, members of the Trust who
were there as representatives of the M.C.C. complain
with frantic bitterness that the Club’s nose has been
rubbed on the surface of the globe by the chairman
omitting to consult them in the matter ; and their indigna-
tion renders them almost incoherent. And small wonder.
The possibilities ahead are tremendous. For years the
M.C.C. has received, and is understood to have treated as
club revenue, some £12,000 per annum for annual tickets
for its “magnificent and splendidly appointed grounds.”
Nowit turns out that it has no more right to the revenues of
the “splendid and magnificently appointed ground ’’than
it has to those of the Duchy of Lancaster. As it ispossible
for any member of the public to start an action against it
in the Equity Court to show cause why it should not
refund the revenues of the last six years, it is quite
probable that the Cricket Association may start an
action which will end in the Club being made bankrupt.
Thbn there would be the unpleasantness of having the
books overhauled and the public enlightened as to the
exact sums paid to high-class “ amateurs ” like and
. That financial assistance that the “ League ”
relied on begins to look very shaky. Even if it escapes
having to refund bygone revenues, the Club will lose
those of the ensuing year.
In Sydney the Cricket Association has got to
work on re-modelling its constitution, and when it is
finished the Association will not represent the metro-
politan district only, but the whole of N.S.W. The
country outside the metropolitan area has been divided
into four districts, each of which will elect so many
delegates to the Association. Provision has also
been made for the representation of the combined
Juniors, and the new Association will speak, or thunder,
as the mouthpiece of practically every amateur cricketer
in N.S.W. Up to the time this issue went to press the
Association had not got to the clauses which
will deal with the suspended ex-Players, but it
had already proceeded to fall on the clubs which
had neglected to eject the suspended renegades
from the privileges and benefits of membership. Glebe
and Paddington are the only neglectful bodies. By the
way, it is time that the Victorian Association also dis-
qualified these men, and the S. Australian Association
should be asked to do so also. Probably S. Aus-
tralia will refuse, and in that case the only
thing left to do is to practically disqualify S.
Australia, by refusal on the part of both N.S.W. and
Victoria to continue the inter-State matches. This is a
case in which the Associations that stick to the Board of
Control must go the whole hog. A mere bit of bacon on
a plate is no use at all.
N.S.W.’s latest Rugby victory over Queensland
seems to have been largely a matter of luck and Wick-
ham’s kicking. In the first half the Queenslanders
played with a howling wind behind them, which spoiled
Messenger’s shots at goal. The opening score was made
by N.S. W. against the breeze in the first minute of play,
and before the Bananalanders properly realised that the
game had started. The Queensland pack seemed to over-
match that of N.S.W., and, with the aid of the wind, kept
the visitors well inside their own 25, till a goal from a
mark equalised scores. N.S.W. got wild, played off-side,
and came rushing round scrums, till a couple of goals
from penalty kicks brought them to some sense of
their foolishness. First half ended with Queensland
9to 3. In the second spell, for a while, the game
degenerated into a succession of brilliant but use-
less single-handed runs by heroes on both sides.
One Queenslander had already been injured, and then
Swannell was warned by the referee and hooted by the
crowd for accidentally kicking Carmichael in the
stomach. Both sides had lost their combination, and
were just wrestling in pairs. When Bede Smith, the big-
country player, did score for N.S.W., he just walked
across the line carrying the ball and three Queenslanders,
and bumped the lot heavily on the ground. Messenger
again failed to add the points. It was not till five
minutes to closing time that both sides played up. Then
Queenslanders charged three times right down on to the
Waters’ line, and were repulsed. In the last scrimmage,
the Walers suddenly seized the leather, and carried it
right over the Queensland line with a rush. A try meant
a draw, and the fate of the match hung on Wickham’s
kick. It rose like a rocket, soared over the bar, and
curved downwards, dragging with it the hopes of Queens-
land Rugby, just as the whistle blew. The Walers had
won by 11 to 9.
* * * *
In Sydney the local Rugby competitions con-
tinued regardless of the fact that the big dogs of the
clubs were away battling in Queensland. Eastern
Suburbs had the bye, and Glebe downed Sydney by 18
points to nil. A most unholy defeat. These two ciubs
are now at the top of the competition list with 13 points
each. Newtown wrecked North Sydney to the tune of
eight to five, and the result was that it occupies second
place on the list with 12 competition points. University
just managed to flown South Sydney- by 13 to 12, and
crept into third place with 11 points, its defeated oppo-
nent following with 10. Balmain and St. George played
a draw (three points each), and Western Suburbs beat
Manly by 23 points to nil. The respective places of the
last four clubs will not bear inspection—they are so low
as to be indecent.
In spite of the slump in its competition stock,
South Sydney’s match with the University drew 15,000
people to the Sports Grounds, where the University
started with a cold westerly wind behind. Heeling out
immediately, the University set a charge going, but the
Southmen intercepted, and carried it along at the toe till
they scored from a free. After that the collegians took
advantage of the wind, and by half time had run the store
up to eight to three. The change of ends—and wind —
did not apparently aid South much at first; it got
its first chance through a University man being
detected trying to knock the ball into the scrum
again, and scored three in consequence. University then
sent a series of charges in such rapid succession that
South became demoralised, and the score was 13 to six.
South responded with dribbling rushes, and one of them
got over the line, but the kick failed. Things looked
hopeless, but a few minutes before time South secured
another goal from a mark, which left it just one point
behind. The captain was shouting directions, and already
the pack was carrying it at toe towards the Uni. goal,
the collegians vainly trying to stem the charge by failing
on the leather, when the whistle blew, and South gave
one big curse at its captain for not being a Joshua.
* * * *
It is not hard to see where the public interest
lies w'hen an inter-State match, under Australian rules,
at Sydney Cricket Ground, with tea and whisky laid on,
draws only 4000 people, while an ordinary Rugby club
match, with the best men of both teams away, drags
15,000 to the Sports Ground. But it was so when N.S.W.
and Queensland met on Saturday. N.S.W. drew
first blood by scoring a couple of goals in as many
minutes. The way that Queensland worked to within
striking distance," and then scored by means of an
amazing screw-kick, was very fine. The second quarter
was very fast, N.S.W. score rising to 21, while Queensland
dragged its up to 16. The third quarter saw Queensland
draw level, and stay there for a while, but the Walers
had some crack markers, who carried the score to 37,
while the Bananalanders could get no higher than 23. But
it was in the final that the Sydneysiders came right out
of their shells and excelled themselves, scoring six goals
in rapid succession. The debacle was in full blast when
the bell rang, and the game ended in the downfall of the
Northern State, beaten by 76 points to 23.
* ■* * *
Last Saturday the Vie. League dropped serious
football for a week, and staged a pleasing farce for the
benefit of the 4000 or 5000 spectators who went to the
Melbourne Cricket Ground to see Ballarat play a com-
bined Melbourne team. Heaven knows why the League
plays Ballarat at all —Bendigo or Sale or Bruthen would
furnish an equally exciting burlesque. The League put
its strongest 18 in the field, and the first five minutes
showed them the strength of their opponents. There-
after it was the episode of the cat and the mouse over
again, the board at the finish showing League 115 points,
Ballarat 70—but Ballarat couldn’t have notched more
than 20 had the locals been so minded. The Asso-
ciation sent a team to Adelaide —which beat
the S.A. Association by 68 points to 51—and kept an
eye on the bawbees at the same time by carrying out the
usual Saturday’s round of games. The only one of note
was at “ the Gluepot”—the North Melbourne paddock on
a filled-in swamp, where the locals beat Williamstown by
one point after a fine, strenuous game. These two are
reported a couple of “ willing ” teams and extra police
had been drafted down, but they weren’t needed ; a
somewhat new umpire took charge, and kept the strings
in his firm hands right throughout. On one penalised
player threatening to “ job”him he pleasantly invited him
to go ahead, first assuring him that, no matter who got
the better of the argument, he, the player, would play no
more this season. The “ muddied oaf ” didn’t fight.
* * * *
A self-sacrificing toeballer, who laid down liis
good character in the interests of his club, so to speak,
has been unearthed at Kaiapoi (M.L.)., His name was on
the official list of players for a match, but he didn’t turn
up, and a “ ghost ” was rung in at the last moment and
given his name. Unfortunately the “ghost” was a red
hot player, and was preparing some of his opponents for
the ambulance van, when he was ordered off the field.
The Rugby Union called upon him to show cause why
he shouldn’t be passed out for rough play, and that
occasioned trouble. The position was put to the
absentee w’hose name had been used, and he agreed
to take all the blame for the misconduct of bis “ ghost,”
and thus save the club officials from disgrace. But the
Union got wind of the fraud. The management and selec-
tion committees were debarred from holding office in any
club under the Union until the end of 1907 ; the selector
who was really responsible for the “ ringing in ” was
passed out for life ; a co-selector goes under the ban until
the end of the present year ; the secretary of the club got
five years ; the cove who sacrificed his good name stands
down until the end of this year ; and his “ghost,” whose
strong feet kicked him into notoriety, won’t need a foot-
ball jersey for three years.
St. Brigid (Sydney) hurlersmet another disaster
on Saturday, when the Redfern No. 2 team walked over
them in the second half. During the first half the Saints
kept up a series of vicious attacks, which Redfern blocked
in splendid style, but without making any counter demon-
stration. Nevertheless, the first half ended with Redfern
leading by four points to two. In the second spell
Redfern assumed the aggressive. The Saints suddenly
found themselves driven to the centre, hurled down on
their line, and broken up, till at the final whistle Redfern
w'as leading by 18 to four. St. Brigid is a young club
yet, though.
* * * «
Seems that Joey Carruthers is of even more
frugal mind than anyone dreamed of. Nowadays when
the police knock off work they are sent surplus-hunting —
otherwise raiding gambling dens. On Saturday after-
noon last, down in the Chinese quarter of Sydney, the
police literally chopped their way into a fantan establish-
ment with a couple of axes, and bagged 22 men and
£6 12s. 6d. The fines amounted to nearly £4OO.
The place was heavily barricaded with timber de-
fences, but the force hewed through these without
extra pay. All gambling dens should be constructed of
stone, and approached by long passages, in which the
defenders could let down steel grids every few' feet.
A timber gambling house is no use when Joey is raging
after some more surplus.
* * * *
The latest yarn from Athens is that in the foot-
racing the winners beat the gun by yards, and the
gunner’s eyes being fixed on his awful weapon, he did not
notice that by the time he pulled the trigger half the
field was careering wildly, 100yds. or so along the course.
Altogether, if only one-half the things said about
the Olympian Games at Athens are true, the Greek
knows no more about conducting races and games than
he does about boiling fowls—and that is just plain nil.
* * * *
The Olympic Games, at Athens, brought forth
a massive 21-year-old young Greek, Coutoulakis, who
stands sft. 4iri. and turns the scale at 18st.—as broad as
he is long. He is considered the strongest man in the
world. He pushed up 3301 b. at the “ Games,” about sflb.
behind Arthur Saxon’s record. This Greek also secured
the wrestling (Graeco-Roman style) championship, con-
tested on the sand, the usual mat being discarded. An
eye-witness of these events says: “ It is quite a common
occurrence to see a mouth or eye filled with sand, and
not unusual to see a head disappear altogether.” There
must be a lot of discomfort about a wrestling reputation
which is built on sand.
•jr * * *
It was The Bulletin’s old friend, B. R. Wise,
who looked up the Australian competitors in the Olympic
games at Athens, and endeavored to induce them to
throw in their lot with the English reps. He came along
with little tatters of the Union John for them to wear,
and said that, as sons of a British possession, it was their
duty to figure under the “ old flag.” Had they done this,
the points gained by the Australians w'ould have gone to
the credit of the English association ; and, in any case,
the Australians w'ere not invited to wear the Union John
until their performances on the tracks had begun to shake
the self-confidence of the Britishers. The Australians
respectfully declined.
* ♦ *
The Australian athletes in America all seem to
have had remarkable luck as regards the San Francisco
shock. Hock Keys had gone east; and now news comes
that W. Palmer." the Australian cyclist, who broke his
hand in the semi-final of the Sydney Thousand, and who
went away with Saiiiuelson, left the doomed cit}’ the
nitfht before the heave. For this he can thank
Sainuelson. The latter lives at Salt Lake City, and,
getting homesick, coaxed Palmer away a week before the
appointed time. There is to be some great racing at the
old Mormon stronghold in August, when, among other
exciting events, a mile match between Kramer and Ivor
Lawson is to be decided. The purse is £5OO, and the
winner is to get £3OO, the loser the balance. This, after
all, doesn’t seem a great prize for the fastest sprinter in
the world.
* * * *
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. has made its
monthly handicaps much more interesting' by starting
the boats all together and declaring the handicaps at the
finish. The old system of starting boats every few
minutes was very distracting, and made the race hard to
follow. Under the new system there is at least a visible
tussle and a good flying start. But the flying start was
the only thing that'fiew last Saturday, when the winning
boat is reported to have taken 3hrs. 4£min. to cover 10
miles in the face of a wind that blew strongly and water
that jobbled slightly.
The great Wallace Continental cycle handicap
road race, from Bathurst to Sydney, has been set down
for Saturday, August IS. The prize-list is fairly gorgeous.
The winner of the first will receive £5O and a 20-guinea
bicycle made by Forest Finlay, of Market-street, Sydney.
The second prize is worth £l7 155., of which £5 is cash
and the rest bicvcle and Continental tyres, presented by
Alick M'Neil. After these follow 17 other prizes of vary-
ing values and degrees of beauty. Entries close with the
Wallace Continental Tyre and Rubber Co., 225 Clarence-
street, Sydney, on Saturday, July 28, and the handicaps
will be published on August 4. The people of Sunny
Corner were so anxious to have the racecourse laid
through their township that they defrayed the cost of
printing fresh maps, which the alteration of the route
made necessary. The result of the deviation will be to
make the total distance 133 miles.
* * . *
“ A.S.” (from a M.L. town): The Caledonian
Sports were being held. Included in the programme was
a three-inch obstacle race, first prize £5. There were
27 starters and a good deal of betting. My mate
Smith, who was a sturdy little fellow sft. 4in.
high, came to me and said. “ How much money
have youY” I replied, “about £2.” He said “Here’s
another 305., put the whole £3 10s. on me.” Thinking
that he had very little hope of beating his 26 big
opponents, all of them trained athletes, footballers, etc.
1 scouted the idea, but he insisted, and I reluctantly went
and got the money on at ten and eight to one. The
race was over or underall conceivable obstacles, including
a large tarpaulin securely pegged to the ground about
150 yards from the winning post. Competitors had to
crawl under this. The first time round I saw Smith
among the back division. The second time 1 saw no
Smith and came to the conclusion that he had dropped
out. Then about a dozen all bunched together came to
the last obstacle —the aforesaid tarpaulin—and to my
amazement one of the first to emerge from under the
same was Smith. I hadn’t seen a sign of him going
under the tarpaulin, yet there he was coming out. He
won, and the bookies paid us £34. We didn’t wait to
collect the prize money. Smith was afraid that someone
would find out that he had been under the tarpaulin all
the time the others were doing the second circuit.
* * * *
W. Sawkins, the Vic. champion billiard ist, is
preparing for publication an illustrated booklet entitled —•
“ A break of 100 at the Top and Table, and How to
Make it.” Each of thirty or forty strokes required for
the compilation of a century will be shown in a full page
diagram, explanations and comments being given on the
opposite page. The book is intended for amateur
players of the class who can sometimes run up a 50 or 60
break in a fairly well-educated style, but very rarely get
the coveted 100. The series of diagrams is a simple
enough guide to what ought to be done, whilst the letter-
press tells what ought not to be done, and offers reasons
for not doing it. Sawkins is a singularly young-looking
veteran player who was a self-taug'ht spot-stroker in
the days ere the spot was barred, but didn’t begin to shine
at the all-round game until he re-modelled his style, a few
years ago, and went in for assiduous practice tocure him-
self of his faults. Naturally delicate in constitution, he
took to biking when he was a man of 35 or thereabouts,
and the bike did w'onders for his health. A very steady,
taking player, with a lot of capacity for improvement is
Sawkins, and this forthcoming match with Campbell, the
Maoriland champion, promises to be a good game to
watch. It comes off in Alcock’s Hall, Melbourne, at the
conclusion of the current Billiard Markers’ Tournament,
in which the rival champions are the scratch men.
* * * *
The Vic. Billiard Markers’ Tournament at
Alcock’s Hall (Melb.) is an interesting lesson re the
difference between the easy, ordinary “ hotel ” table and
the difficult champion table, with its regulation pockets
and reduced semi-circle in baulk. Markers, with few ex-
ceptions, have the style of play that comes of careless
dealing’ with weak opponents on tables where a little
inaccuracy in the hazard striking is permissible. With
the assistance of “side” the balls slip round the corners
of the pockets in a manner which can’t be repeated on an
Alcock champion table. The result is that two couples
of markers will often fail to make a break of more than
30 points in some cases during an evening’s play.
* * * *
Died, at the early age of 38, H. N. Pillsbury., of
America, chess-player. lis career, though less startling
than the meteoric one ot bis fellow' countryman Paul
Morphy, was remarkable enough in its useless and
astonishing way. Pillsbury could play 20 games simul-
taneously, and blindfold at that ; and on one occasion he
played a rubber of w'hist, half-a-dozen games of chess, and
a few games of draughts simultaneously, keeping up an
animated conversation at the same time. These and
other strenuous but purposeless feats are supposed to
have hastened his end.
* » * *
The British law against perilous and brutalising
public performances looks utterly ridiculousin thelightof
the fact that, week before last, a girl parachutist, dangling-
from a balloon over the heads of an “ enormous ” York-
shire crowd, lost her grip of the trapeze, and dropped to
a tragic end. As a rule, it is the parachute that fails to
spread out and prevent a calamity, but in this case the
misguided young person fell before she had grasped her
umbrella, and the crowd got the horrible sensation it had
been secretly expecting. The longing for a catastrophe
can’t be called unconscious. A crowd gazing up at a
parachute performer has “ blood in the eye.” A failure
must prove fatal. The woman-.it is usually a woman-
risks her life to make a brutalising gate-money show,
under the sanction, seemingly, of a law which sends its
emissaries to watch a glove-fight, with orders to stop the
contest if either boxer’s nose is getting unduly flushed.
A balloon, perhaps, soars beyond the radius of police
authority, and in that case an aeronaut who treated his
w'ife as ballast, and threw her out of the car, could com-
mit murder gratis, so to speak. An interesting- point of
aw.
* * * *
Melbourne Exhibition Building, having been
declared an unfit and improper place for a prize-fight,
Wren is now proposing to bring off the Squires-O’Brien
battle at Ascot racecourse on Melbourne Cup morning.
Given fine weather and the promise of an efficient railway
service, Wren should draw a great crowd to his show';
but the mob will want to feel sure of getting away from
Ascot to Flemington in good time for the Cup.
* * * *
“Cross-Cut”: The excitement over Bill Squires’
defeat of Timothy Murphy is running high. Yet Bill’s
win has not been greeted with enthusiasm from every-
body. T’other day I met a local pug who complained
that the papers had given too much publicity to Bill’s
adventures, and none to his own. I give the complaint
in his own words : —“ Yer see, I don’t say as I’m as good
as Bill; wot I does say his this, these bloomin’ papers
’ave made too bloomin’ much of Bill’s win. I
doesn’t care a bloomin’ rap what they ’ave said
abart Bill, but I sez this, these bloomin’ papers
might ’ave took notice of me fight with Jim the
Stousher larst week, when I honted *im in the third
round. An’ then there was the two fights I ’ad with me
two cobbers over a drink on Toosday night. Wednesday
I hashed two coves wot called me a bloomin’ beer-eater.
Thursday I ’ad a bit o’ a dispute with me gal’s brother,
’oo ’ad to be taken to the ’orspital with coneushing o’ his
thinkin’-box, which wos damaged doorin’ the dispute.
To-night I ’ave to meet’Arry Brown to settle hahargument
between hourselves, an’ to-morrer night I ’ave to halter
the expression hon ‘ Fightin’ Jim’s’ face in three rounds.
But, s’elp me, the bloomin’ papers hain’t got the decency
to menshion me name. Hit his a public scandal—hit
his ! ”
* * * *
The return fight between Arthur Cripps and
Peter Felix came off at Sydney National Sporting Club
last week in the presence of a good house. Although the
National crowd always hoots Felix, it turns up most re-
ligiously to see him. They were a weird-looking couple.
The black man was admittedly two (and looked three)
stone heavier than the other. Also, he towered over
Cripps, and his black arms looked so much longer that it
seemed impossible thatJnphet could ever reach llam’s
conning tower. When the fight started it was found that
the disparity of height was not altogether in favor of
Felix. The "other man was too short, and Felix had to
chop down at him, or spread his legs out in a ridiculous
fashion to get his artillery to play on Cripps’ top-piece.
There was a lot of distinct unpleasantness during the
scrap. Karly in the disturbance Felix complained that
he had been hit low, and a cynical crowd remarked that
he didn’t like the way Clipps was tickling his commis-
sariat department. No man whose innards were
not made of brass could have done so, and
occasionally it sounded as though Cripps was beating a
drum. The white man was a whirling, rushing, wild
ob]’ect, who hurled himself in close, and bashed and
battered at the same spot, only pausing occasionally to
aim a few at the jaw. Still the eeehymosis was not all
on one side ; Oripps’s mouth was considerably enlarged
owing to Felix’s glove having been forced right into it ;
his cheek-bone looked as though it was stripped, one
eye badly required a sling and was rapidly closing, and
generallv Mr. Cripps looked as though a bull had kicked
him. But, he fought on, knocking Felix down several
times, and the lengthy black man’s heart was melting
very obviously. In the 16th Felix, coming up from a
spell on the boards, stayed on his knees, and the excited
Cripps, with frenzy in his other eye, rushed across and
struck wildly, quite unconscious of the fact that the
black man had not risen. It was the decisive blow, and
lost Cripps the fight, which was instantly awarded to
Felix on a foul.
* * * «
Merman, the under-rated Australian horse that
the late W. R. Wilson sold to Mrs. Langtry, is now
making his mark as a sire. One of his progeny captured
a race at the Chester meeting, where a son of Trenton
(also from W. R. Wilson’s stud) ran second for the Cup.
♦ # * *
The wooden bicycle rim is now a discredited
object, and the Dunlop Rubber Co. barred the animal,
with its accompanying horror, the single tube tyre, from
the contest for the Tnterclub Premiership, which started
at Homebush, outside Sydney, on Saturday. Nine clubs
s°nt along five representatives each. The distance was
20 miles, and a fierce wind and clouds of dust choked the
competitors and filled their eyes with rocks. Not a single
smash occurred, and, barring a few punctures, everything
went smoothly. This immunity was attributed to the
absence of the wooden rim and the single tyre, and tlm
chances are that they will be carefully excluded from all
future contests.
* * * *
Sculler Towns is still training in comparative
secrecv at Raymond Terrace, on the tlun ter River (N.S.W.),
while Stanlmry pegs steadily away on the Parramatta under
the fatherly eye of W. Beach. William expresses himself
enthusiastic with regard to Stanbnry's chances, but as he
hasn’t seen the other fellow at work, that is just
William’s cheerful, optimistic suint. Last time Towns
underrated bis enemy—if he makes an error this time it
will be in over-estimating - him, and Towns is a wonderful
sculler when he is at bis best.
* * * *
“ B.” : Sporting par. writers are fond of moral-
ising that be who plays up his few bob in a two-up seboo]
at the risk of a police raid has a much straighter go than
he who punts at Randwick with the Gov.-General looking
on. But what is to be said of the gambler who backs
doggie at Rooty Hill? The ultimate winner of N.S.W.
Derby at the recent meeting was credited with being-
lame, so the bookies let, him start at even money (if
Bnckle v started in a coursing match evens would be con-
sidered a fair thing about bis chance). In another tie,
10 to 1 was cheerfully laid on a canine specimen which
allowed its opponent to win easily. To make two-up as
risky a proceeding as betting-at a coursing match the
school would want to be situated on an iceberg in Sheol.
* * * *
“ The Betting Evil ” is attracting quite a lot
of attention lately. Both Bent and Carruthers are on
the warpath, and the latter is turning the anti-gambling
crusade to profit. The result will be that next election
will find the whole snorting community against both
Governments. Gambling is said to be bad for the soul,
but if there is one thing that a man h'tes more than
anything els° in the world it is to have good done for his
sot'll. Right through history the British race has fought
for the inherent right of every man to lose his own soul
if he wanted to. The peculiar feature of the present
crusade is that the powers that be are only worried about
the souls of the “ lower orders.” If you are a member of
Tattersall’s Club (any of Tattersall’s Clubs, that is) the
Government doesn’t' care a straw about your immortal
soul, and you are free to go to everlasting Pot if you like.
The “ lower orders ” resent anyone trying to save their
souls at any time, but the man who tries to save them
and allows their rich brethren to be damned with im-
punity, earns their undying hatred.


Young girl Stella St. Clair Featherstone
was tried (and acquitted) at Melbourne Criminal
Court, last week, on a charge of stealing a peram-
bulator. Stella St. Clair Featherstone accounted
for her possession of the vehicle by statiilg that
Roy Goldstein had given it to her, but in her hour
of need the youth with the shining name was not
to be found. He wouldn’t face the trouble. If it
had been a matter of John Cobb coming to the,
rescue of Jane Higgs, the man would not have
failed to appear.
A MARRIED LADY, good form and
features, would like to meet Artist with a
view to Posing, strictly confidential.
“ VERAX,"
c/o Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Amusements.
ALFRED
PARK.
pRINCE
(OiiD Exhibition Grounds).
for a FEW WEEKS’ SEASON, COMMENCING
SATURDAY, JULY 7th., 1906.
BOSTOCK and
WOM SWELL’S
NOVELTY CIRCUS and COMPLETE
MENAGERIE.
THE FIRST OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALASIA
PRICES —35., 25., and Is. Boxes to seat Four, 20s
Sole Proprietor—E. H. BOSTOCK.
Advance Agent—ALEC VERNE.
Under the Direction of DOUGLAS BOSTOCK.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee I. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, ,
BLAND HOLT’S
Stirring Melodramatic Story of London Life,
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
Written by Sutton Vane, Esq.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in
THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of WILLIAM ANDERSON.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS of
CZERNY,
“ A magician most profound in his art.” —As You Like
It, Act V., sc. 2.
An Entertainment of the Highest Class, REFINED,
ARTISTIC, HUMOROUS.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
FRANK TALBOT, Treasurer.
GEORGE MARLOW, Business Manager.
Y C E U M
HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. W. J. Macdermott.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Macdermott’s Peerless
Picture Coterie.
The Best that money can buy or art produce.
PROFESSOR W. E. SCOTT, the World’s Greatest
Yodelirig Ventriloquist.
Mr. ARTHUR FORD, Tenor Vocalist.
Plan at White Rose. Matinees Wednesday & Saturday.
/CENTENARY HALL, YORK ST., SYDNEY.
Manager
Commencing,
Mr. R. H. COLLINS.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30.
“Two Superb Attractions in One.”
Re-appearance of the Favorite Vocalists,
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
First Programme.—The Ever-Popular JUBILEE
CHORUSES. QUAINT MELODIES. MALE
QUARTETTES and SOLOS.
Second Programme.—lntroduction of their Great
THAUMATURGIO DISPLAY OF MOVING
PICTURES.
ius making TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN
ONE EVENING.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
White Rose.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales
Tivoli theatre, syd m e y
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
Continued Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported by Mr. HARRY KENDAL, in their Original
Comedy; “THE ORDER OF THE BATH.”.
Continued Enormous Success of BLAKE and GRANBY.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of OMEGA. Queen of the Wire.
Also O’NATIS TROUPE of Wonderful Algerian Jugglers.
THE SISTERS WARNER, MISS NITA LEETE,
FRED. BLUETT, IRVING SAYLES, ALICE FANE.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
HOMER' B. MASON and MARGUERITE KEELER,
Comedy Artists, in the Comedy, “ HOOKED BY CROOK.”
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Ways.
SLADE MURRAY, Comedian, Descriptive Vocalist.
YASCO, the Mad Musician, plays 27 Instruments.
MDLLE ALEXANDRA, MASTER BERTIE, Novelty Act.
Plan at Allan’s.
AST PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
AUSTRALIAN AXEMEN’S CHOPPING CARNIVAL,
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus Building, Melbourne.
£225 12th, 13th, & 14th JULY, 1906.
itx Prizes* PROGRAMME:
3HAMPION STANDING BLOCK CHOP, 56in. Logs.—
First, £25 and Gold Medal; second, £10; third, £5.
Entry 10s. .
CHAMPION U.H. CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £25 and
Gold Medal; second, £lO ; third, £5. Entry 10s.
J.H. HANDICAP CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £3O;
second, £l5 ; third, £5. Entry 30s. ; no acceptance.
J.B. HANDICAP CHOP, 56in. Logs.—First, £3O ; second,
£l5 ; third, £5, Entrv 305.; no acceptance.
INTERSTATE TEAMS MATCH, 3ft. Logs.—First, £10;
second, £5; Entry 10s. . ' _ .
O.H. SAWING MATCH.—First, £10; second, £5; Entry
IQS
PALING SPLITTING COMPETITION.—First, £10;
second, £5. Entry 10s.
BLACKBUTT TIMBER. Entries to
O. E. ELY, Toora, South Gifpsland.
E. ERSKINE SCOTT, Business Manager.
Amusements.
New theatre
Lessee
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
the Successful Nautical Drama,
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
ER MAJEBTVB~THEATRE, IVIE LBOU KN E.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST NIGHTS and
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
America’s Foremost Comedian, MR. WILLIAM COLLIER,
—in
ON THE QUIET.
As played by Mr. Collier upwards of a thousands times.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS T S THEATRE; MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. EDWIN GEACH.
The LAUGHING SUCCESS of the DAY,
THE WiLLOUGH BY-WARD COMEDY CO., including
MISS GRACE PAJ.OTTA,
in the World’s Greatest Laughing Success,
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES —55., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and
The Grand. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
EDISON
Phonographs. Cash.
STANDARDS.
HOMES
VIOLINS 15..
AUTOIIARPS..
Weekly
Pay-
Terms. Deposit, ntents
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
albert & SOW,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
Business Announcements.
x That Hat you tyjear I x
HOW do you know it isn’t an article turned out
by machinery by the million in some
European factory—and finished in the hovel
home of some sweated worker? Why not
wear one of our Hats—our genuinely honest Aus-
tralian Hats, stamped with our full name on the
inside leather —you’ll get better Hat satisfaction for
one thing, and help your fellow Australians into the
bargain. Our Hats are sold by all dealers throughout
the Commonwealth, and they’re obtainable in every
shape and style of Hard and Soft Felts suitable for
the City Man, the Squatter, the Station Hand, the
Miner and the Farmer. They cost you (wherever you
buy them) Half a Guinea and Twelve and Sixpence,
and are worth every penny of their mice. You’ll find
them light and long lasting, hand-made from pure
Australian sterilised fur, fast dyed and splendidly
comfortable to the head—good Australian made hats
for your good Australian head.
Remember you can buy our Hats from all store-
keepers—but see that
OUR FULL NAME IS ON THE INSIDE
LEATHER OF EACH HAT.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROPY. LTD.,
X ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA. X
An Electric Pocket Lamp for 3/9.
Marvellous value. Gives a
brilliant light simply by
pressing the button. Pitted with
Battery, which is charged simply
by pouring water into the three
cells. THE BATTERY IS RE-
CHARGEABLE, consequently
there is a great saving in the cost
of Batteries. One Battery will
last many months. Get one of
these Lamps now and you will
never be without it. Think what
a boon it will be to you, going
from room to room, getting up at
nights, going on lonely walks, for
camping out—and there are
dozens of other uses which will
suggest themselves to you when once you have the Lamp,
and there are uses which it will be put to which you never
dreamed of. EVERY LAMP IS GUARANTEED. No
other firm will do this. Read these testimonials :
Mr. Chas. Courtney, Goldi e-street, Wynyard, Tas.: “ I
have received your Lamp safely, and atn very well pleased
with it. Kindly forward another.”
Mr. F. Brunsdon, Namoi Echo, Wee Waa: “Electric
Pocket Lamp to hand, and I must say I am very well
pleased with it.”
Mr. D. Campbell, Millicent, S.A. : “ I am very well
satisfied with the Pocket Electric Lamp procured from
you.” And dozens of others.
THE PRICE OF THE LAMP, complete, is ONLY 3/9
post paid to any address. Extra Batteries, 1/6 each.
We have a superior quality also in stock, which is the
BEST POCKET LAMP IN THE WORLD. It is fitted
with Rosewood’s Electrolyte Battery, and will give a most
dazzling, almost blinding, light for over 100 ft. Price,
7/6 post free. Batteries, 2/6. One Battery lasts over
six months.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 MOORE ST,, SYDNEY.
Practical-Typewriter
Only 10/B
CARRIAGE PAID
We Guarantee
the Writing
Cheap &
Good
So Simple
A CHILD
Can Use It |
F/EJ
Equal to
the work of
any £25
Typewriter
Send tor a
\ Specimen
f .HOUGH so marvellously cheap, this machine is a thor-
oughly Practical Typewriter. We positively guarantee it
to produce writing equal in every respect to that of
anr £25 machine. It does not seem possible at the price, but
lei' us send vou a specimen ot its work and you will be con-
vinced. With reasonable care it will last a life time. It is so
simple that a child just -aide to read can write with it. You can
learu all there is to know about it in five minutes, and an
hour's practice will make you an expert operator. Every business
man must have a typewriter. Illegible pen writing Is unbusi-
nesslike and creates the impression that the firm is a no-account
and slow-going concern. We assure you that ihe Practical Type-
writer fully deserves.its name, as it is fit to-do the cortespon-
dence of any business or profession, and to do it well,. You
should not miss this chance of securing a bargain. Our stock 19
limited and it may be some time before we can obtain a further
supply ’from America, as the demand there is very great. Send
Postal Note of any State for 10/6 and we will forward the Type-
writer carriage paid to any address in Australia. Tasmania or New
Zealand complete and carefully packed in a neat ease, with lull
primed directions for use. guaranteed In thorough working order.
If you mention this paper when ordering, we will send with the
machine without charge an excellent British-made Fountain Pen
atid Filler complete. Do not delay, or you,may be disappointed.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(ftii'TUAii) 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL. BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
Card Players.
Hkrk is a charming and useful card receptacle and
counter that gives character and tone to the card table.
It is pure silver plated, richly embossed, with revolving
ivoryette counter. Price 205., post free. This design is
one of a nuir her that Mr. A. Saunders, Sydney’s leading
jeweller of 80!) George-street, opposite Railway, Sydney,
has just received from his London house. A beautifully
illustrated catalogue will be sent post free on request.*
Rabbit Skins Booming.
lGd. per lb., equal to nearly 3d. per skin, was
paid for several consignments of close-furred
rabbit skins at Winchcombo Carson and Co.’s
sale on Wednesday last. This is a record, so far.
The preference seems to be for large, thin-pelted
skins, carrying a dense fur. Skins answering this
description were on offer from Marulan.Goulburn,
Queanbeyan, and Cooma ; and also from Gunne-
dah, Nevertire, Forbes, and Hay ; land all these
lots reached the high figure quoted.*
The mouth is the index of health, as we all know
when we consult the doctor. The first thing he asks of
U 9 is bo look into our mouths. If the condition of the
mouth is good there is nothing much the matter. But
along with the question of health of the mouth there is
also the beauty of the mouth to be considered ; the one is
dependent on the other. A mouth soon loses its beauty
that is not kept in good health, and with such a
thoroughly scientific dentifricial preparation as Odol
available there is no excuse for the neglect of the mouth
and teeth.*
Incredible though it may seem, a large
number of Maorilanders who committed arson
and sheep-stealing during the time of the Boer
shambles still remain unpaid for their services to
the Hempire. The Maoriland “army list,” pub-
lished t’other day, contains the names of those to
whom coin is owing. It makes a long column of
daily newspaper print, and the amount due is
over £lOOO. Even now it isn’t stated when these
swaddies will be paid for their crimes, and they’ll
probably soon be barred by the Statute of Limita-
tions, or something equally humorous.
Maurice Brodzky, an ex-Melbourne jour-
nalist, was editing the Wasp in San Francisco
when the earthquake and sundries happened
along. After a week in what was once a city he
and his family got away to New York. The
second night the family camped among the tomb-
stones of Calvary Cemetery, where they spent the
time watching ’Frisco burn—a scene almost as
good as anything Blandolt or Bilanderson could
do. Meanwhile Brodzky hustled round getting
“ copy,” and by the afternoon got a column
descriptive report across the water to the Oak-
land Enquirer. Miss Brodzky was at a town
north of ’Frisco. No one was hurt there, but
the hotel in which she stayed “rocked twice half-
across the street.”
To
Australian
Cyclists!
YOU
Should support Australian-made
“DUNLOPS” in preference to
_<?ggo?
r
opO
aoo'
SB22G
900
c£.
Poo.
S 3
qoo'
oQ?d
bo
OOi
oP>
Q. 6
oo
o&oS
So
009
opo
oo
OP
oo
Vulcanised
Duwiop Tyres*
For Comfort £r
Durability.
Guaranteed .for 12 Months.
Beware of Imitations.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYHE CO. of Aiisu Lfrt,
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide.
Foreign-made Tyres. Apart from a
matter of sentiment in supporting
your own country, YOU will find
that our Vulcanised
are absolutely unequalled for Hard
Wear and Reliability on Australian
Roads, and are worth every penny
they cost.
SFND FOR- copy of Artistic Booklet, “All
About Dunlop Tyres for 1906 ’’—Gratis on
Application.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report: Monthly
auctions were resumed in this market on 20th inst., when
we brought forward a small catalogue of 617 bales con-
sisting chiefly of Queensland consignments. The market
ruled easier than on the last occasion, and biddings were
somewhat erratic. Our leading price in the grease was
12pi., whilst scoured sold to 23Jd., both figures being
obtained for parcels of the well-known “ FMY/NORTH-
AMPTON” mark from Blackall, Queensland. Another
line of scoured that commanded much attention was from
Delegate, well prepared by Mr. G. D. Walcott, which
realised up to 23d. By auction and privately we sold 301
bales.*
“Sp you have brought these men here to hang
them, have you—the traitors within our gates, the men
who have fought and plotted, and spoken against Australia,
as I have often told you? The agents of the foreigner,
the foes of Australian industry. Sixty of them and sixty
halters, I suppose, are ready. But have you enough
halters? There are 16,000 of'you at least. Of you how
many in the past have voted Freetrade ? How many of
you have assisted to put these men in the places where
they could act as your enemies? Have you halters for all
of yourselves so guilty ? Shame on your new rage and
your new courage. Get back to your homes and prepare
to do something. You voted for these men in the past.
Now you want to hang them for your own folly. Perhaps,
now, they know better. Perhaps, now, they are willing
to be good Australians. And we want, at this crisis,
every man who can shoot a gun or carry an ammunition
box. Stop this mad rioting. You are near to the birth or
the death of the Australian nation. On the issue of this
struggle hangs a great destiny. Come to the event rev-
erently, solemnly, and with set purpose to act the man,
and to. do the best that is in you. Let those poor
wretches go for a start. Y'ou will soon have enough
killing to do!” Extract from “On the Trail of the
Trust.,” on sale at Tub Bum.ktin Office.*
No treasurer should be allowed to talk
about having a surplus while he rakes into revenue
the money derived from land sales. That money
is not, and never was, revenue, and Carruthers, or
any other Treasurer who includes it in his revenue
totals, should be prosecuted for playing an unlaw-
ful game of the kind the nephew from Fiji tries
on the unsuspecting Gum-leaf.
A person named Baker at an anti-Sosh
meeting in Prahran (Vic.) iast week discovered a
new epithet for Socialism. He said that it was
“un-British”; and all the anti-Soshers in the
hall said “hear, hear” enthusiastically. Surely
of all the feeble gibes ever thrown at Socialism
this is the feeblest. It has never even occurred
to the Socialist party to declare that its creed was
British. Baker’s objection is merely another effect
of the importing craze. Nothing un-British is
any good. If Socialists would only brand their
Socialism with a bulldog or something as a token
of its supreme Britishness, it is possible that even
the importer might be brought into the fold.
“ Australia has one real and pressing need,
and that is the evolution of a Public Conscience.
Not one of the hundreds of allegedly Christian
clergymen in Australia has thought fit to call
attention to the fact that of the two biggest fights
put up by George Reid and the Sydney daily
press in recent years, one was to enable a sweater
to pirate the Trade Union label, and the other
was to permit shippers to export adulterated
goods without detection.” —Arthur Griffith at
Broken Hilt.
An Act of the Westralian Parliament dis-
qualifies for admission to the local Bar any person
who has not resided in the State for six months,
the object being to give immigrant barristers time
to get some smattering of Westralian law. But,
notwithstanding this statute, Justice Rootli
mounted the Supreme Court Bench as soon as he
arrived from England, and was considered to be
immediately competent to decide on local laws,
which he had never seen or heard of.


A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL BRCOCH
Pearls and Rubies, los.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH
Pearls and Rubies. 17s Cd. ’
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent' POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH.
Set Pure White Pearls, £5
Diamond Centre, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Fauiock BRACELET, in Four
Sizes, £2 10s, £3. £3 10s, £4. All with Safety
Chains attached.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH,
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
20s.
Country
Residents I
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
it personally selecting
in our great store.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewelled
£2 10s, a £3 10s, Si, £5, £6
£7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2/ 3,4, and 5 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre BROOCH,
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Pearls and Rubies,
15s.
A. SAUNDER^
9ct. Gold CROSS,
6s 6d.
ore
; MS
S II IgJ&>2c3
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half Chased Bamboo BRACELET, with
Safety Chain attached, £2 15s. Smaller, £2 ss.
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ruby
or Sapphire, 20s.
Pure Double. £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
Pearl Set
WISHBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Spray
BROOCH.
Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Two-Heart
RING,
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
'The Lord Watch
Between Me fc
watch -
x Thee i
Mi
$
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM. 8s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Crescent NECKLET, Set Fine Pure White Pearls
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete in Silk-Lined Case. '
Other .styles, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Circle
BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH. Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, los 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Pure Double Cut
BROOCH, £2. Larger Diamond.
Diamond
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, 8s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP. 25s
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold Halt-Hoop
Five Pure Double Gut
Diamonds, £4 les.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £6 lbs, £< lbs,
£8 lbs, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Marquise
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s 4 £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger 12s 6d *
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
AT/
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Rubier,
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Envelope
CHARM. 12s 6d.
Post Card, iua Od.
Silver, 4s 6d.
SPECIAL,
15s.
SUPERIOR,
17s6d
\ * /
S i
A.SAUNOEAS
Sl5 EeorgeStrceC yr
SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES
s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s!
ur “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
naranteed.
a
i
w
5a
»
ess
?3k
i
*
KS
r
|y
m
RK
r 4/
SB
£
s^y
®>
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS. 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDER&
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s
it’ ™ £4 3 £6 ’ 15ct ' Gold > £5 10s. £6 10.;
f B > £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £3.
15et. Gold. £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Oval
, c LINKS. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Initials Engraved Free."
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
sm
sm
■ IUI
saw
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER )
t SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, J
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


m
c<i
Yf\t\
S r tN
000
V\v
ofiH
(&
I
/
v
i
M
\
m
Y
cv,
HP
/
G
%
utj
C—*»•*>
2^
3 .'V/eiJc
o*r~v.
YANKEE DOODLE TOBACCO GOES
with all Australians.


VITADATIO
™ hospital
zr
i
ft***
C'f* C
V
/
'’V
1
so
?v
2v
a
s?
4H
ii\iiM**" m
UNDERSTAND THE FUEL MEANING OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT. We Have just been advised
that a consignment of VITADATIO, THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY, Has been made to the
management of one of the HOSPITALS IN THE COMMONWEALTH. Do you require greater
proof of its efficacy than tbis? Even sceptics become supporters of “THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
HEALER and HEALTH RESTORER.” Doubts are dispersed in the face of these statements.
VITADATIO sold Everywhere.
For further Particulars, S. A. PALMER, 439 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., O'CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.


a
fimf
4
fci.-l!
<<<:>
m
m m
m
1#
'** • ■
mg&r
V
■ ■ & v »
5^
t•-!■'/» . s.‘.•cfcwT.ir v* •*<*> •••.' •
*■<•' 7* v -•■* -* 1 ', ■*V = *r •"’ .v . *^v 4 --#V*w> r-j ,<//; v-.* - •..• /V,
•* Vii <•*.* ‘* m JL% *d* * V .*,* *♦ i nl> f M** > * .V*.a , >J&F •4*"JL *%" Ifcr#' *#*T • *' •.. ** W ’/' j **■ • *"■ : -*"'t •* .? ' '.'• ■** '•
. , ' -<>V-V'i '• ••' ' * •■* -$* v *•? ?• ’- • ’ '
~;■,' ■■ ,-.' : V,-> , . v- .
• Al' *-H r. *!-, • Jr • /»>, 1 A /;* *4 ~?«:** •.; >r «**.v V• * •>*# v . >,;•• • •• J$ v* v\*V'V'* . * f r. ■ ' -
:■ -y* - ♦• vHM
I wv*,#*-: %:\ <■•--. •• •-. *
-■ :■ • yyAA
4*;> ’•■ •'■ •?-:■'
■
'Vi
■?’■%'•■* *vj3S
&m*£w
m
» **y
M
HI
I#
wt
> *
. : *
ii
Bsf - 1 ■
' ‘ :.
*
w ■> »
in
srtk v
|f
4 # i i ,
1
,
i f
f
f“,
S«JB
S'
■
I'.l
t . :.
.5 -
!>eni3. fpv (satalo&ue.
H - V • MCKAY,
Melbourne, Jjydivcy; Adelaide.


ff
I
s
f
' <
1
>
m
lUt:
i/v
10
JOjHUn'
P
«PCCIM-
<y
W
A l '
V'
m.
2?
Qiiui
2
%°TC« I
c £km/\hl
[ ENt> //
mm//i
Ml ST b
"Thw\ks! Borit
know ik&t we need ft
JOSHUAS
SPECIAL
lx Belter 6 &Loi Older.**
WEAR m|
3 Guinea Suits
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED,
i
©
Made from either
ENGLISH,
SCOTCH, or
AUSTRALIAN
SUITINGS.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measure
Forms.
Ready-to-Wear
Overcoats.
The Celebrated
“Rainlea” Coat.
Light Weight, Porous, No
Rubber. Thoroughly Water-
proof. In Grey and Fawn
Colors.
555., 635.
The “Stag’s Head”
Brand Overcoat.
A Smart-fitting, Nobby Coat.
Gentlemen’s, 38s. 6d.
Boys’ and Youths’, 255.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUES.
CAN’T BE BEATEN.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
300-310 Bourke Street, HELBOURNE.
I’ll Try It.’
The Infallible MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE!
WILL GROW A HEAVY MOUSTACHE when every other preparation
has failed. It has a 25 years’ record in Australasia, and we hold
remarkable testimonials to its efficacy.
Price 10s. 6d,
POST FREE to any part of the
World, under Sealed Cover.
&
The Result
CRAIQ & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE
BRUNSWICK
(House-
hold)
ICE MACHINE
THE advantages of mechanical refrigeration are daily
becoming better known and appreciated. It makes
possible the preservation of food products and
supplies pure hygienic ice, and forever does away with
the lodgment of poisonous germs which accumulate in
wood or metal-lined refrigerators, that become water-
soaked and soggy from melting ice.
The “BRUNSWICK” ICE MACHINE has a
refrigerating capacity of from 2001 b. to 10 tons per day,
or in ice-making capacity from 1001 b. to 5 tons of ice per
day. It is so designed that it can be run with any power
—steam, gas, gasolene, kerosene, electricity, or water—
and a half horse-power is sufficient to drive the smallest
size. Full and interesting particulars and illustrations
will be forwarded on application to any address.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., S^ agents - 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Also Sole Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, Cyclone Cates & Fencing, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c.
1 l -1
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
“Drifter” : Something I saw on the mid-
night boat to Balmain one Saturday night re-
cently. Just as the plank was drawn a girl in a
pale-blue silk blouse, with a lace silk hat tilted
jauntily over ear, darted aboard and danced
into the full glare of light on the upper deck.
1 here was a sparkle of giddy hilarity in her eye
as she waved a bottle of beer and said that a
fiver wouldn’t buy it, “for to-morrow was Sunday.”
A sailor put his arm round her neck and sat be-
side her. Finally, the girl, in a burst of thirst
and generosity, suggested breaking in on the Sab-
bath beer. No one had a knife to lend, so the tar
rushed down to borrow a corkscrew from the
engineer. The girl called to him, then commenced
tapping the neck of the bottle against an iron
railing. 1 expected to see it smash into a thousand
pieces in her naked hands. But the top flew off.
There was a spurt of liquor. Then the girl
whipped the broken neck to her mouth
and commenced to laugh and drink. I saw a
thin, nervous-looking man sitting opposite give a
mighty shudder, then he emitted a cry of horror
and fled downstairs. Ten seconds later, when the
tar came triumphantly up with a big clumsv
spanner to extract the cork, a recklete, empty
bottle mocked him from the seat, and his divinity
was cioing a wild can-can to a delighted audience
of German man-o'-warsmen. When the boat
reached Morts Dock the protecting arm of a
policeman gathered the festive damsel in, and she
went .joyfully to the station disturbing the murk
of midnight with a Bacchanalian ditty.


Be Wise
10 DAYS
When the food fails to keep
you well
Change
for sickness is a cry of Nature
for the right elements to build
and rebuild the body properly.
A 10 days change from the old
diet to a new, works wonders if
skilfully selected. Try
A Little Fruit,
A Saucer of GRAPE-NUTS and Cream,
A Piece of very Hard Toast,
A Cup of well-made POSTUM COFFEE.
Nothing more for breakfast.
At midday the same and add
2 soft-boiled eggs.
Then eat a meat and vegetable
dinner at night. Such a change
will work some surprising results
for health.
“There’s a Reason.”
This HAT
Ai) i)0(i iKeriKOt
This announcement is intended to
induce you to buy a Murdoch Hat.
If you are not satisfied with it when
you get it, or even after you have
worn it, bring it back and back goes
your money.
MURDOCH HATS.
No matter what kind of a hat you get
at Murdoch’s you’ll get more solid
value and more style than any other
hat you buy elsewhere will give you.
Murdoch’s Real English J A
Fur—A GREAT WEARER— & 9 *9
(m
Murdoch’s Hard Felt Hat •J > (LA
—Real English Fur— * Oil
Send Your Order by Mail.
Add 9d. for Postage.
MURDOCH’^
. . IN . .
PARK ST., SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to —JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
270 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Consumption
Gan Be Cured.
%
laz
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, whoso
discovery of a Cure for
Consumption has startled
the World.
Marvellous as it may seem after the centum
of failure, a cure for consumption has at last
been found. After twenty years of aim- st
ceaseless research and experiment in his
laboratory, the now renowned specialist, Derk
P. Yonkerman, has discovered a specific which
has cured the deadly Consumption even in its
far advanced stages. In many cases, though
all other remedies tried had failed and changes
of climate were unable to check the progress of
the disease, this wonderful specific has conclu-
sively proved its power to cure.
Whatever your position in life may be
if you are in consumption, or suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, catarrh, or any throat or
lung trouble, this cure is within your reach,
for it is a home treatment and need not
interfere in any way with your daily occupa-
tion. Prove for yourself its healing power
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Simply send your name and address
to the Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd..
693 Dixson Buildings, Sydney, and they will
post to you a free trial treatment of this
remarkable remedy.
Don’t hesitate or delay if you have any of
the symptoms of consumption. If you have
chronic catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, pains in
your chest, a cold on your lungs, or any throat
or lung trouble, write to-day for the free trial
treatment and full instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
i
sr
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOUR PENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from-
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
f
5*
BATH HEATERS
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood-
Send por Catalogue. “W 1
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt st., Sydney
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, I*td., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents .
Henry Skinner,
Olareudou-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101$. ”»■— C A I E R £ R.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefally
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far tiie largest and most complete m the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Public and
Private Balls
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Hallway
Stations, Theatres anil Wharves; and three minutes walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor tf desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Teukhionk 1640.
IVIELBA ACGORDEONS
Produce the
most
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With t, 2,3, or 4 sets of reedß, six, eight or ten
fold double end triplo Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latist improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
376-378 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Tf.lkpiione
3227.
MELBOURNE
INSTANT RELIEF.
( POWELL’S
Balsam 'Aniseed
.Fop i
COUGHS
COUDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
Safe for Children.
anise^
*Pf Chemists & Stores. Be sure
Jfou get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
TRADEI
IMAM
be Armed Against Punctures!
VIIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE ,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
j sent you.
ACENTS WANTED IN VARIOUS STATES.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule Pears the name D m~
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
“ Melb.” : Book Arcadian Cole shows me a
postal-card, in Japanese, of greeting to Shima-
mura and the other officers. He had a number
printed. He explains to me that the words are
partly Chinese and partly Japanese, in much
smaller characters. Chinese and Japs can read
each other’s writing, but cannot converse.
The following advertisement appears in a
Bristol (England) paper
TJTIDONVER, living retired, without encumbrance,
'' would like to correspond with lady, about 40,
with small means, with one leg preferred, with a
view to an early marriage.
Possibly the man is a tripod and wants to strike
an average.
Re par on pot-still whisky (17/5/’Ofi),
Hogan, Mooney and Co., Melbourne, agents for
Sir John Power and Son, write :
You state that there is very little pure pot-still whisky
in the market, and what little there is is not advertised,
and practically no well-known brand is all malt. This is
not correct. We are importing for the past 30 years
three brands of Irish whisky, guaranteed pure pot-still,
made from home-grown barley and unmixed with any
other spirit, and have been advertising them as such ;
and the demand for these whiskies, when aged, is increa-
sing year by year. It is only fair to those distillers who
stick to the old pot-still method that the public should
know it.
“Hermes”: I once nearly became a
Freemason, and since neglecting to go on with the
arrangements which lead up to the riding of the
goat, I have sometimes regretted that procrastina-
tion. To-day, upon reading the momentous news
that Makuand Lai, Hindu merchant of Mel-
bourne, is to be installed as Worshipful Master of
the Duke of Albany Lodge of Freemasons, I
have celebrated the delay with drinks. Makuand
Lai is the first Hindu to he placed in the Chair by
an Australian lodge, and the occasion should be
one for universal mourning among the white
members of the craft. It only remains for that
blessed lodge to make a buck negro chief tyler,
and a Bed Indian chaplain, and it will be quite
imperial.
“ Nym” writes :
Grant Hervey, as a marksman or political prophet,
isn’t considered much chop, hut since when mud is
thrown some is bound to stick, I rise to a point of order
re the attack on Stephen Barker, fellow democrat.
Steve Barker was toiling in the cause of Labor when
Grant Hervey was a baby. He (Steve) bore the
brunt and odium of the early Labor struggles—when the
wearers of moleskins and bowyangs had few champions
like Trenwith and Barker. Steve is a clean man, whose
besetting sin is that he is something of a fanatic in the
temperance and anti-gambling cause. Steve Barker is an
educated man. He taught himself after he had earned
his daily bread, and fought for the lot of the toiler at the
same time. The first time I met the little chap I thought
I’d struck Old Dad off “ Our Selection.” His chin tangles
lost him votes in my affections till I knew him better.
Then I realised that there was a swift and acute intellect
concealed in S. Barker.
“Nulla” : Generally speaking, I’m ready
to believe anything bad about a Trust, but some-
how I’m a bit dubious about that Chicago yarn of
the two men being converted into hog lard, sardine
oil, or something of the sort. Men are numerous
in America, but the most no-aecount man gene-
rally leaves something of a void. Did no one ask
“What happened to Jones?” Were there no
active inquiries as to “ What became of Parker ? ”
Are there no attendants for those complicated
machines which engulf pigs at one end and eject
tins of devilled ham, shaving brushes, and side
saddles at the other? I want to know, as I’m
troubled with vague doubts.
In a recent Chinese assault case at Bairns-
dale (Vic.) the injured Celestial seems to have
sustained most damage from some of his fellow-
countrymen who volunteered medical treatment
after the affray. The treatment was faithful to
the best traditions of Chinese medicine. Among
other things, brine was poured into the sufferer’s
eyes, and pills were cut in halves, mois-
tened with saliva, and fixed against the
eyeballs. Now it is announced that there is grave
danger of the patient losing his sight. Yet
numerous white Australians are foolish enough to
be victimised by Chinese quacks, whose treatment
is just as stupid as in the Bairnsdale case. Quite
recently, writer met in Melbourne a woman who
had travelled from a remote corner of Westralia
with the sole object of consulting a Chinese
“ healer” about her eyes. She returned to the West
minus a big lump of money, and with her eyes in
a worse state than ever. Yet the Chow had done
his best for her according to the learned darkness
of his country. In China (by way of an example of
erudite gloom) there are more than two dozen
standard works on the habits of devils, showing at
great length, among other things, that devils can
only walk in a straight line, and that if the streets
of a cicy are made crooked, no pedestrian devil
can enter it—only flying devils, which are rare.


Shipping.
UJNfI’S BLUEJNCHUR LIME.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON,
Steamer.
Tons
WILOANNIA
*GEELONG
4953
7954
Commander.
Sails
W. G. Lingham ..July 6
J. E. Ilbery .. Aug. 3
11. G. Thomas .. Sept. 14
•COMMONWEALTH 6611
*Txvin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. £l6 to
CAPETOWN and NATAL " £l3 13s to £3l 10s
ROUND TIIE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SA IDER3OM, LTD.,
Aecuts, 7 Rent street, Sydney.
Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 lVilham-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Ag pints : GEO. WrLLS&CO
Ai.hany Agents : HENRY WILLS & GO
Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
bON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1535.)
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.
£1,600,000
1,250,000
1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES lIELLICAR,
Superintendent.
THE
Qisens!aai [jatiinal gaak,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck,£43,435) .. 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual |j)ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLI MS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,7.84,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STRIET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. BrOck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of f]euj Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and otlu-r places.
£2,000,000.
£500,000.
on, Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bank of [forth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, tlhilp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised . .. v. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stuck) f £370,000
(O ET A I\l Accident and Guarantee
wuc-mN Co Lt;di of London-
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.,
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide : L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £1165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA —Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND —l itrsis an e, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial,. Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
bus! ness.
Shipping.
3NT. 13. H..
(Norlhdkutscher lloyd.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
oiKKTSE, ■s®sEa ta*.
Steamer
OLDENBURG
STUTTGART
KARLSRUHE
* SO H A R NHOUST
BULOVV
Tons
5043
5057
.8131
8000
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN
.NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
‘WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRIf.Z WALDEMAR, 3300 tens.. 4th AUGUST.
*f-RINZ SICISMU, 0,8300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER,
‘Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO.. 7 and 0 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking. Public Coiniiamcg, &c.
ftie j|oyal gank of Ouesnsland
7 /1/ ///./>.
Capital Paid-up £457,538 10 0
Rkshiivk Liability ok Siiarriiolders .. 175,812 10 0
RkskrvkFund(lhvested in Government Stock) 60,000 0 0
£609,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Mnnnger, Kiuvn. D. I)av. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 31 BRIDGE ROW, E.C.
17 Blanches in. Queensland. Auents and Correspondents
Thrawihaut the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
i
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
13th JULY,
AFRTC, SDK ViC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 ‘6
Only One Class df Accommodation'*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Api Heat ion.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
l)al<j eh/ and Company, Ltd.)
Agents in Australia;
TN€ nB€RP€€N LlN€^
Natal, Cnpef'oirri. Pli/inonth. and
London.
biSCHARfiING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ROUND TIIK WOULD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
Til IRD-CLASS Accommodation of tile highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalf/etj/ and Company/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCEAKTIC S.S. Co. A. & A. X.I3XTE O'a SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY I* AST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
S : SONOMA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 5.
For hull Particulars ami Illvstrahd Matter , send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
- CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
* WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
HOLIDAYS
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Baron
Falls and district.
Send address fpr Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
fflont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLERSAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chai rnian : R. Murray
Sniitli, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; Joint Grioe, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROYVMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LI.JE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
THE NEW TURBINE STEAMER,
MAHENO,
SAILS JULY 9.
GRAND EXCURSION.
£6O Including all Expenses* £6O
Besides seeing the fine Scenery of Canada,
the Grandest in the World, an oppor-
tunity is afforded of visiting the South
Sea Islands of Fiji, Fanning and Hawaii.
The Native Life on the Islands Is Interesting.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
JV. XT Car. e, S£IP x. 3.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STiTT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YuUNC. y £
Wo.aUErirul. VslUc.
A PACKLT of Light Different Articles, comprising
- cv - Yankee ltubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish ° (gives
the definition of your character verv superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CIIAS. T.,METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Snipping,
THE A JELAI IE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED*.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping,at Freniiintie
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marlo'o, June 2&.
S.S. Yongala, July 11.
BRISBANE', V
MAC K A V, If
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairris. I ’
S.S. Innamincka, July t.
S.Si WollOwra, July 21.
Jtest anti rhea./test route to (iiililielkk.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nist Port of call with other inter-Statc Companies on all
services subject to. conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YljlLi. & c 6., LTD.;
■nin^ uellt ' s ’ 6 BRIDUK STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritinies
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
f, l r KM ‘M N , TLE ’ < ’OL ( )MBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
.. . . . , ™ uoiiiuay, incua, omna,
Bitavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices.
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
B- BItASIT.It DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hem South Males!
Estaumkiikd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STKiCET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ w
Resen e Fund \
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ...
2,000,000 0 o
1.150,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. _. _, 6,450,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binmik, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MaoLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Utiier, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa,-Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business.. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omior and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
81’. HILDA.
Largest and r>est-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, racing Beach.
Lnarges much lower Lhaniicensed hotels. Oitv, J-liour
dv tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
lA/IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
” " Hilda Rai way Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or froni
2 Guineas per Week.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established_lS49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND Ci"y S or U Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Sec
OF Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Ri Is of any of we «
tralian States or New Zealknd AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repa.\ ing
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any ne.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Bums, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. W in(|heombe. Esq. , Kollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., KF.A.,JH.S.o.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•TO DEIFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
NEW RIVAL
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“Newßival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz. 5 2-3; 1 oz. 9 l-o»
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T>n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Afrgn.s -£ I! i o t Dios.. Sydney; Felton, Gri rv'?de & Co., Melbourne.
RASSMUSSEN,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALEALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Los* Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
Thev secure the return of Youthful Strength/.and Vitality. Re-establish
«Seif-Confidenee, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes 6s & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
nimt- nil | «s Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
BLOOD CURE PILL». Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BT non CAPSULES. 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
BLOOD CAPS Weakness. Boxes, 6s Courses, 23,6.
Weak Women special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
wPTfivr a tic and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23,0
Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
Brancnes pERTH WA ; HANNAN S T.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
General Debility.
COMPLETE PROSTRATION.
SOMETHING LIKE A CURE.
The Case of Mrs. E. Lawes.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
As the following case achieved unusual notoriety, it is proper that the mam facts should be
Dut before the public in complete form. We are indebted to Mrs. Emily Lawes, of .No. 21 Red-
fern-street, Redfern, for the narrative, which was begun in answer to this statement by a repoi ter .
“I have been informed that about thirteen years ago you caused general surprise by shaking
nff a serious illness. Will you kindly give me the particulars? ” , T 1
“With pleasure,” acquiesced Mrs. Lawes. “It was after my first child was born that I sank
into such a pitiful state of weakness that for six weeks 1 could not put n.y toot to the ground.
Th e nurS e who attended me thought I was going into a decline. ialk about feebleness it was
awful.” . , , ..
“ At the end of six weeks were you any better.'
“If I was it was very slightly, for 1 was just barely able to stand; I was bent double like
an old woman.’ But it wasn't every day that i could get up, and 1 remember on one occasion
a relative coming into my bedroom, and, after looking at me, rushing out, saying, Lome in,
Em’s dead’; so that will give you an idea of the deathly appearance 1 bore, the truth was, i
afterwards learned, that she could not notice me breathing, my respiration was so feeble, and
that, combined with the fact that I was not expected to recover, gave her the idea at once that
I was dead.” , 0 „
“ Have vou any idea what weight you were then. . , , T .
“1 was greatly reduced, and as ghastly a mortal as you could find m a day s march. I was going
to tell you about the blessings that were afterwards showered upon me. By some meansor'other,
when death was undoubtedly staring me in the face, I got into touch with Clements Lome, a remedy
that 1 had heard a good deal about, and do you know that the difference which that medicine made m
me was something extraordinary. Up till then i had the greatest difficulty in the world n. making
myself eat. I took all sorts of physics, and not one of them appealed to my case at all. But Clements
Tonic acted like a charm. I could feel it instilling fresh vigor into me as distinctly as one feels the
warm glow of a welcome fire on a winter's night, and shortly after commencing with it I began to feel
hungry This was surely something surprising. But what will you think when I tell you that
Clements’Tonic so acted on my internal organs that my food started to digest again l Why, there
are people who saw me at the time, who heard me say how much Clements’ ionic had done, and yet
are people \ n , . (Jl . ears- But it was an indisputable fact that I was on the mend, and
to my dying di y 1 shall thank Clements’ Tonic for it. i used to sleep very indifferently, and awoke
feehL none tl,e-fresher for the vest 1. had got-m fact 1 was always so weary and melancholy, and had
such an intense aching feeling right through my body, that I often felt that i would like to lie down
*nd ?,y ou certainly look the picture of health, Mrs. Lawes.” .
“That's what everybody tells me, which shows what can happen in even the most hopeless cases
so lon- s a'few bottles of Clements’ Tonic can be got. Goodness me lam now over twelve stone
weight and have had six children since Clements Tome snatched me from the grave thirteen years
and 1 can honestly tell you that from then till now i have not had one day s . ness. 1 here is
another thing I would like to mention m order to point out what a spend id all-round remedy
C nmcuts’ Tonic is. It is that during my illness my heart was greatly affected with palpitation, and
underlie influence of Clements’Tonic that trouble left me You ve no idea the excessive misery
my nervousness brought me, and as i’ve been free from it all these years, it s time similar sufferers
had tlie benefit of my experience.”
“Bo I’ll print it?”
“ Certainly ; in any way you please you may publish it.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
- wm'ti v t AWES of No n Redfern-street, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Common wealth of
}' oolemnlv and sincerely declare that 1 have read the annexed document, and that it contains
Australia, ao ; , ac . count of lllV illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
-‘is a I give voluntarily without receiving any payment ; and 1 make this
pub.isii in any■ vay y believing the same to he true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act
B')*emn declaration consent. am) ue fe (Sjfd.) EMiLY LAWES.
1900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, tl.'s third dav of September, one thousand.nine, hundred^an^four.
*
O’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ®
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
SALT
BILIOUSNESS,
9
□
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-So Cttptule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fxap&rad only bj J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON. ENQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
I
i
s
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
[i FURRED TONGUE,
f INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
rter’s
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
LIVER
They TOUCH the
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's


ON LITTLE BOY
Mouth and Eyes Covered With
Crusts—Face Itched Most Fear-
fully—Hands Pinned Down to
Prevent Scratching.
MIRACULOUS CURE
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“ When my little boy was six months old, he
had eczema. The sores extended so quickly
over the whole body that we at once called in
the doctor. We then
Alfonso Hohrath.
went to another doctor,
but he could not help
him, and in our despair
we went to a third one.
Matters became so bad
that he had regular
holes in his cheeks,
large enough to put a
finger into. The food
had to be given with a
spoon, for his mouth
was covered with crusts
as thick as a finger, and
whenever he opened the
mouth they began to
bl-ed and suppurate, as
did also his eyes.
Hands, arms, chest, and
back, in short the whole
body, was covered over
and over. We had no
rest by day or night.
Whenever he was laid
in his bed, we had to
pin his hands down:
otherwise he would
scratch his face, and
make an open sore. I think his face must
have itched most fearfully.
“We finally thought nothing could help,
and I had made up my mind to send my wife
with the child to Europe, hoping that the sea
air might cure him, otherwise he was to be
put under good medical care there. But,
Lord be blessed, matters came differently,
and yre soon saw a miracle. A friend of ours
spoke' about Cuticura. We made a trial with
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent, and
within ten days or two weeks we noticed a
decided improvement. In ten weeks the child
was absolutely well, and his skin was smooth
and white as never before. F. Hohrath, Presi-
dent of the C. L. Hohrath Company. Manufac-
turers of Silk Ribbons, 4 to 20 Rink Alley,
South Bethlehem, Pa., June 5, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sold
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sol*
Props., Boston, U. S. A.
03T Mailed Free, “ How to Care for the Skin.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
'Si
I- -..
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane. -
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
3L2-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
West Australia—
MIDDOVVS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
L’p-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand. I
r Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Solk Australian Agent
To soothe
the Skin ,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly-heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
A FREE GIFT SALE
m
Foi one month,
asau advertise-
ment, we offer
5.000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes. 1 £ in-
ches long. 7/6
Post Free.
7/6
Post Free
GIVEN
AWAY.
One Feather
Pom PomOiven Free to everyone ordering
this month. Catalogue i‘ree. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
Q
tllM MOMS K F\
Minn «o»
y
%
WMMMESty
C^3
cm
0
0
A/ ,*>nisi»i muM ••• H«n« «t
K ilM tn (I MWI •»!«
\ **.**«»-• *->n.i..aioinJUt>
// MIKM ■IMV.idadOV J.*o»
%
nil
I
JO
1*
m
m
h
A
M
N
©
s?
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
'iturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
THE CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.. 32 Snow Hill. London.
Australian Branch— 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go siraight to the hair toots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
MARLENE™ HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and De'icately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your *HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/-, 2/6 ff 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
gp*- 8 "
f/j
%
g&sass
Edwards' “Harlene” Co,
95 6? 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE 1/3 EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S. W.
'RMS
e<
ihs' lS
Sold bv
ll Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EIVJPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
'Ba a
ftEC
O No
i&s'
'Bs,
1892
s>
m
Esfab-
-1750.
The Inky Way.
“Kappa”: Does anyone crave for a nice, easy, and
remunerative job ? Am the reporter-proof-reader-sub-
editor of a paper published three times a week in a
centre at the present time attracting considerable atten-
tion. Paper published on Monday afternoon (four pages),
Wednesday morning (eight pages’), and Saturday morning
(ten pages). Synopsis of last week’s work :—Monday,
office 7 a.m. ; read proofs of work done by three
monolines on Saturday ; 9 a.m., interview auctioneers
and get reports of Saturday’s cow sales ; 10
a.m., court ; 12 (noon) back to office, read
proofs, and incidentally correct errors made by
that heaven-born journalist, the boss, in expanding wires ;
revise after proofs, and remain till paper goes to press,
somewhere about 4 p.m., to see that, after revising, the
brilliant stonehand has not managed to put some lines
out of position. Ke has got in some remarkabb'fine work
in this connection. Dinner is an unconsidered trifle on
Mondays—at least, I never have any. Monday night,
municipal council. Two columns minion written by the
morning. Tuesday, court, incidental reporting, and
proof-reading. Presentation at night (verbatim re-
port ordered—three columns nonpareil). Back to
office 11 p.m., and read proofs, remaining till
paper goes to press at 2 a.m. Wednesday,
10 a.m., Police Court lasting till 4 p.m.—no dinner agaiii.
At 8 p.m., meeting to form branch Prisoners’ Aid Associ-
ation (2J columns nonpareil). Thursday, 10 a.m., Quarter
Sessions till 10 p.m. (no dinner). Friday, Quarter Ses-
sions 9.30 a.m. till 10 p.m. (no dinner). Saturday, Dis-
trict Court 9 a.m. till 3.30 p.m. (no dinner). Total matter
written in four days, 14 cols.—three minion, 11 nonpareil.
Salary, £2 a week, and 2s. formerly drawn for tea stopped.
The boss is a “ practical ” journalist who was originallv a
butcher, and his mutilating tendencies, acquired while
coming down sharp on the block with the meat weapon,
are so pronounced that he always hacks my copy, which
had, until it was my misfortune' to come hither, been con-
sidered good enough for metropolitan dailies. The boss
has never been out of N.S.W., but, in his mind, and
according to his statements, knows more about the world
than I do. Needless to say he is an admirer of George
Reid. If anyone wants to exchange his billet with mine
he can obtain my name and address by advertising for
“ Dead Tired ” in The Bulletin.
* * * *
About some pressmen in W.A. : Harry Brooke,
mining expert of Kalgoorlie Miner, has migrated to
Cobar (N.S.W.) to edit the copper combine. Adey,
formerly of defunct Coolgardie Chronicle and after-
wards of Adelaide dailies, takes the place of departed
Buchanan as leader writer on the West Australian.
Grattan Grey, bumped off Maoriland Hansard for pro-
Boerishness, grinds out a leader a day for Bishop
Gibney’s (R. 0.) Perth Morning Herald. Wallace Nelson,
is writing good words for workers in Perth Daily News.
Nanson, politician and journalist (ex-editor West Aus-
tralian and Herald) is putting up a good fight against
ill-health in Switzerland. His wife earns a crust
doing petticoat pars and bun-worry gossip for Perth
dailies. Ramaciotti, who began inking his fingers on
Sydney Evening News, is now chief of staff on Perth
Morning Herald.
* » *
A wager was made in a suburban hotel during the sen-
sation over Premier Seddon’s death, that one or other of
Sydney’s morning papers would drag the trite old allusion
to Hamlet into its first article on Maoriland politics.
True enough, the Herald of June 1 3 wedged this into its
first leader:—“Mr. Seddon was so largely the Govern-
ment that it would almost seem as if the inevitable excep-
tion to the rule had come, for Maoriland politics without
the deceased Premier will be something like ‘Hamlet’
without its Prince.” The man who lost was half-inclined
to ask “ Mr. James ” to refund the money, on the ground
that he, “ Mr. Janies,” should make it impossible for
such stale gags to be re-sold on the premises.
* * * *
An American writer notes that enormous changes are
taking place in Russian journalism. Most of the reac-
tionary papers subsidised by the Government are either
dying or dead. The causes of decease are boycotts by
comps, and subscribers. The place of the defunct jour-
nals is being taken by democratic papers which, before
the recent disturbances, used to be printed in Switzer-
land and smuggled into Russia so as to dodge the censor.
At present these papers are boldly produced in the prin-
cipal Russian cities. The movement for a free press is
further advanced by the successful institution of journals
of outspoken political satire. Formerly Dmitri Quillo-
vitch had to satirise in a very subdued whisper, but of
late his voice has become so loud in the land that
Emperor Nick Two finds it hard to sleep o’ nights.
“ 5.0.” : I trotted along a couple of blocks with
a Sydney reporter the other day. He was hurrying to
report a meeting protesting against the sanctity of the
marriage tie. I asked him if there was much doing.
“ Much doing ? Full Court, High Court, Supreme Court,
Jap fleets, jubilees. Home Rule, Socialism, Conventions,
Conferences, Empire Day, Seddon, cricket. Much doing,
and no extra pay fordoing it ; and Parliament going to
meet ; and if a fellow doing three men’s work makes a bit
of a bloomer you are told you should be more painstaking
and attentive, and study the interests of the paper.” I
got tired of trotting, and left him at this point. How-
ever, it does me a lot of good to know he is an anti-
Socialist, and hates trades unions.
THE PINT-POT POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Laugh, and the world laughs with you ;
Weep, and you weep alone ! ”
That is the poet’s watchword
Murmured in monotone.
Sadly he drains his pewter,
Grimly you hear him groan :
“ Laugh, and the world laughs with you;
Weep, and you weep alone ! ”
Ask if he’ll “ try another " ;
How will the bard respond !
Watch the replenished pewter
Meet with a gaze as fond,
Tender, and true and yearning,
Gentle and sweet and mild,
E’en as a loving mother
Beams on a lovely child !
Aye, he will tell his troubles,
And, with a soulful tear,
Bury his face in the pewter—
Drink down his pint of beer.
Ah, how the world neglects him ;
He of the teeming brain !
He—“ What was that ? Well, thank you.
Give me the same again !"
Ah, ’tis a dreary story ;
Always the same old tale
Told by the Pint-Pot Poet,
Thirsting for quarts of ale 1
Always the world is cruel—
That is the dismal drone :
“ Laugh, and the world laughs with you ;
Weep, and you weep alone ! ”
“ Laugh, and the world laughs with you ;
Weep, and you weep alone !
Ask them for bread,” he tells you.
“ What will they g-ive ? A stone ! ”
Ask them for bread ? O, Poet!
Make not the scornful jeer !
Never for bread he asks them ;
Only he asks for beer !
Hath not the world its troubles ?
Hath not the world its throes?
Why must the world still listen
Unto the writer’s woes ?
Oli, but the world grovys weary,
Aye, and its heart grows bard ;
Tired of the Pint Pot Poet;
.■Sick of the Beery Bard !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Britisl)=flus«ralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
Torino Arl POST FREE, £1 per year,
rilvC UU, in advance, all over the world.
Managing Dlreotor- - Mr. J. E. 80ANTLE3URY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
! circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of App:eciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
•growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
HKPumaw
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£.2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-hack Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, <£4 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 lOs, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Bent Poet Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
The Pipe
Without a Rival
The Standard of Quality
in Briar Pipes
obtainable
from all Tobaccoms'
£ yes
60LP-MOUNTEP BACK COMBS
For the Dancing Reason.
SPECIAL DESIGNS by STEWART DAWSON & CO., The Jewellers.
”0-
. '
C 2.793 SMLGMQ 3H-DEEP
-DEE?
C 2795
C 2797 3-WIDES-DEEP
P Rl£E 35/-
mmm
1 I
EEP
C 279
5%-DEEP
PRICE2S/
• ■■■■X/
C 2751
.
11
■
'THESE COMBS are very handsome-looking in wear, both for outdoors and indoors, and are a few of our
[ NEW DESIGNS for the Season. They are strongly made, and will give satisfaction in every way. ou
will see these Combs on many of Sydney's most fashionable dressers to day. Come in and see them. Don
trouble if you know you don't want to buy; we won't mind showing them in the least. We ° ,her *'
perhaps a bit less elaborate, for 163 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d and 21s; and others again at 32s 6d and 47s 6d.
Also specially fine Gem Set Combs for 67s 6d, 70s, 80s and 120 s. Thev are worthy or Inspect,oh.
ORDERS BY
POST
CAREFULLY
EXECUTED.
POST FREE.
STRAND CORNER ,CEORt;
MONEY BACK
IF
WE FAIL
TO
PLEASE YOU.
WILL ANDRADE™BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. KOOlv OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
Aow Guide t>\' Dr. Faulkner, illustrated withoieraO
engraving', genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proted. ‘ Magic Up-To-Date, Ik. lloiisk and Cattle
Doctor, (iii. Donklly’s Art or Boxing. ue.> cii-
larked edition, 4 engravmes, Is. Maria Monk, Is
Bd. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Pmxo Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil. ; and all Zola s, Is Od each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Datr i omic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, -is.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter. Humorous
Dialogue Rook, (id each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All N at. Gould s Novels. (id each,
posted Bd. Deyil in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald heads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/8. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; po-t, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, (id. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Him,ding and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is Sd. Maceadden’s Physical Ikain-
ing. Is. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood. ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio. Heptameuon. and ninny
oiliers, ail in cheap edition. Bride ok the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Shins, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood. Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing. 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits or
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Hinds, 7s 6cl dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZiNGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLINC CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS s-UTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring' Apparatus
anti Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
jo. 4—Eccks for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanir.a
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7-- Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Mklbobk.sk Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Like in Melbourne, illua., Is 3d. Hoffmans
New Con.iuri.no Entertainment, Is 3d. How 10 ‘ ,l ' l
and Gamble, Is 3d. Kropotkin’' Fields, 1< actor lies
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnioiit Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My N eioiibor, 9d,
i) is. End inker's Practical Test: engines, boilers, iras
eii'ines d\ nun.os, +/<>. How To Make Ur, Illustrated
Guide to tiie Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards Is.
Bani ow 3s, 11r. Foote’s I’i.ain Home lai.r, Ldtn
Cinturv edition, very'latest, l’-GS pages, • over 400
colored plates and engravinsis, 7s (id posted. oArriio,
"■ennine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, ls3d.
Midwifes’ Handbook, 92 ilinsi rations, 3s (id. Ams-
tott.k 3s (id. Ci.oo Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats l-3d. New Tricks with Coins, is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter M riter,
Is. PiiotoorAt'HY, Is. Monster Sono Boons, 3'', |
(id and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s (mI.
Dictionaries, lid, Is 3d, 3' (id. Ins post.. Age of
Re '.son, Is 3d. In f.rsoll s Works, d. Irish
Sono Book, is. Lightsin« Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Mosfa
M \kino Secrets, Is. Women’s secrets, Is 3d. Letter
W-RITKH, 1«. SI’KKCMKS AND TOASTS. I*UBMC Si'KAKING
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and-Friend, V>.v Dr.
Warren. Is; post Is 3d. Kelly Gang of Bush-,
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AN it ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASGN’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSH JS, how SPSS'S
training', its information, hut offered for 7,8.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.


Top Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England,
A FACT!
Memory
Means
Money!
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering-. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories ; therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet,
“Memory {and How to Improve It.’’
The Pelman-Foster School of Memory
Training,
MELBOURNE s Box 402, G.P.O.
England : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.C. ; Germany :
9 Mosartstr, Munich ; France: 109 Avenue de Neuilly,
Paris ; U.S.A. : 1608 Masonic Temple, Chicago ; South
Africa: Lynn Buildings, Durban, Natal.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist ip, a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
Away the minus of others, control friendship
and ati'ectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce aiuuse-
| inent by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
I free c f charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout tlii . marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. .Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth mg. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
R. H. BARRADEN, Pitt St., Sydney**
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
1
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1:105 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar,
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book dv De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyuook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is .3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
18 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. .Da. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is.. Maria Monk, Is (id. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aus:r. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s Cd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s -Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou- ,
sand questions that occur to the minds of ybungand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar- ■;
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 ki.ids, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, Ac., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. .Metal-working eor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Kitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp, on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and ,
Repairing, Is 3d.' Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. ' Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner :
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date,- Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public ,
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd. i
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, j
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handyhook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddbn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s Gd. A Life
of Pleasure, ls6d. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t loe fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical,illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Danclng Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love'and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, / 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, bs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, oyer 300 latest songs, Is 3d post .free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, is 2d posted. \ Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. ■ New Tricks with.
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DR. J. GOLI.IS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPVNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept.' 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Gui.ORODYNK. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number: of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
B
] TiifliD U. Hi'\ IvllOUll U'LiUii.u.Ju iti.ii u'oiw u.UIIOUt
* help. Finally I cured myself by calvan.c Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don't waste time and
money as 1 did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The ui.y t».aluM>e itu...eo y for «x ucuiLITV,
Used for over a yuarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Riccrd’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human.frame,
l’rice 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is Id. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melboi rne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o« charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure put pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/li and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors —PitOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
*
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BBNGBR’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EYERY WHERE,
Benger’s FoDDhas attained
its great reputation not . by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”,
Ifc is & fact that the following answers
were given by N.S.W. school children to
an inspector : —Meaning of polygamy having been
explained, Inspector: “ Why don’t men have two
wives nowadays ?” “ Please, sir, they can't afford
it.” “Suppose one were to have two wives at
once, what crime would he commit ?” “ Please,
sir, suicide.” “ Why did Byron go to Greece?”
“To populate the country.” Illustrating the
difference between stealing and taking, the inspec-
tor li\*>d his own hat from the table. “Did I
■teal that hat?” “Please, sir, I don’t know ! ”
Questioning the children re Abraham’s alleged
attempt to sacrifice Isaac, the kid-questioner
emphasised the point that God didn’t really mean
the sacrifice to take place. “ Abraham heard a
voice from heaven,” said he ; “what did it say ?”
Knock off ; I was only joking ! ”
“ F.H.” from Ballarat:—
j s one of the drops of nectar that go to fill
the Ballarat tram-driver’s daily mug of bliss : lie was be-
innd time, and the line was blocked by a personage
every other man is a personage in Ballarat—in a
Thp tram-driver eased up to a crawl, a yard or two behind
and started to clamor with the bell. The buggy still kept
train Bues, and all passengers who were in a hurry
left the car. After a bit the buggy swerved off to the
right, and the tram man, thinking all was clear, went full
speed ahead. Just then the personage in the bu<>gy
went to pull on to the track again, and the car-
step inserted itself under the carriage works, tilted the
chariot on to the outside wheels, and trundled it into the
gutter, where the horse sat down on its face, and the per-
sonage hutted the wind out of an elephantine butcher at
Ins own 1 shop door. Arrived at the twpinus, the
wretched “employee” had to listen to five minutes un-
diluted cursing from the mail who had blocked him—a
wrathful alderman, with a basbed-in hat, who swore to
report him. What’s more, he did. So did the passengers
who got out of the car to walk. And he was also reproved
for beingjate.
“N.”: A book just out regarding the
Chinese Empress Dowager is full of actuality.
1 he.authoress, Katherine Carl, painted a portrait
of this redoubtable female for the St. Louis Ex-
hibition. The Empress took a fancy to Miss Carl,
who, had the fullest opportunity of seeing, if not
hearing, everything. The Empress is onlv sft.-
high, but wears boots with Gin. heels. She is 69,
and only looks 40, and has the remains of capti-
vating and entrancing beauty. To Miss Carl the
Km press is a model of ability, grace, exquisite taste
and courtesy. She knows much about England,
America, Germany, France, Russia, and Japan.
A strange thing is an account of an Australian
circus performance before Her Majesty (Fitz-
gerald ?). First she had the picture posters from
1 ientsin, and then consented. A turnip field was
cleared for the show. The Empress was so eagerly
impatient that she began pulling up the turnips
herself. The turnips she pulled were given to
couriers as.sacred relics. They fell down and
worshipped them. This is only a little item of
Miss .Carl's minutiae (about the Divinity which
bedges th^Dqwager. Her nephew, the Emperor,
and his two wives are small potatoes to this
goddess of the turnip field. Well, the circus came
and conquered, except that the Dowager Empress
ran away' at the sight of a young lady on the
trapeze. She liked the trained horses very
much. I gxpect -the clown was rather impudent.
[Bulls']'™ never heard of this, and it’s 100 to 1
that the Fitzgeralds would have advertised it if it
werc!> tr je.]
ASTRONOMY AND GASTRONOMY.
Moonshine and Mai - Digestion Mother
Seigel’s Syrup is a Sure Cure for Stomach
Troubles.
He was but a poor astronomer who preferred
the moon to the sun, defending his choice by
explaining that whereas the sun shines only in the
daytime, when it is not wanted at all, the moon
renders great service by lighting us at night! It
is one of the many cases which show the danger
of speaking of matters which we do not under-
stand. And yet, speaking at random is hardly
more safe than acting.at random.
When Mr. Joseph Ruane, of “Woonnona,”
Edward-street, Woollahra, N.S.W., was advised
by his friend to take Mother Seigel’s Sj'rup, that
advice was not based upon any random idea, but
on positive knowledge that it would cure indi-
gestion, the complaint from which he suffered.
Writing on November 21st, l‘JO5, Mr. Ruane
says: “Seven years ago, when living in New-
castle in this State, I became very ill, and my
ailments increased as time went on. I had
frequent attacks of indigestion, biliousness and
headaches, and was ‘all out of sorts.’ For days
together I was unable to attend to my business,
and it appeared to be a question of only a brief
time when 1 should be compelled to give up my
occupation entirely. One of my most distressing
symptoms was giddiness, which at times rendered
me as unsteady as a drunken man. Often I was
obliged to catch hold of things to save myself
from falling. Removal to Bathurst helped me for
a little while, but soon I was as bad as ever again.
While in that city, however, a friend advised me
to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I had but little
hope of benefit from the Syrup, but, to my great
joy, when I had taken it for about a week I felt a
change for the better. Naturally, I continued its
use, and with surprising results, my health and
strength improving daily. Soon my steps became
as firm and confident as ever it had been, the
giddiness having entirely left me. The bilious-
ness, indigestion, and headaches also disappeared,
and by the time I had taken nine bottles of the
remedy I was transformed from an invalid into a
sound, strong, hearty man.”*


• LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy *
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The 1 Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
ftftAStlljj IEVIC? Transparent Cement
vW/Avlwl«"™Cn for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHART [CUM PILLS ’of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
1# "T
S/
FREE TRIA ■ !
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post, card with your nam’
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al 1 cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nerv us-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will aloe Fr«e *tr»' e
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. .Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by tb at justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
■E. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Kbility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castiereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
[LI NOLO
CLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
iole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
iole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRIS3AXa.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being !
MBfacn b y Dr Langston’s i>erfect
bIBSIEU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony ana Refer-
ences from nearly every town n Australia
sent witli my Valuable Book ~
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANSSTOi INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
BEST SHEEfl£'£ t 2Si*l
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
I<EV£R
m
f'
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
Mff
TEfcieD BY "t»l*tls i n»»r l o» Mfl twuiwt
Mils IABEL IS
lie
HOILOWCROUND
&2EI2S
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above .
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
(ADBURYS
(OCOA
It is the purest &i\d nvost
cocoa iivuse. It s Ricest too.
*ftf£ JMNCET sa/s Tad bury s is the standard of highestpunt/.
4sr
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL I
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 6s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Rineworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
■ for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
DO IT NOW I
WHAT?
REGAIN YOUR HEALTH, IF IT IS LOST.
TAKE MEASURES TO PRESERVE IT, IF IT IS FAILING.
Good Health is the greatest blessing mankind can
experience. It means not only the power to vigor-
ously engage in the contest of everyday life, but
the ability to enjoy the fruits of success; the
intuitive conviction that one is the equal of his
fellow, and the joy of the fight that is found in the
fighting—in short, it means Energy, Force, Vitality
and Power. WHY BE WITHOUT IT ?
WEAK, AILING and DESPONDENT MEN, recover
your Strength. Get rid of that Tired, Languid
Peeling. Be young again. Health is yours for the
asking. Don’t cast aside the Pearl that is beyond
Price" Consult the Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON
INSTITUTE. Their experience extends over many
years of successful practice. THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE, whenacasehas been undertaken.
Sufferers from NERVE, BLOOD or SKIN DISEASES can consult no Higher Authorities than the
Expert Medical Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE. We cure, to stay cured, and
thousands of grateful testimonials can be seen in their officially-stamped envelopes, at the Consulting
Booms of the Institute.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS THE LATEST
DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL SCIENCE. IT NEVER FAILS.
MJESBTE once f° r I ,r - Langston’s
Si b» H ■ E latest medical work ( Illus. )
“MENS SANA IN CORPORA SANO.”
It tells j t ou what you want to know,
and what you nncTEn EREP
ought to know. rUOIEU rnKEi
THE
Dr. Langston Institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free.
All Communications
Sacredly Confidential.
Established 1887.
Mention this Paper
when writing.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Saven
Prise Wsedal9..
Works s
Birmingham, England,
These series o!
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Biotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body
AERTEX
CELLULAR . .
UNDERWEAR
All garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Gentlemen— SHlßTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King Street, Sydney.
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST—Post Free.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years'
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
flnbitige
v £ungTontc
\to be the WOKLD'S GURE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can be obtained from
any Chemist or store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES^
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or C lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
200
delivery.
Second-Hand Cyclea
new nakC8 ’ £1 t 0 £ 2mlQ
Great factory clearance sale at half factory
EARit ft CYCLE machine. rd Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, Ac*, d alj prices,
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAT FOLKS
SEDUC E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No striot diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. CR A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 18
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S. A., Aug. 11...
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., October 1
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
5Sm Ticket, and 4d. on each 10Sm Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
3
t
/
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys" Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON. Bridge Sts., Sydney
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILEU THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink ,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Di. Langston institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HA BIT
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OR" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EYERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OE
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, I got up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitud,e to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
I was able to attend to my duties as usual. —Yours faith-
fully, J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “ GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Wehave to thank your bronchitis
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned. —Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
man’nurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that had a distressing- cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment. —Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydale Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishingyou
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
Kilbirnie, New' Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE OASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything, and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of my chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours trulv,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing- to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well. —
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth. —I am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d. ; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Di\ Shelddh'S New biscbvery
For Coughs, Colds and Consumption.
pf all the, new,discoveries in medical science,,thp most remarkable ijj recent years is ope
which Ydll, prove .invaluable to thousands of Reople, aijd which it,is believed will takp
the pjape ,of all other remedies for the cure, of Coughs, Colds and Consumption. The
preparation 's called Dr. Sheldon's* New Discovery for Coughs, Colds and
Consumption, and is a scientific compound qf great merit. It is most healing to the
lungs and throat, and cures the cough or cold in a remarkably short time, leaving ,no bad
after effects. As it contains no injurious drugs of any kind, it is a perfectly safe, remedy
% children, and is particularly good for croup and whooping eolith. The tlohfe is small
and it is pleasant to take. „. rt .. ...
DISCOVERY
Fort
Couch sj
Colds||
C r o u pJ
Consumption
and all
Bronchial
Pulmonary
Affections
Or THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
I^ielpon
DRUC C°
Boston U.5.A.
Sydney n,sw
agaagfias
Reduced fac-simileftSize
SUFFERED FROM BLEEDING LUNGS FOR
eighteen MONTHS, BUT MADE WELL BY
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY.
A grateful woman writes the following letter to the
proprietors of this wonderful remedy :
Geelong, Vic., July 12, 1905.
Sheldon Drug Company.
Dear Sirs, —I had suffered for eighteen months with
bleeding of the lungs, and was given up by my
physician, who said I could not live longer than two
days. My lungs were bad, bleeding daily; also I
suffered terribly with pains in the back and swellings.
I saw your advertisement in the paper for Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs, Colds and
Consumption, and procured a bottle from Mr. Nash,
the grocer. It helped me at once, and now I am en-
tirely cured. My lungs are as strong as anyone's, and
I have never had any bleeding since; in fact, I feel
like a new person.
1 have also given Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery to
my children at various times, and I have never had
anything from either doctors or chemists which has
done me and mine the same good. I can recommend
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery to all those suffering
from colds or consumption, as in my case.
Very gratefully yours,
49 Butamen St., Geelong. Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
An unequalled preparation for the immediate relief and Permanent Cure for all diseases
of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Xiang'S ; including Pneumonia, Bronchitis,
PRICE
1/6 8c 31-
Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Influenza, Asthma,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult Respir-
ation, and Pains in the Chest.
Every Bottle Guaranteed to give Satisfaction, or
Money Refunded.
PRICE
1/6 & 3/-
If no* "b tamable locally, will be posted upon receipt of the price by the
Sheldon Drug' Co., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydneys
BEST SOAP for
BABY
WRIGHT’S
CO ALTAR SOAP
IT IS DELIGHTFUL IN USE
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
IN THE GOOD OLD TIMES.
(By “ Youth.”)
Did the good old times, which we so often hear the praises of from our elderly relatives and
friends, ever really exist? Perhaps the judgment of these enthusiasts is obscured by the glamor
always lent by distance. Perhaps, too; their pulses are so quickened by recollections of their early
youth, when the world was new to them and all things seemed good, that they forget all but the
roseate streaks and omit to remember the shadows.
To us, who read descriptions of the kind of life endured by people, not only in Australasia, but in
the old world, fifty or seventy years ago, it seems incredible that anyone can call those times “ good,”
so void were they of comforts, which we now look upon as necessities. Fancy, for instance, getting up
on a cold morning and fumbling about with flint, steel and tinder before afire could be started. Why,
the very thought makes one’s spine creep ! Of the use of steam people knew but little, and electricity
was merely a toy of the chemist. The useful applications of science, which are now so common that
we take them for granted, were unknown. Medical and surgical treatment, instead of being, as now,
reduced to sciences, were then largely empirical. Even at the present day such complaints as rheu-
matism, gout, neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, blood disorders, anasmia, indigestion, biliousness, jaundice,
sick headache, general debility, gravel, stone and bladder troubles are occasionally treated as specific
diseases instead of as disorders caused by the retention in the system of uric acid and other urinary
and biliary poisons which would have been duly removed from the body by natural channels if the
kidneys and liver had been acting actively and efficiently.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains
in weight, of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matters varying from a third of an ounce to
nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins con-
taminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poison, such as rheumatism,
gout, lumbago, backache, sciatica, persistent headache, neuralgia, gravel, stone, and bladder troubles.
A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine, passed the first
thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand till next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows
a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in it, the kidneys
are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their vigor, of Bright’s disease,
diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar from
the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the
blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have lived
their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some form
of biliary poisoning such as indigestion, biliousness, anaemia, jaundice, sick headache, general debility,
and blood disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy, and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of these vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine novv known throughout the world as Warner’s Safe
Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be
found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding
a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. mi
Her Photo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Portugee has patron saints —the dusky
I Eboe man
Carves fetiches on bits of bark, and gods
in black and tan ;
The Chow, he has a numbered Joss to whip in
times of gloom ;
The Maori tnakfes pot-bellied gods to come ’twixt
biiri and doom ;
Aha the White Man’s Church has many schemes,
for use on land and sea,
With a Nemesis for grown-ups; and a text “Thou
seest Me ”
On a super-stiffened cardboard, printed large in
black and red,
To point out to the children when they will not
go to bed.
But the text illuminated, and the fetiches and
saints,
And all the gbds pot-bellied, and the JbsS <Jf rhgh
and paints,
Are to me SO much Old hithbei-, fdr Oh land or On
the sea^
The ey'6s that’s in her photO are for- evet
following me.
I look at it ih camp at bight—her eyes are glad or
sad—
All dependin’ if my day’s been good Or if fey
day’s been bad;
And the mere long looking at ’em makes thefe
always look at me,
And I see them on the limestone range and on
the troubled Sea—
On the fedoh-lit liner, lifting to the coralled-ocean
Swell—
By the blanket-covered table in the hazy hazard-
hell.
When we gallop down the rocky range, with every
roelt a-roll,
Her e.yes look through the scented night and peer
into my soul ;
And, frightened at the thought of all my death
would mean to her,
I strain the tight-drawn bridle till the horse
thinks I’m a cur.
When the deck flirtation deepens from the
weather to the lee,
The eyes what’s in her photo, they are always
following me !
The Austral put her forefoot through the glassy
flow ahead,
The Bight took up the Pole-swell, rolling like a
feather bed;
And Breaksea' and Vancouver went astern and
west avyay ;
And wedrbve due east for Borda, Otway, Nelson,
Hobson’s Bay.
She was sketchy, she was tow-haired, she was just
incarnate flame ;
And she spoke of children always, did that un-
maternal dame;
She said she was misunderstood, her husband
being mad ;
And she charmed me with her virtues, which were
really very bad.
The night before we sighted Largs ! I see it cleat 1
and plain—
The lifting phosphorescence of the screw, the fall
again,
The Bight all ribbed in silver by the ship-light’s
changing bars,
And the sea a fecund meadowland sown careless’y
with stars.
There’s sympathy that’s born of ship—there’s
loneliness that craves
The change to the Portfires of Hell from the dream
of loved ones’ graves ;
There’s treason born of yearning for the sweet-
heart who’s away,
And there’s midnight lust that’s fathered by the
clean love of the day.
So, leaning’on the stern-rail gazing downward at
the road
That spurned with proud liquescenee.all the insult
of its load,
This Eve in silk and chiffon stormed me with her
wanton eyes—
Counterfeiting Little Bourke-street for the groves
of Paradise !
My blood was filled with trumpets and her senses
were a-swoon,
And my pulses raced like chargers in that thick
air to the moon.
But through all the heaving bosoms of that
maturescent sea,
The eyes what’s in the photo shone out trustingly
at me ;
And, despite the flesh temptation, the victor
heart fought through,
And she hooked another fellow while the growing
shore was blue —
And a few days after landing he paid the final bill
With a bullet from her husband—who was sane
enough to kill !
But Love takes care of truly yours; he made a
bridge and moat,
And an armor-belted cruiser to protect me when
afloat;
And I go through many dangers in the bush and
on the sea—
For the eyes what’s in her photo they are always
following me!
VIC.
RANOLPH BEDFORD.
Dr. Martin Luther Erieson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reverend Dr. Martin Luther Eric,
son was a good Latinist, and had, moreover,
knowledge of Greek ahd Hebrew sufficient
for a Doctor of Divinity of Christiana Univer-
sity ; but he had come to a passage in the hitherto
simple volume-of his own life which he could not
construe.
Dr. Ericson, in the stupor which followed his
first and last debauch, lay prone upon a sandbank
on the Einke River, in Central Australia. Near
by, a furtive, carrion-seeking dingo, and, on the
slope of burning sand just above his head, a dull-
hued little viper, asleep. To re-create one’s self
after the only Bacchanalian outbreak in a life of
austerity is an obscure and painful process; yet
one unbenumbed little patch of the doctor’s brain
saw, with clear telescopic view, that part of the
history of his life which the rest of his mind tried
vainly to reconcile with his present blistered
misery.
A branch of the same problem, relatively quite
as knotty, puzzled Paddy Hayes, the keeper of
the grog shanty ten miles further down the river,
where he sat surrounded by the wreck of broken
bottles and smashed shelves;
' ‘ D-=n the missionary ! ”
In great crises men fall back fipoii 'elementary
forms of expression. , ,
Had Dr. Ericsdil’s shaky hand been able 'to write
his hisWtV.upoti th'e fine sahd of the Finke, the
tecOrd have required no odic measure'.
Of.all his progenitors, his niother, a sailor’s
widbw, Aas the only bhe he had ever seen. Three
graves arid his mother’s broken heart proclaimed
.the triuiAph of the North Sea. Th,e portraits of
his father and two brothers hung in,the best room
of the little cottage, rouhd which the fragrant*
of fir-trees took the place of. the Salt winds whi'ch
had blown ih their nostrils duririg life. Shy, utt-
comfortable-looking presentments they were
Common Norwegian sailors, with sparse, fair
beards, and wearing ear- their ears'. Arp
they not clinging to swayihg mast:? in the gales of
every sek, aid swopping sheath-knives and
tobacco-plugs in the foc’sles of the ships of every
'hatibh ?
But to Dr. Ericson, in his boyhood and in his
manhood, they were heroes.
When Michael Ericson and his two sons were
washed ashore dead and cold, Martin Luther was
as yet unborn. His mother went away to an
inland village, where the voice of the sea could not
woo him to his death. There he was born, and so
christened that happily he might follow in the steps
of the earthly head of his mother church, and
become a great priest.
He was the child of more prayers than St.
Augustine.
The poor widow whom the toll of the sea had
defrauded, took on the complexion of a sinner who
had been justly punished, and spent her life in
prayer—fearful all her days and nights lest some
treacherous whisper should reveal the awful secret,
that, in the sanctuary of her affections, she loved
her little son more than she loved God.
She vainly tried, by constant orisons, to drown
the voice of her heart.
The boy grew up assenting to the dedication.
But all the time Nature made another appeal to
his affections. The voice of the sea was not shut
out, as the poor woman fondly hoped, by the fir-
clad mountains. Its song was ever in his ears. Its
salty ichor flowed in his veins. Continually the
desire to be a sailor ran a race with his loyalty to
his promise to become a priest.
From De Bello Gallico with the village pastor,
Martin Luther went to the University of Chris-
tiana, assisted by the funds of his mother’s
church ; and thus was tied by another strand of
obligation .to its. service.
There he achieved such success as comes to A
routine Doctor of Divinity, and was able to dis-
play his cap and gown to his mother before she
passed to where “ there shall be no more sead’
Then he came to the dividing of tbe ways. The
sea called him. The spirit Of the Universe gave
him his true vocation;
But loyalty to his promise to the dead saint,
and loyalty to the Church whose bread he had
eaten, prevailed.
It was the unreasoning compulsion of honor
only that forced this poor sailor lad to a career for
which both gods and men had by nature unfitted
him. He who felt nothing, saw nothing, beyond
the visible World ! A pitiable fate !
With a judgment too little interested to be
perplexed, he accepted the doctrinal injunctions
and solutions of his creed. Equipped with for-
mula only, he was designated to inspire the
heathen with the noble dream of Christianity.
Like more than half the priests in the world, he
was a mere drill-master in ritual observance ; not
a fount of spiritual power. He was the machine-
made missionary.
Perhaps if, in that balancing crisis of his life,
Dr. Ericson had seen the sun-lickedigutter which
was called on the map the River Finke, and the
squalid monotony of a duty which he had pic-
tured as full of incident and danger, the mis-
sionary career would have kicked the beam. But
we live between two unlifted curtains—the Past
and the Future.
For three years the young Missionary drilled
and taught. But he was a master of sanitation
only, not of emotion. Old Mr. Schmidt, his
senior and only colleague, who knew neither Latin
nor Greek, and who never washed, had infinitely
more power with the savages than he.
It was when old Schmidt left, invalided, that
there came to the young brother the overwhelming
revelation of failure.
Not many weeks after the old man’s departure,
Dr. Ericson, sitting one night in his hut, heard
with horror the firesong of the Finke tribes.
“ Atnylinga etunja ilia altliara wuntama!”
It was the song which was sung at their bloody
initiation rites. The boys who had been baptised
with Christian ceremonies were in the hands of
the “ Apulia ” men.
*- « * *
There came to the discomfited missionary, when
he was in the mood of blank despair which
followed the rage of the disobeyed drill-master, a
rollicking sundowner from the Oodnadatta track.
A ship in full sail, displayed in all the glory of
blue ink across his chest, rose and fell upon the
billows of his pectoral muscles. Anchors and
mermaids were tattooed on his arms. He was
full of wild stories of the sea. He had, moreover,
a flask of bush whisky in his swag.
What followed the visit of this tattooed man of
the sea Paddy Hayes, inspired by the wreck of his
shanty, could tell better than any other man alive.
* * * f
Dr. Ericson’s mind, clear as to his history up to
a certain point, became a tangle of confused
impressions when it approachod the problem
of the place and the condition in which he found
himself.
He could not connect his present misery with
the confused sense of' immediately preceding
happiness of which he had a blurred impression.
He was dimly conscious that he had been con-
trolled by some inherent but previously undis-
closed impulse; and that the movement,'though
joyous, was disastrous. Though afflicted by no
reproaches of conscience that he could formuiate,
lie yet felt in moral peril. He tried to bring
religion to his aid, but its consolatory precepts
completely evaded him ; and its minatory admoni-
tions came to him only in a thin, far-off, even
comical voice. The thunders of Sinai from a
Punch and Judy box !
But patience !
As he moved uneasily on the sloping bank, the
fine sand ran away from where his head was
pillowed on his hand, and upon a little ledge
above him, which was every moment getting
thinner, lay the solution of all his earthly conun-
drums. The falling of the hot sand marked as in
an hour-glass the duration of his life. The gentle
impacts of its tiny particles were strokes of the
hammer of doom. Another movement, and the
adder fell. It struck blindly. It might have
struck a log, a stone, or—nothing ; but it struck
the neck of a man.
What dreams came to the doomed missionary
when the bottled poison from Paddy Hayes’ grog
shanty met the more potent distillation of Aus-
tralian sun and desert, we do not know.
*■ * * *
Not long afterwards the tinkle of the bells of a
camel team broke the silence of the Finke ; and
each of its Afghan drivers spat upon the ground,
m the name of the Prophet, as he passed by all
that the dingo and his family had left of the
infidel who had once been a Doctor of Divinity.
K.G.


m
XT is not the annoyance alone which makes chapped hands a source of grave
trouble to housewives and out-door workers in winter. It is the 'ever-
present danger of blood-poisoning. Irritation and inflammation round
about the knuckles and the back of the hand, or any other part where the
cracks or scaling roughness may have arisen, are the first signs that the trouble
is serious ; and the greatest promptitude should be exercised in treating the
case. The first step is to lessen the irritation. The affected part should be
cleansed of any dirt with the help of warm water
and a soft towel; then gently anoint with Zam-
Buk, smearing either with the fingers or spread
on a piece of clean linen after the manner of a
poultice. Zam-Buk should be applied liberally
night and morning, and it is a good thing to
wear through the night an old glove ventilated
by slits in the palm, and inside of which more
of the balm has been smeared, thus ensuring
the complete absorption of the healing and
antiseptic ingredients. Zam-Buk is particu-
larly recommended for chapped hands, chafed
skin, and all similar troubles, on account of its
absolute purity and wonderful refinement, and
because of its undeniable power of creating new,
healthy skin. The following is a case in point:—Mr. D. Doughty, ofj 24 Corbett-
street, Ballarat East, Victoria, says: “By calling I am a gardener,, w
last winter I suffered considerably with chapped and cracked hands, and chil-
blains. Seeing Zam-Buk advertised, I procured a supply, and applied it to my
hands. The healing and soothing effect was wonderful, and after 1 -
night’s treatment my hands were thoroughly healed. Zam-Buk
doubt, unequalled as a healing and soothing balm.”
only a fort-
without
ZAM-BUK, the GREAT HEALER, is a Speedy Cure for PILES, ECZEMA,
BOTLS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOOJ RHEUMA-
TISM, NEURALGIA, &e. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES
and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED.
As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACK-
HEADS, RAW and CHAPPED HANDS, CHILBLAINS, SORE r fHROAT and
ROUGH SKIN, ZAM-BUK is INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at Is.
6d., or 3s. Gd. Family Size (containing nearly four times the quantity),)or from THE
ZAM-BUK CO., Pitt-street, Sydney.
7
RUB I? EH/i
A. (SJ» F.
>
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKRRS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
—
Notice /
\ ft /
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Limited.
Ltd
Strangers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AGAIN they come ! Those bells are strange
Our ponies run towards the range
Where sweeter grasses grow,
But these are spreading, brown and bay,
Along the swarded waterway
That winds its length below.
How clear and sweet their music rings !
1 Icnow the wise old mare that swings
The deep-toned Condamine—
She heads the ranging mob and leads
The brumby squadron as it feeds
From camp in straggling line.
These horsemen rode from Wonga Town
And ran the mountain outposts down
A hundred miles or more ;
By many a wind-worn scarp and cliff,
And red rock-castle scarred as if
Old Ocean swept its shore.
And one, a rider with the rest,
Who long had treasured in his brcaat
The lust ot wanderings—
Feeling, for all his high desire
Of space that burnt his blood like fire,
The grief remembrance brings—
Looked back, where plain and upland met,
And in the stony rivulet
The slow- springs loitered down,
l’o the blue mountain, far and dim
Upon the far horizon’s rim—
That shadowed Wonga Town !
His heart upon the homestead trail
A moment rode—and then the veil
Of spreading sunset haze,
Shut out with filigrees of gold
And filmy vapors, fold on fold,
The symbol from his gaze.
It seemed the Bushland might have known
1 hat recreant thought, and claimed her own,
For, as he turned he knew
With sudden breaths of deep delight,
L’he beauty of her desert night
To thrill him through and through.
All forms of loveliness she takes—
At noon, beside the frosted lakes,
Snow queen, with eyes of grey ;
A rosy goddess with the morn.
A radiant Aphrodite born
Upon the shore of Day.
But never seems she half so fair
As when her blue-black tresses wear
The evening’s diadem ;
When, slumber-steeped, her rovers rest
-Through the pure silence on her breast,
And she sends dreams to them.
Ah, many a magic wile hath she !
She whispers, “ By my inland sea
Are stores of gems and gold,
By reef and barren hill revealed ;
And gullies rich with drift shall yield
Their treasure to the bold ! ”
Thus to him, riding on with high,
Tumultuous heart and kindling eye,
She sang—though hushed and low ;
So close she seemed, so real, so near,
He heard, all silver-sweet and clear,
The song her wanderers know.
Now the night silence deeper grows—
To them some vagrant eddy blows
Across the slumbering wold,
The distant echo of our bells,
Our stallion’s tinkling chime, which tells
That we are here on gold !
For they have marked ere this, how deep
Are the worn ruts our ponies keep
When racing in to drink,
And with the morning they will ride
Our dusty water-pad beside,
The long pool’s farthest brink.
No matter ! Brethren of our blood
Are they, by bond of drought and flood ;
We’ll greet them, riding down.
“ Ho ! mates, ’tis here your dreams come true,
Here’s gold enough for us and you !
What news of Wonga Town ? ”
WESTHALIA.
THE PRODIGAL.
Children of the Gulf.
AH SAN’S GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Kanakas had gone out in the whale-
boat with a load of shell-bags for the black
pearler across the bay. Willy Ah San
waddled into the compound and threw some
pieces of raw meat and bones into a slime-covered
tank. There was a sudden ripple on the surface ;
meat and bones disappeared in a flash.
Some wealthy Chinamen prefer to keep a fish-
pond instead of pigs. There is a certain delight
m seeing live bream or trout flung kicking into a
hot pan.
Willy Ah San was a shell-fish gourmand. His
8 x 12 tank was sunk into the spewey soil in the
centre of the compound. Whenever a black diver
discovered a new variety of crayfish under the
surf-hammered reefs, he put it in his basket and
took it to Ah San.
The Chinaman rubbed his chin as the last
morsel was snatched from the tank surface, and
turned to the white girl dozing under the bamboo
awning. His steady glance seemed to interfere
with her repose. She opened her eyes suddenly
and showed the tip of her tongue.
Haven t you seen me before? What are vou
staring at ? ”
Ah San was not a comedy Chinamen. His alert,
thick nose and bulging jaw marked him\
as a\man to be reckoned With when the knives
were but-
“ What are you staring at ? ” she repeated. The
Chinaman frowned ; his teeth showed like tusks
through the thin, curtain-like moustache.
“No trust you, Lizee,” he said, coldly. “ Why
you put_um white stuff in my lemona’ yessiday ?”
The girl’s white face grew crimson. She tapped
the floor with her pretty Paris shoe and bit her
lip.
A slow anger crept over the big Chinaman.
He made no gestures, betraved no excitement, but
his eyes glittered with hatred. “ Wha’ fo’ you
want to kill me ? ” he said, icily.
The girl slipped from her hammock tittering
half hysterically. . Then something about his
bulging jaw and thick nose made her silent.
He smiled luminously, and his big bald head
wagged like a spring-fitted image. ' The thick
flesh on his cheeks seemed to lift and fall.
A gentle breeze played across the water.
Crowds of black and brown children paddled
across the flat beach in front of the house. A
40-ton fore-and-aft-rigged schooner whined at her
moorings near by.
“If you tly to kill me, Lizee . . . you know
what I do, eh ?” Then, like a true Celestial, he
broke into thunderous laughter. He sat back in
the bamboo chair, and the fat heaved about his
body. It rose to his throat, almost choking him.
The girl grew pale at the lips. She took up a
large silk fan and waved it steadily.
“ Do what ? ” she asked.
He stopped laughing, and it was as though an
engine had ceased to pant and throb. “It is in
the female blood to kill the man,” he said, softlv.
“ By cli, I tell you wha’ my father do to woman
one day at Swatow. You listen.”
He bent near her, and his lips seemed to flash
the story in her ear. Then her eyes grew wide
until the pupils bulged, and her mouth slackened
as though someone had punched her on the breast.
Catching her in his arms, he carried her into the
high-fenced compound. She did not struggle.
Her mind was sick and numbed.
A few ragged palms stood about the yard like
sentinels. Turning her in his arms, he held her
face down over the underground tank.
r i A sudden thrashing under the slime followed.
Then a pair of beady eyes and a long drab claw
were thrust out. A huge, black crab climbed to
the surface, and as the Chinaman stooped nearer
with his burden it sent up a claw within an inch
of the girl’s face. Another shell-covered shape
rippled near, and another, until the tank seemed
alive with clashing feelers and pincer-like hands.
“In there, eh, Lizee? What you say?” he
laughed. “ How much of you left to-morrow ? ”
She had grown stiff and rigid in his arms. He
looked again and saw that she had fainted.
The “gluck gluck ” and the slavering of his
opium-pipe awoke her. The Gulf stars winked
through the bamboo awning. He was lying with
knees updrawn across the heavily-matted floor.
His eyes were half open, his features composed as
though the perfumes of Nibban had drowned his
senses. She raised his pipe-hand gently, and it
slipped back stiffly to the floor.
“Can I lift him?” She humped her back. The
Jap shellers had taught her a trick or two in the
wrestling art which enables small people to turn a
handshake into a strangle hold.
Kneeling, she levered him to her shoulder, and
half crawled across the compound.
The Gulf wind slashed the stiff palm leaves.
The moon clung to the distant sand hills, and
touched her face with a ghastly radiance. Her
hair lay like a mesh over her eyes. The weight
of the Chinaman crushed her shoulders.
“Ah . . . The devil take you!”
The limp, opium-sated form slipped to the
f round a foot or so from the edge of the tank.
he breathed, flung back her hair, and lit a
cigarette. The moon-rays stole into her eyes as
she glanced into the tank. A long greenish claw
protruded from the water. The face of a giant
crab stared at her from the slime.
She levered and hauled the Chinaman stealthily
to the tank edgq, and a terrific commotion began
under the water. A pair of cyclopean pincers
nipped the air, a bloated monster with softly
jangling plates rose to the surface and waited.
“Now, my Willy Ah San, I will play tickle-
feet, eh ? Your father played it on a little woman
m Swatow. Good enough.”
She stooped again, and pressed the slack knees
over the tank edge. The two naked feet splashed
suddenly into the green water.
A sharp “clack, clack,” followed, then a rip-
pling and splashing of claws. She ran back to the
verandah, laughing hysterically.
Long after midnight a .Tap sheller, with a lan-
tern, stopped near the compound and listened. A
noise like the belching of a cassowary reached him.
Pushing open the gate, he heard an imbecile sob-
bing in the middle yard.
“Hi yah! Assoba!” He stumbled over a
bulky shape half crawling on its hands and knees.
“Why you lie on the flo-ar, Willy San ?” The
sheller held the lantern over the sobbing China-
man and lowered it with a jerk. “What you
done with your toes an’ feet?” he shouted.
Three months later the captain of a Gulf
schooner passed into the Sourabaya Club with a
parcel under his arm. A crowd of dull-eyed
pearlers watched him speculatively.
“Oysters ain’t much good at guessin’,” he be-
gan solemnly, “but I’ll buy a 12-inch thirst from
the man who can name what’s in the packet. ”
Big Nose, the Yankee, squatted in the middle
of the verandah, and his voice was querulous with
Gulf fever.
“It might be a new beer squirt,” he gasped,
“ora stale dingo from t’other side. Don’t elevate
your swell jokes, good man. Be a Christian.
Show us something portable in the wav of a new
hell.”
“It,” guffawed the schooner captain, “is a
birthday present from a white girl to Willy Ah
San.”
“ Trepang and shell exporter down theLimmen
way,” explained a Thursday pilot man.
The schooner captain untied the parcel lazily,
and a pair of india-rubber feet rolled to the
verandah. “ They came up yesterday’s mail and
I take em along to Willy next trip. There’s a
note here from Lizee asking the Chow not to walk
m the sun with his noo feet. She says that he
might spile the footpaths.”
Ihe crowd yawned while the schooner captain
up the feet and lit a cigar.
These Chinlcies get hold of some nice girls,
anyhow, he said. “ But I’m darned ef I can
understand a woman spendin’ money on rubber
feet. _ She is either balmy or they’ve put the wrong
joke m the packet.”
A lot of things happen in the Gulf that are
never fully explained.
ALBERT DORBINGTON.
A letter The Bulletin got last mail was
irom L. A. Simon, late of Queensland, now
dredging expert in Brazil (S. America). Another
proof of how the enterprising Australian wanders
over the earth giving other countries the benefit
of the energy which his own land, with its craze
tor foreign goods and imported experts—bishops,
engineers, railway experts, scientists, &c.—won’t


Had no appetite, and could not sleep. Read what
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla did for Mr. Marsden, whose
portrait and letter we publish below:
“ I was in a very weak condition, had
no appetite, and could not sleep. After
trying several so-called cures, I began
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and it did me
so much good that I took, in all, ten
bottles. It was the cheapest in the end,
as it cured me entirely. I now make it
a practise to take three or four bottles
during the year, and it keeps me in good
working order. I can honestly recom-
mend it to other like sufferers, as I feel
sure it will cure them as it did me.”
Horace Marsden, Adelaide, S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been
tried and tested in every way;
and there is nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment.
It is too dangerous. Unknown and untried medicines
often work more serious results than the disease. When
you need a Sarsaparilla, get “AYER’S,” for it is the old-
est, strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy. Hold
fast to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For
purifying the blood, strengthening the digestion, and brac-
ing up the whole nervous system, use
AYER’S 3 arsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Builds up the System.
by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are liver pjlls. They cure constipation, biliousness.
ALMOST
M LITE.
n
&
■
ST
*S/
Do not let yourself get into the
“almost too late” class of sufferers.
Words fail to express the anguish and regret
of the weak man who is “too late” in seeking
relief and cure.
Dr McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
will cure you if you will use it “ BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE.” It
will pump new life into your nerves and tissues, and will act on every
dormant organ of your system. Worn while you sleep it so rejuvenates
your body that on awakening in the morning, instead of being dispirited and
depressed, you will find, after a few nights’ use, all languor banished and you will
enjoy the natural healthy feeling that your sleep is meant to produce. Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt has produced more sound men and healthy bodies than
all other remedies combined. It has only to be given a fair trial to be appreciated.
It positively cures the worst cases of Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, and Derangement of the
Digestive System. The cure is always permanent. It is guaranteed in every
case undertaken.
VARICOCELE and FUNCTIONAL WEAKNESS.
MCLAUGHLIN CO. RAILWAY STATION, INVERELL, N.S.W.
,<•8, —l wish to inform you that, though I had taken medicine for months without success, and
fed of ever being cured of Indigestion and Constipation, as well as the other complaints that
ne so much, after wearing your High-grade Belt for five months I found that I was completely
)as well as at any time in ray life. This was over two years ago, and since that time I have
-urn of my old complaints, so I consider that your Belt is unquestionably the best remedy ever
. .or these troubles. Yours truly,
ALEXANDER ALLAN.
SCIATICA.
ANGEL TERRACE, KALGOORLIE, W.A,
Dear Sirs,—l always advise sufferers to purchase one of your Belts as lam convinced that they are
the only cure for Sciatica and Rheumatic ailments. Before obtaining your Belt I was in the Sydney
Hospital for three months, besides various other hospitals. I took over 100 Turkish Baths in twelve
months and continued to get worse all the time. While in the hospital here the doctors absolutely gave
me up. I then got your Belt; after wearing it for two days I got out of bed, in a month I went back
to work, and in two months I laid the Belt aside —a completely cured man. Now, at 66 years of age, I
am enjoying perfect health, and have never felt better. Yours truly,
P. W. KELLY.
ADVICE FREE.
Call and consult our Specialist free
of charge any day between 9 a. in.
and 8 p.m. He will be pleased to
show you the Belt and demonstrate
its use for different complaints.
THE
Or- H|c[aughlin Co.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney,
90 William St., Perth.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
FREE BOOK.
Let us send you our
Free Book, which
. describes our
(xrand .Remedy in every detail. Detach
the Coupon opposite, fill in your name
and address, and post it to us, and we
will send this valuable Book to you
by return mail. ... If we could
convince you in this advertise-
ment of the value to YOU of
our Free new Book—“ A-
pplied Electricity ” you
would be glad to pay two
guineas for it.
Consulting Rooms
always open to
enquirers, and
all Advice is
F R E E.
£
&
<3° / j*
TO BUILD
ROBUST HEALTH
start at the foundation of life and health.
Assist your organs to do their work properly. Food and drink
cannot nourish you if your liver is not working right.
Dyspepsia and Indigestion follow if your digestive organs are out
of order.
Constipation—with its discomfort and danger—results if your bowels
are not free and regular.
A short course of BEECHAM’S PILLS will soon put you right,
and an occasional dose will keep you so.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
will do more to build up robust health and maintain it than any other
medicine. They have done this, and are continually doing it, for
thousands all over the world. If you start now and take BEECHAM’S
PILLS occasionally you will certainly benefit to a remarkable degree.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are good alike for man, woman,
and child, if taken according to directions. They
are pre-eminently a family medicine—a remedy
to have by one in readiness for every occasion
when need arises.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 10id., and 2/9.
PEARL STAR PENDANT
Of Very Handsome Design.
This has a pin at back and can also be used as a brooch.
Set with Pearls—Sapphire, Ruby or Turquoise centre.
In 9ct. Golf/, 45-; 15ct. Gold, 65/-. Post Free to any address.
Other New Designs from 25/- each.
Like everything offered by “ the store where quality counts,” if, when
the parcel is received, it is not exactly as represented, it should be at
once returned, and the amount paid will be cheerfully refunded.
ASK FOR OUR BIG CATALOGUE.
AN6US & COOTE,
Corner of the Royal
Arcade, GEORGE
ST., SYDNEY.
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
TON’S EYE OINTMENT <
SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restore's eyflashes.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ALL. EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
Medicine Sent Free
To inen until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address s HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St..
BR. IS/LA-tt-THISr, M.D., Consulting Physician, &c. I
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of I*\en and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
men
and
WOMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
‘‘THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CORE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6 ; or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pages Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
F.T.MT.WV HOUSE,” 151 ELI Z A BETH-STR EET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


** The Iceland Beacon ”
Purr Gum, Rolled Edge.
flea’s - - 61- per pair
Boys’ - -5/- per pair
“THE BEACON”
Pure Gum.
Men ’ s - -5/- per pair
(Also at 3/11)
Women’s - 3 9 per pair
(Also at 2/11)
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMACURE
GRIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
MAMMATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
CE>o§@®
*HS3u
Mb
WOi-F
or
Max
'Ex
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. & J. MAXPIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES. SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
’S
m m
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
** -■
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or (Quarries. Weight about 18lbs. Operated by .compressed air, consuming: about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART —Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
506
LITTLE COLLINS S'
And at 64- PITT ST.
„ MELBOU
SYDNEY.
RNE
Every Pump Guaranteed.
m
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc. ——
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLAHENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwakds Phopy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
V. L ; !il
■
111 I
ii
IB!
Fred Metiers & Co
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
v SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
9
POCKET
KNIVES
are
BEST.
Sold
by
all first-
da s stores
in Australasia.
No. 8170 V 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle
Buffalo Handle
Stag Hczndle -
116
- 21-
m “ 216
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDINTBX.
For Draining Mine Shafts, Flooded Galleries and Levels, there is nothing equal to
THE
PULSOMETEB STEAM
It has no exhaust steam to be disposed of; needs no special foundation, but may be swung from
a beam or tripod, and raised or lowered as occasion demands without interrupting its operation.
Requires neither engine, belt, oil, or packing—just a steam pipe—easy to instai, easy to operate.
Write for Catalogue. IN FACT, IT’S AN IDEAL MINE PUMP.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne,
Agents for Puisometer
Engineering Co., England .
