

śdfsdfsd
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
HU*
mining'
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILAB
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS
AND PARTICULARS.
HOBAHT,
xm.
fiadlegs Orient fjotel
PIONEER
LEATHER
MBELTI N Gf
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., *7 Bent Street,
FIXED ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... £lOO
6 B.H.P. ... £125
8 B.H.P. ... £155
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
OUWt ■ V . w— ••••••
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
shearing Machines, Wo/ ; vg F feed, P chaff E cutt?ng, N pulping
SERARATORS, SAwInG WOOD Etc., Etc. Etc.
PORTABLE ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... £l4O
6 B.H.P. ... £165
8 B.H.P. ... £2OO
IN STOCK.
fsdfsdf
Take it back,
I must have -
IUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
sAr
TlaficndL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
u
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M°l NTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
T E A!
BLNSDORPS
dsf
sfsd
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOJ^
Aroma,Streogtht'Purit^:
ASK
FOR
gffo
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY- PT IW BOTTLE
f THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.'
fsd
fsd
(adburys
Cocoa
It is tKe purest aivd most
cocoa iivuse. It’s nicest too.
*ffl£ IANCff sa/s bur/s isthe standard'of highest purity.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to make a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
f
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1367.]
[Thursday, April 26, 1906
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


JUST TO HAND.
CHEAP EDITION FOR THE COLONIES, cloth ss, by post 5s 6d.
AND MONOPOLY,
_
9
By THOMAS CARL SPELLING, author
of “ Trust Monopolies,” &c.
Barton, The Horsebuyer’S Guide, Is 9d, postage 3d.
Barton, The Bog and How to Break Him, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Benvenuto, Cellini’s Memoirs, is 3d, post id.
Jefferies, After London, or Wild England, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Jefferies, Bevis, The Story of a Bov, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Chambers, A Gay Conspiracy, paper covers 2s 6d, cloth
binding 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Arnold, God and the Bible, R.P.A. Series. 8d posted.
Davidson, Morrison, Son of Man.
Wyers, Producer Gas and Gas Producers, 21s, post Is.
Bre post 6d ICa Juris P rudence and Toxicology, Sa Cd,
Lang, Andrew, Sir Walter Scott, 3s 6d, post 6d
Glasgow, Ellen, The Wheel of Life, cloth 3s 6d, post sd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD.,
I GH STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
THE RED PAGE.
AUTUMN TWILIGHT.
Pale and with clasped hands, like lovers twain,
Sorrow and Peace lead you to paths obscuring
Where, in the garden old and sad icith gloom
enduring,
From roses lulled asleep the petals softly rain.
The face of the silence of fountains that tarnish and
wane
Sees itself die in the depth of water that falls,
intruding
Drop by drop to awaken the doves at their brooding
Heavily in the gold of the tree and the leafage slain.
For autumn is come with the twilight in season
succeeding,
And now, as you walk, before you a phantom re-
ceding
Smiles to have been yourself as it wavers and
hovers :
Where the flower has budded a thorn survives for
sighing,
The Past each eve a longer shadow discovers,
And drop by drop, and rose by rose, Time’s
dying!
From the French of H. DE REGNIER.
THEE SEMI-RESURRECTION OF SPOOKS
IT is ten years and more since Sydney
was visited by authentic and non-
alcoholic Spirits; and “if this should
meet the eye” of any supernal or
infernal wanderer in search of lodgings, It
may be assured that comfortable apartments
are waiting on the shores of the Beautiful
Harbour. By various and portentous signs
one is persuaded that the time is appropriate
for a new visitation of spiritual media in bare
feet and petticoats, with masks and artificial
beards and a taste for chocolate-creams, and
with the capacity to astonish elderly gentle-
men of an intensely green colour by waving
“ drapery of an intensely white colour ” “in
a manner- not to be accounted for by the
laws of nature as at present understood.”
It is common to meet assurance that Aus-
tralians belong to a sceptical and irreverent
generation. That assurance is a gross
libel upon others besides respectable citizens
in their green old age. Most of us
are willing to Believe ; many of us are
anxious to Believe ; some of us are deter-
mined to Believe in the face of evidence
whose false hair is pushed down into its
bosom by a sorrowful but honourable pal.
This need of Belief is ingrained in us.
We inherit it from forefathers who peopled
earth and air with ghosts to be worshipped,
and propitiated, and approached in mystery
and awe. Current religions but partially
satisfy the need. Our ancestors had con-
stant and solacing intercourse with their
dreaded yet beloved Spook. The comet was
His visible sign ; the earthquake His
grumbling menace. So many natural events 1
lacked obvious explanation that the savage
lived in a series of emotional thrills
at once fearful and delightful. What is to be
done to-day ?—when the exciting properties
of the Spook are merely those of a third-rate
conjuror, and unsympathetic Science has
restricted His sphere to furtive communion
in a “seance” with the gas turned “just a
little lower, please ! ”
M ell, we Believe—and we hope—and we
do what we can. A small ripple of interest
has fled recently over our Beautiful,
but, alas ! spiritually stagnant Harbour.
It was due to a young lady who ’ at
ordinary times is an ordinary performer
upon the pianoforte, but who is capable also
of improvising an extraordinary performance.
Instead of continuing to play the usual reper-
tory of young ladies, this young lady strikes
the notes in a peculiar manner which is not
her ordinary manner, and invents original
musical themes which occasionally sound as
if they might become interesting were they
not speedily lost in a desert of commonplace
For unfortunately critics are agreed that the
extraordinary performance is musically in-
significant or even bad.
This is the one thing which justifies the
attribution of the performance to a musical
Spook who guides the young lady’s finger's
by ways that tney know not. For through-
out the realm of Spookery the performances
are invariably insignificant or bad. The
Spook of Julius Caesar comes, as we must
suppose, at great trouble and expense across
the intervening lands and centuries, to
assure us solemnly that it is a fine night
and seasonable weather for the time of
year. The Spook of Bindley Murray
exhibits a singular indifference to the
rules of grammar which conditioned* his dog-
matic life in the flesh. Bouis XIV conde-
scends to tap with a table-leg, and George
Washington tweaks a devotee's hair. The
reduction of all empires, glories, triumphs,
spoils, to the somewhat sordid measure of
the medium’s mind is a depressing spiritual-
istic circumstance. Even the emission of
a kissing sound ” and the exhibition of “ an
intensely white appearance ” do not con-
tribute permanently to the edification of be-
lievers. An unusual pianoforte performance,
or any other performance, may thus b
reasonably referred to the Spooks, if only i
be unusually bad.
Ihe Sydney young lady’s performance
appears to be only moderately bad ; anc
some natural doubt, therefore, is cast upoi
her spiritual authority. It is right to say
that the young lady makes no claim to
any authority whatever. She knows onh
that she has two styles of playing,
which she can adopt independently o:
each other ; and the conclusion she leaves to
her auditors. In the light of common know-
ledge, that conclusion is sufficiently clear.
We know that the brain has two lobes,
which may function separately ; and dual
consciousness is a familiar phenomenon.
Most of us have learned to co-ordinate the
action of the lobes, as we have learned to co-
ordinate the use of the eyes ; but just as an
intoxicated man’s abnormal vision may see
two lamp-posts, so an abnormal brain may
think and direct conduct in two differing or
opposing ways. The movements of the
hands in piano-playing are necessarily con-
trolled by both lobes ; the left lobe directing
the right hand, and the right lobe the left
hand. But the superior nerve-centre which
controls the character and expression of
music is normally developed in one lobe
only ; so that the ordinary musician plays
well or badly, but always in his own style.
The extraordinary musician under notice has
two distinct styles, and inferentially has de-
veloped a superior musical nerve-centre in
each lobe of her brain.
The case is interesting for scientific in-
quiry, and particularly because the lady is
credited with ability to display either side of
her musical “ consciousness” at will. That
is not essentially more remarkable than
everybody’s power of using right or left hand
at will, but it seems more remarkable because
it is rare. It is like the calf with two heads
that excites the wonder of the populace.
Surely, surely a calf with two heads comes
to us with a message from the Spirit-World,
and in its own simple language moos a pledge
of Immortality.
WILL LAWSON'S VERSES
SHELLING PEAS.
We sat on the steps with the door ajar—
A blue dish on your knees.
I was smoking your dad’s cigar,
And you were shelling peas—
Shelling them out with a nimble thumb—
And glancing from downcast eyes,
And I felt clumsy, and big and dumb,
And you were little and wise.
You said, “ When a man is married, I think,
They should give him a weekly fling.”
And a rooster tipped me a knowing wink,
With a flap of his lordly wing.
You threw him some shells, and you raised your eyes j
I fumbled to strike a light,
Because you were pretty and little and wise,
And your throat was dazzling white.
“ What do you think ? ” you, laughing, said.
I answered, “ Dashed if I know.”
And the family rooster raised his head
And crowed a sceptical crow.
A patch of cigar-ash soiled your dress ;
I brushed it, soft, from your knees,
For I was smoking in idleness,
And you were shelling peas.
And f watched your delicate fingers go
At their swift and measured stride ;
The peas fell into the dish below,
And the pods were dropped outside.
The peas were little and round and good—
The pods were tarnished and bad,
And I started off in a thinking mood—
A stupid habit I had.
“ " hat do you think ? ” you asked again,
Straightening up some curls.
I.said, “ I think that the pods are men,
And the peas are pretty girls.
The pods are only to shield the peas,
Lest the weather their beauty mar
And I brushed the ash' that fell on your knees
From the end of your dad's cigar.
You were shelling the peas with a nimble thumb,
And I wanted to see your eyes,
But you turned them down and the smiles would come,
As you said (you were pretty and wise) :
“ Yet ea °h pea-pod shields several peas—
May a man love several maids?”
The rooster winked as he lounged at ease.
With his harem all colors and shades.
And then it seemed that we rode on a star,
Right into the eyes of the breeze.
A duck was chewing your dad’s cigar,
And the harem was eating the peas.
“ Do you think this is right?” you whispered, and X
Made answer, your hair in my eyes,
“ Whether it’s right or wrong, till I die
I reckon I ’ll stick to my prize ! ”
I wonder now did you care at all—
I did n’t take long to forget—
Love blows for each man one clarion call,
And I’ve never heard mine yet;
But sometimes at night when the evening star
Gleams bright and full thro’ the trees,
I sit on the steps with the door ajar,
Watching you shell the peas.
IN his second Book of Between the Lights and
Other Verses, Will Lawson (who writes
over the signature of “ Quilp N.”) appears
in the guise of a Maoriland Ogilvie, with
Ogilvie’s air of a sunlit rhymer able to present
vivid pictures in quick phrases. He is less dainty,
less subtle, than Ogilvie, and cannot yet pass from
sentiment into passion : his eyes see the deep
things; but their deep feeling (though he may feel
it) is not fully expressed. His verse is too fluent,
too easy, wanting more weight behind it to de-
velop its force. His art is simple : he dumps his
lines on the rhyme, and rattles over verbal ob-
stacles with an energetic beat. Yet he has a
natural melody to aid his bright impression, and
varies his rhythms with facility.
The lines above may stand as one good specimen
of his .style : since they were written he has added
a cubit to his stature, and his book is dedicated
“To My Wife.” The breezy, vigorous stanzas
for coaching on “The Old Ngahauranga Road”
are an example of another manner :
Others for cruisers and torpedo boats would pass
with Kipling’s. Indeed, Lawson has all the
vitality that Kipling once possessed, and needs
only a little more skill with words to get Kipling’s
effects. One likes the very human picture of
“ Hearts Astern ” : the rhyme of a crew of sea-
going sailormen who badly want to stay :
It is a book of rhymes manly, graphic, and sym-
pathetic, with honest poetical messages for many
honest people.
Now, let the leaders ease their load—
Their foaming- flanks are white—
For on the Old Ngahauranga Road
The brakes will hiss and bite,
As down the easy grade a-swing
The big coach hums along.
Come, throw aside all care, and sing
A rousing coaching song !
The slackened trace-chains jangle clear,
The swingle-bars join in,
And from each piece of honest gear
There rings a merry din.
The heavy brakes have gripped the load,
The tyres are gleaming bright,
And down the old Ngahauranga Road
The world goes well to-night !
Several pieces are written for railway men :
Now hear the words my engine speaks-
Slow, rhythmic, yet not singin’—
As by the peaks an’ tumblin’ creeks
Her eighty tons goes ringin’...
“ Man’s life is just two far-reached rails
With many a curve an’ crossin’ ;
The levels change, the wide curves range
Up grades an’ down a-tossin’;
An’ men must live, an’ men must die,
So what’s the use of growlin’ ?
The ‘ danger ’ falls, the whistle calls :
PULL STEAM ! —an’ take it howlin’.”
These words are cheerin’-like to those
Whose lives are full of strivin’—■
The smooth valves gape, the smooth valves close,
An’ I am drivin’, drivin’....
Oh, it ’s drivin’ — drivin’ —
The ivorld’s a place to strive in ;
When, cold an’ numb,
My hour has come,
I hope I’ll go there drivin’.
We ’re singin’, “ We ’re off to the Rio Grande,”
And the captain’s movin’ g^y,
But we’d sooner be hearin’ the German band
In Oriental Bay,
Where the women walk in their dainty gear.
And the moon comes risin’ slow —
Ah ! yes, we know what course to steer,
But —none of us want to go.
The mate has gone on a black-eyed Dream
(She gave him her waist to squeeze),
And he would rather lie our, in the gleam
Of the stars than face the seas ...
MEMOKANDA
It is pointed out that Mr. J. 0. Andersen has
been treated unfairly. In his Maoriland “ Ode”
the line
Morn glorious rose, and even closed in tender,
was not meant to imply a missing substantive for
tender. You must read it
Morn glorious rose, and even closed-in tender ,
making tender an adj. qualifying even; and the
grammar is saved. But as the rhythm is de-
stroyed, and closed-in is abominably awkward,
Mr. Andersen gains nothing by losing his un-
grammatical mystery.
The Press, Christchurch, of March 31, is now
to hand with a copy of four “odes” selected by
the judge, Professor J. Macmillan Brown. It was
this gentleman who, prefacing Mr. Andersen’s
Songs Unsung, justified that “ real poet’s” “some-
what ambitious project to answer and revise the
philosophy of Wordsworth in a direct echo of his
famous Ode on ‘ Intimations of Immortality.’ ”
In Mr. Andersen’s new “Ode” Professor Brown
finds “echoes of Swinburne and Byron” (!) and
adds that the “ Ode ” “is not only harmonious in
expression but varied, not only elevated in
thought but imagination.” Professor Brown’s
grammar is nearly as obscure as his protege’s ;
and his judgment is disastrous indeed.
The second prize was awarded to Hubert
Church, who offered the most o iginal and
poetical of the “Odes,” though its scope is
limited, and its fine lines are not wjthout flaws.
An “Ode” by Lucy Smith, Dunedin, attains a
fair poetical standard, and is on its plane the
most consistent and satisfactory of all. It appears
that the successful “Ode” is to be set to music,
and for that purpose Mr. Andersen’s rheumatic
commonplace was supplied in various rhythms
which other competitors neglected to manage.
Only with that excuse is the judgment excusable.
J. R. Tyrrell & Co., Sydney, publish Quin
tessence of the \Vorld s Wisdom at Is. C>d., with
dozen philosophers, from M. Aurelius to T
Carlyle, huddled like citizens in an Easter
tram-jam. “ Wisdom calleth in the market-place
and no man regardeth her.” Did the women
regard her ? or were the men busy regarding the
women ? The theme is developed further in one
of the agreeable sermon-hooks scattered rounc
Sydney since the death of Dr. Carter.
Dr. Carter was not known in this battalion—
and the formal corollary is admitted cheerfully
(since Epictetus, in the Quintessence aforesaid,
points out that it is of no importance anyway). But
he seems to have been an Anglican clergyman
“up the line,” and last survivor of the ancient
theological learning in Australia. On his shelves
lay all the forgotten controversies, all the dusty
disputants, all the Greek tenets, all the Latin
creeds. He piled Pelion upon Ossa of Bibli-
cal commentary in the attempt to scale high
heaven ; and as one buys his beautiful Greek
tomes one is sure he got there. To cherish
lovingly a parchment folio of Amsterdam, 1698, is
true religion; and Dr. Carter cherished scores
similar and thousands kindred.
The reflections are inevitably those of Sir
Thomas Browne, for whom a seducing Souvenir
(that should have been bound in mummy-skin)
has been issued at his beloved city of Norwich
(Jarrold & Sons ; 2s. Oct. net). The size a slender
and liberal quarto : the contents twelve pictures
of Browne and his belongings done daintily in
Woodburytype or suchlike process, and desir-
able. Browne’s religion of a medical man is also
alluded to in the Quintessence aforesaid, and it
contains no word of fees : indeed the time hath
altered strangely. But he speaketh weightily of
divers things :
Marriage. —l was never yet once, and commend their
resolutions who never marry twice : not that I disallow
of second marriage ; as neither in all cases of polygamy,
which, considering some times, and the unequal number
of both sexes, may be also necessary.
The whole world was made for man, but the twelfth part
of man for woman. Man is the whole and the breath of
God ; woman the rib and crooked piece of man, I speak
not in prejudice, noram averse from that sweet sex, but
naturally amorous of all that is beautiful. I can look a
whole day with delight upon a handsome picture, though
it be but of a horse.
It is my temper, and I like it the better, to affect all
harmony; and sure there is music even in the beauty
of the silent note which Oupid strikes, far sweeter than
the sound of an instrument.
The silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that
10s. 6 d. will be paid for the most poetical con-
tinuation, in not more than 12 lines (ample to turn
the theme and close on the keynote) received by
May 28.—Jarrold’s Souvenir , by the way, repro-
duces a page of the quaint old fist that Browne
made of his “ religion.”
d*
W. Heinemann (Lond.) publishes an Eng.
edition of T. W. Lawson’s Frenzied Finance,
which made a magazine sensation in Everybody’s,
and has been on local sale in an Amer. edition for
a couple of months. People who deal in money
and stocks will like to follow the long story of
N.Y. market manipulation, if they haven’t read
it already.
A substantial volume of old Eng. legislation
prohibited “forestalling,” and Eng. publishers
are beginning to clamour against the old foe with
a new face. Frenzied Lawson being of American
origin, it is perhaps fair that America should
skim the cream of his Australian trade. But
owing to the gentle but firm insistency of Amer.
copyright law (that law which a foolish and
perverse generation of Labour legislators refused
recently to imitate for Australia) more Eng. books
and more go to N. York to be printed from types
cast in America and snatched or twiddled by Amer.
workmen. The Amer. editions are published
first, and some of them are packed off to sunny
Australia instanter. When slow old England
comes along two or three months later, the
market is supplied. So Eng. publishers have
been trying to persuade Amer. publishers that
Australia is by right of conquest, Oapt. Cook, and
convicts, a preserve where no gentlemanly person
will intrude. Amer. publishers have been wear-
ing the smile of the heathen Chinee.
Rivalries pay—the other fellow. The Magazine
of Fine Arts has set out to eclipse The Studio:
and the public is the other fellow who gets for Is.
ret, in No. IV, page-reproductions of eight noble
drawings by Leonardo, Ingres’ “La Source,”
Luini’s “Nativity” and an illuminated MS.
frontispiece (in colour), and other pictures. Now
it’s The Studio’s turn.
J*
M. A. O’Oallaghan, chief of the dairy branch,
N.S. W. Dept, of Agriculture, has written all the
lore of his profession into a book of Dairying for
Australia (Syd., Govt. Printer ; 7s. 6 d.) The
book is plainly written and handsomely illus-
trated, and seems as necessary to a dairyman as
his cow.—“ As his pump”? “As his water
supply”? Regretfully one admits that there are
too m my lactometers watching, and the jest is no
longer valid. Thus sweetly does Science rob us of
the humour of our ancestors !
A.G.S.
Ernest Favenc, that diligent veteran, is pre-
paring a new edition of his History of Australasian
Exploration, published in 1888. “Among the
fresli material is a full account of the ascent of
the Blue Mountains, with the journals of Blax-
land, Lawson, and Wentworth ; also the diaries
of G. W. Evans, containing his account of the
finding of the Macquarie and Lachlan rivers.’’
Brought up to the date of this year, the book
cannot fail to be valuable-; and in the field which
it covers Mr. Favene’s knowledge is unique.—
There was news a fortnight ago ; but, as this
page goes to press a week before date of issue,
one can speak only in the past prophetic tense.


sdfsd
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
FOOTBALLS.
RUGBY OB ASSOCIATION.
m
umjs ° L3 °*
■
*royal v
m
>/«vl
&
m
1
\\www
Pi
Vi
m
ffb
The
All Balls Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
Postage on Mes*9 Football—N.S.W., 6d ; Inter-State, Bd.
No. I—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match 11., Hand-sewn 9s 6d
No. 2—Nicholson’s “Royal Special” (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3 —Nicholson’s “Royal” Match 11. .. r * •• 7s 6d
No. 3 is an exceptionally strong, useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, but suitable for practice.
‘Nicholson’’Royal Special Match Ball is guaranteed the best value on the market, made 'from Selected
Crome Leather, Hand-sewn, in accordance with the N.S.W. Rugby Union’s specifications, and fitted with
best quality Imported Red Rubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match 11., Hand-sewn
BRYAiMS “Grasshopper” Match 11., Hand-sewn ..
“A.N.A.” Special Match 11., Rugby only
SYKES’ Match 11., Special Value
“ALBION” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
“RIVAL” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
“DIADEM” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
12s 6d
las 6d
14s 6d
7s 6d
11s 6d
IDs Od
13s 6d
15s Od
RUGBY each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 2s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) -3s fid
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage fid.) 4s 3d
Solid Hide, Match 11. (Postagefid.) .. .. 5s Od
ASSOCIATION each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s (id.
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 3s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) .. . .. .. 3s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage (id.) .. .. .. 4s (id
Solid Hide, Match 111. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra. Special Value (Postage 3d).
No. 1, Is 9d each. No. 2,2 s 3d each. No. 3,2 s 9d each.
Football Bladders ( imported)-Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
Each.
No. 1 (Postage 2d.) Is Od
No. 2 (Postage 2d.) .. .. .. .. .. Is 4d
No. 3 (Postage 3d.) Is 7d
Each.
.. Is lOd
2s 3d, 3s 3d
2s 9d, 3s 3d
No. 4 (Postage 3d.).
No. 5 (Postage 3d.).
No. 6 (Postage 3d.)
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
SHIN GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.) ls a . r
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) .. .. .. .. .. •• .. Is 3d pair
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) ls j P a ! r
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.) 2s Od pair
Gold Cape, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) .. .. .. .. .. -. ■■ 2s 9d pair
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather straps (Postage 4d.) 3s Od pair
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. .. .• •• •• •• 4s Od pair
Same as above, larger size (Postage 4d.) .. .. 5s Od pair
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is; Inter-State, Is Bd.
Best Quality English made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Rugby
Extra Quality English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps, with and
without ankle pads, per pair Us 6d, 12s 6d,
10s 6d
14s 6d
13s 6d
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each.
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 2d),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6d each.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post. 2d), 3s 9d.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
■
■Hn
'V
111
Brass tnflators.
BRASS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d) ..
fsd
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3|lb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
fsd
f
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight sJlb
1897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight sjlb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d) ..
£3
£4
sdf
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag,” 22- Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36in., Ole
weight about,3|lb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State). A J. 5>
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Sydney Sports Depot.
The Celebrated
“MAINE’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting’ Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Bong, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb.
THE MAINE
Pifle
<Sheuiinq Pifle Aparf.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
'mm
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2|lb
Postage : N.S.YV., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 21 lb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Rc 7?l n w t< ? n^' S ', Rifle ’ New Model > 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 311 b. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d; Interstate, 2s 8d .. .. j.. - .. _ b 2 h
13s 6d
18s
16s
Od
Od
Winchester
1904
Model*
sd
21in. heavy
adjustable ri
sight with
tarnish, we
N.S.W. ; 3s
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22' short or long rim lire cartridges,
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
ear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
patent alloyed tip, which will not
ught about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d n>| 0
2d Inter-State).
fsd
Stevens’ “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block, ,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ;
3s 2d Inter-State)
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£1
10s
£2
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
fsdfdsf
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
SNOIAIIAIIS
MOIIAI
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16’Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS
i
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Keal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
aS
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2-fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-aualitv Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. , For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle. J
HAS IVLOUfaY TO LEND On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral a n n a C '* y Properties, or on
of 1 Government Debentures, Inscribed Agncultural Lands, or on the Security
States or New R °/f T SS
up to 20 per csmif Tuui'u'n “ condition allowing Borrowers the privilege Of repaving
up to-.u per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of anv fine
IR Short, Esq?'; James ’ /fflac'k M L ; Benjamin
General -e ol Toi 5 F - E - Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
_HEA D OFFICE, S 7 Secretary ,
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
MANUFACTURERS OE MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
oMQ
~w
ms
JR aff
k\
%.Y«k*.
«Mffy>e. jk».y% vva* vv% s
■HHK^
WmSm
<zs
■<&
wi
Tromp Card
FROM
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcock&G?. 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM
2.11.5.
\
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
SALT.’
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare m
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON,
by J. C. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN.s«,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . .. TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak_Men alealine VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nervea.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Minna CURE PILLS £ upe all contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DL.UUU uUnb riL.i.o. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blootf
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
UUnolr Wnman Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses. 23/6.
wean women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office s 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
Beautiful Home Decorations
L
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” COLD E.\AMEL (Washable) Kich and
durable as real gold. withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOLIM ESJMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful clnna gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
“SAPOLIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations .
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN " FLOOP
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
[u.
i
There’s SECURITY In
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
')
| INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION. f
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
A VIVID ACCOUNT.
FOR YOUR BENEFIT.
THE CASE OF MR. S. SHAW.
(By a Sydney Reporter.)
A vivid account appears belows of the extraordinary experiences of Mr. Samuel Shaw, of No. 208
Liverpool-street, Sydney, where he has been living for the past fifteen years.
“ It is over half a century ago since I came from Manchester to this country,” Mr. Shaw observed
to a reporter, “ and up to a certain period I had nothing to complain of about my health. Then my
luck changed, and for fully ten years I had an annual visit from a complaint that seemed to have got
hold me for good.”
“ What was the nature of it ? ” enquired the pressman.
“It was neuralgia that paid me those yearly attentions, but in addition to that I was greatly
troubled with indigestion. Indeed, I blame the latter for causing the former, as it was when I
became unable to digest my food, that I first noticed how sadly my general health was falling off.
My system seemed, to go to pieces bit by bit, and then my nerves had just about broken down alto-
gether, when my physical tortures were at their worst. The pains in my head were so terribly severe
that the softest pillow felt as if it were filled with sharp edged stones that cut right into me. All
about my jaws and gums I was so sore and tender that I could not bear anything to touch me, and I
would flinch from the application of a piece of wadding as though it was a hard, rough substance of a
penetrating character.”
“ I suppose your sleep would be greatly interfered with ? ”
“Oh ! don’t mention anything about sleep, for I positively dread to recall the numberless nights
that I put in without getting any at all—simply turning from side to side in such agony that often I
wished myself dead instead of existing in such misery. Sometimes the pains would take one side of
my head and face, and on other occasions the opposite side would be affected. My eyes, round the
back of my neck—goodness ! I don’t know where the pain did not exist. It was awful, and you can
easily imagine how much suffering can make one’s life a burden to him. I know mine was, for I was
dreadfully melancholy. There was always some fearful thing going to happen, according to my mind.
Troubleine vei y direction, and the strange part of it was that, although the calamities didnotoccur whenl
imagined they would, still I could not help worrying over the same notions on subsequent days.
That will show you what an unhappy frame of mind I found myself in owing to my excessive
weakness, and it was surprising how irritable the least thing used to make me. The slightest
noise coming suddenly threw me into a state of excitement and caused my nerves to shake quite
visibly, and if I exerted myself a little bit the trembling was just as bad. The trouble was that
the longer my sufferings continued the worse they became. My organs of digestion were getting
more incapable 6f doing their work every day, and although, owing to the poorness of my appe-
tite, I took but very little food, still it was always enough to greatly increase the torments I was
already enduring. ’
“You had made efforts to overcome those afflictions, I expect?”
. “Repeatedly I had tried, but it all seemed useless. Years ago I had consulted a doctor in Victoria,
and again in Sydney I had placed myself under the care of several medical experts, who could not
cure me, and naturally I thought my load of suffering would eventually drag me down to the grave.
My attempts to get better did not cease when the doctors’ medicines failed. No ; I tried many others,
only to be again doomed to disappointment, for the heavy feelings in the chest were still there after
taking a little food, the annoying pains between my shoulders had not moved an inch, and the
aching sensations across my loins were just as troublesome as ever. I still got up with a coated tongue
and a nasty taste of a morning, the sudden giddy turns had not yet been checked, and the appalling
sense of utter feebleness and dejection was bearing down upon me more forcibly and more alarmingly
than ever. One thing was certain —that a change one way or the other would soon take place, and it
was a decided change for the better that came, and the cause of it all was nothing but Clements’
Tonic, and that is the reason why I have since recommended that remedy to hundreds of other people,
who have always thanked me for my adyice’afterwards. Do you know that I had quite given up hope
of ever being cured, and had lost all faith in medicines because of having tried every one of them
without any good resulting, and would never have taken Clements’ Tonic only that I happened to
pick up an old paper and saw in it the names of some influential people, friends of mine, who were
testifying to its efficacy. That day I got some Clements’ Tonic, and the very first night I obtained a
little ease.”
“ How long ago is that ?”
“Eight years or more, and I am indeed grateful to be able to say that ever since my health has
been all that I could wish, for by continuing Clements’ Tonic for a while I succeeded in throwing off
all the ailments that had made me thorougtdy sick and tired of my life. Little by little the neuralgic
pains that for years had nearly driven me mad abated. It really seemed too good to be true, but there
was no doubt about the complete manner in which Clements’ Tonic cured me. Not only did my head
pains ultimately die away and never occur again, but I gained in health all round. It was something
new for me to fail asleep soon after settling down in bed and not wake again till breakfast time, and
didn’t I feel the better for it ! Truly, it is only fair to say that Clements’ Tonic made an
entirely new man of me, for in every way I felt different. In a few weeks I was taking food
as heartily as ever, but what I appreciate more was being able to digest all I ate. Yes; Clements’
Tonic put my digestion right and no mistake, and I often think what a wonderful medicine it must be
in view of my many previous failures with other so-called remedies. My doctors told me my liver and
nerves were out of order, so I •am sure of not making a mistake when I advise my friends to take
Clements’ Tonic for those complaints, as it cured me thoroughly. After all 1 had endured it was
delightful to again feel fresh and vigorous, to forge ahead and find enjoyment in everything that I
came in contact with. So different from being weak and shaky, melancholy and irritable, like I had
been ; but I soon had every cause to be cheerful, for Clements’ Tonic had driven away each pain and
discomfort that had clouded my life so long. My system was splendidly toned and strengthened
throughout, and ever since I have enjoyed good, sound, robust health ; so you may publish these facts
in any way it pleases you.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, SAMUEL SHAW, of 208 Liverpool-street, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains, and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains niv full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) SAMUEL SHAW.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this fourth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and four, before me
WALTER J. GROGAN. J.P. ’


It’s an easy job for tbe barber to
part tbe hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer's
flair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. j
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.'
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For Sunburn
c n »p quick relief can be
Of •Jiff v obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and, Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth. 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
xXs
Be rosy and strong by
enriching your blood
and filling out your
form with the aid of
Scott's Emulsion. You
cannot go on being
anaemic, languid, apa-
thetic or downhearted
at the same time as
you are taking Scott's
which is bound to
delight you with the
feelings of vigour,
buoyancy and pulsing
life it always brings.
104 Morehead Street, Fedfern, Sydney,
N.S.W., Sept. 1, 1905. “Fora long time
my daughter Ruby, aged twelve years, had
been very delicate and anaemic. At last I
decided to give Scott’s Emulsion a trial.
My daughter was able to take it readily, it
agreed well with her, and so thoroughly
built up her system that she is not like the
same child, being now a fine healthy and
sprightly girl/' (Mrs.) Jessie Foss. «£*<£*<£*
Scott’s Emulsion of cod liver oil and hypo-
phosphites of lime and soda is the most
nourishing of all food-medicines; it is made
by the celebrated original Scott process and
is pure and wholesome.
Always get the Kmul-
■lon with this mark—the
Jiihman—the mark of
the “Scott" process l
Scott's cannot offend
your taste, cannot upset
your stomach.
It will cost you nothing
to begin todayl Write
for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d.for postage
and mentioning this pa-
per), Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. «£*«**»**
Xft
n
r
n.
?i
A HOME TOPIC.
* ♦ ■*
The Marvellous..
Curative Properties
0f...
Bonnington's
IRISH MOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COLDS. 3
SSX-:
For Kangaroo and Big Game 1
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
9
VI,
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Women.
In every coastal town
They watch the sails come in,
And see the hulls fade down,
Because of a crust to win.
They know the build of the ships—
The rake of each steamer’s stack.
And there is a prayer on their lips,
“God send me my sailor back.”
The ships pass over the rim,
And the women turn to their work,
Counting it all for him,
Never a task they shirk.
And day by day it seems
There is nothing but sea and foam,
And waiting and labor and dreams,
Till his ship comes surging home.
So they watch and they wait
For men on the other side
Of a world of passion and hate—
Yet the men are prisoners, tied
By chains that are bright as stars
And soft as a woman’s lips ;
And the eyes that watch for the spars
Are stars to the homeward ships.
They are in every port —
Some of them tired and thin,
For their pleasures are few and short,
And they watch the ships come in,
And pray, “God send me back
My man.” —Poor quivering lips 1
And the dead men strew the track
Of the lonely deep sea ships.
MAOItir.ANB.
WILL LAWSON.
Ashes.
One threnody old Time rehearses,
More potent than all song or verse is.
That no better or no worse is,
Though gods rack and rend
Souls, to lighten their long leisure ;
Good and evil, pain and pleasure,
Mete out but the self-same measure—
Ashes are the end.
For clown and sage, for rich and poor,
Pale priest or pampered emperor,
Death comes knocking at the door —
Who knows, foe or friend ?
To rattle his box of loaded dice ;
Virtue fares the same as Vice,
Hell is dead, like Paradise —
Ashes are the end.
Come flood or fire, come peace or war,
Fruits of sin unto the core
Bite through ; rejoice ; and nevermore
To dim cloisters wend.
Dawn grows dusk, stars faint, hopes flee,
Sunset sinks, dead, in the sea;
To Eternal Naught sink we—
Ashes are the end.
Songs and stars, for which we pine,
Women, roses, sparkling wine,
Romance, philosophy divine,
Golden fruits suspend.
Hope, what we can deem of it;
Joy, what we can gleam of it;
Love, what we can dream of it—
Ashes are the end.
In old gardens roses bloom,
Blossoms shed their rich perfume
On some immemorial tomb
Change still to portend.
Earth with corn and wine is vivid ;
Love is sweet, let’s take and give it
Life is brief, then let us live it—
Ashes are the end.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Wheel of Life.
I watch, detached, the whirling wheel
Of life go round,
And see poor mortals on its rim,
With hearts a-fire and eyes a-dim,
All firmly bound.
And some have mounted on the wheel
To giddy height;
And mirth and music fill their lives,
These drones and robbers of the hives,
Whose hearts are light.
But some are hurried to the depths
Of dark despair ;
In their sad souls no music sings,
No soft-eyed fairy ever brings
A sweetness there.
One in ancestral palace old
Is richly fed;
One in a garret, bare and cold,
After her life is coined to gold,
Lies starved and dead.
White slaves toil where the furnace glows,
Or spindle whirls;
Their sisters turn those beads of sweat
(God sees these things, but strikes not yet!)
To strings of pearls.
One dies, and half the world is sad
With drooping flags,
And shadows fleck the tapered hall j
Another dies, and has for pall
, A heap of rage.
The wheels turn slowly round and round,
The visions thicken;
The beggar glows with lusty health,
While, in despite of power and wealth,
The king is stricken.
A little wrestling with our fate,
More wounds and scars ;
And then, in silence on our faces,
Falls from the depths of God’s great spaces
The lignt of stars.
TAS.
ALBERT J. WOOD.


£lOOO rnjt £lOOO
A Fortune for 11-
A Fortune for 1 /-
£lOOO for Is
FIRST
Great Prize
{£looo for Is
Or 12 Months’ Trip Round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or eight months for two,
And 129 Other Important prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours Great Jubilee Art Union.
60 YEARS THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR 50 YEARS.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
'r 11 be del l i y e, ' ( ' <l l° winners free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted to any
person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
to If or send stamps (with exchange added), Postal Note, or P. 0.0., direct
chance bnders Buddings, 312 Plinders-street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a
Great Art Union, 22 fOT £l, 11 fOT 10S., OT I S. OaCH.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing 14th May, 1906.
BE SURE to TRY YOUR LUCK.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PASTORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month—keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale .
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head Office:
13 Phillip St., SYDNEY
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
0
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
iElilKfll
I
o
Q
ueeris GaieTerraee
London. S.W y
UNDER
ROY A i
PATRONAGE
ONE OF
THE v/MOST
\fashionable,
(\ hotels in /
\\ LONDON
/ NOTED FOR\
ITS COM FORT &
CONVENIENCE
Have YoCi a (ararpopboo*?
sdfsd
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
Columbia lOin Disc Records
i are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
1 of Tone, and Durability.-
Price 3/6 each.
, They are made of the very best Black
Corti position, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest Lists to —
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (fieri.).
Australian
Headquarters :
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
OLDSMOBILR
A Good Investment,,
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line ; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-oyl. Touring Oar. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS. DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY HOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
THE. FIRST ROOF
laid has been tbe
best advertisement
for RUBEROID.
Tbat Roof, laid
nearly 15 years ago,
.16 SO. FT,'
PLY
SUB ON El
sii»TT,
", SSSERAI SNSVt4T Jor;
Ucn & co.’
N t> W
Has been tbe means
of selling thousands
of rolls, and it will
sell thousands of
rolls more. It is
our lasting advt.
The genuine is stamped
every 4ft. of the roll
with the word RUBEROID
See that you g'et the genuine
Sydney—F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
SAXTON & BIN NS, LTD.
GOODLET & SMITH, LTD.
JOHN McINTOSH & SONS
W: CARY & SONS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
A FEW FIRMS SELLING RUBEROID
' HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & 00.
MARCUS CLARK, LTD.
- GRACE BROS.
C. G. HATTE, LTD.
J. W. EATON, LTD.
And many others.
Newcastle —FßED ASH, LTD.
Scone— M. CAMPBELL & CO., LTD.
Muswellbrook— M. CAMPBELL & CO. LTD.
Singleton— GßAlNGEß & FAULKNER.
Tamworth— T. J. TRELOAR & CO.
Armidale— F. BRAUND & CO.
Wholesale Ag'ents s E. RICH4I CO., LTD.,
Sydney b Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post OBioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27..-No. 1367.
IIIURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1006.
Pbiob 6d»
THE FEDERAL SITUATION.
The old triangular struggle is expected next December, and meanwhile the old political vehicle remains In much the same old place.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A'n/ttralia for the A UMmlianS.”
h-iiited and Published by Wiliam Macleod, of
Musgr^ v e and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Bl l LI ;f rj N N ewspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie
S\^lr. e M ° f at q w a ; 214 George-street North,
oydney, JN.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum . £l6 0
Half-yearly ... n 7? «
Quarterly 0 7 0
1 direet t 0 Tiik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
t terUng V ° U C< *’ l haV<> TI!K BULLETIN posted,
r egularly to you every 'week for a year.
tahfOdnlo Dr j l -{ ts i.r tc -> and aU Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Row to Address Betters.
r^TT P ° nden ts to Tiie Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
methods tfaddTss *°™ C<W! aS to
m eZl in Jt SS ! et l ers .( w . ith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should m no case be addressed to the Editor
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
fZZ S - CnptWn So/ “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is I ** person may not he there i the official
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
ushers, lhe right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers. u
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns m length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
will be regarded as strictly confi-
rm Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
Mis. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
tor return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in JtlaeJe and White,
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merd and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
apy, interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
Will bo paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a, good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
any. picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place,
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. U. A. Thompson & Co,, 28. lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co,, Vancouver , B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said,
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co,
A gents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lhin„
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1906.
THE TRIANGULAR SITUATION.
The decision of the Victorian Labor party that it
also will have no dealings, friendships or alliances
with any other political section at the coming
Federal election opens up a rather better prospect
for George Reid and his following of Tories,
“ anti-Sacialists,” and anti-Australians than they
could otherwise have expected. It seems to be,
so far as this election is concerned, the definite
splitting of the Democratic party into two sec-
tions, which means an opportunity for straggling
and discredited reactionaries to creep in here and
there on minority votes. For the Protectionist
party, in Victoria and everywhere else, must
needs fight against the “ Freetrade” party which
jsn t really Freetrade but only anti-Australian,
and against the fiscal-sinking party which is a
financial mongrel or hybrid without the courage
of its opinions on tariff matters one way or
the other. When the Labor party is willing to
be the party of High Protection—the party
that is for Australian industry and Australian
progress, that is for good wages for Australian
workmen, and for the shutting out of the products
of cheap nigger and sweated labor which would
make Australian industry and Australian progress
and good Australian wages impossible—then, of
course, there will be no need of any separate Pro-
tectionist party. But while there is a fiscal-sink-
ing Labor party, which is apparently j ust as ready
to adopt the policy of the importers of cheap
nigger goods and sweated foreign products as any
other policy, there must be a separate Protectionist
organisation. If that organisation is to be one of
three bitterly hostile factions the position is unfor-
tunate, but it can’t be helped. If in the triangular
struggle Toryism wins through the splitting of the
Democratic vote, that also can’t be helped. The
only thing that remains for the Democratic
Protectionists is to keep their flag flying, and do
their duty, and let the consequences be what they
may. It would be an eternal disgrace to Australia
if the election were left to be fought between the
party which is always against Australian industry,
and the. party which cares so little about Aus-
tralian industry that it won’t say, as a party,
whether it is hostile or not.
k ‘ " *•- '
Th e position is peculiar and complicated.
Hitherto practically all the assistance the Labor
party has received in the Australian Parliament
outside its own ranks has been from the Protec-
tionists. buch men as Styles, Mauger, Lyne
Playford. Kingston, Trenwith, Bonython’
Ghanter, Groom and Isaacs, are divided from the
Labor men merely because they decline to Ret
into the absurd negative position of professing to
have Officially, no opinions on the fiscal problem,
and by their refusal to give way to the hypocrisy
of professing that the most active issue in Aus-
tralian politics is dead and buried. On all other
questions most of them are as Laborite as the
Labor men themselves. And the bulk of their
supporters are only divided from the direct sup-
porters of the Labor party by their refusal to sub-
scribe to the Labor party’s fiscal negation. If the
Labor party decides to contest every seat, or
practically every seat, it won’t take votes from
le Ireetrade party to any extent worth men-
tioning ; the men who vote for Conroy, Joe
look. Poller, Johnson, Kelly, Lonsdale,
Keid, Robinson, Skene, Bruce Smith, Pumpkin
Smith, Dugald Thomson, Wilks, Willis, Wil-
son, PuLSFOKD, Clemons, Gould, Grey, Millen,
INeild, Walker and co. will give none of their
suit rages to Labor under any conditions. The split
It. 1 « 6 between the advanced Democrats who sink
the fiscal issue, and the advanced Democrats who
don t, and the Tory will always be liable to crawl
in between, as Grattan Wilson, Gibb, Skene,
and Robinson did at last election. Also, it must
be remembered just here, that at last election more
than one Democrat only got in through the
splitting of the Tory vote —Dr. Culpin at Bris-
bane and Parson Ronald at Melbourne were
cases in point. Therefore, it might not take very
much division of the Democratic vote to give a
very considerable temporary advantage to
oryism. The advantage would be only tempo-
rary, but there is very much to do, and there has
already been too much stagnation and too much
waste of time, and even the loss of three years—
the life of one Parliament—to Toryism would be
a huge calamity.
* • * *
If the difficulty were over a principle the
ptMitmn would be less lamentable. But the main
difference between the Labor party and the sym-
pathisers who are not actually attached to the
party, is that the latter say that Protection matters,
and the former says that it doesn’t matter. And
Labor is willing to split the Democracy in
two rather than adopt something which, it
says, doesn’t matter. The official creed of
Labor in Parliament is that the fiscal issue doesn’t
Sl Ji - 7, ln ny ? ei ? se - I’he party professes to hold,
T?* C u a x> y ’ if is of no real importance if we have
High Protection and shut out the products of the
cheap nigger and the underpaid serf and the
sweater and the Trust; or whether we have Free-
trade and let them in ; or whether we have a reve-
nue tariff, or a mongrel tariff. Yet no one knows
better than the Labor party itself that this atti-
tude can only last while the party is a comparative
failure at the polls; the day it becomes a
definite success the fiscal-sinking pose must
go to the winds. Whenever Labor gets a de-
finite majority in the Australian Parliament,
and takes office on its own sole responsibility, it
must decide whether it will raise the present
tariff, or reduce it, or abolish it, or accept it.
I here will be no. more possibility then of profess-
ing that the party has no opinion of its own, and
that it only accepts this leader’s or that leader’s
tit? 1 * ln re^urn f° r concessions in other directions.
When Labor comes into power with its own
majority, there will be no Deakin or Barton to
shove the responsibility on to ; it will have to get
views of its own, and it might as well get them
now, and put an end to the useless device of post-
ponement. Its professed theory is that Freetrade is
all the same, and that Protection is neither one
thing nor another, and that Revenue Tariffism is
neither here nor there. And if the party adopted
the Protection which, in its official ' creed, is
neither one thing nor another, it could make a
bid with a good chance of success for almost all
the seats held by the Deakin party, and have a
fair prospect of coming out with a majority of its
own. The election would then be, in most cases,
a square two-party issue—Democratic sentiment
and Protection for Australian industry versus
Toryism, and bastard Freetrade, and a liberal influx
of cheap nigger-made or sweated goods to destroy
Australian industry and cut down Australian
wages. The other alternative is a triangular duel.
Democratic sentiment and fiscal atheism ; De-
mocratic sentiment and Protection; and against
this split-up Democracy the solid forces of bitter
Toryism, nigger labor, and cheap imports.
* * * *
The Victorian Labor party, which has just
declared unrelenting war against the De-
mocratic Protectionists, is itself a strictly
Protectionist party while it is running for
Parliament. And if it fully lived up to its
principles when it is in Parliament then there
could be nothing but praise for its present atti-
tude. The trouble is that when it reaches Parlia-
ment it becomes part of the fiscal-sinking
machine, therefore it gets Protectionist votes
under false pretences. The Labor party in Par-
liament is mainly Protectionst, but it allows a
truculent Freetrade minority in its ranks —a
minority which has sold its soul to the importers
of cheap labor products— to bluff it with threats
of secession and disruption into being a party
with no fiscal views. Supposing the Victorian
Labor Protectionists were to pledge themselves to
the formation of a High-Tariff Labor party
in Parliament, the only reasonable course that
any good Democrat could take would be to vote
for them, and even such goqd servants of the people
as Isaacs, Hume Cook, Mauger and Co. would
have to go unless they too became Laborites. But
no good Democrat is called on to sacrifice such
men as Isaacs, Mauger and Hume Cook to poli-
ticians who are Protectionists at the polls and
fiscal sinkers or fiscal atheists in the Legislature.
Of course (as already mentioned) the plea ad-
vanced is that any attempt to equip the Labor
party with a definite tariff creed would break it
asunder. In that case it may as well break
asunder now, for (as already pointed out) it is
bound to break asunder later on. There are 75
members in the House of Representatives, and
the day that the Labor party gathers in 38
members of its own it will be really in authority
for the first time. Then it will have to decide
on its fiscal intentions, and if the party can’t
get a clear and definite fiscal opinion without
splitting, it will split right there, and will
go out of office almost as soon as it goes in.
A Labor party with no fiscal beliefs will take
much longer to get a majority than one with a
definite patriotic creed, for the country doesn't
care to gamble with its tariff in the dark ; and it
is difficult to see what the fiscal-sinkers can do
when they get a majority at long last except lose
it again, having broken asunder on the rock of
their own indecision.
* * * *
Meanwhile there v is a man called Deakin
around somewhere, but he hardly seems to ‘
enter into the question just now. If there
were any possibility that he would accom-
plish anything great and sudden and decisive
during the coming session—anything to show that
there is more in him than mere sterile affability
and good intentions; if he would throw away his
metaphysics and his spooks, and abjure his long-
winded silver oratory, and do things—then
Alfred Deakin might be quite an unexpected
force at the coming election, and might upset many
calculations. If he would disappear and leave
Isaacs and Lyne to toss for his position, then
he would certainly upset many calculations—by
his absence. Meanwhile, one material fact stands
out clearly. Australia wants work above all
other things—lots of work at fair wages and
reasonable terms, work for its own people and
work for abundance of immigrants, new industries
of ail sorts, more home-made goods and fewer
imports made by cheap serfs who work 12 hours a
l 7 ’ °rw- P ni^ers who work for 4d. a day, or
cheap Chinamen who work for something adjacent
o nothing at all. It can only get these industries
y fiigh .Protection, seeing that it refuses to get
tnem by outdoing its competitors in length of
hours and brevity of remuneration. And at
this time of need one leader offers it anti-
boeialism, and another offers it a complete
absence of fiscal opinion, and the third has
o ered it very little so far except a
graceful peroration. None of these offers are
satisfactory. Ihe best Australia can do when
the day of election comes is to vote for the most
democratic whole-hog Protectionist it can find and
leave the results to Providence. What kind of
results Providence will produce out of the con-
the e ele“t‘ ava^a^e will know the day after
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Enormous Cheek of Twaddell, M.L.A.
T waddeliL, M.L.A., the discredited ex-Premier
and depreciated ex-Treasurer of N.S.W., came
out last week with his little idea as to the settle-
ment of the question of the Australian capital,
and it was, if possible, a shade more blatantly
foolish and insolent than the idea of Joey Car-
euthers on the same subject, alluded to in last
week s issue of this paper. This, according to an
admiring daily paper, is Twaddell on the capital
question : *
, * I ? I s , aid that if the question were not soon settled it
would be a wise thing for the Premier (Mr. Carruthers)
to endeavor to arrange with the Federal Government for
having the matter submitted to a referendum vote of the
Hon P 6 Th eV V S ° UtI i Wales afc the coming Federal elec-
o, ”*' , The Sl tes so far most favored by the people of this
State close to the 100 miles limit, such as Lyndhurst,
could be named for electors to select from There was
w.W whatever that either the people of New South
VVales, or their Parliamentary representatives, should be
fiked n be I st° PPOrtUnity t 0 deflnitely select the site they
+i.' A ' S n ed or an opinion as an ex-Treasurer with regard to
being permanently retained in the
Tederal Constitution, Mr. Waddell said he regarded it as
a matter of vital concern that this provision should be
made a permanent part of the Constitution, as it stood in
in h ,inli' f?ln u El n He was much P lea Bed that the Premiers,
including Mr. Carruthers, at the recent conference, had
taken such a determined stand, and were so unanimous
in favor of the retention of this clause. What was called
a blot was undoubtedly the best provision in the bill.
Now, in the light of Twaddell’s luminous utter-
ance, let the question be again considered in all
its bearings:—
“Pff " al agreement with the other States, to
v, Inch the N.b. W. Government pledged its “ honor.” if it
had any, was that the Federal Constitution was to be
earned in N.S.W. if it received a majority of votes, and
£ majoruy numbered at least 50,000 suffrages. The
N.S.W. Government asked the other States to federate,
and offered this pledge voluntarily. The N.S.W. Lesrisla-
flj™ agreed to it. Then that Legislature proved itself
the one liar and oath-breaker among the Australian Parlia-
ments by breaking faith and raising the minimum re-
quired to 80,000 votes. By that act it proved itself the
solitary exception among the Legislatures—the solitary
Parliament whose word of honor was not worth a land-
agent s oath or a butter-agent’s honesty.
(2) Next the N.S.W. Premier (Reid) stumped the coun-
try calling on the people with all his heart and soul and
stomach not to give the 80,000 affirmative votes required
principally because the allegedly nefarious Braddon
clause, which provided that three-fourths of the customs
thp revenue should be permanently returned to
the State Treasurers, was part of the Constitution. He
denounced that clause as ruinous, disastrous, foolish and
accursed. His efforts were successful; the original Con-
stitution received only 71,412 votes (21,412 more than
wouldffiave sufficed to carry it if the N.S.W. Legislature
had not broken faith) and it was lost 6
(3) Next the N.S.W. Premier (Reid) got certain altera-
tions made in the Constitution. The Braddon clause was
10 W™ lns „ fceaf J ,°f being a permanent feature,
and the capital was fixed in N.S.W., anywhere 100 or anv
number more miles from Sydney, and on a Federal
territory of 100 or any greater number of square mfies
This Constitution was accepted. But the chance to get
the alteiation by which the capital was fixed in N S W
an?i S fL OU n of f fc , he f . rejeotion of fc he original Constitution!
and the Constitution was rejected owing to two circum-
«nwSV °“? Y aS t - he bl i e . ac h of faith committed by the
N.S.W. Legislature in raising the minimum vote required
for acceptance from 50,000 to 80,000. The other was the
enthusiastic assurance of Reid and others that
Braddon clause was utterly disastrous, which assurance
Prevented the 80,000 affirmative votes being obtained
(4) Twaddell, like Carruthers, now declares that the
Braddon clause was beneficial, not disastrous, whereas it
appears, according to them, that the people of N S W
were induced to reject the original Constitution 'by a
fvf’ffv? OUt became the opportunity to demand
that the capital should be fixed in N. S. W.
(5) Twaddell, like Carruthers, demands that Aus-
tralia shall revert to the original Constitution so
far as concerns the Braddon clause, but not
as regards the matter of leaving the Federal
capital to be fixed anywhere in Australia thit-
seems best to the Australian Parliament. In other words
the original Constitution was rejected, partly through a
breach of faith ; partly (according to Twaddell and Oar-
ruthers) by reason of a lie. Ana they both propose to
undo the lie, so far as concerns the Braddon clause, and
‘° f "" S ° far aS ~ns the
And having got thus far, Twaddell makes two
more propositions which round off and complete
the situation in a really beautiful fashion—
(6) That a vote shall be taken, not of the neonle nf
Australia, but only of the people of N.S.W., as to the
exact situation, in N.S.W., of the capital of all Australia.
Apparently in Twaddell’s view, N.S.W. is the only
place which should have a voice in the fixing of the
capital of all Australia. 8
(7) That, though the Constitution allows the capital
to be hxed anywhere in N.S.W. provided it is 100 or more
miles from Sydney, the people shall only be allowed to
vofc e upon those proposed sites which are just about 100
miles from Sydney, and even if they prefer the Monaro
site selected by the Australian Parliament they shall not
be allowed to say so.
Twaddell is an amusing animal in his small way
It is only a small way, like the way of Joey
Carruthers, but it is amusing all the same.
—
•A- Warning to the Tasmanian Democrats.
The Launceston Examiner, a fine, solid old Tory
paper published 40 miles up a muddy river in
Tasmania, issued lately a very cheeky notice to
the new Democratic elements in the island’s
Assembly. It is still uncertain whether Premier
and Captain “Jack” Evans will or will not have
a majority when lie meets Parliament, and the
warning is to the effect that it will be better for
the Democra a ti let him stay in office even if he
hasn’t a majority. If they don’t, the Examiner
says, they will be sorry. The Upper House, it
points out, is entrenched immovably on a pro-
perty basis, and is defended by bigotry in front, and
ignorance behind, and bog-like obstructiveness on
??\ 7ni ld ?i that isn’t quite how the Examiner puts
it;. Ine Upper House disliked Premier Propsting
regarding him as too progressive, and in its coarse’
brutal way (that isn’t exactly how the Examiner
puts it either) threw out every measure he sent
up, lb of his Bills being rejected in one session
IN ext session it again rejected everything, includ-
ing Ins Council Peform Bill, and Propsting, not
having the courage to stop supplies till the
Council came to the senses it never possessed, re-
signed, despite his Assembly majority. The
“ ou * c iJ acted thus, not wholly because it dis-
liked Propsting’s Bills, but largely out of selfish
and pig-headed prejudice (these are not the
Examiner’s adjectives) against a Ministry which
called itself progressive, the Council being essen-
tially unprogressive, and hating any mention of
progress (though the Examiner doesn’t say so)
It has since passed Bills for the Tory Evans
feeble as they are in the way of progress, it
would have thrown out if presented by Propsting,
Therefore the Examiner warns the Democrats that,
though the Council may pass some more small
reforms to oblige Premier and Captain Evans, it
m so dead to all sense of political decency (the
Examiner doesn’t actually use these words) that
it wouldn’t pass these Bills—perhaps it wouldn’t
pass any Bills—to oblige a Democratic Ministry.
And at the same time the Examiner warns the
Democrats not to attempt to do anything to this
remarkable beast of a Council (the word “beast”
isn t actually employed by the Examiner). To
use its own words
In the mother country the House of Lords will always
do for a Conservative than a Liberal Government.
So in Tasmania, the Council has always been disposed to
listen more sympathetically to the policy of what may be
termed a moderate than that of a Radical Cabinet. It is
all very well for extremists to fulminate against the Upper
House, and talk about its abolition, but they are merely
wasting their breath. They will do no good by these
utterances, and only cause trouble.
So it all sums up in this: If “Jack” Evans is
44 t 1 °“ lce Council will grant very little, but
lf ' . GK ” Evans is thrown out it won’t grant
anything. Therefore “ J ack ” Evans is to be left
in office even if he hasn’t a majority. But the
Examiner, in its haste to show that “Jack”
Evans must be left in office, forgets that the
Democratic party all over the Commonwealth has
more than one large ace concealed in its boots.
It can, for example, throw itself heart and soul
into a movement for a huge amendment of the
federal Constitution—an amendment handing
‘over to the Commonwealth all the powers, duties
assets, and liabilities of the States. That amend-
ment if passed by the Australian Parliament—
would be submitted to a vote of the whole adult
population, and, if carried, it would leave all the
State Assemblies and Upper Houses as dead as if
they had never lived. Then the Commonwealth
could re-endow the States with a Legislature each
of one Chamber, elected by adult suffrage, and
business would resumewith all the Houses of Land-
lords forgotten m the political ash-barrel. What
the Examiner, published 40 miles up a muddy
river in Tasmania, would think of that idea is too
large a subject for present consideration. Also
(another thing the Examiner forgets), the Demo-
cratic party can seize office when it gets a
majority, and pass its progressive measures
through the Assembly, and watch the Council
throw them out, and when that disgraceful
institution has filled up its cup—or rather its
tank—of iniquity it can intimate that its patience
has given out, that supplies will be stopped till
the Council passes a Bill for its own abolition,
that the police and public service will be dis-
banded, that loans, as they fall due, will be
allowed to go into default for lack of renewal
that the railways will stop, the taxes be uneol-
lected, and that chaos will return. There is more
than one way of dealing with the allegedly im-
movable Upper House, despite the Examiner’s
assurance that the only remedy is to keep “Jack ”
Evans in office at all costs.
The Tragedy of San Francisco.
This week lias seen a calamity which has stag-
gered humanity. Of course it may be said that,
both as regards loss of life and loss of property, the
practical destruction of San Francisco is a small
thing compared with even a third-rate war, and
though war doesn’t destroy property so fast it
sometimes destroys life almost as rapidly. But war
nowadays, as white men conduct it, doesn’t wipe
out cities. And war is a game in which the
loser feels that he had a chance to win ; he girds up
his ioins and his cannon, and selects his position,
u. S ures hj s prospects, and he knows the size
of his danger. Earthquake is a shapeless, footless;
headless horror that strikes in the dark. There is
no fighting against it. There is no sending
out scouts to tell when the enemy is coming.
Ihere is nothing to hold to, for everything is
reeling simultaneously. There is no place to flee
to. Ihere isn t even safety on the ground, for
the ground opens and shuts and swallows things
up. And when a comparatively petty tremor
has shaken a great city to ruins, there is always
the horrible knowledge that the enemy could do a
thousand times worse if he tried, and that at any
moment he may try. San Francisco was a
tragedy m two acts. The earthquake crumpled
up buildings with huge slaughter, burst the gas
mains and wrecked the electric systems, and
destroyed the water supply. Then, because
innumerable structures had collapsed with
lighted stoves and fires buried in the ruins,
conflagrations • began everywhere at once,
and with the water supply gone they practically
had their way without hindrance. From all
accounts San Francisco is so completely gone
that, save for the associations attached to the old
site, it doesn t matter much on what part of the
harbor shore it is rebuilt, and its 360,000 popula-
tion are about the most homeless gathering on
earth. It is a case for world-wide sympathy and
assistance. And yet it is hard to realise that,
as concerns loss of life, the San Francisco
horror, so far as the figures are yet known,
is a comparatively small thing compared to
similar tragedies further south. There are nearly
a dozen of the Spanish-American republics where
cities crumple up regularly, and the dogged Latin
survivor just picks himself out of the ruins,
lights his cigarette, and rebuilds. The dry
record in the “ Dictionary of i*ates ” gives few
particulars just rcrtoarks like these i The cities
of Arequipa, Iquique, Tacna and Ohencha, and
many small towns destroyed (1867); 25,000 lives
lost. I hen. “Mendoza destroyed and 7000
Jives lost ; “ Quito wrecked and 5000 lives lost” ;
again, Quito destroyed”; again, “Lima and
Uallao destroyed and 18,000 lives lost”; again,
Caracas destroyed and 12,000 people perished.”
But the cities in the earthquake region of South
and Central America seldom grow to very great
size ; the shaking down and rebuilding keep the
jjopulation in a movable state. The earthquake
waited for San Francisco—waited and lay low till
tae city by the Golden Gate had heaped up great
wealth and great population, and then fell upon it.


Melbourne’s Octopus.
Melbourne has been crying out for penny tram
sections, and if the agitation were properly backed
up by the Tramways Trust, which is supposed to
look after the residuary interest of the municipali-
ties in the tramways, no doubt the co. would have
to grant them. But the Trust sits tight through all
the agitation, and says not a word. The explana-
tion appears to be that the co. owns the Trust, or
the Trust is almost equally interested in maintain-
ing the present outrageously excessive rate of pro-
fits. Lately one member of the Trust tabled a
motion in favor of penny sections, and could not
even get a hearing. He was told that he must
not suggest any such thing unless he was prepared
to grant the co. in return an extension of its rights.
If the co. were doing so poorly now that any small
change for the worse would make the business
unprofitable, one could understand this attitude.
But, instead of doing poorly, the co. makes gor-
geous profits. On the £250,000 capital which is
all that was actually put in, the dividends last
year represented a return of 24 per cent. If the
return is made to look smaller, it is simply because
of the watering of the stock. After paying interest
on the loans which the municipalities floated tp build
the lines with, and after providing for the sinking
fund necessary to repay capital, the co. last year
showed a profit of 41 per cent, on its actual
capital. In the last 15 years it has paid as much
as 38£ per cent, in a year on the capital put into
the concern, and never less than per cent, in a
year, and in addition to that it has accumulated
profits to the extent of £423,943 (or nearly twice
the whole paid capital) in the same period. It is
a scandal when a body, supposed to see to the
public’s interests, refuses to move a finger in
order to free the public from part of the heavy
burden of providing these outrageous profits. The
antics of the two parties—the Trust and the co.—
suggest something unpleasant. Many people have
long had the idea that when the co.’s term is up a
new concession will be granted. And that idea
, receives color from the Trust’s attitude. The co.,
,of course, wants to make its earnings look as mean
.•as possible, wherefore the watering and the stow-
ing away of profits into all kinds of “reserve”
..carpers. Both ways there is a hint that 1916 is
iiPQt; intended to see the last of the octopus.
+
Labor and Nationhood.
:Many & good Democrat begins to get very sick of
fthe cant phrases that, in nine cases out of ten,
tPiake up the stock-in-trade of the Labor journalist.
The man who hunts through current Labor files
iin search of an article on, say, the consolidation
<of the State debts and the establishment of a
linking fund to get Australia out of pawn, en-
gages in a hopeless quest. Yet why ? Surely if
{there be one subject which deserves the most
(earnest attention from every pro-Australian, it is
this tremendous debt problem. Nevertheless, if a
(man were to wholly confine his newspaper reading
to the Labor papers, he would receive hardly a
hint that such a problem existed. As for the
tariff, the Labor writer, when he does condescend
to mention it, usually does so in order to work off
the week’s accumulation of superfluous sneers.
But although one rarely learns anything from the
Labor press anent the tariff or the debts, one gets
an unfailing supply of straggling remarks re
Labor’s noble aims. As for example : — 1
The future of Australian nationalism is intimately
bound up with the Labor party. In fact, such party is
national now. Its very aims and objects deter it from
deviating, even to the extent of a hair-breadth, from such
a policy. Had it not some concrete idea of a coming
Australian nation, its purpose would miss very much of
its present force and activity. There is latent within
every Laborite’s breast a strong yearning for the culmina-
tion of this ideal. They recognise that Labor and Nation-
hood are one and the same thing, indissolubly bound
together to realise that dream of poets—a nation of free
and industrious men and women under the shadow of the
Southern Cross.
The whole box and dice of cant is wrapped up
in that. The “ latent yearn ” is hauled in by
the neck, and is sandwiched with the same old
“poet’s dream,” which has grown dog-eared
through years of constant use. The poet who can
,only see beautiful purple visions, arid whose tower-
ing talents cannot stoop to the consideration of
what we owe to Cohen, is just a nuisance. And
v<the yearn that cannot wake up, and fight for what
lit yearns after, might as well go and fall down a
shaft.
+
The Offer of the Northern Territory.
The question of the handing over <ff the Northern
Territory to the Commonwealth is again on the
board, and a rather eloquent correspondence on
thick paper has commenced between Prime
Minister Deakin and Premier Price, of S. Aus-
tralia, on the subject. So far it hasn’t had time
to become a very large correspondence, but there
is always a fear that when eloquent official com-
munications commence on expensive paper they
may spread and spread till the head of the corres-
pondence reaches the sunrise, and its tail hangs
over the crack of doom and gets into the thick
end of Gabriel’s trumpet. And seeing that the
case is one in which Prime Minister Deakin ought
to have his Bill, accepting the Territory as a
Federal Possession, ready to dash down on the
table of the House in the first hour of the session,
and that he should also, before the session opens,
have bitten the ear of every promising member
for promises of support, there is not too much time
for lengthy correspondence. Briefly the situation
is this: In April, 1901, the S.A. Government was
willing to hand over the Territory with its bit. of
(railway and other assets, provided the Australian
parliament also took over the liabilities (£2,852,495,
.equal to about £7OO per inhabitant). The Austra-
lian Parliament was, however, too busy stone-
walling the tariff in the interests of foreign im-
porters to attend to the matter, and in December,
1902, the Jenkins Ministry withdrew the offer,
and tried ineffectually to get the railway com-
pleted to Port Darwin on syndicate principles.
Now the offer is renewed, but with new condi-
tions. The liabilities of the Territory are to be
taken over as before, but the liabilities are
now £3,400,000, or about £B5O per inhabitant.
Also, the offer is clogged with the condition
that the Australian Parliament is to start the
Transcontinental railway southward from Pine
Creek towards the S.A. border within twelve
months from the transfer of the Territory, the
S.A. Government pledging itself to re-eommence
building its line northward from Oodnadatta to
the Territory border at the same date. Further,
it is demanded that the railway shall deviate not
more than 100 miles west or east from the over-
land telegraph line. These are the conditions on
which the lengthy and eloquent correspondence
has started, and it can only be hoped that the dis-
cussion won’t last long enough to prevent the
chance being seized with both hands this coming
Federal session. Certainly £3,400,000 is a lot of
debt for 4000 people, but it isn’t much of a debt to
take over in return for the cession of 523,620
square miles of country—much of it very good
country. It may be regarded as a vast piece of
assurance on the part of S. Australia thus to dic-
tate that the building of the Transcontinental rail-
way is to be resumed inside 12 months from date
of cession, but that railway is urgently needed
to make the Territory habitable, to carry immi-
grants there, and to provide for the defence of a
region which is the least populated onein Australia,
the nearest to Asia and the most in danger of
foreign occupation. If any act of impertinence on
the part of S. Australia leads to the pledging of
the Australian Parliament to the immediate con-
struction of the Transcontinental railway it is a
case in which the end justifies the means. As for
the proposal which fixes the railway within a strip
of country 200 miles wide, it is really only fixing
it on the best route and the one that would almost
certainly be followed in any case. Prime Minister
Deakin is just now wasting time writing to
Premier Price wanting to know why the Terri-
tory has a chronic deficit —a matter that it is
hardly worth going into, even if it were not
well enough known that isolation, and the impossi-
bility of getting inhabitants by reason of that
isolation, are the principal causes, and that the
Transcontinental railway is the only remedy.
The chai :e of securing the Territory on the terms
mentioni 1, or even on worse terms, is too good to
be missed for that empty, isolated, indefensible
region, lying close to the front door of Asia, is this
country’s greatest danger. And even if it were
not a danger, the chance of securing 523,620
square miles of country as a field for settlement
and immigration under purely .Federal control is
too great to be missed. Prime Minister Deakin
should certainly take the option of the Territory
on the terms offered, and make the great splash
of his life by pushing the acceptance through
Parliament this year. And he could profit-
ably fill in time before Parliament meets by
trying to arrange with Premier Price for
the lease or purchase, when completed, of the
S.A. line from the Territory border to Port
Augusta, so that the Australian Government may
command the whole line from north to south.
Even if it were necessary to buy the support of
the Westralian members by promising that their
Transcontinental railway would be commenced at
the same date as the other one, the support would
be worth purchasing at the price.
' ♦
Label Frauds.
Evidence is constantly being given before the
Tariff Commission, especially at its N.S. Wales
sittings, that ‘ ‘ one great obstacle to progress m
our industry is the prejudice against local goods.
We can turn out a better article than the foreigner,
but the public will not believe that the local pro-
duct can be good.” It is deplorable that there
should be this feeling, as unnatural and as vicious
in its way as that of a mother who hates and
despises her own children. But that it exists
can be easily proved, and its sources can be
just as easily traced. In the first place,
a section of the Australian daily press em-
bracing almost the whole of the N.S.W. daily
press—is constantly holding up Australia as a
Nazareth from which no good can come; as a
nation destined by the miserable character of its
inhabitants to be a mere Gibeonite among peoples,
a drawer of water and hewer of wood ; a grubber
at the “primary industries,” not civilised enough
to make boots or blankets, engines or guns,
ships or shirts. Naturally many people believe
the lie that is so often told. They do not
know that, in proportion to its population,
Australia has, within the last half century,
produced more scientists, musicians, artists,
engineers, inventors and administrators than
any other community of its size, or twice
its size, on earth. They do not know that
in every corner of the globe where there are
hard, brainy jobs to be done—in Europe, America,
Asia, Africa —Australians are to be found in the
van. So they believe the miserable lie of their
miserable papers, which draw their inspiration
from the city slime and the city fluff and know
nothing of the great heart of Australia ; and they
boycott the goods qf their own country. That is
one reason why witnesses have to swear that a
prejudice exists against Australian goods m
Australia. The other and the secondary reason
is that many an Australian manufacturer,
shivering under the blast of maledictions
which are constantly being directed at him by the
Foreign-trade press because he is a manufacturer
and not an importer ; and, conscious of the pre-
judice against him and his products, takes refuge
in the cowardly expedient of labelling his honest
Australian stuff as foreign. That action is un-
patriotic and criminal, but the wrong-doer has as
much excuse as there can be for any crime—he is
in a measure forced to it, that he may live. The
result is that clothes, soaps, candles, hats,
machinery, boots, food stuffs of all sorts, furniture
and all manner of other things produced
in Australia, are labelled with foreign
or pseudo-foreign marks, and by their good
quality help to advance the reputation of the
foreign lands they didn’t come from, and to damn
the good name of their own country. And when
the swindle is discovered, in N.S. W. at least —
where the Government has a natural sympathy
with trickery—there is no attempt at a prosecu-
tion or a warning. When it is the law that all
Australian goods must be labelled, and the fine
dame discovers that her best Viennese or Parisian
shoes are Sydney made; her husband that his
“ West-of-England ” is from an Australian mill;
and the housekeeper that the larder’s foreign
labels cover mostly Australian products, the
prejudice against local manufactures will partly
But it will never be wholly conquered
whilst a bitterly unpatriotic section of the
press constantly preaches that the Australian is a
helpless, hopeless sort of person, fit only to wait
on a cow or a sheep, and utterly unequal to the
civilised work of the world.
Land-tax and Private Enterprise.
An illustration of the effect of the rack-renting
tenant-farmer system comes from Hamilton, in
the fruitful Western district of Victoria, where
the curse of the land-grabber is larger and
blacker than usual. The Government, asked to
supply an Agricultural High School, replied that
it would if £750 were raised locally and 30
students guaranteed. A canvass was made, and
only a mere handful of farmers showed the
smallest interest in the matter. The explanation
lies almost on the surface. These men have so
long worked for the landlord, and found
that the landlord surely grabs the fruits
of every improvement that happens along,
that they are left now almost wholly without per-
sonal ambition. Even if there are farmers in the
same district working their own farms, the in-
fluence of that other sort of farmer is deadly. The
tendency is for agriculture m a district to reach
about the same level as to methods, &c.; so
the consequence of having for a neighbor a man
who has got into the way of thinking that he will
be just as well off if he “ doesn’t bother” as if he
does, is disastrous. By a strange perversity, the
men who most approve of this land-grabbing,
tenant-farming system, which effectively destroys
ambition, call themselves anti-Socialists. They
are horrified at the idea of State control, on the
ground that it will destroy private enterprise;
and to show what they mean by private enter-
prise, they oppose a graduated land-tax, and
thereby buttress and defend landlordism, which is
the greatest and most insidious enemy of private
enterprise in the country.
♦
Dumping.
Herbert Maxwell in March Nineteenth Cen-
tury :
The prettv little town of Dalbeattie was, until a year
ago, exceedingly prosperous, built entirely of granite
raised from quarries around it, and containing shops
dependent almost exclusively for custom upon the local
granite industry. Two years ago eleven of these quarries
were in full work ; at the present time all but one of them
are closed, and that one is employing exactly one-fourth
of'the number of hands that were at work in it 12 months
ago. The industry has been killed by free imports of
manufactured granite from Norway. It is no case of bad
trade. There is plenty of demand for good granite. At
the present time there is a large building being erected
in Manchester. The lowest British tender came from
Dalbeattie—between £3OOO and £4OOO. The order
went to Norway for about 20 per cent. less. So
with the great bridge which is being built in Newcastle.
The lowest British tender for the granite was from Aber-
deen, but it was under-bid from Norway. The reason
why Norway is able to underbid Scotland and Cornwall
in the price of manufactured granite is that the Nor-
wegian quarrymen work longer hours than our men, and
at a less wage—3s. 2£d. a day instead of 4s. 6d. Bather
than work for a starvation wage our people up with their
tools and go to America. I was informed by a gentleman
connected with the granite trade that he recently visited
all the principal quarries in America, and that he found
Dalbeattie men working in every one of them. . .
It is not long since Mr. Asquith created some amuse-
ment among business men by asserting that any firm
that persisted in dumping—that is, exporting manufac-
tured goods below cost price—must end in bankruptcy.
It may not be superfluous to explain that the scientific
dumper runs no risk of bankruptcy. Suppose an Ameri
can to be turning out steel at the rate of 500 tons a
week, at a cost of £6 10s. a ton, which he sells on the
home market at £7 a ton, equal to a net profit of 30s. a
ton, or £250 a week. He finds that by doubling his out-
put he can reduce the cost of production to £5 a ton. He
continues to sell 500 tons at home for £7 per ton, and can
afford to dump the rest in England even at £4 10s., thus
losing 10s. per ton upon half his output. That he stands
to win on the larger output may be seen from the follow-
ing table :
Weekly output, 500 tons.
Cost ot production,
£6 10s. per ton .. £3,250
Sale of 500 tons, at
£7 3,500
Net weekly profit .. £250
Weekly output, 1000 tons.
Cost of production,
£5 per ton .. £5,000
Sale of 500
tons, at £7 £3,500
Sale of 500
tons, at
£4 10s .. 2,250
£5,750
Net weekly profit .. £750
It is clear that this business will remain good so long
as British ports remain open, and American ports are kept
shut.
+
Dr. Wake’s Prescription.
Actor Robert Brough, who has heard now his last
call, deserved well of Australia. Beginning as an
interpreter of delightful humor set tomusic, henever
in the course of a long career as actor and manager,
quite lost sight of the duty of the theatre to Art.
Whilst other stages drifted down to mere variety
business, the name of Brough on the bills always
indicated something better, something that gave
intelligent amusement. It was fitting, then, that
the last step of his stage life was the production
of “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” a play with which, un-
consciously, was wrapped up a most wholesome
lesson for Australia. In “Dr. Wake’s Patient’
the conventional ideas of England’s social life
the life which there is so consistent an effort to
transplant to Australia by creating great estates
and a “landed gentry”—are pourtrayed with
admirable clearness. There is no hint of satire,
no attempt to be sarcastic or didactic as in “ The
Walls of Jericho,” no suggestion but that the author
believed firmly in the principles on which he built
the story of his play; no fear, evidently, on his
part that they would be received with anything but
warm approval by mixed English audiences.
Parmer Wake is a yeoman, who farms the bit of
land of his forefathers, makes an honest living,
and rears a capable son, who, becoming a doctor,
leaps to the head of his profession, and is “ visited
by Royalty ”as the play fondly records. This
Dr. Wake, who, by sheer force of brains and
character, has become famous, is no snob, and
continues to cherish the father and mother at the
old farm. He falls in love with an earl’s daugh-
ter ; and, rich as he is, and knighted—that “ dis-
tinction,” acceptance of which in Australia usually
denotes softening of the brain, is taken quite
seriously in London —is accepted as a
good match until his parents transpire—
the honest “cocky” and his wife. They make
the marriage “ impossible.” Everybody agrees as
to that—the earl and his countess. Dr. Wake him-
self, Dr. Wake’s parents. It would be appalling
for an earl, who had never done anything in his
life but rob by company-promoting, or inherit
somebody else’s robberies, to become related by
marriage to a working farmer. And the farmer
sees that too, and in a scene of pathetic grovelling,
which to a healthy Australian suggests positive
physical nausea, he offers to drag himself and
his old wife to the other end of the earth,
so that they may be lost for evermore, and thus
enable his brilliant son to marry the Earl’s
daughter. This crawl on his part is accounted by
the author the sublime point of nobility of charac-
ter, and it settles all the difficulties of the posi-
tion. Such disgusting slobbersomeness is, thank
God, quite foreign to present Australian ideas. In
the early days, the sons of the convicts who had
acquired great estates by their ability as floggers,
or taskmasters, and the children of the equally
disgraceful persons who had made money by
trafficking in rum or in the labor of the
prisons, proposed a “colonial nobility,” but
there was enough of the idea of free-
dom and of common-sense in the community
to send the proposal to the Limbo of scorn. And,
since then, the general Australian sentiment has
been Republican, a man being judged mostly by
his worth, and with no accepted condition that to
be born in the bed of a countess whose husband
was descended from some particularly scandalous
lemap of an unusually scandalous king was to be
a Being Apart from the common herd of hu-
manity. There are, and always have been,
snobs in Australia —congenital idiots capable
of kowtowing before the Girl of Yarmouth,
and of treasuring as sacred the straw on
which was littered the cow which gave milk
to that pathetic little weakling, the Prince of
Wales on his visit to the Commonwealth. But
they do not in any way represent the real
sentiment of the young nation. It would be im
possible for any Australian audience to sympathise
with, or even understand, the idea of a racial gulf
yawning between a brilliant and successful doctor
with farmer parents and the child of a useless
Earl. That is so now. But how long will it
remain so if the present trend of the land into the
hands of a few great proprietors who let it out to
tenant-farmers, is allowed to continue ? Already
one hears the words “ squire” and “tenantry ” and
on the estate of one great landlord it is stated, with
a humorous exaggeration of the truth, that one boy
of each tenant’s family is trained for speed, so
that he may gallop to open the gates for the
vehicle of the landlord and the landlord’s relatives
and friends. Once establish vast landed estates,
employing many serf-like tenants and the ideas of
“Dr. Wake’s Patient,” so repellent and laugh-
able to Australians now, will rapidly acclimatise.
Social distinctions grow out of land monopoly.
Without it they soon wither. Unde)' its upas
shade they spring quickly to rank growth.
Sydney Telegraph has explained that there is no
earthly reason why George Kei i ) and the rest of
the auti-Souialists should go to Algebuckina or
any other remote place to practise anti-Socialism.
They don’t object to stay where they are; they
are prepared to accept things as they find them,
Socialistic things and all, and even to consider
new Socialistic suggestions as they arrive. Social-
ism is, the anti-Socialists say, a horrible disease,
that saps manly independence, destroys initiative
and ambition, &c., &c. The situation is therefore
the same as if the Professor of Medicine addressed
his students this way :
Gentlemen, your business will be to consider new
diseases as they arise. About such diseases as you know
you needn’t bother. Put up with typhoid. Tolerate
tuberculosis. Also leprosy and smallpox are no concern
of yours. Leprosy and smallpox are bad; but having
been here before you came, your business isn’t-with
them. Accept things as they are. The people may die ;
but that is not your fault. TKese diseases were there
before you were. Put if anybody breaks out into a new
disease, you will have to consider the matter seriously.
It won’t necessarily follow that you will attack it; that
will be a matter for consideration, &c.
Then when Squills, M.D., goes out into the
world to pursue his half-guineas, he will buy a
brass-plate, which will read :
P. SQUILLS, M.D.
(Existing Diseases Disregarded.)
As a doctor, Squills will therefore probably be
called a fraud; and people will want to know
what he gets his ten-and-sixpence for. Also,
after their declarations, the anti-Socialists, who
similarly disregard existing diseases, will probably
be branded as rank frauds too, who are trying to
get, not half-guineas, but votes, by pretending to
be what, when driven into a corner, they affirm
they are not.
Hesketh, the Commonwealth electrician, who
advised the Department to introduce the toll tele-
phone system, must smile a bitter smile when he
thinks over some things that happened, and then
over the recent rage of the Chambers of Commerce
and such like. Hesketh was a Queensland
officer, and, before he left on his world’s tour of
inspection, the Brisbane Chamber patted him on
the back, and told him to be a good boy, and keep
his eyes open and see what Private Enterprise
was doing; also it spoke severely about Six
Hatters and such things. On his return, remem-
bering all the good advice he had got in Brisbane,
he lectured there. Most of his old friends of the
Chambers of Faked Invoices were present, and
when the lecturer proceeded to quote the fees
charged for telephones in other cities (mostly
Private Enterprise), and mentioned that Private
Enterprise had abolished the “flat” rate, a large
silence smote that meeting. In the matter of
giving free advice, as it proved once more, the
average Chamber of Commerce is hard to beat; but
when its advice is acted upon, it sits up and
howls that Socialistic legislation is driving capital
out of the country.
From the report of some evidence taken by the
Sugar-labor Commission at Bundaberg :
Two natives of Malayta, one having an island wife and
three children, gave evidence. The latter stated that it
cost him £lO 15s. to bring his family here from Mackay
for the purpose of taking a passage home by thelvanhoe,
which was shortly sailing, and both he and the other boy
felt that they were entitled to a refund of the amount of
the down passages, and also of the extra amount charged
for the home passage. The two will land on the same
island and they have no fear of molestation, though
they have been absent from the island twelve and twenty
years respectively. The boys stated that a large number
of islanders at Mackay are anxious to return, but lack
the money. If passages were assured a great many would
return immediately. _
Here you get a look at the great affection which
many a Queenslander has for the black man—he
is loved because he is about the most easily robbed
person in the world. Note (1) how these poor
beggars, who were promised return passages, were
robbed in the matter of a journey to Bundaberg ;
(2) how the many others would go if they * had
been left the money to go with. Of course,; the
men who take Tommy down—to whom TOMMY is
aMe Morgan—don’t stand on their roofs and tell
what' they honestly (or dishonestly) want TqiK»Y
kept for. They pitch, instead, some plausible
vam —mostly about the climate ; and as people
who know what the climate is, they are listened
Me.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To “KETTLEDRUM," B.61 '06.
I am the Pillar of the State,
The Brake upon the Wheel,
The Sentry Posted at the Gate
To guard the Commonweal.
I am the Statesman, Still and Strong,
The Chamber of Review;
I am the Cool, Wise Head among
The Jacobins like you.
I am the House of Lords, and I
Am He who answers “ Haw ! ”
I am Demand, I am Supply,
And Economic Law.
I am the Everlasting Drag
Upon the Social Car,
I am the grand old British Flag,
And I’m the Touch of Tar.
I am the Magnate of the Rand ;
Through all the world I range;
I am the Hindu Brother, and
The London Stock Exchange.
I am the Sacred Marriage Tie,
The Mothers’ Monolith ;
I am the good Six Hatters Lie,
The Petriana Myth.
I am the Course of Trade, whose might
Is over land and sea ;
And I am all the Raving Right
Of the Minority.
I am the Warning of the Wise,
I am the Startled Fawn,
For I am Private Enterprise,
And Capital Withdrawn.
In such Fat Shapes do I exist,
And many fatter far ;
For I’m the Anti-Socialist
Who tells you what you are.
no.
PRIAM.


%rm
u
&
s
Galla fiery
.G © L D
PLATE
WfoPacco
BEFORE THE
WEDDING.
Her : “And you
will give up
smoking horrid
tobacco ? ”
Him : “ Yes, dar-
ling, I’ll stick
to Gallaher’s
Gold Plate.”
to as men speaking with authority. Which
accounts for about two-thirds of the support given
to the doctrine that white men can’t work in the
North, and that the brown or black savage is a
necessary wart on Australia’s nose.
4
More Federal Capital “Flam.”
On April 23, Sydney Telegraph published an
alleged interview with Lindon Biddulph, the
man who grinds the axe for an Australian
capital at Lyndhurst in his own district;
and as either Lindon Biddulph or the
Telegraph devised the things mentioned
therein, one of them strikes about the
lowest possible depth of political degradation.
Ihe interview represented (for one of the
parties) the limit in the way of parochial
greed, parochial meanness and parochial unscru-
pulousness. One issue of the case is the demand
(by Biddulph or the Telegraph) that the Barren
Jack reservoir should be abandoned because it is
too near Victoria, that the money should be spent
on a reservoir in Biddulph’s district, close to
Lyndhurst, and that the State’s rule should be,
Keep off State expenditure near borders.” In
the view of Biddulph (or the Telegraph) it seems
that not only are the adjacent States accursed, but
those parts of N.S. W. which lie away from Syd-
ney are accursed for being near other States.
Ihen Biddulph (unless the Telegraph in-
vented the statement for him) demands that
the State Parliament should meet in haste
and offer Lyndhurst (in Biddulph’s district)
as the one and only Federal capital site,
and should rescind the previous offer of
lumut. Surely the N.S.W. Parliament is full
up of breaking faith, after its infamous action in
raising the minimum affirmative vote required at
the Federal referendum from 50,000 to 80,000.
But the great efforts of the Biddulph (or Daily
Telegraph) production are these -
The vote so registered would be largely an unintelligent
one, for the average New South Welshman knows little of
the requirements necessary to suit Australia best in the
matter of a Federal capital, and yet accord with the
agreement between the States, locating* such at about 100
miles from Sydney. .. .
I notice that Mr. Reid, the whilom strong champion of
Lyndhurst, when speaking at Parkes the other day,
assumed a very indifferent attitude. Whilst supporting
vhe best site on the 100-mile limit , as the outcome of the
Premiers' Conference between the States , and afterwards
endorsed by the electors of New South Wales , and other
States , he failed to refer to the site he had so strenuously
supported when leader of the Opposition in the Common-
wealth Parliament. . . .
It must be remembered always that our Common-
wealth is not a unification but a federation, and certain
give-and-take proposals were necessary to the consumma-
tion of such a union , principal among which , so far as
New South Wales is concerned, is the capital on the 100
miles limit .
There is nothing in the Federal Constitution
or m any agreement between the States as to
the Australian capital being “about 100 miles
from Sydney ” or “on the 100-mile limit’ 5 from
Sydney, and it wasn t necessary, in order to bring
about the Federation that the Australian capital
should be “on the 100-mile limit” from Sydney,
or even in N.S.W. at all. The people gave a
majority for the original Constitution, which left
the capital an open question, and that majority in-
cluded 21,000 votes more than were necessary, under
N.S. W.’s agreement with the other States, to carry
the Constitution ; and if the N.S. W. Parliament of
that day hadn’t been a Parliament of liars, which
couldn’t keep faith Or trust, the original Consti-
tution would have been carried. That, however,
is an old question ; the present question concerns
this off-hand method of deceiving the public by
inventing imaginary clauses in the Constitution,
or imaginary agreements between the States.
Whether Lindon Biddulph or the Telegraph is
responsible for the statements quoted above,
concerning an alleged agreement to have
the capital “about” or “on” the 100-mile line,
the statement remains a glaring falsehood told by
somebody for the purpose of securing a local
advantage. And the question arises whether
even the prospect of getting the Federal
capital close up to Sydney, where Sydney
can grab the trade, is worth all this false-
hood. Life is short, and even the Federal
capital won’t last for ever, and, unless we pay our
3d. on Sunday for naught, the Gehenna that waits
for gross perverters of the truth is very long. And
leaving out the theological aspect of the case, this
sort of thing raises an altogether erroneous im-
pression outside that N.S.W. in general is a mean,
grasping, soulless cormorant of a State which will
invent any lie, and twist any truth, and break any
promise, and devise any kind of imaginary agree-
ment, and practise any deception in order to
secure a bit of trade for Sydney. That is an
unpleasant impression to get about concerning
any State, but if N.S.W. could be judged, which
it can’t, by the things that the Sydney Telegraph
publishes (things like its alleged interview with
Biddulph) it would be a true impression.
Looking back on the whole course of the N.S.W.
Railway inquiry, it looks like a most curious
“fake ”, from the beginning. The splitting up of
the inquiry into sections was a quaint and sus-
picious feature of the business. Thus it appears
that the worst cause of bitterness and incivility
between Chief Commissioner Oliver and his col-
leagues was the shameful and outrageous coal con-
tract which the colleagues entered into behind
Oliver’s back. That was inquired nto separately,
and Oliver came out well, but on thismatter it
was not suggested that anything should be done.
Then the general incivility existing between
Oliver and his colleagues was inquired into sepa-
rately, and it was decided that Oliver had been
uncivil to his colleagues. Yet he wasn’t allowed to
point out that it was impossible for any fair-
minded man, who wanted to do the very best for
the public, to be otherwise than uncivil to the men
who put up a coal contract like that on him,
because the coal contract had been already
inquired into. If an ordinary assault case were
dealt with on such lines, the proceedings would
be something like this : Jones just missed Brown
with a bottle, and Brown knocked him down.
An inquiry is held re the bottle, and it is found,
upon expert evidence, that it was an ordinary
ginger-beer bottle, halt-an-inch thick. (Brown
isii t allowed to come into this inquiry, for it is
merely an investigation about the quality of the
bottle.) Secondly, Brown is heavily fined for
knocking down Jones, and isn’t permitted to say
anything about provocation or self-defence, be-
cause the bottle has been separately investigated.
Ronald, M.H.R., whose arguments are not
always irresistible, has made an effective reply to
Vic. Labor leader Prenderg.ast on the question
of prison labor. Prendergast would keep the
Victorian prison population in a state of senseless
pauperism rather than turn their 1000 pairs of
hands to “competition” with the scores of thou-
sands of free workers. Prison labor under the
complete control of the State is Socialistic labor,
but Prendergast, the Socialist, objects to adding
it to Victoria’s powers of production. As for the
reformative aspect of the proposal, Prendergast
doesn t even glance at that. A worthless prisoner
converted into an industrious producer is a danger
to the Labor party—as represented by brother
Prendergast. Brother Ronald girds at his
inconsistency:—
The Political Labor Council at the present moment is
making provision tor literally flooding this country with
the products of foreign prison labor. Do Mr. Prender-
gast and the P.L.C. generally know that boots, clothes,
furniture, vehicles, and machinery of every kind are made
in prison in America, purely for export ? Does it not strike
« L - 0 - that our first object of attack is the product
of the prison, the sweater, the slave and semi-slave labor
of the outside world?
Whilst Prendergast is screaming at an imagi-
nary danger, the Political Labor Council foolishly
refuses to make common cause with manufac-
turing employers of labor against the Revenue
Tariff party, which is a real peril to local indus-
try. When Australian workers have obtained a
thoroughly Protective tariff, the Labor party in
Victoria, or any other State, may be trusted to
protect itself against unjust competition from the
imprisoned section of the community.
+.
A deputation which talked rabbit to Queensland
Lands Minister Bell, the other day, let light in
upon the job which Kidston has inherited from
the old political gang of “business men.” The
deputation handed up a request for £7OO for the
Leichhardt Rabbit Board, “to replace some six
miles or so of the netting fence, which had fallen
into disrepair.” The fence which has broken down
and isn’t a rabbit fence any more still stands as
one of the “permanent and reproductive under-
takings ” into which the old gang poured tens of
millions of borrowed money. In one way and
another these fences alone mopped up half a million.
But there wasnothing written off forwear-and-tear;
nothing was set aside year by year out of revenue
to provide for the renewal of the decaying posts
and the rusting wire ; there wasn’t even a sinking
fund to pay back Cohen, so that the debt might
be wiped out simultaneously with the fence. So
Queensland is left now with a debt and no fence ;
wherefore even if it taxes itself and provides the
money to build a new fence out of revenue, it will
still have to go on taxing itself to pay interest on
the cost of an old fence that doesn’t exist.
+
The British Admiralty at latest is very much
annoyed with its Asiatic ally. The said plucky
little person, it appears, sent a request for copies
of the plans of the new British battleship Dread-
nought, the greatest fighting machine on the globe,
and embodying a whole lot of valuable secrets
and inventions. The Admiralty was ass enough
to forward the same with full particulars. Having
studied these, the Japs have now decided upon
building a new battleship, which they reckon will
be a Dreadnought with improvements. Expect-
ing a return of the idiocy which it had itself per-
petrated, the British Admiralty sent along a note
to Japan, requesting it to forward plans of its
latest venture in naval architecture, in order that
Britain might have the advantage of them. But
the suave little brown ally wasn’t taking any. His
reply was so long delayed that another letter
was sent, shaking him up, upon which he replied
that the postal arrangements were very bad, or
something’ to that effect. Having read his dia-
tribe against the post-office, Britain forwarded a
sympathetic message, respectfully adding, “What
about that warship?” Japan took further time
to consider, and said that the man who looked
after warships was away at present. With that
bull-dog pertinacity which has placed it in
the forefront of t ( he nations, Britain sent along
still another note, saying, “Please send those
plans by return post,” and having no further
excuse handy, Japan cast off all disguise
and retorted, though with much gracious circum-
locution, that it would see Britain hanged first.
Then Japan was reminded that Britain had given
the Dreadnought plans the first time of asking and
Japan replied in effect, “More fool you” with
some strange characters in the corner which were
understood to be remarks about “white trash.”
At latest, everybody in the Admiralty buildings
in London was calling everybody else names, and
everybody else was gesticulating wildly and asking
“ Well, what could I do, old chap ?”
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Besieged in Port Arthur.”
Criterion “ The Fatal Wedding.”
llkr Majesty’s... . “The Orchid.”
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirth’s Circus.
Palace Theatre “ A Moorish Maid.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Tambour Major.”
Her Majesty’s. . . “ Dorothy Vernon.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Mail.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Hall Madam Titus-Leslie Harris En-
tertainment.
THE LATE ROBERT BROUGH , with MRS. BROUGH, as they
appeared in “ The Manoeuvres of Jane.”
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
The death of Robert Brough leaves a great
dreary gap in Australian theatrical art. It is
difficult to think of any other artist who would be
quite so much missed. The old firm of Brough and
Boucicault did things with a perfection that no
other management ever achieved, and now that
one partner is gone to a far country and the other to
a country that is still farther, there is no one who
can wholly take their places. Robert Brough
passed out at the comparatively early age of 50.
He spent nearly a year in dying, with fitful re-
appearances and semi-recoveries in between,
and passed out just when it was thought
he had made something more closely resem-
bling a real recovery than usual. Australia
sent a vast amount of blossoms and green stuff to
his tomb, and wondered at the incongruity of any-
thing so cold and solid and heavy as a tomb
associated with the name of laughter-making
Robert Brough.
** * *
“The Fatal Wedding,” at Sydney Criterion,
is a sort of dramatic earthquake, and takes some
time to recover from. Writer has been on the
front of a bolting railway-engine which was
charged by a fool of a bull, and has taken his
chance on the deck of a sinking ship; but in
neither of these positions did he feel quite so
utterly ignorant of what was going to happen
next as when he saw the “Wedding.” It is a
combination of variety show, bellowdrama,
musical comedy, plain farce and grand opera.
Like most Yankee productions, it depends
more on its trimmings than its plot, which
is very brief. The adventuress, Cora, con-
spires with her paramour to separate Howard
Wilson and his wife. Wilson is described
as a “wealthy clubman,” but is an owner of
extensive slum property. Having secured his
divorce he becomes engaged to Cora, who
takes up her quarters in his magnificent
mansion, and shoos the disgraced wife off the
premises when she calls to see the babies the court
has denied her the care of. Of course, as usual,
Cora meets with the hostility of the cook and
butler, who know virtue instinctively and assist
the wife to abduct the babies. Later on, the wife is
found in one of her husband’s slum garrets, and is
visited by the villain, the adventuress, and her
husband, while she is in a condition of insensi-
bility. The boy is almost dying, but the little
girl has developed fifteen times more precocity
than any other bellowdrama kid this writer has
had the misfortune to meet. The efforts of the
wicked Cora to get the little girl locked up for
stealing her purse lead to her father taking her
home, and she invites the kids from the alley to
come into the drawing-room and make music on
kerosene tins and other weird instruments. This
is where the variety show and musical comedy come •
in. The adventuress and the villain fight overtime
spoil, and a journey is made to a “ hut” to secure
the “ agreement” which takes the place of the or/li
nary “papers” of every-day dramatic bellow., AIU
the principals make the journey, the villain fol-
lowing the wife, daughter, and comic relief,
and the adventuress chasing the villain.. The
good people escape by swinging themselves across.
a chasm on a rope, and when the villain follows,
them, the adventuress cuts the rope andi
he falls 25,000 ft., disappearing with dreadful,
yells, while the comic man stands on the edge of,'
the precipice and makes faces at him. When the.;
clubman and slum-owner proceeds to marry, his;
Cora the precocious daughter produces the agreo--
ment in the church. The father reads the amazing;
document, and demands if it is true. Like a sem-
sible woman, the adventuress declares it to-be at
forgery, and is immediately shot dead by thei
villain, who has just that minute finished climb-
ing up the 25,000 ft. hole into which he had fallen.
Then, in a burst of kindness, he shoots himself,
and the hero re-marries the mother, while the
choristers roll out the Mendelssohn “Wedding
March,” a corpse or two being apparently quite a
common feature of‘American wedding services.
* * * *
The brunt of this curious production is
borne by the scenery, and after the properties the
main weight of the gorgeous improbability rests
on the shoulders of little Maisie Posner, who plays
the marvellous kid in a notably effective
manner, and makes her as human and probable as
it is possible to do. The only other characters
that this writer feels he .would like to drink with
are C. R. Stanford, who takes the part of a
kindly old German janitor and child-fancier, and
Miss Dina Cpoperas the large, plump adventuress.
The husband who is deceived by such a very
thin yarn, and, the wife who can’t explain, have
depressing characters to play, and play them in a
dispiriting manner. But the villainess is a fine
upstanding girl, and in her red costume and dark
brown hair she is a picture.
** * *
“ Besieged in Port Arthur ” continues to .
flare the red lights of a sensational story at Sydney
Royal to entirely satisfactory audiences, who gtt
good worth in spectacle, noise and sulphurous
smell for their box office disbursements. Were,
Bland Holt not satisfied with a good enough thing,
he would putin four hours or so turning “ Besieged \
in Port Arthur” to “A.Quake in Frisco ” or some-
thing else topical. The scenery would want;
little changing and the plot less.
There is noi
telling now when,
Wirths’ elephants;
will - pack them.-.
selves away - iraj
their trunks, arwll
the jaguars, and
the tapirs will be
tied up with the
b o a, - co n stricter.,
and the camel will
wink at brother
George as h e fingers
the bank book and
wonders whether
he will buy an
earthquake or
seven new whales
with the proceeds
of a most success-
ful season. Any
week the word
may pass round
that it is time to.
move on out of the
park behind the.
old Sydney Exbi
bition Building..
Meantime Cor-
raack, the highi
diver, is still,
nightly dodging
death, and the;
tired girl in the-,
spangles is blowing
the usual number
of kisses.
To oblige the people who came down for
the Show and are making three weeks of it, “ The
Orchid,” which blossomed with great success in
Sydney eighteen months ago, will be put in the
pot again at Her Majesty’s on Saturday. Till
then “The Cingalee” will continue to present its
agreeable mixture of tea, song, and color.
* * * *
Brescians and West’s Pictures go out of Sydney
Palace in the zenith of their popularity, and their
cheery flicker will be much missed. Next Satur-
day George Stephenson s English Musical Comedy
Co. will produce for the first time in Sydney
Alfred Hill’s romantic comic opera, “A Moorish
Maid.” Maorilander Hill’s “ Tapu ’’ was a thing
that any composer might be proud of, and the
“Maid” is said to be a much finer bird. Miss
Rosina Buckmann, described in the advts. as the
famous English dramatic soprano, will fill the
leading role.
* * * *
A Bulletin man has a shillings worth :
“ Peanuts, saveloys ! ” It sounded like that, and suited
the situation down to the sawdust on the hard earthen
floor. But it was a disappointment—the only one of the
evening ; for the bark that sounded like saveloys turned
out to be oranges, and you can meet oranges anywhere.
Out of George-street into Hay-street; drop at once
into one of the most unlovely parts of Sydney, and in a
hundred yards you come to the vast tent in which
“The People’s Theatre” is housed. Perched high,
on top of a gaudily decorated hoarding a band
in cocked hats blows and bangs out “ The King op
Coons.” That way a “ bob ’’—this way a “ tanner,”•
and children half-price. The ushering arrangements are
simple; you help yourself. Away back in the dim dis-
tance rise the sixpenny planks, tier on tier. In the
middle of the stalls, forms; flanking them, more tiers..
The planks are best; and you can bring a cushion your-
self.
Buy a penn’orth of peanuts and be friendly all round
The large woman next door has brought her baby. On
the plank in front a girl has a marvellous roll of hair
and a rat tail plait pendant from behind each ear. “ The
dear,” she says ; “ mum’s got one. Pass it down to me.”'
So Big Mother passes it down, and comforts herself with
the universal peanut. The band bursts in and turns,
itself into an orchestra ; and up and down, swelling with'
pride in the fact that 2800 people were packed in here
the first night they staged “‘Coo-ee’: By the Hon, E„
W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.” moves the “ boss,” his black hair
flowing down his back ; on his head 3ft. of hat ; in his
hand his badge of authority, a whip with a whistle in the'
handle. He blows the whistle, and up creeps the curtain..
The best part of the 1500 people here on this;
off-night say “Oh!” for in plunge half-a-dozen horses;
with their “ gallant riders,” and you get your first view
of the bushrangers. “Coo-ee” is mostly bush ranger in,
four acts and II scenes. By-and-bye, having bought
another penn’orth of peanuts, and an ice-cream wafer for
Hemmeline, whom you have long since found out is the
Big Mother’s third, “ The Bohemian ” explains things—-
how when he couldn’t get a license anyhow, “ my friend,
Mr. O’Sullivan,” was appealed to and fixed things up in,
THE PARTNERSHIP RESUMED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cable brief from Burma came,
And travelled fast by word of lip,
Which told that Tom Fitzgerald’s name
Was linked with Dan’s in partnership
Beyond the grave where, for a term,
Dan lay retired from the firm.
Bright memories those tidings bring
Of meetings in the long ago,
When Dan controlled the circus ring
And Tom kept ward anigh the show.
I see them both ; their forms arise
Convincing to my mental eyes.
I hear the brazen circus band
Provoke the lion’s lusty roar ;
I shake Tom’s somewhat hairy hand
Again, as in the days of yore ;
Or chat with Dan, the long and lean,
Concerning where and how he’s been.
It is so easy to forget,
Forget as though they never were,
The many showmen one has met
Who travelled round and made a stir,
But in their natures differed from
The kindly Dan, the burly Tom.
A hundred happy hours I’ve spent
At “ Fitzs’ ” as a younger man ;
I’ll never see a circus tent
But I will think of Tom and Dan ;
For treasured in my heart and head
Are pleasant mem’ries of the dead.
VIC.
EDMUND FISHER.


A CHARMING TONIC
Kola Cup
Strengthens the Digestion.
It soothes and nourishes outraged stomachs.
KOLA-CUP builds up the system and makes new blood.
A SURE ANTIDOTE TO DROPSY.
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED BY DOCTORS
FOR INVALIDS and CONVALESCENTS.
ALL CHEMISTS, 3/- and 4/6 per Bottle. All
Hotels & Clubs, with Lemonade, 6d per Glass.
A Most Wholesome Change from Strong Spirits.
Sole . . .
Manufacturers
Fisher&Co
Chemists, 337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
J
s,
ft
two days, and later on said he would write him a
drama besides. So in 14 days Mr. O’Sullivan wrote
“Coo-ee,” and in 14 days more they staged it—“and,
why. there is Mr. O’Sullivan himself. Perhaps he would
like to say a few words.” Which, being a politician of 20
years’ standing, and his electorate next door, Mr. O’Sulli-
van does. So while the dark villain waits on the door-
step, unconscious of the awful things that are going to
happen to him before 11.30, and the fair heroine lan-
guishes for the lover that Mr. O’Sullivan has just sent off
to Araluen, the dramatist himself is introduced as “The
Keystone of the Democratic Arch ” and also explains
things—especially how he represented that district for
20 years, and the descendants of the men in the play
always showed their intelligence by voting - for him.
(Applause.)
As for “ Coo-ee ” —hasn’t it been explained that it was
written in 14 days? “ Not like Hall Caine and other
dramatic writers,” the long-haired gentleman tells the
audience. “ You read about them retiring to their
country seats and taking two or three years to write a
single play.” And even after two years Hall Caine,
poor man, would most likely only supply one gamr of
bushrangers, whereas Mr. O’Sullivan gives you two—Ben
Hall as well as the Clarks, Ben being dragged in unex-
pectedly in Act 111. to help Virtue out of a nasty
scrape it had got into. It was this way. Long ago Her-
bert Braddon, the biggest squatter on the Monaro, forged
the name of Rupert Seymour’s brother ; and Rupert,
having got hold of the Incriminating Document, is using
it to compel Braddon to “give his fair daughter Eva in
marriage.” But Mr. O’Sullivan has introduced a nicer
boy to Eva, and they don’t waste anytime. Mr. O.’S.,
having a large quantity of very sensible but highly
irrelevant remarks to make about Australian history
and geography, and the Aurora Borealis, and a
good deal of political prophesying to do, dis-
poses of the love-making in 23 seconds, which
gives him time to kill a great many more bushrangers
and police and others than he could otherwise do. Inci-
dentally to this bloodshed, Mr. O’Sullivan, having doubt-
less observed when he went to see “ Thunderbolt ” that
the house roared when a black gin kissed his comic-relief
dude, makes his dude kiss “ Nardoo ” by mistake ; also,
having doubtless noticed the thrill when W. Anderson’s
hero is put under the steam-hammer, he puts his hero in
the wool-dumping press. But “Nardoo” steals the In-
criminating Document which, as usual, the dark villain
carelessly leaves lying round; likewise he lets
himself down from the roof and saves the hero ;
and Virtue is triumphant at 11.30. But with the shouting
to make itself heard in the dim distance of the tent, Virtue
must be very tired. When “Nardoo” wins with a final
coo-ee, it is described in the bills as “The Triumph of the
Ebony over the Alabaster.” Which shows that the man
who invented Australia Facing the Dawn still has his
flights of fancy.
And what if the hero was put under a steam-hammer in
another play, and some other comic-relief dude was
kissed by the “ ebony”? You couldn’t see either of
them, anyhow, for 6d. children half-price. And at least
it’s clean, even if it is a trifle on the gory side. “Thought
the Mayor was coming one night?” said a man (oh
favored, enviable man !) to the Bohemian with the whistle
and the whip as he moved up and down. “ Yes, but I’ll
try and get him here the night the Governor comes—if he
comes.” He ought to, anyhow.
ife % *
Mosman’s is the most fanatically musical
of Sydney’s suburbs. It is ambitious and comes
close to realising its musical aspirations. Last
Saturday the Mosman Musical Society, a
three - year - old, presented Flotow’s opera,
“ Martha,” with Miss Geraldine Rivers in
the name part. This writer is powerful sorry
he didn’t hear Miss Rivers in other operas
produced by the three-year-old, for she is a
charming Irtiste and actress. Anyhow, he is
going to be there when the Society produces
“ Martha ” again, on the 25th and 28th.
* & * *•
The Bulletin continues to have more than
the usual amount of respect for Rickards’ bill at
Sydney Tivoli. Strong last week, it has been
braced and buttressed by a furiously active little
man, named Larola, who, if he could dance and
sing a little, would be the whole bag of music-hall
tricks in himself. He rushes through an act which is
a blend of balancing, contortion, juggling, acro-
batism, and clowning, and earns his salary—
which, of course, is the largest ever paid to any
artist, &c., &c. Add to Larola the joy of
hearing Miss Raymond blow bugle - calls
from the top of marvellous gowns, which
have caused quite a rush of chiffon to the
Tivoli; flavor this with the agile gentlemen who
can spin more tambourines than anybody else in
the world, and the Eight Primroses (alas, pushed
now, upturned stalks and all, to the bottom of the
programme), and the Dancing Gilberts, who also
warble something about Oklahoma (probably to
prove that they are not Singing Gilberts), and you
have more than your money’s worth..
*# * #
“ Dorothy Vernon ” is evidently destined
to keep the managerial pot boiling at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) until some time next month,
when Collier and Co. will arrive from San Fran-
cisco, earthquakes permitting. A recent cable from
Collier intimates his intention to escape to this
country as soon as possible. Meanwhile “Dorothy
Vernon” crowds the house, and Miss Brune, in a
part that is very large and excessively “fat,” is
being urged by an admiring amphitheatre to treat
some of the comedy scenes in a farcical manner.
The actress becomes most American when she is
least artistic. A ’Murkan Dolly Vernon con-
fronting a terrible Elizabeth with a half- smile on
her face, and the long strings of her Marie Stuart
cap dangling dejectedly over her right eye may be
said to “give the show away.” This is in
the last act. Miss Brune seems to lose
touch of the name part and fall back upon
the character of Merely Mary Ann. Her flattery
of Queen Elizabeth (impressively presented by
’Miss Vaughan) sounds like an audacious joke at
that regal person rather than a girl’s earnest
endeavor to win favor for her lover. The success
of the drama w'ould be seriously discounted by
Miss Brune’s crude comedy acting in this scene if
the ending were not a novel conclusion to a
romantic love story. The happy pair are only
moderately blissful at the finish. John Manners
is banished for a year by his indignant Sovereign
Lady, and Dorothy Vernon slinks off with him,
leaving her discomfited father and her crushed
aunt to prance about when they find her gone.
Seeing that she takes no luggage with her, the
elopement prom ises to have em barrassing incidents.
** * *
“Tambour Major,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, introduced a new Capitaine Robert into
the proceedings last Friday night, when the
theatre was profusely decorated with paper
flowers in honor of a howling mob of University
students. Rebottaro has returned to the top
boots of Robert, in place of Hal Cohen, and the
change strengthens the cast as far as it makes any
difference. Melbourne has always regarded the old
Due and his attendant Bambini as the main sup-
ports of “Tambour Major.” In this case they
don’t support it much. Edwin Lester’s notion
of a proud but preposterous Della Volta is
acceptable only by comparison with Quealy’s
puerile conception of Bambini. The Due has no
manners, no apparent sense of importance, no'
old noblesse about him. He reminds one of the
Gilbertian suggestion of dukes at 10 a penny. All
the same he might be much worse—a possibility
that doesn’t present itself in the Bambini cate.
Present writer shakes his head disparagingly at
the male principals of theco. whilst raising his hat
politely to the girls and passing a favorable
opinion On the chorus and scenery. As for the
orchestra, it is guilty of summoning the singers to
several unwarranted encores.
At Melbourne Royal
there is still a little room
for improvement in the
pace of “The Midnight
Mail ” train, whi c h
would doubtless travel
faster if it carried a
stoker on the‘engine. In
all other respects the
Andersonian drama goes
as well as can be ex-
pected. The incidental
omnibus is a pronounced
success, likewise the
awful insobriety of Billy
Brewer, who gets a
round of applause every
time he takes a bottle
of accursed drink from
his pocket and addresses
it in terms of affection.
** * *
At Melbourne Town
Hall a popular-price
concert on account of
Miss Eileen Castles is
announced for Saturday
(28th). Miss Violet
Mount comes to the fore
on May 2nd, and next
night theLyricOrchestra
and chorus will perform
“Der Freischutz,” with
Miss Beatrice Miranda
and co. as solo singers.
The short Melbourne season of the Titus-
Harris entertainment will close on Saturday at
the Athenaeum Hall. It is a very good two hours
of its kind, and the last nights of it is likely to im-
pose upon Allan Hamilton the painful duty of
refusing money at the doors. Spurr—who had no
Madame Titus to give variety to his show—
was a money-spinner for many weeks, and some
of the Harris items, notably “The Choral
Society,” are equal to the best of Spurr’s musical
monologues without being reminiscent of them.
What Harris lacks is .the touch of Gloom that
commended Spurr to the very serious-minded per-
sons. There is always a small, but highly select,
demand for Gloom, and if-Madame Titus is well-
advised she will introduce a harrowing ballad at
the earliest opportunity, A ballad with a dying
child or a wounded dog in it—calculated to break
up the chapel-going section of the audience.
* # -*
Last week’s bill at Melbourne Opera
House is this week’s bill, one of the best that
Rickards has put on without being specially re-
markable for any particular turn ; and whereas a
very particular “ turn” was primarily the soul of
business at the Opera House, it is now remarked
that a programme of solid merit in many places ys
rather more effective than the old policy of sub'
mitting a diamond in a bundle of straw. For that
matter, the diamond was sometimes made of
paste.
** # #
“ The Darling of the Gods ” has caused a
steady week-long crush at Adelaide Royal, though
it must be admitted that laughter came occasion-
ally in the wrong places. Julius Knight, leaving
the limelight to Plimmer, sank his identity com-
pletely in the part of Zakkuri. The play itself
owes much to “Fedora” and much to “La
Tosca,” with a dash of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Just at present Knight is taking all the limelight
as Beaucaire. Miss Jeffries’ voice plays tricks
with her more than ever, any word like “Diana,”
for example, being bitten off at the end with an
effect more odd than attractive. Frank Bullen is
now talking at the Town Hall on whale-fishing
and other seafaring topics. The Christian sailor-
man is unexpectedly small and light of build. He
has black whiskers and in general a rather Jewish
appearance, and is, in fact, as little like the sailor
of romance as possible. But he knows all about
his subject, he talks brilliantly if at times discon-
nectedly, and he grips his audience for the regu-
lation two hours.
Two loathsome females were convicted, at
Goulburn (N.S.W.), last week, of having cruelly
beaten and otherwise injured children. The
worst case was that of Belinda Finlay, who had a
little State girl as domestic slave. This fiend had
five children of her own, and it is hoped that they
do not take after their awful mother. She had
thrown boiling w’ater over the face, neck and arms
of the unfortunate child; slashed her with a
carving knife, stood on her while she beat her
with a stick or a poker, and bruised and wounded
her till the girl was rescued by a neighbor and
placed in the hospital. The female torturer was
sentenced to 18 months’ imprisonment in Darling-
hurst gaol. Another female of the same variety,
calling herself Josephine Anderson, pleaded
guilty to common assault. Her victim, too, was
an adopted child, and the poor youngster was a
mass of bruises, which the medical evidence said
could have been inflicted only by the use of a steel.
The female denied using a steel, and through her
solicitor asked to be fined. His Honor very
rightly said this flogging of State and adopted
children was getting too common, and he had to
make an example. He fined Anderson £l5O, but
said, if it came to his knowledge that, by way of
compensation, £5O had been paid to the child, the
fine would be reduced to £lOO. The fine was paid.
There are 68 inhabitants of the township
of Grey town (Vic.), and 36 of them are named
Ferguson.
A Bill to provide for the Inspection and
Regulation of Boilers is to be put through the
Vie. Legislature this coming session, if the
Council will kindly consent. The same Bill, or
something very like it, was blocked by the Coun
cil five years ago.
“ S.” speaks a solemn truth ;
Vic. Labor party, speaking through Prendergast,
announces itself in’strong opposition to Premier Bent’s
idea of employing prison labor on public works ; and the
Labor Conference will make no alliances, nor come to any
agreement with outside parties in the interests of Pro-
tection. Meanwhile, in the prisons of the United States,
hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of goods are
manufactured annually “for export only.” So that
while the Labor party is refusing to allow Australian
prisoners to be employed for the benefit of Australia, its
neglect of protective precautions may leave the way open
for boots; furniture and machinery manufactured by
Yankee prisoners. Australian Labor is very energetic
against the man at hand with a stick, and very careless of
the man in the distance with a rifle. Give the Australian
artisan and laborer the benefits of an effective tariff, and the
competition of Australian criminals working out their
own salvation will be less than a drop in the ocean.
The fitful gleams of horse sense which
burst through Mr. T. Bent’s incoherency would be
more frequent if he appealed oftener to the font
of wisdom —D.G.L. whisky. The little nips of
whisky coincide with the gleams aforesaid. Mr.
Bent’s only hope of understanding the honest
aspirations of the democracy is in the consistent
assimilation of wisdom by means of D.C.L.*
FRANZ ZAVIER DEGEN.
Photo, by Falk Studios, Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“T. O’F. : At least three generations of Broughs have
been prominent in the dramatic world. Barnabas
Brough, a Liverpool man, became connected with the
Illustrated London News, in its early days, and turned
out various plays. He was the father of a gifted family
of four sons and two daughters. Of the sons, John was a
scientific writer, Lionel is a favorite comedian in England,
and William and Robert Barnabas were writers of innu
merable plays and other bright work. Robert Barnabas
Brough married Elizabeth Romer, a relative of the
English prima-donna of the same surname. Their chil-
dren were the lamented Robert and the popular London
actress, Fanny Brough. R. B. Brough was only 32 when
he died. By her marriage with the Scotch actor, G. R.
Gibson, his widow became the mother of Brenda Gibson.
During his short life, Robert Brough’s father got through
a big quantity of brilliant pen-work, but the greater part
of it is buried in old newspaper files. Though most of
his burlesques ran well, he unfortunately wrote in the
days when playwrights were put off with a lump sum (as
small a lump as possible) and no percentage on nightly
receipts. R. B. Brough was highly esteemed by' intellec-
tual men of his time —notably Dante Rossetti, to whom he
dedicated his book of translations from Bdranger.
At a Melbourne peripatetic variety company’s suburban
show the other night one of a pair of frizzy serio-chronics,
while dancing, accidentally' tossed her left shoe into the
front seats. The shoe was secured by a young man, who,
to show his ardent admiration for the dancer, refused to
give it up, and ostentatiously placed it in his breast pocket
next his heart. The serio, probably to show how highly
she appreciated the delicate compliment, tripped down
the steps, slapped her admirer hard in the eye, trod on
his boxer, called him several animals, and then, having
recovered her shoe, returned to the stage and resumed
her duet.
Ada Crawford, the Bendigo “ Curfew-shall-not-ring-to-
night ” girl, now in London, has discovered (like all the
other Bendigo girls) that she has “ a voice”—contralto —
and, though she is tied down tight for two years, she is
looking for parts in which she can do some singing.
“ T.D,”: Carrie Moore is the latest London-abiding Aus"
tralian to take to the halls. “ The Blue Moon ” being at an
end, she is now filling in time with nightly appearances at
the Palace, where her turn is about the brightest of the
lot. The Palace people, of course, pay high salaries, and
it is no falling away for a musical comedy' artist in London
to put in a month or two at the halls ; anything, in fact,
is better than “resting” until some new title has been
found to fit the same old comedy 7. Some even of the
well-known concert artists occasionally venture to do a
week or two at a big hall, where the pay is regular and the
work easy.
Amy Castles had her first experience of oratorio recently
at the English festival town of Bristol, where such things
have to be done right up to the knocker. She sang the
big soprano part in Gounod’s “ Redemption ” with such
success that the local conclave of musical, wiseacres held a
hurried meeting and re-engaged her on the spot to sing
Mendelssohn’s “ Hymn of Praise ” and Dvorak’s “Stabat
Mater ” three weeks later. Australia’s Amy didn’t know
a thing about oratorio when she took up work in England,
and was much prejudiced against it, but when she dis-
covered that in such things lay the greatest chance of
success among provincials, she took up the study, and
her primary success has made her keen on doing more of
it.
What some of the papers are honest enough to call a
touching story is getting into print. It is told of a poor
widow who wrote a pathetic appeal to J. Cassius
Williamson, telling of her daughter and her daughter’s
reluctant young man, who, despite all the artifices of the
matron and the maid, refused to “come up to the
scratch.” Coming up to the scratch, by the way, is an
ominous phrase with which to describe a proposal of
marriage. The poor widow thought, however, that if
Mr. Williamson would send her “stiffs” for three, the
sight of the hero hugging the heroine and beseeching her
to be his’n might make the lagging lover desperate, and
bring about the desired finale. The managerial heart
was touched by the appeal. Williamson sent the stiffs,
and a few days later received an invitation to the
wedding. It was a kind act, but it was bad business
policy. It’s hard enough to induce the average young
man to take his girl to the theatre now. Let him know
that the romantic drama is liable to lure him on to
matrimony, and wild elephants won’t drag him there.
Miss Roxy Barton appeared as Helen of Troy in
London in March, and seems to have almost looked the
part. The Referee says she “ made a strikingly imposing
and wonderfully beautiful Helen,” which is something for
Miss Roxy to go on with.
“ O’Fipp ”: I believe Davenport (Dickens’s Infant Phe-
nomenon) was the first English-speaking Camille. Her
version, prepared by herself, was a harmless thing called
“ Camille, or the Fate of a Coquette,” and the heroine
was no more of a sinner than the title indicated. Aus-
tralia has seen at least 14 Camilles, and it seems likely to
be invaded by a good many more from time to time.
“ Melb.” : Great hurrahing for Ireland, but I’m not sure
he does not regard it as another injustice to him. Why
did not these worshippers of the Legitimate keep him
going? Why condemn him to 20 years of inaction. He
had not the suppleness of Cathcart, whom I even saw
taking the tiny pare of the Prisoner in “ Youth,” just to be
knocked dead with a brick by Oily Deering as the con-
vict. Even before G. V. Brooke arrived, the Australian
dramatic taste was high, with popular actors like Nesbilt,
Shearcroft, and Morton King, afterwards auctioneer,
J.P.,and M.P. Indeed with a public like the present,
only demanding kickshaws of the drama, Coppin would
not have dared to fetch G. Y. Brooke at all.
“ J.N.”: Your correspondent, “T.D.”, directly implies
that Dolores is a mere cypher in English musical circles
(Pov. Pt. 25/l/’O6). Now, Dolores has scored a very great
succe.-s in England. She has given a number of recitals
in London, and the Times, Daily Telegraph, Morning
Post and Chronicle have praised her with their best ink.
“ T.D.” says that Dolores’ best engagements are at
Chappell’s ballad concerts. Since they are practically
the only vocal concerts in London worthy of the name,
in addition to similar concerts given by Boosey and Co.,
I would like to know from “T.D.” where else he would
expect to ' hear Dolores. The Philharmonic Society
engaged Dolores to sing recently at one of its quarterly
concerts ; so evidently this conservative society looks
upon Dolores as a great artist, for it always tries to
engage the best talent, it is a well-known fact that vocal
concerts do not pay in London. You can only expect to
hear popular artists like Clara Butt two or three times a
year there, outside the ballad concerts, and Clara is the
attraction in England to-day. Patti gives one or two
concerts annually in London. Melba is never heard out-
side Covent Garden, except occasionally at a charity con-
cert. The real concert business is done in the provinces.
Dolores is at present making- an extensive tour of England
and Scotland. She is one of the few singers who can sing
in any part of the world and make a success. I have
read eulogistic notices about her from Vienna, Buda
Pesth, Berlin, Leipsic, Munich, Warsaw, Moscow, London,
England and Scotland generally, the States, Canada, and
South America, to say nothing of S. Africa and Australia.
She is probably known to a wider public than any other
singer in the world.
“ Pro ” : The Strand Magazine (March) has a sym-
posium of dramatists on the best stage situation. They
are too eccentric and mutually back-scratching. I think
my choice will chime in better with the opinion of
histrions and public : (1) Closet scene of “ Hamlet ” ; (2)
Statue scene of “ Winter’s Tale ” ; (3) Screen scene * f
“ School for Scandal ” ; (I) Louis XI. and Nemours, 4th
Act; (5) Water Cave in “ Colleen Bawn ” ; (6)“Hawkshaw
the Detective” in “Ticket of Leave Man”; (7) “The
Apparatus Can’t Lie ” in “Octoroon.” (8) “Thus do I
draw around her the circle of our Holy Church” in
‘ Richelieu.”
Again the importing curse. The people who run the
dreadful “competitions” at Ballarat evidently consider
that there isn’t a man in Australia fit to adequately judge
Selina Maria Melba Dolores Jones’s rendering of the “’Oly
City,” and it is bringing one Frederick Beard, or Ferdi-
nand Whiskers, or something, all the way from Birming-
ham (England).
Pinero’s latest play, “ His House in Order,” is said to
be a great success, whereas H. A. Jones, with “ The
Heroic Stubbs,” has scored another failure. But even
Pinero writes for a diminishing public, and finds more
difficulty every year in getting his plays adequately pre-
sented. Thusfar he has written nothing that can be
easily made interesting to the masses, or can be passably
interpreted by a third-rate co.
THE LATE TOM
FITZGERALD,
Australian circus
organiser.
George Musgrove wisely
declined to gratify the
vanity of some Australians
in San Francisco, who
wanted to appear before
the curtain on the last
night of the “ Sweet Nell ”
season and present her
with an address, which one
of them would have read
aloud. The presentation-
ists refused to be choked
off, so they went behind
the curtain after the per-
formance and delivered
their foolishness as fol-
lows : “ We, Australian
residents in San Francisco,
in public meeting assem-
bled, feeling gratified that
your visit to the United
States of America has been
so successfully inaugura-
ted, . . . have resolved to
express our appreciation
of your high talents, which
are reflecting so favorably
on Australian civilisa-
tion.” This is the most
advanced show country in
the world, judged by the
size of its population, yet
these alleged natives, who
must have been very green
when they went to
America, appear to be priding themselves on the fact that
their country-woman, Nellie Stewart, is a highly civilised
threatrical artist.
The passing of the “Light of the World” to M.L.
draws attention to the remarkable fact that it won’t
have art galleries to show in there. Auckland has
two fair-sized rooms hung with pictures in a building
that also contains a library, a museum, the municipal
offices, and a few other things ; Wellington has a museum
into which quite one person goes in three days (the
picture will probably be shown in the new Town Hall) ;
Christchurch has a museum that ranks among the best
anywhere ; and Dunedin possesses another with a com-
pletely restored moa. In museums, in fact, Maoriland is
Just about as rich as in art galleries it is poor.
“ N.” : Douglas Gerrard, unlike Douglas Jerrold, insists
on sticking to his line. When Coppin acted Aminadab
Sleek to Brooke’s Captain Murphy Maguire, in “The
Serious Family,” Coppin said to Brooke : “ May I solicit
half-a-guinea towards providing blankets and top boots
for the poor African savages?” Brooke: “Ah, that
reminds. A poor bricklayer fell off a chimney near my
place, and we are g-etting up an eighteenpenny subscrip-
tion. May I put you down?” Coppin: “ I should very
much like to, you know, but it’s not in our line—not in
our line.”
This bit of gush has lately been printed in various Eng-
lish papers : —“ About six years ago Miss Amy Castles was
a pupil at a convent school in Australia, and was chosen
to sing an Ave on some special occasion. The wife of one
of the English Governors happened to be present, and, on
hearing her, declared at once, ‘ That is a voice of gold ! ’
In six months the convent girl was singing before 15,000
people at the Melbourne Exhibition.” It works this way :
(1) Amy couldn’t have been a success without the patron-
age of some British aristocrat. (2) British aristocrats are
such a discriminating race that they are bound to be the
first to discover a girl like Amy. So the good old yarn
follows quite naturally.


fsdf
GOOD SALARIES await our Postal Craduat33
In Business and Technical Subjects.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT and HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A particularly mean, shufflesome dodge is
being practised on Victoria’s pensioners. First
the court awards an aged female, say, 3s. a week
from the State and orders her children, often
married daughters, to make up the balance of the
Bs. allowed. Presently the daughters are summoned
for the arrears, and the court discovers (what the
Department knew all along) that these married
daughters have no separate income or property,
that they are wholly dependent on their hus-
bands, and that the law doesn’t order a husband
to help support his mother-in-law. So the court
wipes out the arrears and drops the subject. But
the Department doesn’t increase the old woman’s
pension. It leaves her with 3s. a week from the
State and a valueless order on her married
daughters for ss.
UNNECESSARY WARNING.
KNIFE-GRINDER (who has been sharpening the household cutlery):
"Yes will find these knives sharp now, Miss; an’ yer will want
ter mind that yer don’t cut yer mouth when yer catin’.”
The anchor and chains of the unfortunate
Dunbar, the wreck that has inspired a greater
quantity of bad verse than any other on the Aus-
tralian coast, may be seen on clear days at the
foot of the rocks at South Head, Sydney, and
these relics are to be raised and set up as a public
reminder. It is close on fifty years since the
vessel went down, and during the first half of
that period odes and elegies on the catastrophe
were as plentiful as land frauds. It is more than
likely that the resurrection of the relics will again
make the bard hunt up his Muse and his rhyming
dictionary and blot his hair afresh with the ink of
effort and anguish.
The Easter military manoeuvres in Victoria,
produced a casual comic item or two, and an item,
or two that were not comic. The “navy” was
given the treat of firing a live torpedo instead of
the usual dummy. The missile was an ancient,
obsolete “ mark 3 ” weapon which, being directed
at a distant rock, went instead straight to the
bottom. This bottom happened to be sand
instead of rock, so the torpedo merely
exploded its priming charge and then floated
to the surface head-uo. Had the machine
exploded thoroughly the litrle “Lonsdale,”
being directly over the disturbance, would
probably have mistaken itself for an airship. At
Langwarrin the troops indulged in a sham
fight; and, though nobody was killed, several
orchards were raided with masterly thorough-
ness, the fruit being annihilated and the
orchardists routed with great amazement. A
queer outcome of that fight was the alleged
capture of Captain Crouch and his company by
the, Scottish regiment, duly reported in next
day’s papers. The yarn was told with a wealth
of detail—how Crouch had been captured by
Captain Wanliss, who took his skewer from him,
but allowed him to return to his battalion on
parole. lwo days later Crouch wrote to the
press that he hadn’t been captured at all, and
therefore couldn’t have been released ; also, that
he hadn’t worn a skewer for 12 months, and had
not even seen Captain, Wanliss for over a month.
Recollecting that Crouch, captain and M.P., was
chiefly responsible for the late inquiry into the
manners and customs of Major Hawker, which
inquiry the Permanent Force officers didn’t at all
approve of, the object of the yarn is pretty
evident. J
* » *
The Bendigo city Bench has drawn
attention to the tyrannical character of the
Police Offences fetatute, under which men may
be run in ”by the doubtful authority of a
magistrates warrant, on the mere suspicion of
their intention being felonious. Certain men are
marked by the police as professional spielers, or
pickpockets, looking for prey among the holiday
crowd in Melbourne at Cup time, or in Bendigo
at Easter Fair time, and, acting on the principle
that prevention is better than retribution, the
police keep them in custody until the Cup or
h air period has passed. In short, the aim of
this section of the P.O.S. is to make the
punishment anticipate the crime. Mr. Moore,
P.M. of Bendigo, declines to follow the Mel-
bourne lead in dealing with these decently-
dressed “ vagrants.” When he was asked by the
prosecuting policeman to examine eight well-fed,
captive strangers as to their means of support, he
ruled that they had been illegally* arrested, and
were entitled to immediate release without any
question whatever. The police power, legal or
otherwise, whereby citizens who have been black-
marked in the past are treated as dangerous
subjects in the present, seems to be a relic of the
old convict days, when ticket-of-leave men could
always be re-arrested for doing nothing in
particular.
Auckland (M.L.),
which fooled away its
street traction rights,
has now got the satis-
faction of knowing
that it has absolutely
the worst tram system
in Maoriland—if not
the world. Its cars are
hideous in appearance,
and so narrow that
passengers have hardly
room to pass. Also,
according to a disin-
terested visitor like
Sydney Town Clerk
Nesbitt, they are ex-
ceedingly dirty ; and
other authorities have
declared that the only
time they are fast is
when they are going
backwards down hill.
This curious kink in
the business mind of
Auckland is not owing
to any conviction that
private enterprise
manages things better
than municipal enter-
prise, but to the bitter
vindictiveness of the
animal. The Auckland
business man has a
long memory, and he
was the first man that
Unionism and the
Knights of Labor tried
their prentice hands
on. Their methods in
those days were some-
what crude, but they
hurt and left scars
that the business man
feels yet when the
weather is damp, so
to speak. The
Knights of Labor ad-
vocated the munici-
palisation of all public
services, and the em-
bittered business man
has been against muni-
cipalisatioa ever since.
But the Auckland
tram service and the
recent disclosures of
what was done with
the city refuse which
he paid a contractor
to bury on an island,
are beginning to hurt
him even more than the memories of the bygone
boycott.
* * * *
Ballarat (Vic.) is to have another statue
shortly. Amongst those it has already is a good
one of Burns, put up by the local Sandies and
Macs. The Michaels and Patricks followed with
a fine statue of Thomas Moore. Then “ Hold
Hingland ” held a meeting, and enthusiastically
decided to have a statue of Shakspeare. The
promoters went as far even as getting a site from
the Council for it. That was some years ago.
The other day a member of the Ballarat City
Council arose, and in a husky whisper proposed
that the grant of a site for a Shakspeare statue
be rescinded. Seconded in a still huskier whisper,
and carried without comment. Then another
Councillor, in a whisper low as the sigh of a faint
breeze blowing through a ghost, proposed that the
site be granted to the Soldiers’ Statue Committee.
Seconded and carried in equally ghostly tones.
Thus Ballarat, the home of the “competition”
madness, where Shakspeare is spouted by the
gallon, throws over the Bard for the farm-burners
of S’Africa !
INTERRUPTED.
BILLY: “ Please, Mister , yer sittin' on me clothes."
“Ne’er-do-Weel”: In the matter of
Brisbane traffic control (B. 5/4/’O6). The change
whereby the police took charge was welcomed
with delight, but the public has altered its
mind now. The old bobbies have been taken off
street duty and sent away back, and a set of
Johnny Raws have taken their place. The one
idea of these louts is to get cases. Every Monday
for some weeks has seen 40 to 60 traffic cases
on the north side, each accused fined ss. and
3s. 6d. costs. One John broke the record by bring-
ing up 42 draymen one morning for not taking
their drays down a precipice or something. Every
’bus, cab, carriage and cart is obliged to pull up
and go at a walk over every crossing—and there is
a cross street every 30yds. or so in Brisbane—
whether the street is crowded or empty, and no
bicyclist is allowed to ride more than 2ft. from the
kerbing. If a vehicle pulls up anywhere, the
horse’s head must be turned the way the traffic on
that side is going, though the vehicle is just as
great an obstruction with the horse’s head one
way as the other, and this is carried to such an
extent that a man who crossed the street on his
bike the other day, and pulled up at a chemist’s—
being run in as a matter of course—was asked in
court if he would swear he had turned his bicycle
so that the front wheel was heading the right
way. But the Tramway Co. is allowed to break
every regulation with impunity, and its overloaded
cars sprint over the crossings like Gehenna.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Many threatened to shoot if pestered by
interviewers,” ran a cable from burning San Fran-
cisco. “I can well understand it,” remarked a
Sydneyite who had been in the wild flare-up in
Peru, some forty years ago. “I was jammed
between a pillar and a tumble-down sidewall—
see, I left that finger there ” —showing a maimed
hand—“ when a man confronted me with a note-
book and pencil, saying he represented a New
York paper, and wanted my impressions. I gave
him a few, but they seemed not to be the kind he
wanted, and he turned to a dying victim near me.
I still remember his rasping voice saying ‘ I repre-
sent ha’f-a-million readers.’”
* # ir # *
Venerable Sydney Morning Herald
becomes incoherently and sometimes contradic-
torily gabby on trying occasions. The San
Francisco catastrophe was such an occasion. In
its lugubrious leading article the paper said :
Our cables this morning tell us that the earthquake
has practically demolished the Stanford University, with
its titanic arch, its massive buildings, its magnificent
church, library, and art gallery, and in spite of its archi-
tectural design, specially planned to guard against
dangers of this particular kind. Such a fact as this em-
phasises the wantonness of the disaster.
No other paper in Australia would have thought
of the word “ wantonness” in such a connection.
■* -*r * $
From the Easter military orders respecting
the Langwarrin (Vic.) camp.:—
Hat feathers will not be taken to camp by Light Horse
regiments.
Good ! But, alas ! nothing is said about chiffons,
or whether blouses are to button up the back.
How is one to dress correctly when the military
genius of the Commonwealth thus leaves one in
the dark as to this most important business ? A
mere absence of hat feathers is an insufficient
covering—in fact, an absence of anything is hardly
clothing.
* ■* * *
“ Melb.” : Tom Mann’s Socialist Club has
just been unceremoniously hustled out of its berth
in Collins-street East by landlord Septimus
Miller, one of the Money Miller crowd, seventh
child of the long-lamented potentate. Of course,
Sep. gave Tom due notice, but he cut the notice
as fine as possible. Sep. apparently thought that
dynamite bombs were being prepared in his
cellar, for such the place was. It was a nice
white-washed cellar in Austral Buildings, next
David Syme’s Melbourne mansions, which are on
the spot where some cranks wanted Brough and
Boucicault to build a theatre in the boom days.
Mann has shifted his club to Hockin’s Rooms.
This is the well-known fashionable dancing place
in Elizabeth-street, opposite St. Francis’. Here
Tom professes to be a great deal better off than
under the baleful shadow of Sep. He pays £2 a
week; that is to say, the club does, and it also
pays Tom £5 a week. The membership is about
900. They are trying to initiate a sort of co-
operative storage line. They have taken in tea
already, but that only means an arrangement
with a capitalist firm to print fiery Socialism on
its packets, and grease the club a little. 11. H.
Champion is president, and Mann secretary.
“ Ne’er-do-Weel ” writes from Brisbane:—
As to par. (12/4/06 ) re proposal to establish a leper
station on Stradbroke Island. The leper station is on
Stradbroke at the present time, and has been for many a
long day. It is within two miles of the Dunwich Benevo-
lent Asylum, on a most beautiful bay. But that bay being
practically land-locked, and the station being built in a
gorge running up the mountain side, a cooling breeze can
by no possibility reach it unless blowing directly off the
sea. The place, therefore, is as hot as the hobs of Sheol,
and on a summer day the unfortunate lepers fry there.
The proposal is to shift the station to Amity Point, a
favorite boating place. The reason of the proposal Ido
not know, unless it is because of the proximity of the
station to the Dunwich people, or the above-men-
tioned heat and the fact that space is at present
limited, and the authorities deem it advisable to be pre-
pared for a large and rapidly increasing crop of lepers.
As to the danger of contamination of the water-supply,
the lakes from which it is proposed to draw Brisbane’s
supply lie back of the Island over a mountain range, and
supposing a leper to try and get away from the station
he would not make towards the back of the Island but
along the shore in the hope of getting a cast over to the
mainland. But no leper ever has been known to try and
get away—they are too well treated.
AN ELECTION ADDRESS.
“ Fellow workers”- (Great applause.)
Rechabite Vale pointed out at Echuca, the
other night, that Victoria had won £273,000,000
worth of gold, and during the same time had
spent £260,000,000 in alcoholic liquors. Then a
voice: “ That’s thirteen million clean wasted
somewhere ! ”
* * * *
What a sweater the Carruthers Govern-
ment can be ! Its Public Service Board has just
invited applications, at £lO4 a year, “for the
position of botanical and technological collector
to the Sydney Technological Museum.” Says the
notice :
The selected candidate will be required to collect
botanical, geological, mineralogical, and technological
specimens, and material of economic, commercial, or
industrial importance, required for the Technological
Museum, or required in any way whatsoever in connec-
tion with technical education.
So the man must be botanist, geologist and
mineralogist, with sufficient industrial knowledge
(not by any means a common thing) to know how
his collection can be used in the arts. And they
offer that sort of scientist £2 a week, with 6s. a
day travelling allowance, and second-class railway
fares—putting the scientist, in fact, on exactly
the same footing as the constable who hasn’t yet
shown the brains or knowledge to earn a stripe.
THE MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIC) USE Parlor Maid, tall, experienced.— Constant
Haughty Advertisement.
No stumpy and stout Aphrodite,
No ’Arriet callous and curt,
No dumpling short-waisted and flighty.
But a Juno erect and alert.
I take off my hat in the hall, and
I sneak to my bedroom afraid ;
Yea, I quail at the eye of our tall and
Experienced Maid.
How vulgar a drink would our tea be !
How bourgeois we’d seem to our friends
Were it poured by a sixty-inch Hebe
With no wavy and willowy bends 1
My wife would believe herself wronged, and
Her mother begin a tirade,
If I didn’t engage a prolonged and
Experienced Maid.
The little fat girl is an eyesore,
She’s a token of social disgrace :
“ It must be a question of price, or
They wouldn’t have That in the place.”
So a shadow across us must fall, and
A cap in the clouds be displayed,
That callers may rave of our tall and
Experienced Maid.
vie.
Q.U.


Warn) Wear for Wintry Weatber.
PURE WOOL
from the
Sheep’s Back.
Protection from
Cold, Damp, and
Chill.
sd
ALL WOOL
WINTER. .
SUITS . . .
(Not Half-
Mercerised Cotton)
£4 4s<
Patterns, Fashion Plates, and Measurement Forms, FRER.
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
KING ST., SYDNEY.
Private Enterprise railway management—
that of the Westralian Firewood Co. —has been
distinguishing itself again, and the resultant smash
brought about the death, by five hours’ slow roast-
ing, of fireman Thomas Newbv. The co. found it
had an unusually long train, and utilised two
engines. Under any circumstances two engines are
difficult to handle, but the fools in charge increased
the risk by placing 19 trucks in front of the first
engine, so that it pushed instead of drew them.
Then came four more trucks, and the second engine,
which drew eight water tanks and 36 waggons. A
total load'of 67 trucks and tanks, and the engines
scattered anywhere in the line. Such a train was
almost certain to come to smash, and the smash
jambed Newby against the furnace where, despite
the desperate efforts of his mates to relieve him, he
died after frying horribly for 300 minutes, which
must have seemed like 300 centuries. The
manager of the line was on the train ; therefore,
the responsibility for making it up in a way that
meant almost certain disaster, seems easy enough
to locate.
* * * »
Melbourne detectives last week discovered
that a gang of women shop-lifters were pillaging
the big drapers to the extent of £2O and £3O
worth a day. Their system was almost perfect,
and discovery only came about when a traitor in
the camp, anxious to make a large profit hur-
riedly, tried to sell the story to a draper.
She fell into the hands of the detectives, and
was glad to part with the narrative for nothing.
The lady thief, apparently, wore nothing between
the waist-line and her stockings save one skirt
and knickerbockers. She stood close up to the
counter, raised the skirt-front —the counter con-
cealing her movement —and, when no one seemed
to be looking, she put the plunder between
her legs just above the knees, and dropped
the skirt. Then she walked away, only
moving her legs from the knees down-
A HEAT- WAVE TRAGEDY.
HIM : “If it doesn't keep the butter cooler than
this, what's the good of an ice-chest? ”
HER : “ I’m sure I don't know! The girl insists
on keeping it open to cool the kitchen."
wards, and by much practice she became so
skilful that she always reached a tea-room or
other place of safety without dropping the profits,
The detectives at first regarded the explanation
with a doubtful eye, but when one of the accused
gave a practical exposition of the method,
and walked away easily and gracefully
with a large dictionary between her
legs they were convinced. It is put solemnly
on record that one of the articles stolen in this
way was a ham. The leader of the gang is the
mother of a family, and reasonably well off, and
some of her followers are quite affluent. Not one
of them had any need to struggle about the city
with heavy masses of stolen property between her
knees, and they all wonder now why they did it.
# * *
There was a world of sarcasm in the reply
of a middle-aged witness at Melbourne City Court
lately. When asked his occupation, he replied,
“ Worn-out laborer.”
HARD TIMES.
DOSSER: “ Homin' , Graveyards. ’Ow do yer find things ? "
GRAVEYARDS: “ Find things? I ain't found anythink but two buttons an' a cigar butt fer
the last two months."
Melbourne City Council sets an example
of thrift. Lately, it advertised for a junior
draftsman. It demanded that the young man
should have a matriculation pass and practical
experience in surveying and civil engineering;
and it required him to assist in surveying, keep
office records and calculations, and be generally
useful to the city surveyor (who, by the way, is
proceeding on a world’s tour with a douceur of
£500). For these services, the young man who
has had experience in surveying and civil engi-
neering is to get 28s. lid. a week, with an annual
rise of 2s. llcl. per week till he reaches the dizzy
height of £2 17s. lOd. per week. Beyond that
point the imagination of Melbourne City Council
refused to carry its corporate stomach.
* * * *
The recent announcement that the Agent-
General has received instructions from Premier
Seddon to make arrangements for the dispatch to
Maoriland of 1000 domestic servants reminded the
local girl that
she has a vote.
Somethinglike
an insurrection
oc curred.
Women of all
classes under
the age of 36
rose en masse
and demanded
on a charger
the head of the
idiot who had
issued such in-
structions to
the Agent-
General. King
Dick remon-
strated, plead-
ed, tried to
stprm, but was
overwhelmed
in an ocean of
reproaches. At
last he manag-
ed to get in
with, “The
supply of do-
mestic ser-
vants is not
equal to the
demand the
market is un-
derstocked.”
Then there came the pause before the real cyclone.
“You silly old man! Who cares about the
domestic servant market —the marriage market
is what we are worrying about. It’s glutted, and
you’re going to throw another thousand women
into it.” After that a final burst of obloquy struck
Richard right on the watch-chain and doubled
him up.
*.* * *
“ S.S.” : Saw piles and piles of wire mat-
tresses and elegant bedding on the station plat-
form the other day. Asked what it meant, and
was told that the beds were for the hardy officers
serving their country in the sham fights down at
Langwarrin. Are We breeding a race of feather-
bed fighters? Judging by the number of fat, red
men one sees in gorgeous uniforms, a week of ordi-
nary camp life would leave the Victorian companies
with about a third of their officers. I don’t won-
der at the feather-beds; what I wonder at is that
the overfed officers do not review their men in
‘bed.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
“ Ramofch Gilead ” : I wandered along to
the Royal Agricultural Show of N.S.W. Shortly
after entering the gate, I came upon an engine,
which was “ Made in Canada.” Then I passed
machinery, branded “Made in Mass., XJ.S.A.,”
“Made in Concord, U.5.A.,” “Made in Canada”
(seven of these latter in a line),' ‘ Madein ISI ew York,
XJ.S.A.” ; “ Made in Boston, U.S.A.” ; “ Made in
Conn., XJ.S.A.” ; etc., etc. Then I got into some
kind of a pavilion where various samples of provi-
sions were displayed, and here I found someone’s
pickles, “Made in England,” with jam, sauce,
chutneys, curries, and a thousand other items, all
made in England, or Bengal, or some other place
across the deep blue sea. Presently, still bent on
viewing this Australian show, I found myself in a
fancy-goods department, where there were scissors
and combs “madein Germany,” brushes “made
in England, ” knives ‘ ‘ mad e in Germany, ” and a few
“made in England,” and some kind of powders,
“ made in Austria.” All kinds of clothing from
across the sea, and baskets, boots, hats, spectacles,
musical instruments, stationery, toys, guns, fish-
ing rods and lines, footballs, etc., made in
every quarter of this globe except Australia. Then
I made a desperate effort to get away from this
wilderness of foreign-made goods, and seemed to
have walked fully half-a-mile, when I bumped up
against a piano that had been thrown together in
Germany, and shortly afterwards fell over a, sew-
ing-machine that had been built in ChicagOi
After that I ran into a man wearing a hat madein
England. Finally, I got drunk, and fell on the
ground that was made in Australia.
* * * *
The imported Tait, of the Victorian rail-
ways, has just earned another thousand or two
of his salary by re-naming something else. Tra-
vellers began to show signs of nervousness when
they found out that some stations had “ womeri-
in-charge” at Is. 6d. per day. But Tait’s genius
soon got over that difficulty ; he issued instruc-
tions that all such officers were for the future to
be called “caretakers.” They are the same
women, and it’s the same old eighteenpence. Still
imported genius can’t be expected to notice that.
It is characteristic of religous crankery
that the Dowieites can still cling to Dowieism,
although they are now denouncing Dowie as a dis-
reputable old whiskered sinner. The origin of
the Zion business was a deep reverence for Dowie
by people who no longer pretend to believe in him.
Yet they would perpetuate the Dowie fraud under
new management, and still believe the Dowie
alleged revelation after bowling out the revealer.
THE SUPERIOR MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Irvine will probably be a candidate for the House
of Representatives, where no doubt his superior talents
will etc.— Tory newspaper item.
On that morning- to come when the polling begins,
And the candidates splutter and froth ;
When Deakin and Reid are explaining their sins
And mixing political broth ;
When the country is loud with the battle of throats—
Each roaring as hard as it can—-
Electors ! forget not to offer your votes
To the Highly Superior Man !
In excellence icy his intellect’s friz,
In polar perfection he basks ;
There’s none but himself knows how noble he is
(But he’s willing to tell if one asks).
The multitude kneels round his pedestal high
And begs him unravel his plan ;
And he looks at them kneeling, and says: “I am I
A Highly Superior Man ! ’’
There were times when disorder awoke in the State
(The railways remember it now),
And over ic pondered that good man and great,
With ice on his tall frozen brow.
Then long in the midnight his Parliament sat
And its frenzied repression began,
For there never was panic so mortal as that
Of the Highly Superior Man.
In office he stayed till the country grew tired
Of his frigid self-satisfied soul,
Then his health and his doctors together conspired
To help the Great Man from a hole.
So Bent took the billet (and Bent’s got it yet)
While the Noble One shelter-wards ran ;
He was human enough to come out of the wet —
That Highly Superior Man !
But gather, ye Tories, and gather again
To vote for the man chill and strong,
For the Fruity-voiced One with the Marvellous brain
Who is right when all others are wrong-,
That he and Bruce Smith both together may play
At being the brake on the van, ,
And each to the other may whisper, and say—
“ You’re a Highly Superior Man !”
vic.
L.
TOO WEAK TO WALK.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“For five years I was tired and done up from
one end of the summer to the other,” said Mrs.
Annie Kitchener, of Moree, who gave the present
statement a few months ago when she was living
at 63 Pye St., Bathurst. Mr. Kitchener was then
stationed in Bathurst as Government Examiner
of Railway Rolling-stock. His wife went on to
say. “As soon as the hot weather set in, my
blood got as weak as water. My face was white
and drawn, and I grew thinner and thinner.
Hardly a week went by without me having a
splitting headache. When I got up in the
mornings, there were pains all down my legs, and
my back was just breaking. Before half the day
was gone, I was fit for nothing. It was one long
struggle trying to keep going. Often I had to let
the housework go, for I was too weak to do a hand’s
turn. It was all I could do to put one foot before
the other. I tried everything that I thought
might build me up, but nothing ever did me any
good. At last I said Pd see what Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills would do for me. I took them for close
on two months. By that time I was stronger than
ever I was in my life. To-day, my health is so
flood that I can be on my feet from morning till
night and never get tired.
“I got to hate the thought of going out,” said
Mrs. Kitchener. ‘ ‘ People were always telling me
how washed-out I looked. I didn’t have a scrap
of color even in my lips. There was always such
a haggard look about me that it was hard for
people to credit that I was only twenty-five. I
couldn’t blame anyone for thinking I was ten
years older. My eyes were dull and heavy, and
there were deep black rings round them. I looked
as if there was no blood in my body at all. From
one day’s end to the other, I was never hungry.
It was only to please them at home that I made
myself eat a little now and then—but it did me no
good. There wasn't a spark of life about me. I
couldn’t even rouse myself to talk. All I wanted
was to lie about the house and not have a soul
come near me. I was too miserable to be company
for anyone. I went about with a heart as heavy
as lead the live-long day.
“ When I woke in the mornings my head was all
stuffed up, and it didn’t know whether to ache or
not. Many an hour of agony I put in, with a dull
throbbing through my temples. Sometimes the
pain was so bad across my forehead that I felt
someone was gouging my eyes out. If anyone
called, when I had one of these bad heads, it was
all I could do to sit up. My poor head ached till
every nerve in my body was on edge. If one of
the chairs creaked, it gave me a start and set me
trembling. At night I was ten times more nervous
than I was in the day. Once it was dark, I
wouldn’t go outside the door alone, not if you paid
me. When I went to bed, I fidgeted and tossed
about for hours before I closed my eyes. Often I
woke in a fright every little while, with my
heart thumping like mad. When morning came,
I got up with a sickening backache, and almost
too weary to move.
“ How I got through the days I don’t know,”
added Mrs. Kitchener. “Every bone in my body
ached, and I wanted to drag my legs all the time.
There were dozens of odds and ends that wanted
doing about the place, but I was too weak to
tackle them. It knocked me up to stand and run
the iron over a few handkerchiefs. My feet ached
till I could not stand. Often I had to leave half
my housework undone. It was pitiful to watch
me trying to struggle through. On a very hot day
I simply could not get about at all. I had to lie
down the whole time. I was too worn out to
walk from one end of the house to the other.
“My friends all said I *would never stand
another summer,” Mrs. Kitchener went on. “To
tell the truth, I dreaded Christmas coming round.
As good luck had it, Mr. Schubert, a very old
friend of ours, got me to give Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills a trial. I got some from McDonald, the
storekeeper in Dubbo. The first box certainly
made me eat, but that’s about all. Still I kept on
—and towards the end of the second box, I found
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were as good as my
friend made them out to be. Every dose did me
a little more good. Days went by, and I didn’t
even have a touch of a headache, and I haven’t
had one since. I began to sleep well at night,
and my nerves grew steady again. When I had
finished six boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, that
weary feeling had gone out of my bones, and
everyone said they never saw me looking better.
Now, the hottest day never tires me. lam always
light-hearted and brimful of energy. I tell all my
friends to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills if ever
they get run down. When I was too weak to
walk they set me on my feet again, as strong and
healthy as anyone I know. ”
Dr, Williams’ Pink Pills are the only true blood remedy,
because it is the only remedy that actually makes new
blood. That is all Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills do—but they
do it well. They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t
bother with mere symptoms. They won’t do anything
but root out the cause of disease in the blood. But in
that one simple way they strike at the root of anaemia,
indigestion, headaches, backaches, kidney disease, liver
complaint, skin diseases, general weakness and the special
secret troubles of growing girls and women, whose whole
health depends upon the richness and regularity of their
blood. If you are in doubt about your own case, write
for free medical advice to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney. From the same address you can also order by
mail at 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d, post free,
the genuine Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People, if
you have any difficulty in getting them from your local
chemist or storekeeper.
Considefing that the late Coppin was not even a
moderately rich man, it is hard to understand why he
bequeathed 1000 shares in the Melb. Theatre Royal, Co.
to the Grand Lodge of Vic. Freemasons.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St. f SYDNEY appliances prop |TH 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
RORFY Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
I‘ WDCI • for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES anti MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
It’s about up to the Labor party to ask seriously
whether the Private Enterprise of whose morals it has
grave doubts, isn’t after all, in spots anyway, a good deal
more honest than it is itself or proposes to lie. Compare,
for instance, what Private Enterprise does with the
railways it owns and what the State dogs with those it
owns, with the Labor party’s approval. First, though
the Labor party says it is only in favor of borrowing
money for undertakings which show a return equal to
interest and a sinking fund of 1 per cent., yet it doesn’t
seem much in earnest about the scheme, and anyhow it
cordially supported Owe’Sullivan when he was tearing
that policy to rags. It has no convictions on the
subject of a general sinking fund ; it doesn’t seem to care
three straws whether the £239,000,000 that Australasia
owes is ever paid back or not. If in a general sort of way
it reckons that Australasia would be better without the
debt, it doesn’t struggle after any definite plan to shift
the debt, and that struggle is the Only thing that counts—
a mere hazy notion that Australia might be better if it
wasn’t in pawn is of no consequence at all. Further, the
Labor party has never shown any concern about a depre-
ciation fund ; when a Minister has proposed to build some-
thing out of loan money to take the place of something
that was also built out of loan money, but is now worn
out, or moth-eaten, or something, an occasional Labor
member has said it wasn’t right, and that is all. Even
those Labor members who have had that much conscience
haven’t gone the whole hog and insisted that a fund
should be established out of revenue to provide for the
renewal of all perishable works, provided the public con-
venience called for their renewal.
In short, the present system, with which the
Labor party seems to be perfectly satisfied (or, if not per-
fectly satisfied, anyway not sufficiently dissatisfied to
cause it to make any commotion) is this
(1) Borrow to build a culvert.
(2) When the culvert shows signs of wear, make “ addi-
tions ” to it, and pay for the additions (really repairs) out
of more loans.
(3) The original loan culvert, with the loan patches,
having fallen in, build a new culvert out of a third lot of
loan.
So the process goes on and on, until in 1904-s—which was a
year of remarkable prosperity, when most of the public
works of Australia that are capable of earning anything
were earning something extra—the position was as
follows :
Earnings of Loan Works, &c., of Australasia £16,942,974
Working expenses of ditto 10,031,285
Available to meet interest .. .. £6,911,689
Interest on Public Debt .. • ... .. 10,575,299
Deficit payable out of taxation or more loans £3,663,610
So in this extra-good year the public debt earned barely
enough to pay two-thirds of the interest bill. And a
large part of the explanation is that things that have
been paid for with borrowed money have worn out and
have been replaced by other things also paid for with
borrowed money ; so that, even if the- thing is a good
investment in itself, it has to struggle with a double load
of interest, and under those circumstances it takes some-
thing more than even an extra-good season to bring it
out level. In fact, the hope of the loan undertakings
coming out square may now be definitely abandoned.
And the longer this country puts off establishing a fund
for the renewal of loah works when they fall into decay,
the more hopeless will the situation become.
The Labor party can’t afford to be less honest in
this matter than the Private Enterprise whose morals it
isn’t too sure about; and what Private Enterprise does in
this matter can be seen in the case of, say, the Wellington
and Manawatu Kail way Co., whose financial position is
reviewed this week. This co. is in practically the same
position as the States;—that’is to say, it has a Cohen, and
it had large land grants, and it has a railway which isn’t
any more fragile and doesn’t call for more tender treat-
ment than a State railway. The co. is 25 years old. Its
railway and rolling stock cost £1,023,479 ; but, though
they have been kept in repair out Of revenue, and though
the rail way earnings are more than ever they were, £202,086
has been written off the cost—partly out of railway re-
venue and partly out of land revenue. So a Private Enter-
prise railway which cost £1,023,479 (in addition to the
amount spent on maintenance) stands in the co.’s
balance-sheet at £821,393 ; while in the State’s balance-
sheet the railways stand at their full cost, even though it
is admitted that there has been a vast amount
of wear and tear which hasn’t been replaced.
But besides the £262,086 written off, Private Enterprise
has put aside out of revenue a fund of £29,000 to pay for
any large contingency in the way of repairs, &c., that
may arise ; and on top of that, though it hasn’t the sink-
ing fund it should have, it has a reserve fund of £117,428.
The State has written off nothing, has no renewal reserve,
and no formal reserve or sinking fund. And the Labor
party seems satisfied to leave it at that.
« * * *
Since the newspapers began to talk of the glut
of money in Australia, the little company promoter has
been doing his best; but it’s a poor little best, and, so far
as he is concerned, the glut of money isn’t likely to do
Australia any good worth mentioning. Taking the three
last-published lists of new co.’s registered in N.S.W.,
there is only one entry that looks as though it referred to
a new industry—and that probably isn’t a brand-new
industry either. That one is the Commonwealth Whiting
Co., capital £5OOO, to manufacture whiting, kalsomine,
&c. ; and The Bulletin', which happens to be taking
tea just at this moment, drinks good-luck to
the Commonwealth Whiting Co. Practically every
other co. lately registered has been formed to run a store,
or distribute somebody’s goods, or dig for g'old where
somebody else has been digging till be was starved out, or
acquire some land in the expectation of another boom
some dajq or to purchase seven sandhills for golf links, or
some other land “for recreation purposes.” They are
three mournful lists altogether ; and, when you lay them
alongside the reports regarding the accumulation of
money in Australia, and then consider the vast number
of things that Australia would make for itself if it had a
respectable Customs tariff to begin with, they look more
mournful than ever.
* * * *
The huge foreign fire insurance office generally
uses its 12 or 14 millions of funds to mesmerise the foolish
Australian insurer, so that he gives his business to the
co. that pretty often owns nothing more than a brass-
plate and a door-mat in this country, and leaves the
Australian office, which is owned in Australia, and dis-
tributes its profits (when it makes any) in Australia,
to rush round and gather in at great expense the odds
and ends of fire-risks. But possibly the Australian in-
surer will get a new idea with regard to those 12 or 14
millions of funds when he reads that the insurances on
the destroyed property in San Francisco run to about
£50,000,000, of which at least £10,000,000 will have
to be paid by English offices and £10,000,000
by other European offices. The millions of
the foreign insurance co. look very dazzling to
the Australian insurer when the foreign canvasser puts
those millions alongside the tens of thousands of the Aus-
tralian office. Instead of comparing the foreign and Aus-
tralian funds in that way, the Australian insurer might
for the future compare the foreign funds with the foreign
risks ; and then the average Australian office will seem
quite as safe as the average foreign office—or safer.
The one Australasian office which has spread
itself out so far that it finds itself considerably singed now in
the ’Frisco disaster is the New Zealand Insurance Co. It _
does a big Californian business ; in 1904 its risks amounted
to over £1,100,000. But how much of it is in’Frisco isn’t
known nor how much is fire and how much marine ;
but, as its fine building has been destroyed, the
loss will probably amount to about £175,000
or £200,000. It may be more or less, but people inte-
rested in the co. appear to think #.at they will do well
if it costs them no m >re than that. This is a long way
from being enough to make the co. stagger. After it
amalgamated with the N.Z. Accident Insurance Co., on
Jan. Ist, the co. had, besides its capital of £250,000,
-reserves amounting to £458,681. The profits (of the N.Z.
Insurance Co. alone) for some years past have averaged
about £65,000 a year ; but as late as 1898 the cp. showed
a loss of £14,262. It is hard to see how it can escape
showing a loss this year. In 1898, by the way, when the
loss of £14,262 was shown, a dividend of 10 per cent,
was paid; in fact, the co.’s policy has generally
been to neither exalt the dividend in a very profitable
year nor wipe it out in an unprofitable year. From about
£5 12s. 6d., the price of £2 shares at once fell to £4l4s. 6d.,
equal in the aggregate to a slump of £112,500 ; but upon
later information there was a further heavy fall.
Two other Australasian offices formerly did
considerable business in North America the South
British and the North Queensland. The former, after a
rather disastrous experience, drew out of that business
altogether in 1890 : the latter quitted the field two or
three years ago. They both found that, while the ex-
penses were heavy, the difficulties in the way of proper
selection and supervision made the loss rate too high to
allow of a sufficient margin for such risks as this latest
disaster.
The Bulletin knows one distinguished member
of the Stinking Fish party who for some years past,
frightened chiefly by what the daily papers told him
about the Labor party, has been putting his savings into
property in San Francisco. He ought to send in a bill
now to Sydney Daily Telegraph and Melbourne Argos.
* * » *
Though without amightyeffort—whichmembers
don’t seem much disposed to make—there is little hope of
putting any “ independent ” member on the board of the
A.M.P. under the constitution as amended a few years
back, still three “ outside ” nominations haye been made
—G. R. Campbell, with whose energy and interest in the
affairs of the society members are familiar ; Dr. Arthur,
M.L.A. ; and John Kirkland, member of a well-known
Sydney engineering firm. These three are running in a
bunch. A fourth candidate, who is putting up a strenuous
fight, is A. G. Wald, of Adelaide, formerly in the A.M.P.’s
service, but for. many years past a State-branch manager
for the Equitable, and widely known as a vigorous
insurance man. The “official” nominees are J. T. Walker
and Ben Short, the retiring directors, and Rollo
Cape, who was nominated to the board by the other
directors on the death of Chairman Littlejohn.
Alfred W. Meeks is the new chairman. The appeal
of Messrs. G. R. Campbell and Kirkland and Dr. Arthur
for places on the board is based largely on the fact
that all the present members are in favor of the ex-
tension of the business to Europe and S’Africa ; and,
though, if members want the society to go abroad and
lose the Australian character which has been one of its
chief assets, it must, of course, go ; still it is most desir
able that some at least of the directors should be oppo
nents of this policy, in order that the foreign operations
may be watched with great care. The argument is a
strong one and should find favor with tens of thousands
of members who voted for the extension.
* • * •
Occasionally “private enterprise” can see the
beauties of Socialism. Years ago, a co., owning a slice
of land on the Willoughby side of Long Bay, Middle
Harbor (Sydney), thought to sell out at high prices, so it
connected the land with North Shore by a gaudy
suspension bridge (it cost £100,000). The co. got as far as
the bridge, then stopped ; and the stop has' been
permanent. Since then the huge structure leading from
nowhere to nothing in particular has mostly been used as
an interesting bit of scenery. Recently the property
came into the debenture-holders’ hands, and the beauties
of Socialism are suddenly discovered to be dazzling ; for
the debenture-holders now offer to transfer the bridge,
and to pay an annual £5OO for 10 years to Government if
the latter will run a tramway across the bridge into the
property. As the district is a growing one, and the
Government must shorty provide means of transit any-
how 7 , the offer looks all right on the surface, at least.
* * * *
“W.F.”: Thirty years ago or thereabouts, I
was persuaded to take out a policy wdth the Andes Life
Assurance Go. It was a scandalous swindle, arid I lost
three years premiums. Then I took out a policy in the
Canada Life ; paid close on 800 dollars ; lost my billet,
couldn’t go on paying, and lost my 300 dollars. Fourteen
y ars ago I took a 20-year endowment policy from one of
the American co.’s, doing business in Australia. I have
paid out some £7OO in premiums, and it hasn’t always
been easy. Now, I have been confronted with the night-
mare of possible default on the part of the co., should I
take leave of this world to-morrow. The payment of a
life insurance policy should be as sure as death. The
man who denies himself to provide for others, and to
prevent them becoming a possible burden on the State,
should receive an absolute guarantee of protection from
the State. There is only one effective remedy for w 7 liat
must be a constantly recurring trouble with companies,
promoted in the first instance and continued and ex-
panded thereafter, for private profit and glory. That
remedy is State Life Insurance.
* * •
The Colonial Bank of Australasia (Melb.):
Dividends on Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. Shares. serves, serves.
Sept., 1899.. £7,078 3 per cent. = £4,561 £2517 £3,557
£3060 forfeited capital added to reserves 6,617
Mar., 1900.. 11,472 4 per cent. = 6,081 5391 12,008
Sept., 1900.. 12,019 4 „ „ „ 6,081 5938 17,946
Mar., 1901.. 13,718 5 ~ „ „ 7,601 6117 24,063
Sept., 1901.. 15,069 5 „ „ „ 7,601 7468 31,531
Divs. on all Shares.
Mar., 1902.. 17,173 5 per cent. = 10,942 6231 37,762
Sept., 1902.. 16,264 5 „ ~ ~ 10,961 5308 43,065
Mar., 1903.. 16,223 5 „ „ „ 10,961 5262 48,327
Sept., 1908.. 17,251 5 „ ~ „ 10,965 6286 54,613
Mar., 1904.. 19,117 5 „ „ „ 10,967 8150 62,763
Sept., 1904.. 18,287 5 „ „ „ 10,967 7320 70,083
Mar., 1905.. 19,320 5 „ „ „ 10,967 8353 78,436
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 „ „ „ 10,977 7337 85,773
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5 ~ „ „ 10,982 8423 94,196
This bank’s slate was supposed to be thoroughly cleaned
by the court in April, 1899, w'hen paid-up capital on
ordinary shares to the extent of £623,950 was written off.
This w 7 as supposed to make ample provision for then
existing bad and doubtful debts. In the next half year,
nevertheless, the profits were at the rate of only £3 17s.
per cent, on the capital as written down, or but very
little more than half the present earnings. In 1899 there
were still deferred deposits amounting to £1,037,150.
Including - these, which have all since been repaid, the
total deposits at interest amounted then to £1,749,065,
and other deposits £603,769 ; while at present the de-
posits'at interest total £1,734,038 and other (or non-
interest-bearing) £1,020,392. The advances in 1899 were
£2,009,957 ;at present, £2,338,281. For five years after
1895 the deferred deposits carried only 2J per cent.,
which was less than the average paid recently for fixed
deposits. Either, therefore, in spite of the writing down
just previously carried out, the bank was . still making
very liberal provision for bad and doubtful debts in 1899,
or else the business nowadays is vastly more profitable.
On the published figures the rapid increase of profits three
or four years back is puzzling ; the most probable ex-
planation is that, as usual, in cleaning up, the manage-
ment didn’t go the w 7 hole hog, but still left a good deal of
the cleaning-up to be done out of earnings, and that this
trouble kept dow 7 n visible earnings for a few years. The
other possible explanation is that not enough provision
is being made for bad debts now ; but there is nothing to
support that. Present rate of profits is, for one thing,
not by any means excessive ; on the basis of capital and
reserves, as at the beginning of the half-year, the earn-
ings show the following return per annum :
Sept., 1901.. £6 12 7 p.c. Mar., 1904.. £7 15 0 p.c.
Mar., 1902.. 7 6 6 „ Sept., 1904.. 7 510 „
Sept., 1902.. 616 10 ~ Mar., 1905.. 711 11
Mar., 1903.. 614 9 „ Sept., 1905.. 7 1 6 „
Sept., 1903.. 7 1 8 „ Mar., 1906.. 7 711 „
The Bank of N.S. Wales, which didn’t have the advantage
of a cleaning-up after the bank troubles, showed for the
last half-year for which accounts are published £7 Bs. Bd.
per cent, per annum. Further, the Colonial Bank even
now, w'hen money is accumulating in most banks, has in
liquid assets only 35 per cent of its liabilities to the public,
and about half of that is earning money ; so there is no
reason at all why the present disclosed profit should not
be solid and real. The fact that it is so much more than
it was a few years back might suggest that, after the
general cleaning up, something special was done out of
profits in the way of building up inner reserves or in the
way of further writing down assets, which of course
would make the present situation all the better. As to
recent movements these figures talk for themselves :
Mar., ’O5. Mar., ’O6.
Notes in circulation .. £118,248 £120,703 Inc. £2,455
Bills in circulation .. 130,997 274,519 Inc. 143,522
Deposits at interest .. 1,609,781 1,734,638 Inc. 124,857
Deposits, current a/c. 958,631 1,020,392 Inc. 61,761
Liquid assets .. .. 916,503 1,104,502 Inc. 187,999
Premises, &c 250,059 251,921 Inc. 1,862
Advances .. .. 2,179,211 2,338,281 Inc. 159,070
Certainly, more advances mean that a bank can show
larger profits forthwith ; but a large increase of advances
carries a large risk these times. It is deplorable that it
should be so ; but the sad fact is that, in the absence of a
high tariff to promote industries, about the only local
outlet for money is, directly or indirectly, in land at
boom prices.
* * * *
The Wellington and Man aw atu Railway Co.
(Maoriland)
Railway' Land Dividends Total
Feb., Profits. Profits. and Bonus. Reserves.
1898 £63,124
1899 .. £6,258 £1,849 5p.c.=£8,500 62,731
1900 .. 8,094 8,099 5 „ „ 8,500 70,424
1901 .. 8,773 7,866 6 „ ~10,200 76,863
1902 .. 7,969 3,624 6,, ~10,200 78,256
1903 .. 10,361 35,221 16 „ ~27,200 96,638
1904 .. 11,066 6,940 7 „ ~11,900 102,744
1905 .. 10,389 6,201 7,, ~11,900 107,434
1906 .. 11,265 10,629 7 „ ~ 11,000 117,428
This looks all right; but it isn’t as right as it looks. In
the past five years, it will be seen, the railway profits
have amounted to £51,020 and the land profits to
£62,615. At the beginning of those five years the
freeholds available for sale were in the balance-sheet at
£52,698 ; after adding £4OOO for taxes accruing and
accrued, the present value is taken at only £25,598, which
is slightly under the Government valuation. It’s an
amazing fine thing, though, to be able to have £52,698
worth of land, and sell enough to make a profit of £62,615,
and then have £25,598 worth of land left over; but
though, as far as it goes, the co.’s business in this respect
looks a good deal like that of the widow’s cruse, still,
presumably the co.’s land supply must run out before
long, and take with it more than half the recent profits.
When that happens the co. will be left with the railway.
As written down out of profits that asset is valued at
£821,393 ; and on that amount the return shows £5 10s.
3d p.c. p.a. before paying interest (5 p.c.) on debentures.
The position is something like this: Sundry creditors
(including interest) have claims for £23,234. Assum-
ing that that much profit will be made: out of the
remaining- land, then the shareholders own £205,070 in
more or less liquid assets after paying those current
debts ; also they own a railway on which there is a 5 per
cent, debenture debt of £680,000, but which, on a capital
value of £821,393, last year showed a return of £5 10s. 3d.
per cent. And as the paid capital is £170,000, the share-
holders’ position is, thanks to the profits that have been
made out of the land concession, very comfortable. In
order to make these figures balance with those supplied
in the table above, it is necessary to add £29,000 to the
reserves. That is an item described as “ Maintenance of
line, insurance and contingencies,” and is provided out of
revenue, and charged'to profit and loss; £4500 was
charged last .year. This is in addition to the amounts
written off. Apparently it is mainly a sort of renewal
reserve.
■ •••»■
Some further details as to the working of the
Wellington and Manawatu line
Railway Working. Expenses to
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue.
1900 .. £94,046 £44,429 47‘2 per cent.
1901 .. 96,270 46,562 48'4 „
1902 .. 104,208 55,203 52'9
1903 .. 111,398 60,129 53'9 ~ -
1904 .. 122,183 63,682 52 T „
1905 .. 127,733 72,616 56'8 • „ •
1906 .. 132,460 75,280 56'8 „ .
Working- expenses do not include the variable amount set
aside for “ maintenance, insurance, and contingencies ” ;
nor directors’ and auditors’ fees, and rates and taxes. It
does, however, include the amount written off (last year,
£8619). The details of expenditure are not given. Possi-
bly the rather rapid increase of the expense rate may be
to some extent due to a larger charge for depreciation ;
this charge is certainly much larger than it was three or
four years ago, but, further back than that, the published
statements don’t give enough data to allow anything to
be said about the matter.
* * * *
The Townsville Gas and Coke Co. (Q.): —
Dividend and Written To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1901 .. —12 J = £1969 £3953
1902 .. £3505 10 „ „ 1575 £1930 . 5883
1903 .. 3466, 10 „ „ 1575 £lBO2 89 5972
1904 .. 3705 10 „ „ 1575 2130 8102
1905 .. 3751 10 „ „ 1575 1691 485 8587
1906 .. 3504 12J „ „ 1969 1335 200 8787
This co.’s annual statement of accounts is as complete
and satisfactory as that issued by any Australian gas co.
All the transactions appear to be set out, and (except,
perhaps, as to the state of the mains and other assets) the
shareholders are permitted to know about as much
regarding their business as the directors themselves ;
and the concern therefore inspires confidence. It will be
seen that nothing in the shape of a regular annual writing
down is done—unless, of course, we take the amount
spent on maintenance as an amount written off ; and
that, even though some co.’s do it, is not the sort of
jugglery that would commend itself to a management
such as this one appears to be. But why, with an over-
draft of £2566, on which it paid last year just upon £2OO
interest, did the co. break out this year into a 21 per cent,
bonus on top of the ordinary very handsome dividend?
There is no excuse for it in the state of the business ; in ,
fact, profits are less than usual. The capital is £15,000 ;
and the reserves, though solid (and more solid-looking
because of the size of the irregular writing-s-down), are all
sunk in the undertaking. Still, not much objection can
be taken to that so far ; for, after writing off 5 p.c. for the
year from the book-value of all plant, freehold property,
buildings, &c., the profit still shows just 71 p.c. upon the
whole of the assets ; and that’s as good an investment as
the co. is likely to get. Ail the same, when the co. has
paid off its overdraft, and has a little to put by, it might
do worse than find another nest to drop its egg into. For
bad things have happened to a good many North Queens-
land towns.
* * * *
Alstonville Co-operative Refrigerating Co.
(North Coast', N.S.W.), another of the little concerns
which are helping the farmers to make something out of
the Great Natural Resources
Shipping
Sup-
pliers’ Written Re-
Profit. Dividends. Bonus, off. serves.
June, ’O4 £175 £175
Dec., ’O4 375 10 p.c. =£lB £lB4 348
June,’os 620 £262 120 586
Dec., ’O5 387 10p.c. =£sB 120 795
This young co. has a confusing way of presenting its
accounts. For instance, though the report to June 30,
1905, showed that of the available profit and loss balance
of £406, £262 was to go as a bonus to exporters for
that half-year, the whole £406 is shown for the
next half-year as brought forward, and the bonus is
then debited to that half-year’s profit and loss.
The probable effect of showing £406 as “brought
forward from last half-year ” in this way is to suggest to
suppliers prospects of large bonuses that can’t be
realised. The bulk of the reserves are on account of
marine insurance (£665), and this probably isn’t the most
solid sort of reserve. On the other hand, close on to 10
per cent, per half-year is now being written off for wear
and tear of plant, &c. ; and unless the wear and tear is
something very extra, this allowance for depreciation
will soon establish some sort of an internal reserve. The
■Bulletin doesn’t know for certain, however, what the
wear and tear on a butter-factory plant really does
amount to. The price realised for the 260 tons of butter
made last half-year was lljd. per lb. ; the suppliers got an
average of lOd. per lb. But there is a difference between
the pound of butter that the farmer sells and the pound of
butter that the factory sells. The farmer gets paid accord-
ing to a butter-fat chart; and as the factory can often
make a considerable fraction more butter than the farmer
gets paid for according to chart, the fraction is the
factory’s profit. Something of that sort has evidently
happened in this case. Of course it doesn’t matter any-
thing worth mentioning in a co-operative concern, but it
matters a good deal when the cow-raiser is true to his
anti-Socialism, and supports Private Enterprise concerns.
* » w *
The Kyogle is another co-operative dairy co.
on the N.S.W. North Coast which has leaped almost
into front rank ; Kyogle was scrub two years ago, and is
now a township with a couple of banks and twice as many
pubs, but you can still get comfortably bogged up to the
axle in the main street. The Kyogle Co.’s paid capital is
only £1419 ; but it has already a formal reserve fund of
£4OO, a marine insurance reserve of £2OO, and an un-
divided profit of £275—a1l of this after paying what for
a co-operative dairy co. is the unusual dividend of 10 per
cent, per annum. The half-year’s gross profit was £BBO ;
£457 of this was set aside for depreciation (10 per cent,
per annum on buildings and 20 per cent, on machinery
and plant), and £2OO as insurance reserve. One of the
best features of the finance of practically the whole of
these co-operative butter-factories is the resolute manner
in which assets are kept written down. But for that, be-
ginning as they all do on what in other Circumstances
would be miserably insufficient capital, they would soon
be in trouble. In this Kyogle case, for instance, in spite
of the quite unusual profits that have been made, the
overdraft runs to £1552 (the capital is only £1419) ; and
whereas “other creditors” have claims for £4500, the
whole of the liquid assets, including outstanding ac-
counts, amount to only £2243.
• * * *
The Casino Co-operative Dairy Co. is shade
older than Kyogle, and has a paid capital of £2711. In
its last half-year it made a gross profit of £3ll ; but after
putting £2OO aside for the shipping-insurance reserve—
which, from the nature of the butter-export business, is
a doubtful kind of reserve —and writing off £145, the
balance of undivided profit was reduced from £538 to
£503. At the end of its last half-year this co. had a bank
balance of £1947 ; its entire liquid assets amounted to
£5700, and its liabilities to £4634. But new factory
buildings are being provided, and the next account will
show up a different position. Tliisco. pays a div. at the
rate of 5 p.c. p.a., and isn’t quite as liberal as some in the
matter of writing down assets that are subject to depre-
ciation.
* * * *
The March yields and profit or loss of the chief
Westralian mines were as follows Profits: Oroya,
12,5720 z. and £39,400; Great Boulder, 10,8270 z. and
£25,440; Fingall, 10,609 dz. and £22,360; Ivanhoe,
10,2600 z. and £21,050 ; Horseshoe, 13,3190 z. and £20,530 ;
Kalgurli, 71Q8oz. and £17,400; Associated Northern,
36000 z. and £lO,BOO ; Sons of Gwalia, 52120 z. and £10,030;
South Kalgurli, 33220 z. and £5050; Associated. 49200 z. and
£lBOO ; Lake View Consols, 36950 z. and £1570 ; Hainault,
1680 oz. and £1550-; Ida H.,10930z. and £l3OO ; Menzies
Consols, 8660 z. and £730; Golden Pole, 1201 oz. and
£680; Cumberland, 6190 z. and £630: North Feather,
1015 oz. and £520; Bellevue, 15640 z. and £460 ; North
End, 7lloz. and £450; Princess Royal, 7300 z. and £220 ;
Golden Ridge, 656 dz. and £2O; Red Hill, 7200 z.
and £9OO. Losses: Vivien, 5140 z. and £3150; Craig-
giemore, 511 oz. and £1536: Waihi, 4120 z. and
£570 ; and Cosmopolitan, 21780 z. and £5O. The main
features are the further decline in Great Fingall’s profits
by £640, although'the output in ounces was identical
with that of the preceding month ; the drop of 17910 z. in
the Perseverance yield, and Of £B4OO in the profits,
although 1000 tons extra were treated ; and the miserable
profit of Associated, owing to £BOOO being expended on
development. Golden Pole shows an increase in profit of
£390, and in yield of 890qz. ; Cosmopolitan for the first
time worked at a loss ; while Waihi shows a loss.of £570.
The big losses by Craggiemore and Vivien are
due to cost of plant, additions being debited to revenue.
The outlook all round is far from hopeful, except in the
case of Kalgurli, which shows an extra profit of £lBOO.
• * ■» *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, has now a dump of
530,000 tons of tailings, estimated to be worth 12s. 9d.
per ton, and, according to manager Hamilton, a profit of
Bs. per ton, or £212,000, can be made by re-treating. The
process to be employed is an invention by George Ridge-
way, the co.’s engineer. If Ridgeway’s process, which is
a patent, proves a success, gold mining' not only in W.A.,
but in every part of the world, will get such another
fillip as Broken Hill has recently got from the different
processes for zinc extraction. There are millions of tons
of tailings awaiting an effective and economical treatment
process, and if it does what is claimed for it, Ridgeway’s
process would just fill the bill. Dick Hamilton, who has
taken it up, is a shrewd man, though he did encourage
the Koeneman and Riecken processes—which, however,
was probably the directors’ fault. It will be some
months (three or four) before the plant is installed. If it
prove successful, things will then just hum.
* * * »
Boulder Perseverance has been shaping very
badly lately, the yield for the last three months reading
—83620 z., 73320 z., and 55410 z. Profits also have dwindled
as follows :—£20,400, £18,200, and £9BOO. Go. has kept
no bullion reserves since the row in Ralph Nichol’s time,
and this is the result. It is quite possible that a rich
patch' in the stopes may be found at any moment, and a
big advance in yield and profit ensue ; and that will play
into the hands of gamblers. Most of the big mines have
rich stopes, which can make up deficiencies on emergency,
but they were gouged out long ago in the Perseverance
and Lake View to furnish their fireworks returns.
* * * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, is, it is said, to devote
much less money to development and to remodelling of
plant, as directors are tired of waiting for resumption of
divs. They are apt to forget that, when G. M. Roberts
took charge a year ago, everything above and below
ground was one vastnmddle. Even the plans seem to have
been unreliable, as was suggested by the new boundary
lode being later on found to be actually in Perseverance
ground and not in Associated at all. Roberts expected
to have everything in order by January, but it was then
found that the roasting furnaces would have to be rebuilt.
Consequence is that extraneous expenses have been
abnormal. The Oroya shoot has also proved to be a will-
o’-the-wisp ; and, although it was supposed to be cut at
various times, it did not last long'. The Australia East
lode is the one bright spot.
* * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie,, is now opening up
at 300 ft., and the result is being- looked forwardAo with
much interest. Above 200 ft. the mine has produced 517
tons for 8158 oz. g-old and 37,9600 z. silver, and has paid
£32,400 in divs. Much ore of lower grade was left, as it
would not pay to treat at the smelters. The lode was
followed down to 290 ft. in a winze before it was decided
to equip and sink a main shaft, putting it down to 300 ft.
This work has cost the syndicate (which consists of some
half-a-dozen shareholders) £5OOO to £6OOO. Something
ought to be known shortly, as the lode should not be
very far from the shaft. Much depends on the result.
* * * *
North End, Kalgoorlie, although less than one
year old, has already got its fifth manag'er. Co. was
floated in Adelaide with a capital of £200,000 in £1 shares,
but scrip is held in few hands. Mine is equipped with a
second-hand 15-head mill, which was erected before de-
velopments were undertaken, and consequently there has
been a struggle for existence. Crushing started in Jan.,
since when returns have been 2630 z., 5610 z. and 711 oz. The
last return includes plate scaling, which is sure to have a
prejudicial effect on next return. The underground work
is now controlled by Krygger, who worked as a contractor
on the Associated for five years ; if given a free hand, he
will quickly knock the mine into shape. Most of the de-
veloped ore above 180 ft. has been worked out, but a fresh
level will be started at 280 ft. shortly. The mine has pro-
duced a lot of gold in a tinpot way, and has hitherto had
no chance of proving its merits through the manner in
which it has been handled.
* » * *
On Sept. 30th the South Kalgurli (W. A. ) had ore
reserves amounting to 123,000 short tons, worth 9'3odwt.,
or 395., asagainst 114,200 tons, worth 9'sodwt., or 405., on
Jan. 31. The grade of ore has been gradually falling, and
last month panned out at 365. 6d. per ton. Profit
amounted to 13s. Id. a ton, or £5050 on the 7710 tons
treated. Since ore reserves were previously estimated,
about 60,000 tons have been treated, so development has
kept well ahead of mill. The main shaft is now being
sunk straight away from 1200 ft. to 1500 ft., hence very
little ore will be developed during the next three or four
mouths. Some time back a bore pierced ore 14ft. wide,


How to
Make
Your
will
'V"
® s
°r
. ■
S»J|C
RSMiC
%
fV/
%
r-%
*>yf,
So tKaiit
wm be
Carried
out.
T: ;
ii
,HUSTtt
COMPANY
iiif.
V, ‘»-*>i. V
SPRING ST.,SYDNEY
worth 40z., at a depth of 1500 ft. 345 ft. north of Perse-
verance boundary and 90ft. south from the Hainault. If
shaft-sinking confirms the drill results, there should be a
big boom in this scrip, as well as in bore
Hainault. It is worth remembering, however, that bore
results are rotten reeds to lean on.
* * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans, after closing down its
mill for several months, made a new start lo weeks ago,
and the result has been rather disastrous. During eb.
2600 tons, averaging 18s. 2d. per ton} were treated and
during March 4200 tons, worth 245. 3d. per ton. Needless
to say, these results do not show much of a margm.Mine
is equipped with 60 head, of which half are 12501 b. and
half 15001 b. This battery can easily treat 7000 tons
monthly, and shareholders were assured that it would do
so whenever crushing was resumed ; but predictions nav
not been verified. The mine, which has in the past been
bossed by young gentlemen who were their fathers s '
is now in charge of manager Martin, who is trying to lick
things into shape under a severe handicap. *
So far as the co. is concerned, Westralia Mt.
Morgans has finally decided to reconstruct. This step
ought to have been taken at least a year ago ; but A. r..
Morgans, the local managing director and largest share-
holder, got the evil day deferred. Co. is at present in
480,000 shares of ss. each ; it is proposed to issue 40,000
more, or one for each 12 held, to be given for the adjoin-
ing Lily mine, and to issue 130,000 preferred, or one for
each four ordinary. These pref. shares are to take all
profits till they receive 100 per cent., after which both
classes of shares rank alike for divs. till the prefs. have
received a second 100 per cent., and then the latter will
rank as ordinaries.
*•* * *
Mining on the Murchison (W.A.) looks up.
Black Range shows are turning out well, and at Day
Dawn a local co. is giving the Kinsella another try. this
Kinsella was taken up by a Bull co. nine years ago, but
was abandoned after a pot of money had been spent on it.
Tom Hewitson, who had worked the Port Phillip, at
Clunes (Vic.), for about 20 years, and had made it pay
well on a quarter of an ounce, managed the Kinsella, and
when he gave it best, it was thought good enough to leave
alone. Still the local people appear likely to make some-
thing of it. The Trenton, about a mile from the Great
Fingall, originally owned by W. R. Wilson and Co.,
proved a great disappointment and was also abandoned.
Now a fresh start is being made and, as there is a big
lode at water level, it may turn out all right, costs having
been cut to less than one-lialf of what they were in the
early davs, when it sometimes took four months to get a
six-ton boiler from Geraldton. Victory United, at Cud-
dingwarra, 10 miles from Cue, has had several small
crushings, the yields from which have been satisfactory ;
but the mine is unreliable—country hard diorite, reef
small, and water intensely salt.
* * * *
Northern Block Syndicate, Southern Cross
(W.A.), has cleaned up 1060 tons ; average, 365. 7d. per
ton. This compares with 375. sd. per ton for February,
and should leave a fair profit, though no costs are given.
00. has had a lot of trouble with breaking shanks, which
are said to have become crystallised while the mill was on
the Associated. * * *
Water is pouring into the Broken Hill North,
Junction, and Junction North .at the rate of about
700,000 gallons a day, which is all that the mains will
carry ; and at that rate it will take till about .May 15 id
submerge the burning section of the Junction. Under
the best conditions it will take about eight or nine
weeks to bail the water out again ; but it is by no means
certain that the best conditions will prevail. The Junc-
tion North shaft, which is close up to the boundary (a 3
it was at one time thought that the Junction North
would catch the lode only in a corner of its lease), has
been under suspicion for some time ; and, without a doubt
it has partially collapsed now. So far it isn t beyond
patching ; but then it has to go through a lot of soaking
and softening yet. Opinions are divided as to whether the
co. shouldn’t dive in at once and get down a new shaft. If
that is necessary, Junction North shares, though they
came down smash to 135., will get very close back to the
price they stood at 14 months ago—about /s. 6d. And
that will be quite right, too. For if it can’t work the
mine through the old shaft, apart from the cost of sink-
ing a new one (.say £lO,OOO at least, even using the old
equipment), the co. will lose the present metal market,
and will most likely find itself in a position to start pro-
duction again when prices are at low-water, and the
Junction North has never, in all its history, been able to
make profits with the metal market at low water. In
fact, the co. hasn’t paid a div. since 1897, though, cer-
tainly, its prospects six months ago were better than
ever they had been before, quite unexpected quantities of
ore having been developed.
The longer the Broken Hill northern mines are
submerged the greater the danger of collapse. And that
makes the partial collapse of the Junction North shaft all
the more serious. If the Junction can t work (anything
may happen at the Junction), and the Junction North is
put out of the fight, the North will have to do the
unwatering single-handed, which will mean twice the
time, and pretty well twice the risk of collapse.
* * * *
The only one of the northern group of mines at
Broken Hill that is able, to do anything is the Junction—
the mine in which the fire is burning. It is trying to make
a desperately-needed copper or two by re-treating its tail-
ings, and by picking at a little bunch of ore which was
developed recently in old workings up towards the
British, and away from the main workings, which are
connected with the Junction North and the North. The
Junction is in 200,000 shares, on which Is. 6d. remains to
be called (6d. is due on May 9th) ; and as the co. has to
pay 75 p.c. of the cost of flooding the mines, and has no
other resources, it isn’t in a position to toss money
about. 1
So far as the miners are conoerned, the closing
down of the three northern mines at Broken Hill, and
the Are trouble at the B.H. Prop., are not as serious as
miwht have been expected, though still bad enough.
Compared with the position at the beginning of the year,
there are probably 300 men out of place. Owing to high
metal prices and the activity of the Zinc Corporation,
the pay sheets at the South, Block 10, Central (Sulphide
Corporation) and other mines have been increased, and
the best of the displaced workmen have been snapped up.
The Sulphide Corporation alone has put on over 350 men
since the start of the year. That is the usual result of a
temporary shut down; when work starts again, the
mine finds its best men snug in some other co.’s service,
and it has to pull through on the other mines cast-offs.
A scientific correspondent on the smothering of
mine fires : “Seems as if Broken Hill, Junction and two
heio-hboring mines to the north are about to exchange one
jot of difficulties for others. Sending water down and
flooding the mines seems easy, but pumping it out, with
the pumps and shafts out of order, wilt be a long job.
Anyway, the flooding idea is about as crude and unscien-
tific as can be thought of. This is a suggesUon-too late
in this case, no doubt, but possible V* out etHo
stances. Block up openings, drives, inlets and outlelb t
be got at. Lay down (at the Junction in this case) a gas
generating plant to produce carbonic acid ga .
the gas down to water level over the fire area, and keep
the extinguishing process and gas supply g?* n £.
month. Then start to neutralise the carbonic acid gas
with quicklime, which, dissolved in the mine water,
would form carbonate of lime. The j ~
be expensive, but the carbonic acid gascoulcl
be generated by using sulphuric acid on carbonates or
soda, producing (as by-product) sodium s ulP and car
bonic acid. Sodium sulphate (salt cake) has t 0
imported to Broken Hill; Perhaps carbonate of soda
would be cheaper.” Under then-metallurgist SchlapP s
advice and direction, by the way, the B.H. P rO P- dld
to smothei its first tire, 13 years ago, with carbonic; acid
gas ; but the experiment was abandoned, as the g as ®° .
not be forced down with sufficient energy to reach t
places where it was most needed, and because of the ditn-
culty in the way of stopping outlets. Certainly the va
B.H. Prop, is one thing and the northern group of com-
paratively little mines is another. #
“Bromide”: Three things are responsible for
the drop in North Broken Hill’s profits. (1) During the
first part of last half-year they were working very ncn
ore, and orders were given underground to send up po
dirt with it, so that losses in tailings would not look so
big. Latterly they could not get to this r 1 0" dirt > a ®
most of it came from the lower levels, and the water
poured into the J unction had practically closed those parts,
so they have been compelled to work on much poorer dirt
on the 600 ft. and 700 ft. levels, where the lode is split
in many places by big intrusions of rhodonite and sand-
stone. (2) They are not picking the eyes out of the mine
now, but are taking it as it comes, and everything goes
to the mill. Before, if the average dropped, they were
very particular indeed over what went up, and dirt tnat
would be welcomed now was buried as being too poor.
(3) The mill management isn’t all it should be. xne
North is a tip-top mine, with plenty of rich dirt in it,
but its management has its weak spots. Many miners
believe that the so-called hanging-wall is not
the true wall at all, but simply an intrusion.
At the 600 ft. thev went through this supposed wall and
struck a fair-sized lode, which they are working now
under the name of the “ Western vein.” It is more than
likely that they would meet the same body lower down
if they drove for it. If what they have been working is
the true wall, then the North has two lodes ; but this
can onlv be proved by crosscutting or diamond-drilling.
As it has been decided to flood the Junction, the North
has shut down. Hard luck for the North, with metals
high ; but its own fault to a great extent—it had no ri B ht
to break the boundary wall.
* • * "
“M C ” : How much Australian zinc ore pro-
duction is at the mercy of the foreigner will be under-
stood if the Customs returns giving the value received tor
zinc ore, are looked at. The Australian gets £2 3s. 4d.
per ton at present for zinc concentrates, averaging about
42 p.c. zinc, with any silver or lead thrown in. That
price means very little more than £5 per ton of the zinc
contained in the ore. So, assuming only half the z.no s
recovered, and without troubling to calculate any value
forsilverand lead obtained, the money that gets into the
foreigners’pocket is greater than that which finds its way
into the Australians’ bag. Also, unless the foreigner is
making such large profits that he can stand a drop of £5
or so in spelter, the trade in zinc concentrates seems a
very precarious affair ; a slump of £5 would theoretically
put the business out of joint, for it just about equals the
Is. per unit of zinc contents which the Australian gets.
» * *
Turon : A syndicate has been formed in bydney,
40 shares at £5 each, to cut a tail race about lj miles, near
the old Turon River (N.S.W.) to drain a water-hole. The
yarn is that quantities of gold will be obtained in this
water-hole. In the golden days on the Turon,
about 80 Chinamen tried this pool and failed.
It is a general experience of old gold diggers that watei-
holes contain little or no gold ; the very fact of
tion of waterholes in streams tells experienced men that
neither “drift” nor gold had a chance to stop at such
places, being swept over the bars and away. The pro
spects of the scheme do not look hopeful.
r w
After months of barneying, Lloyd’s Copper Co.
IN S W.) and the trustees of Hockey’s Estate, next door,
have come to terms, and the threatened closing-down of
what, outside Cobar, has been N.S. Wales best copper-
producer has been averted. #
Queensland, with its almost limitless supply of
coal, is finding out what even a small dose of Protection
will do in the way of opening up a market. During IJU4
the State exported altogether 132 tons of coal and mos
of that was an accident. Thanks to a rebate of 9d. per
ton which the Government agreed to allow to all vessels
shipping 500 tons and upwards of coal, the exports for
1905 lumped to 6677 tons, and at the present rate it seems
safe to sav that the exports for the current year will
easily double that. So much for the ninepence-per-ton
form of Protection ; but how much more advantageous
to the State it would be if, through a reasonable tariff,
Queensland found itself doubling its home consumption,
supplying its own mills and factories instead of somebody
else’s'l * , . .
Market rumor that Lawrence Wilson would
shortly retire from the management of the New Ravens-
wood, Ltd., and kindred N.Q. concerns is untrue. It
would be surprising if, at this juncture, Wilson and his
English friends parted company. With the new shaft
sroinsr down, and the demand for economies on the New
Ravenswood, and the Ravenswood Deep requiring con-
tinued watchfulness, the caprice of Ravenswood lodes
would not be easily appreciated by a newcomer.
Delay in securing the money for the Etheridge
CO ) railway is already nipping some of those who have
taken up leases in the Georgetown district. Exemptions
from labor conditions aggregating six months are now
expirin o 'in some cases, and the Warden is disinclined to
grant renewals without reference to the Minister.
Messrs. Black, Bell and Blackman, an allitera-
tive trio representing the Chillagoe Go. and the Queens-
land Government Railways and Survey, have been out to
Georgetown and on to Charleston to determine whether
it would not be advisable to make the latter the terminus
of the Etheridge line instead of Georgetown. Residents
of the latter are consequently beginning to bark. Obvious
that a line which made Georgetown its terminus would
be neither one thing nor the other as far as the Etheridge
field is concerned. If the line runs through Georgetown,
that should be sufficient for the local people ; and the
proposal to take it further south warrants close investiga-
tion. Meanwhile, where is the money for any of it l
Lilydale-Burketown (Q.) railway scheme, with
which is associated the exploitation of the Lawn Hills
mines, owned by the Queensland Silver Lead Mines Ltd
is apparently getting no “ forrarder.”_ The Bananaland
papers have printed an apparently inspired par. to the
effect that they believe the syndicate will ultimately
succeed but that at present the money for construction
is not within view, the London market having gone to
pieces because of the Rand trouble, the British elections,
and several other things that should have no bearing
upon Australian industry. Truth is gradually dawning
uDon Australian promoters that the distant fields of this
land no longer appear green to the English jobber. For a
reasonable speculative Australian proposition there is to-
dav more money in the local market than is likely to be put
up bv Bull. Queensland Silver Lead Mines has until Ist
July wherein to make a start on construction of its line
and until 1908 to complete, otherwise its deposit of £5OOO
“ shall ”be forfeited. Queensland Treasury looks as if it
has a good chance of getting #
Bailing in the north-eastern portion of Gympie
field (Q ) °is again causing trouble. Columbia Consoli-
dated lias lately closed down ; and as this mine, by
bailing kept most of the other mines dry, a meeting
representing different mines concerned was called. At
the meeting Columbia Consolidated asked £5 per week
for wear and tear and use of machinery, the actual cost
of bailino- and damages to be borne by co.’s contributing.
The work was also to be under the management of
Columbia Consolidated. The meeting decided that it
couldn’t accept the terms. Columbia Extended and No.
2 North Columbia Smithfield are now to be asked if they
will tackle the job for the same subsidies that were
promised to Columbia Consolidated.
No. 2 North Columbia and Smithfield, Gympie
(Q) after lO 1 uneventful years, shows much brighter
prospects. As the lease comes under the heading of
Eastern Ground ventures, its success will be of general
benefit to the field. At heavy cost the management has
discovered that a slide has thrownthe countryslate
down to the east. Thus to cat the”‘2nd bed ‘ *lat;e a
shaft had to be sunk 1330 ft. instead of 1250 ft. m etra
mated. A diorite dyke 12ft. to 60ft. thick has also been
a trouble. Now 21ft. of slate has been found east of t
dyke. Hence the cloud seems to be eleann|. The flat
reef carrying 9in. to 18in. of quartz crushed 9 i .
3490 z. gold during November last. This reef a •>
have been proved for 300 ft. along the
another small reef to operate on near the boundary.
These two reefs have also to be worked in the top slate.
Shares have jumped 2s. 6d. in last three weeks. Co.
crushes with five head of stampers. #
The Junction Deep Leads of Victoria iff to be
reconstructed with a woefully inadequate capital. But
Allen H. P. Stoneham never uttered a decidedword of
warning about the inadequacy of the capital at the meet
ing of shareholders, as lie might have done out of the
fullness of his knowledge, since he knew that the Char
lotte Plains and New Havilah co.’s have had to plank
down a long way over £lOO,OOO to get to the reproduc-
tive point. What was preached by Stoneham and his
co-director Wethered was that the waiting game had
given the co. a partially-drained area, as the pumps
Charlotte Plains and the Victorian Deep Leads had taken
off the water. This is probably true, and it‘ s an instanc
of the kind of “ mining ” that Minister M Leod ought to
jump on with both feet as vigorously asi he
has on the royalty evil. Junction Deep has probably
spent over £30,000, and for this it .holds a
quarter interest in the power station at Charlotte Plains
and an equipped shaft. A drive has been put out 700 ft
towards the Majorca lead, which is to be worked. When
the boring up is begun, the co.’s shortness of u “*"'
be manifest. There may be an opportune deep-lead boom
on just then to induce Bull to put his hand deeper into
his pocket; if there isn’t, the benefits of thei proposed
present expenditure may not manifest. If that catcn-
penny, the Duke United, was not on the verge of dreadful
despair, it might have been used as an argument
further contributions. At present, however, it. o y
serves to the Bull crowd as an example of the costliness
and uncertainty of deep-lead mining. #
Hustler’s Reef No. 1 tribute, Bendigo is to
expire. The co. offered the Hustlers Beef Co..for a re-
newal of its tribute for five years, 10 per cent, of the gross
yield of gold, and was willing to hand over its plant free
of cost at the end of the extended term, and to sink the
shaft 300 ft. during the first three years. But the HK.
Co.’s shareholders said “ No,” and so will end the life
a very prosperous little tributing venture. Minister
M‘Leod was a disturbing element, through not
seeing that, despite the general iniquity or
royalty arrangements, there are occasions when
it is wise to put the telescope to the blind eye.
As the best gold has been got in the northern part or tne
lease (worked by the No. 1 Co.), the record has been all
in favor of the tribute ; on a called-up capital of about
£15,000, No. 1 Co. has been paid about £105,000 in divs.,
while Hustler’s Reef, the parent co., with a called-up
capital of over £113,000, has only returned in divs. ±-73,700.
No. 1 is still on good gold, and is naturally losing no time
in belting it out so as to make the most of its opportu-
nities before the tribute ends in July.
* • * *
It is well to at least try to live up to a namee
and the Champion, Mack’s Creek (Vic.), is doing that in the
wav of puffs. Still shares are worth only 3d., and no ony
is very venturesome about bidding at that; which surele
brings the co. into the list of champions, though at thn
end which generally takes the booby prize. Reports evet
at this stage of championship breathe the old spirit o
optimism. True, not much is now' heard of the bOtt.
formation, which should have gone ounces instead or
grains. Still it has “ gone down,” for the latest reports
tell that the “lode underfoot is wearing a splendid
appearance, the gold shoots having lengthened and
widened, while the best gold seen in the mine has been
broken in the bottom of the winze.” Good old Champion,
to tell what is underfoot on the strength of the winze.
Star of the West had some “bonzer” returns from its
winze ; still there came disappointment. The best thing
to do in the Mack’s Creek district is to paste up in big
letters the old miners’ saying : “ Where it is, there it is.
If Champion will only do that, and not let its reports get
out of perspective with results, it will be far more worthy
of its title than it has been in the past.
* * * *
One of the greatest little-goes in Commonwealth
mining is to be found at Harrietville (Vic.), where a co-
operative party has been punching away for 20
years, driving a tunnel to pick up the down-
ward continuation of reefs that, once made the district
famous. To-day the tunnel is in 3843 ft., so that
the progress made has been nearly 200 ft. yearly,
or roughly 4ft. a week. It would be a nice schoolboy
problem to show what could have been saved had the co.,
instead of going on so leisurely, put in rock drills, or
paid the Government to try the ground with the
diamond drill. So far, £10,250 has gone for the work.
The State could show its sympathy with bona fide mining
by sending up a drill and testing the country, as a
revival at Harrietville would help mining in the State at
a time that it needs a stimulant badly. As it is, the
Mines Department begrudges the co. even a geological
surveyor to tell it whether it is driving in the right
direction. The co. should whisper that “a saddle is
showing; then it would get a visit from the chief
surveyor of them all. The word would do it.
* ♦ • *
The heavy arm of the spec, seller, in punching
the wind out of half the Tasmanian tin shows, is doing a
public service in a roundabout way. Gladstone, as a one-
dredge show, is slowly getting down to the level of Ringa-
rooma. All the 20s. call will be wanted to make the
financial beam approach the level. McCallum says he is
in trouble with silt. Then why doesn’t he cut into the
flat and dam the silt out? His statement dispels
for ever the least hope that tin will be got fiom
under the piled-up sludge of the Ringarooma River,
even if floods hadn’t scoured it out before the advent of
the miner in the district. Next, the Ringarooma dredge
seems to be laboring over a heap of troubles before it can
scrape across the river. To energise the market, how
would it do for Laurence Grayson to take Wally Smith,
Ward, and the rest over on another trip to do some fresh
boring, and to gain a little of the faith which they have
lost, but which set the gamble in dredging shares going l
Then another expedition might be led by Northey and
Langford, to be welcomed, of course, by their old friend
Bryant on the Briseis Extended, or perhaps at the Weld-
brook. It would be like old times to get one of Northey s
“up guards and at ’em” .messages again, and to see
Langford button-holing friends in the same impressive
manner. But mutual ills have to be borne, and it is hard
to put on a perky appearance when yields are low and
share values fluttering down to zero.
* * * *
S. Australia has half an idea that it has un-
earthed another gold mine—this time at King’s Bluff.
This is in the Olary district, in the rough, barren wilder-
ness that you pass through on the road to Broken Hill.
The ground is held by a syndicate made up mostly of
Wallaroo and Broken Hill miners. Some Moonta men
had it first, and tried to push off a company, 500 shares
of £5 each; but the thing stuck. The .public had bad
enough of that district. All over the barren hil,s there
are pot-holes; you can get gold almost anywhere (S.
Australia’s biggest alluvial rush, Teetulpa, is in this
country); but it is patchy, and at or about water level
the ore is refractory pyrites. Only a third of the shares
were therefore taken. Now, though the workings are
still shallow, rich stone has been struck, but whether it
is only a patch or not remains to be proved. Still, the
shares that wouldn’t go off at £5 are being soaked up
now at £2O. _ . ;
A find of thorium was made, lately, in this same
big, scattered, and as yet superficially-prospected run of
S Australian mineral country. ' But, as usual, when the
prospector comes to sell these comparatively rare mine-
rals, he finds a vaslfdifference betw’een the. price he is
offered and the value quoted in the text-books., A bath
in thorium solution, by the way, is said to be responsible
for the ghostly, luminous effects in the lately-popular
“ Radium dance.” \'l :
* * * ■ * Ji-i -■
Efforts are now being made at some concerted
action amongst the various States to fix a minimum price
for Australian hardwoods, which at present are in great
demand in various foreign markets. Tearing down the
forests for the use of others is a poor sort of industry at
the best, and conditions are not improved when, in its
haste to tear things down and root things up, private
enterprise cannot do it at remunerative rates, and the
foreigner is enabled to pit the various States against each
other with considerable gain to himself. Owing to the
blank indifference of the State Legislatures in matters of
forest conservation, there may soon not be enough good
timber left to worry about,.but while there is a scrap or,
two it should be looked after.
Perplexed : In the order you have named
them, though your children will probably see the second
first. . _ - _L
*** , i
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to-
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * * *
Although the Wilfley Coy. failed in their
attempt to get an injunction against the Card Con-
centrator, they succeeded by threats in frightening a
good many people, but they did not go beyond threats
because they knew they could never get an injunction
against the Card. Now that the High Court has unani-
mously, and in a very strongly expressed judgment
declared that the Wilfley invention was public property
when the patent was taken out and the patent therefore
invalid, they are no longer able to make idle threats in
the endeavor to block the use of a Concentrator, which,
in the opinion of experts, combines very important im-
provements in the Concentrating art. N. Guthi ldge, Ltd.
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
maintenance It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already cr eated
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all pares of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
“Upright” boiler. B. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Svdney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * *
Journal op Commerce (Liverpool), July 12,
1901 writes, regarding the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited“ The rate of interest yielded by
the funds after deduction of amount to credit of invest-
ment fluctuation fund was £4 3s. lOd. per cent., which
cannot but be looked upon as exceptionally good. The
year all round was one of business depression so that the
figures shown must be considered satisfactory evidence of
shrewd and energetic management.”*
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, JSo
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to B. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* ,
Electric haulage is one of the best paying in-
vestments for every mine in which the wash-dirt has to be
hauled from a greater distance than 2000 feet. The actual
saving effected at the Berry Consols Extended Mine,
Allendale, amounts to £3O per week at a distance*)]f 3000
feet; at the Great Southern Consols Mine, Butheiglen, it
runs into £45 per week, at a distance of 5000 feet; in both
instances the necessary plant which was to
replace the manual labor has cost but £l2OO. Experience
has proved that at a distance of 4000 feet dectric haulage
cost a auarter of that of horse traction and a tenth of hand
trucking The Charlotte Plains and New Havillah Mines
at Moolort are the latest to. adopt electric hau l a g e > a "“
have again proved it to be highly satisfactory. The favor-
able results obtained with these ll ?* tal ' atl "nd
doubtedly due in a great measure to the reliable and
smooth operation of the electric apparatus, especially the
locomotives adopted, which were all supplied and erected
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, limited, corner
of Hanna and Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, agents
for Ganz and Company, Budapest, Hungary. This
devoted special attention to mine haulage Problems. and
during their 14 years’ experience have brought up their
mine locomotives and other haulage apparatus to the
highest degree of perfection.* „ l ' 1
Important Notice to Mine Managers and Users
of Concentrators, Wilfley Concentrate EuLles.—The Wil-
fley patent has not been revoked ; the patent remains in
full force and effect. Judgment was given against the
Wilfley Syndicate by the High Court, on the ground that
the invention had been anticipated in Victoria by a publi-
cation circulating in the State of Victoria but they upheW
the decision of the Supreme Court that the Caid lable
was an infringement; the Wilfley patents in other Aus-
tralian States are not affected in any degree whatever.
The Wilfley Syndicate is appealing to the Privy Council to
have the decision of the High Court upset and lead-
ing patent counsel have already been engaged to argue
the case in England. Mine Managers and others are
warned that actions will be taken against all infringers
of the Wilfley patents, whether they be users or manu-
facturers.—The Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd.
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street. Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.* # .
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mecnanical stokers, inis
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placin
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at Haymarket,
Sydney.* . * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price.. Large stocks of Morgans Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description.' H. B. Silberberu and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pips have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* 4 * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tiou on the field.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable, information and quota-
tions communicate with J, M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. it..
The balance of Machinery and Plant at Block
14, Co. Works, Port Adelaide, is for Sale by Tender,
returnable 24th April, 1906. Lists on application to
Butterworth, Hancock & Co., Port Adelaide.* .
* * * *
Commonwealth, and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


YOUR ENGAGEMENT RING.-We are from
London to supply you. That will explain whv we can
interest and offer you more than most. We lead with
these unique gifts, and, moreover, facilitate your means
of immediate purchase if necessary by our novel and easy
plan of Monthly Deferred Payments. Our jewellery is of
modern, high-class and newest design. English Hall-
marked 18ct. rich-carved half-hoop setting, purest gems
from 40s. to £6O. Deposit and terms are easy, and can be
privately arranged. Write or call for our illustrated cata-
logue of jewellery and plate, free. It will pay you to do
it now. The British Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-street
corner of Bridge-street, Sydney. ’
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Bi’ewery, Agents.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 & 411 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
Hexham ” : Be “ Maori Mac’s ” deriva-
tion of “shicker’’ (booze), from Spanish-American
ni°-r , fc ! e P°P ular drink of Peru and
.*?!“• Chicha, or “chichabaya,”not “ chica,”
is the name of the beverage (wine made from boiled
must). “Chica” is the feminine of “chico”
small. ’
* * • »
Philo : In the matter of ‘ ‘ shicker ”
“ Maori n Mac ” (B. 12/4/06), pooh-poohing
Belter, says the word is derived from the
Spanish-American “chica,” and asks “Who
ever heard of an Australian studying Hebrew to
nnd a name for tanglefoot ?” “ Mac ” is wrong,
lhe word should be pronounced “shikor,"'accord-
ing to the Hebrew spelling; but most Hebrews
themselves pronounce it wrongly. The mean-
ing of “ shikor ” is strong drink, intoxfcat-
inglmuor; it is a derivative of “shokor,” “to
drink to the full, to drink to hilarity, to make
oneself drunken.” Spite of “Maori Mac ” there
are nmny siang words which come directly from
the Hebrew—for instance, inozel—luck (turned
into mozzle ”). The tired Australian talks
about haying “hard moz.” “ Kosher ”is another.
Its actual meaning is “to be right.” Stamped on
the meat expressly killed for the Jews, it means
ritually correct. ’ In answer to the conventional
‘ How are you ?” one often gets back “ All kosher ”
lhe American, especially the K’Yorker, is par-
ticularly prone to mix Hebrew with his Ameri-
can - (Please note: “gordam” isn’t Hebrew.)
And anyhow, the Australian is just as likely to
‘study” Hebrew as Spanish-American for his
slang. [Don’t know about the last assertion
breorge Dibbs, for instance, haunted the Spanish
mam m his seafaring days, and might have
brought back some of the language ; but he didn’t
go sailing to B.j
HIS RATE OF TRAVELLING.
MOTORIST (who has just fallen from a second-
storey window): “ Eight miles an hour , con-
stable; not a second faster , I’ll swear. ”
“Trony,” of Queensland, discourses on
maize:—
Re ya.r (B. 22/3/’O6) about a farmer who strolled into
Vic. Agricultural Department with maize 7ft. 6in. high.
It may be unusual, grown just outside Melbourne: but
here in my own maize patch in the fallen scrub I have
dozens of stalks 12ft. high, odd ones higher. Real high
ones generally have about three cobs on, sometimes none
Average in Queensland is about 9ft. But we don’t aim
for high corn ; the short, thick stalk generally has the
best cob (not cobs). The farmer is well satisfied with one
good cob. The “ go-on-the-land young man” has a
beaten track to the stalk on his farm : it always has three
cobs on. Bah 1
“ Dandaloup ” : When “ Gunner ” (B.
22/3/ 06) starts talking about the absorptive power
of things, and states that he will back Greasy
Jim against all comers, I think it time for some-
one else to chip in. “Gunner” evidently has
never heard of the purple acacia tree (known
among bushmen as the “ purple sweater,” a rela-
tive of Fat’s), which I guarantee to absorb any-
thing wet within a three mile-radius. It would
withinhb? n and the Public-house
‘ .the load of liquor that is on the
replenish the pub. The purple acacias,
AnstrnT 6 ve^ sca F c e, grow in the far Nor’-west of
itrt* f rh 7 ha j ve a purple-brown leaf and
7“,,’l lU 7 U u ed , W 1 th , thousands of small holes,
which they absorb the moisture. They
E tok T the ?°' ver of dra wing moisture to
’/° metimes fl i om S r ? at distances. In the
y ry seasons the natives eagerly seek the
purple acacia, and I have known a native to live
eV>I»- WeeiS 7 bark alone, in country where
there was not a drop of water to be found. If
25*“ a drinking competition I enter my tree
with confidence m the heavy-weight class.
* * * *
, (writing in a firm, gentle
*7® - ,j"T”,j ß 'W° s ) goes off at a ridi-
bat and talks bosh. So far as I know
pg ° f ~G u. n ne/ r s , type, I’d back him as
champion suctiomst (of beer) of the world, and
that is a pretty big district. Who wanted any
rn^fv n i° n betwe en animate objects and inani-
{a ™ su re I didn’t. If he wanted to talk
lot about Greasy Jims” and camels, he might
just as well have incldded hjmself in the running.
As a matter of opinion. I’d take 1,000,000 to i
b,s obances of passing the winning post first
in the Beer Suction Stakes. I know his breed
very well. But all the same, if he had been
sensi j!e and talked about bales of stuffs instead
■ other things, I could have forgiven him. As it
is, I condemn him for being one of those who talk
for the sake of talking, and very often drink for
the sake of drinking. He does not explain when
a man «s dead, but begs the question from me,
and he might know that I am too pushed for time
to go into the matter at length. I’ll bet he knows
when a horse is dead, though. As I said, greasy
wool grows without nourishment from the skin,
and why. should not hair? Can “Gunner” say
for certain if hair will grow after it has been
amputated ? I don’t suppose he has any hair
himself—those bad old men seldom have. ’ Also,
l a like to. know his record for a day’s drinking,
and who paid for the drinks. I want “ Gunner ’’
to understand I am very much annoyed with him,
and if he likes to meet me some dark night I’ll
settle all questions of deadness.
* * + •+
“A.P.R ” ; The reason why ants depart
when rubbish is heaped on their abode is primarily
their pass!on for tidiness. Drop a blade of grass
on the nest, and a nuisance inspector at once
appears and hooks on to it. It takes him some
time to remove it, for every second ant he meets
starts tugging it in the opposite direction, while
others get on top and have a cheap ride. I engi-
neered it one day so that the same ant carried off
three blades of grass. At the fourth blade, how-
ever, he resigned his position in the municipality,
and retired into the bush with a disgusted air.
Many bushmen say that ants commit suicide for
the good of the community during rain by blocking
up the entrances with their bodies, to prevent the
ingress of water which might drown out the com-
monwealth.
* * » *
The rabbit-trapper is not popular in any
part of Australia with the land owner, whom he
is trying to relieve of the plague, but in Victoria
the man on the land hates the trapper with great
cordiality, and is
not quite sure
whether the rab-
bit plague is not
preferable to the
plague of rab-
bi ters. One rea-
son why the boss
cocky looks cross-
eyed at the trap-
per lies in the
latter’s fondness
for mutton. He
has eaten rabbit
till he loathes
rabbit in every
edible shape,
and when a jum-
buck goes mis-
sing the popular
suspicion is that
it has wandered
down the throats
of the rabbit
mechanics. A
relative of the
writer went with
a Goulburn val-
ley farmer to a
trappers’ camp
a few weeks
back, and found
m the trappers hard
at it, eating mutton stew. Two legs of mutton
hung in a tent, a lot more sheep was in pickle
and the skin was there, but with the brands burnt
out. ihe farmer raved, declaring the rabbiters
were devouring his substance. “Your sheep be
jiggered ; ” answered the boss of the camp with
his face full of mutton. “You can call the dam
thing what you like; all I know is I caught it in
my rabbit trap.’’ It is a law with trappers that
anything caught in a rabbit trap is rabbit.
* * # 9.
The recent greatest rains on record pro-
duced in Queensland many sudden new industries
mostly m the boat-building and house-building
line. Boats were built where they had never
been before, and often by people who had never
seen a boat save in a picture. Near Blackall a
settler and his family were obliged to seek refuge
in a large tree, where they remained for 40 hours
lheir specialty was house-building of the tree-
dweller’s variety. Tables, beds and other goods
were dragged up into the branches and fixed there
securely with ropes, and the family settled down
—or up. Provisions were moored to the tree. A
perforated oil drum hung oil to a branch did
service as a sto-ve, and a covering was rigged up
Besides the family three sheep, some fowls, and a
foal--the latter having swum to the scene and
asked for assistance—were housed in the tree-top
habitation, and the kiddies ran races up and down
the trunk.
MILK STRAIGHT FROM THE MACHINE.
DAN : “ They got milkin' machines up et Hogan's dairy."
JOHNNIE BOARDER : “Deah me. mum-milking machines! Have they done away with the kuck-
kuck-cous entirely then?"
Some sovereigns disturbed the soul of a
mounted Scotchman who reached One IMile, near
Longreach (Q), the other day, and found that the
river was distinctly “up,” and he would have to
undress and take chances. What would he do
with the coins? If he left them in his pockets when
he made his clothes into a bundle and tied it on
his saddle to keep them dry, they might fall out
Again, the bundle might be lost. He couldn’t
get the money into his ear. Finally, he put the
whole £25 in his mouth, and started. Halfway
over he was washed off his horse and lost the run
of the animal. He swam hard. The coin weighed
his head down. He wanted to breathe but
couldn’t, for fear of breathing out money. He
grew purple in the face. Finally he regained his
horse, and held on to its tail—he couldn’t reach
the mane. He wanted to say “ Gee up,” to
encourage the steed, but he couldn’t say “Gee up”
without sacrificing at least £9 10s. So he said
nothing—only slapped the horse’s rump with his
wet hand. Together the horse and the long,
naked, wet Scotchman reached the shore, and the
latter fell on the grass and spat out £25. It was
all there. Nothing was lost except the interest.
* * *
“ Moody Sankey ” : Am gradually finding
out why Westralian civil servants are perma-
nently “balmy.” Was in a city railway cloak-
room yesterday, when a burly gentleman
from the land where there are no snakes
came in and asked the clerk : “Did Mick
Ryan leave his swag here?” An every
day inquiry at the Sou’ West (W.A. )
bush post office is: “ Have yez anny
letters fur th’ Eyetalian bloke at the
camp; no, I dunno his name, but ’e
arst me ter git his letters.” At an
up-country railway station I
recently heard an old dame
ask what time the last
train left. “ Eleven
o’clock,” was the reply.
“ Is there none after that,
gentleman ? ” was the lady’s
next question. “You are fined
a pound and seven days,” said
the newly-made and beer-laden
J. Pea. “You can’t do that,”
whispered the Clerk of Course (that’s
what most Js.P. call them). “Well,
T) 1. u il
then, said an irate Bench, “ the case is
dismissed, an’ you mind yer own d business. ”
* * * *
“Hexham”: Anthrax (mentioned in B.
22/3/’O6) does not always arise from skinning dead
animals or handling diseased skins. I know
estancias in the south of Entre Rios (Argentina)
which are practically never free from the disorder
though the greatest precautions are taken to burn
all affected hides and skins. It is locally believed
to be due to some peculiarity in the soil, as on
other stations there are only occasional cases.
The anthrax bacillus has been found alive where
diseased animals were buried eighteen years
before, so possibly there is something in this soil
theory in so far that some kinds of ground are
more favorable to the preservation of the germ
than others. In the most sudden case of anthrax
I ever knew, the infection was communicated by
a fly, which it is supposed, before biting the vic-
tim, was on a diseased sheepskin about 50yds.
away. Eight hours elapsed between bite and
death.
“Musselburgh ” : Be “San’s” par. (B.
22/3/’OG), in which he gives an account of his un-
successful attempt to charm a black snake from
its hole by means of whistling and a saucer of
milk. “ San ” must have forgotten the proverbial,
cunning of the reptile, or he would not have
wasted his own time and the snake’s by standing
or sitting in view of the latter, with a waddy in
his hand. I can’t speak with authority on the
effect of such music as “ San” furnished, but can
vouch for the milk treatment if .properly applied.
My snakes hole was right under ttie dining-room
window. I got a saucer of warm milk (warm milk
has a stronger smell than cold, and attracts
snakes), and placed it some feet away from the
hole. Opened the window to its full height
and waited like a midnight conspiracy. Before
long Ins mbs poked his head out, and when he
espied me looking at him he stopped and pro-
ceeded, as ‘San” describes it, to curse me with
his evil eye, though I wasn’t aware at the time
what he was up to. Anyway, I drew back out of
sight and kept still. After another interval the
snake crawled towards the saucer of milk and
when he was three parts out I emptied a complete
scuttle of coals on him, and the great mineral
resources of the country broke him in two places.
iSy the way, can any “ Abo ” reader inform me if
THE PATIENT RECEPTACLE.
THE TATE RIVER TIN SORATOHER : “Hows th’
police on Sunday closing here, boss ? "
PUBLICAN : “Dam solid. Y’ can't git a drink
to-morrow ”
T.T.R.I.S."All right . Give this ' ere ole
camel five gallons of beer to drink, an d lend
me a spigot; we can tap him in the morning. "
there is any truth in the legend that if a snake is
killed, his mate will be found 24 hours afterwards
at that particular spot ? X haven’t killed a married
snake since hearing above, so have had no chance
to verify it.
* * * *
Householders will find that for universa.
rm 6 s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
i-i? Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills-bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &0., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus>
tralia.*
DYING OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
K-iswißasrßS
Thing-s were not too bad at old Jumbunna.
Everyone was doing pretty well.
There was laughter in the street,
And the sound of many feet,
And life went merry as a marriage-bell.
But in the deep, black heart of old Jumbunna
A crooked imp to Capital was born ;
His frowsy dam was Greed ;
Like a foul, misshapen weed
He grew the smut that withers up the corn.
The blight of him encompassed old Jumbunna.
The bells are ringing in the town no more.
There are boards across the doors,
There are shutters on the stores
A thousand homes have dwindled to a score.
The grass grows in the streets of old Jumbunna.
From the mines there straggle home a weary few;
The fight was all in vain,
Theirs the loss—to whom the gain ?
For the slayer now bewails the thing he slew.
The life-blood ebbs away from old Jumbunna.
A few insolvent traders weave its pall;
By the black mouths of its mines
It lingers and declines,
Till in time the bush again will cover all.
VIC.
A.B.C.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT,
pr Buy Whole Bottles. -Tpi
%
RACING HEN !
YOU CAN BUY an
Absolutely Reliable
Chronograph
~F* o r Ss.
In a Heavy Sol d Silver Case
(Open Face).
They are profoundly accurate.
They are specially strong— and
keyless.
They are Levers—have 15 Jewels.
They have expansion balances.
They have Rrequet hair springs.
As Chronographs—Reliable.
As Ordinary Watch—Extra Strong
and Perfectly Accurate.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
* ■ The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney, 23 HUNTER ST.
*
#
Gent’s Silver Hunt-
ing- Chronograph,
JS6 18s.
Gent’s Silver Open-
face Chronograph,
£6 6s.
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
PATRICK’S “ READINESS ” AGAIN.
“ Hot, was I? Not a bit of it, begorra. Shure, it was 105 in
the shade, but I didn’t shtay in the shade, bedad, but got
out into the open.”
The most killing bait for Murray cod is
the breast of the black shag, cut from around the
crop. It smells fishy, and is a deadly lure when
shrimps fail.
‘ ‘ San Remo ” on flies :
We are having a very wet season in Queensland at
present, and the fly pest will come when the weather
clears. There are many kinds of fly, but the one that
flies most bitterly is the common or garden kind of fly
the house fly. He is the bane of man’s existence in the
West, especially after a wet season. A dining-room in a
Western pub. at meal-time is a loathsome spot when this
fly flies. As a disseminator of disease, sandy blight,
etc., the Queensland fly can give the Sydney plague rat
10yds. in 100 and beat him out of sight. Though the fly
is a born traveller, he is seen to best advantage in his
home —the bush slaughter-yard. I have witnessed an
apparent eclipse of the sun take place when a beast was
being killed and the flies foregathered for the event. If
you laid down you couldn’t breathe for the dead weight
of flies on your chest.
When in Wi stern Queensland I was surprised to find
how few bush people knew how to deal with the fly pest
in their houses. If flies are bad, decorate the walls and
ceiling of your dining-room with fresh gum leaves daily.
All the flies will swarm upon the eucalypti in preference
to your butter, jam, or treacle. Ido not know whether
the fly lives upon some extract from the gum leaves, but
have always found this plan work well. Many bush
butchers recognise this fact, and decorate their meat
humpies with branches of the gum. Trouble is that few
people take the trouble to put up fresh leaves daily. That
was my particular job in our home, so I ought to know.
Then there’s the March (or horse) fly, which stings like
a wasp. Sandflies are a fearful pest where plentiful. They
worry cattle terribly. Their sting is bad enough, but
what drives cattle crazy is the way the flies get into the
eves, ears, and nose. On the cattle stations, we used to
fight them with dung fires. The cattle will hang around
a fire all dav in the effort to rid themselves of the pest.
The sandfly is a greater pest than the mosquito. Being
of a more bustling nature, he gets in more work in five
minutes than the ’skeeter could do in 60.
Then there’s the dragon fly, and the loathsome blue
bottle, and last, but not least, comes the mosquito.
(Don’t know whether he is classed by scientists with
the fly family.) There are many kinds of mosquitoes.
The biggest and most ferocious variety is known
as “The 0 Scotch Grey.” His headquarters I should
say are at Broadmouiit (on the iitzroy River).
One Scotch Grey is more than a match for a
bull-pup. Armed with a javelin like a diamond-drill
I’ve known a Grey to bayonet me through the padded
shoulders of my tweed coat. First visit I paid to Broad-
mount was in company with half-a-dozen other cyclists.
The road passes through a belt of swampy country—the
Greys’ citadel. Luckily the road was good and dipped a
bit, so we, being warned, came through at a furious pace.
I was the rear-guard, and a squadron of Greys cut me
off. With my nose over the tire I was getting all the
velocity possible from my bike when a cloud of Greys
swooped down on the shoulders of my well-padded tweed
coat. I felt a mighty tugging and my bike bounded in
the air like Rutt’s at the finish of a five-mile scratch race.
In 54 seconds I flew past my companions like a flash of
lightning along a greased railroad. Like a devil possessed
that bike bore me along regardless of the brake. In terror
I threw myself off and rolled into a patch of loose sand.
Then the mystery of my headlong flight was explained.
I wore a pair of braces with two large steel buckles, w’hich
rested on my shoulders. When the mosquitoes drove
their spikes through, the steel riveted them to me, and
in their struggles I was borne along through the air. It
took a party of fitters from the railway with cold chisels
to rescue my coat from the mosquitoes. I never visited
Broadmount again.
* * * *
The ganger at Stony Creek, Cairns (N.Q.),
found a corpulent carpet-snake in his camp. In-
quiry with a knife showed that the reptile had
swallowed his flannel shirt. The cat had been lying
on the shirt, but apparently it had wakened and
made a split through the atmosphere just m time.
Consequently, the snake only got the shirt, while
the cat got up a tree.
“Phoenix”: Sum time
ergo yer said that if eny won
scent enythink good from
the bush worth printen you
wood kerrect eny littel mis-
takes and lick it inter shape.
Very well. I scent yous a
good yarn I got old of about
long Dan who was erflicted
with prickelly eat down is
back. lusted of washin it
with a serlution of karbon-
ate of soder they kuvered
is back in mistake with sum
liekwid wich scallded im
feerfully. Wile he was madly
jumping about, and tareing
is air in agerney, Paddy
Blake cood not elp larfing
at is an ticks wich was the
beginnin of a free fite in the
camp. Now, I put me very
art and soal in the yarn and
scent it to The Bullytin.
And What did you do ? lu-
sted of kerrectin won or to
littel mistakes (wich i admit
might ave krep in) yous
opened with your usueral
sarkasam wich I ate and tell
yer that i wont stummuck.
You said the spellin was
hodios, and the sin tax orful.
Now, before sendin jt to you
iad advice about it. He,
the skhoolmaster, sed it was
simply uneek, and larfed to
bust wen reedin it. Wy
then shood you invite peepul
to send good bush yarns
(uneek, remernbr) for you
to make a targit of just to
show off your erbility to fire
at? Wot are you thare for
ide like ter no? Nothink
els but to sit tite (not as i
no as you drink, but I supose
you does) in your cheer
and edit the paper. Blow
me ! you ave got the times,
and i dare say you get a
good salary, but to lazey
to earn it. Nothink to do
but to pass the good stuff on
and chuck wot yous are to
idel to mend inter the w.p.b.
Spare me days ! you ave got
a ide! Not only that, but
you indooce peepal to rite
yarns wen they wood be
better employed at there
hone bissiness so that you
can egsersise your ioronikal remarks. Who the 1
cares for you enyhow ? Why don’t yer graft like
me ? I don’t think youill begille bushmen to write
for that red rag of yourn in a urrey agin.
IN THE DOMAIN.
ORATOR (bellowing): “ Yes, me friends,
our bloomin’ country is gain’ to the
dawgs. It’s gorn to the dawgs.
C'ruthers is a dawg. They’re all
dawgs. Them that runs the country
is dawgs; an’ we're as good as they
are, any day!” (Hear! Hear!)
FAILURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Bayley’s called to join the golden quest,
I packed my old portmanteau and booked me for the
Oh, then the world was brighter than e’er the world has
been
Since board the old Bullara I skipped at seventeen.
Then one white watching wonder my vision ever chained.
I quaffed the cup at sunrise ; at eve it was not drained ;
The sloping deck at midnight in ecstasy I strode,
And planned my line of travel along the great world-road.
Who knows old red Coolgardie ? 'Twas there it seemed to
me
A band of God’s big children played with their destiny.
The trammels of the far world were gone—forgotten all.
The red sun rose each morning on a great festival.
What use to heed your conscience who saw those brown
men quaff
The cup —the mirth of millions was in one strong man’s
laugh ?
The old dead world slipped from me beneath those
Western skies,
All save two guide stars trailing—a pair of streaming
eyes.
Those old days in Coolgardie, the tide of life was high ;
They swirled the dishes madly, and ’neath the naked sky
They cursed and laughed in chorus, and when the gods
were kind
They pouched the golden plunder and flung the dross
behind.
To Eastward and to Nor’ward they ever turned their gaze,
Who spurned the beaten pathways. The strange un-
trodden ways
Were calling, calling, calling ; that old Coolgardie band
Fared out on tracks divergent across the leagues of sand.
With red dust all a-smother we raked the riddling sieve,
Or “ specked ” round Maritana when luck was fugitive,
And all day long the trailers who followed in our wake
With tanned and eager faces came in by Hannan’s lake.
Tough greybeards that the Palmer had known in palmy
days,
With crazy lurching barrows, their ag'6d eyes ablaze
To see old days returning, and catch the rhythmic swish,
Or hear the golden gravel a-clattering in the dish.
Those rush days, glory-tinted, I never can forget;
The early morning odors are in my nostrils yet,
As when the stars are paling I hear the slumbrous yawn
Of some rude fortune-hunter in greeting to the dawn ;
And when the nights are darkest I hear the rifles ring
For some too-ardent “ specker ” belated, wandering.
Again I read her letter beside the camp-fires glow.
And know I lost the best love my life shall ever know.
What time, with purpose weakened, I watched the quan-
dong burn,
Or learned the joys of liquor I fain would now unlearn.
I fain would now unlearn them —’tis over-late, I ween ;
I’ve lost and given over the life that might have been.
The home beside Port Phillip, the wife that was to be,
May only come in visions to haunt my memory',
Who listened to the stories the Ishmaels had to tell
’Mid sandal incense floating when pipes were glowing
well.
westralia.
PETER DOUBT.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in ; and no MS. will be
returned unless stumps (of any State) accompany.
W.M. : “Dream Garden” is pretty but seems
to be about nothing in particular Aileen C. : Regret
there is no promise about any of them Lillipilli:
Jagged verses, like top of a saw Nicotine: The
“ happy children ” who sing that heavy-footed rhyme are
not born yet. It was built to be sung by artificial stuffed
children J. St. J. : Four really good lines in “Wisdom.”
The others rather heavy... .F.M. : Well, your lady
friend had a pretty gift of language Trebia : All very
good to jeer at the reporter who included in his report
the song that wasn’t sung by the man who didn’t turn up.
Of course the reporter wasn’t there, or at most only
looked in. He has to do things like that. The most
exciting night in this scribe’s life was a Xmas time when
seven new plays broke out in one night, and a double-
barrelled disaster to the staff left him to face
the lot single-handed. There were seven reports in
the paper all right, but it was taking chances
Cosmopolitan : Your filthy story carefully planted in
quicklime. Apparently your idea of art is a burst sewer.
... W.H.S. : “ Life ” inculcates bad political doctrine
F.L. : This worship of the half-caste girl is reprehensible.
Mrs. L.M. : Your poem with the undecipherable name
is a rather pitiful groping after a fine idea Fletcher
Braide : “ When You Came ” rejected with feelings too
deep for words... .T.B. : “Saturday Night’’puerile in-
sipidity J.W. : “ The Wrongers ” too microscopic
Odds : Old story indifferently told.. ..O.T.J.L. : Sony
treatment not up, and dream explanation an old device..
Marion : Your “ Oracle ” is promising, but not quite up..
Spoopendvke : Your brain-brushing yarn is 200 yeais
old, and ’as foolish as it is ancient.. ..J.A.S. : Not
toothsome enough.... Black Swan: Too dolorous....
K.S. : “ Rosine ” is a neat, little thing, but the man who
is dreaming of bygone days is used up ; he should go and
chop wood L.F. : “Hidden Chord” too unreal ...
McD. : (1) Declined with thanks. (2) Ditto ; the lovers
at the gate should be dead by now, and the gate fire-
wood.... Matana : A most incomprehensible lot of sug-
gestions P.N. : You have a laborious style. Stamps
of other States are no use unless sent loose Famp :
Jest about red-headed girl declined Lulu : No hope.
N.S.F. : “ Kanakas ” hardly fresh enough lies. ...C. J.
Roxburgh: Haven’t read your “Child Link” yet. Do
you seriously think it Will prove worth the lOd. we were
charged for deficient postage? ....Theatre (Natimuk,
Vic.): Any of the San Francisco dailies (Examiner,
Call, or Bulletin) will tell what you want
—if there’s any of them left to tell anything. And
try to remember to stick a 2d. stamp on your letter
next time. That eternal deficient postage from Victoria
wearies u 5.... Agra : (1) You didn’t stamp your letter
and it cost 4d. ; (2) stamps of other States are no use
unless sent 1005 e.... J. Tishler (Vic.): (1) Stuff cost 4d.
for insufficient postage ; (2) stuff written on both sides of
paper ; (3) stuff torn up Mug : One sneeze isn’t worth
ali that space Chicot: Too horrible J.W. : The
“New Era” hardly new enough Versatilius: Your
yarn is onlv a variation cf that ancient one about King
John and the Archbishop... .Grey Steele : Your pen-name
is practically a steal of “ Steele Grey’s,” but you would
have dene better bad you stolen his Muse and left his
name a10ne....W.5.: Your resolve is just plain tripe,
William Francis L. : “Shame Child” good beginning
but no finish ...Achilles: Yarn was all froth, and
although it was good froth, a little beer is necessary at
the bottom. Verse awful Angus J. : You truly say
“ When a man’s dead he’s dead.” But that leaves the old
question just where it was: “ when is he dead?”....
F. C. Snodgrass (Vic.): Can you swear that your
contribution is worth the lOd. it cost us for deficient
postage ? Protectionist: The statement is too glaringly
ridiculous to be worth refuting. It isn’t within miles of
the truth... .M'Cathie (Sea Lake) t No. Elton and
Gourlay were never associated in any show. “ Paul
Jones” was produced by Musgrove at the Opera House in
the first instance, and afterwards by Williamson and
Musgrove at the Princess’s. In this later production
Gourlay and Lauri were members of the cast. You are
confusing Lauri with Elton Wager: A wins. Ryder
Slone was the first man to sing the song in Melbourne.
Nat Travers never warbled “ Billy Muggins ” within the
hearing of the Rickards management Machete:
“Kicked by the Elephant I’ just, missed the mark....
T.1.M.: Very plain, ordinary robbery Bosco : Joke
and Bd. received with thanks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
R.K.D. : “Etching” doesn’t seem of much use now
that it has arrived... .F.E. J. :As you say, you “ haven t
the slightest idea of drawing”—nor of humor C.E.J.:
Joke only moderate. Sketch shows some promise, but
you need to draw on a much larger scale to allow for
reduction 123 : Where’s the joke ?... .F.J.: “ Beauty
and the Beast ” declined. Not enough Beauty and in-
sufficient Beast T.0.T.; “National Ledger ”is a sorry
piece of accountancy B.M. : “ Sorry-you-weren’t-in ”
joke was a good deal newer before it became so old.
Picture too sketchy Eric J. : Sketch of tall man look-
ing at hinder end of cow declined Clip : All useless....
C.E.T. : The nigger who called his horse a liar died of old
age long ago S. Mcl. : Sketches only moderate, and
the anatomical jest needs a lighter touch than.yours....
E.D. : Drawing still far below publication mark, and
there are some glaring chestnuts in the collection....
A.E.S. : Two very badly-drawn policemen J.S. : Strike
joke is only a slight variant of a jest that has wandered
round for a long, long time H.W.O. : “ Pay in’-pain
pun is too weak on its props, and the picture doesn t
support it any.
First groan from the Monkey, who seems
to have the seed of a suspicion that the Bear
squeezed him, after all:
Situated as she is off the mainland of Asia, Japan’s
position in the Pacific is much the same as that of Great
Britain in the Atlantic, and it might be contended that,
as Great Britain has strictly observed a policy of remain-
ing isolated as far as Continental possessions are con-
cerned, Japan would have been weli ad vised to Rave
followed the same policy and maintain nothing but trade
relations with the mainland of Asia.
The groan is from the Japan Ciironiclk of Kobe.
The present conflict between Church and
State in France led to the seizure of the monas-
tery and distillery at Grenoble, where for 800
years the Chartreuse monks have made the liqueur
called after the name of their order. The monks
have removed to Tarragona in Spain, where they
have started another distillery, and they have
taken steps to announce to the world that the
liqueur being manufactured by the trench
Government is “ brummy.” The monks affirm that
they still hold the secret, and that the stuff pro-
duced by the old plant is merely a make-believe,
to doctor up which the old stock on handl at the
distillery is being used extensively. The French
Government, on the other hand, announces that
many of the people employed by the monks were
possessed of fragmentary knowledge, which, being
pieced together and aided by an exhaustive
analysis and study of the plant by scientists, has
resulted in the complete discovery of the treasured
secret.
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body and
there will be no bad after-effects. We are talking
of Wolfe's Schnapps*
.... B.G. : Just come outside and look at this verse : —-
Your eyes still gleam, as I have seen them gleam,
Your warm flesh glows, with the glow of youth....
He stopped, gave a gasp, then a piercing scream,
And another wretch had learnt the truth.


rieW /[
i* | (
VVy
lft /^
'Hofe- BEWARE! ‘
4c < WUf
4'rSfr
SoU |r| a*
'fo*7»7ed W|M-itor».
li?e waiv —^4
ejected /ABo>,
i 5 brolccf Ste(te fy" "X
F\sj|J
t*s*] A yfWK y
'fi?er« Will l>e A <l«lei'n)i*i«a"?TK?r ie cai'fofe. fc
>■»■<, »'(« «f jfc H* e -~ [Re, Tfeg-V-
If M-Reid
l|€ could! work |>WfcAbly cEr /<
f'or^-o^i-hours 2v d*y &KetiV«
I ST) CVfihinc 1b Vk Suburban
v "ho’no Vf t>ea>nh'ful arbour «
: XV &i»iA V«VS Ti&ve \ Competence "
Bjg|
*n\
/\us “ Give ;r M |> George,
give if" uf>t |fit" «s
in your WAy IfKe
dlrAg on you *
% /
l\ j \
# lh VicloriA slioj>s "hW
1b cl«se Six wK»*<a (smßHc- ~
h 6^S€ S CA** oj>«h 'tfll »niJht s i,r
fe# - ' A ? e “
Ui>°r Nof tYjuclj of wK
1 lrf~ in; growitrg !
In T<g r>v/ji S ! H
Hunyor Kilk, &
in life., its -^e.
fool A
;%s* J
V 4 Quits' believe i-h,
of 2| -fellow
we Knew oirea, £*^<2^— ——
<\S •for we
JoKies jfcr ever JVorrj ryow ■
yre "fo orj.
Oh Monday
pinner of flje s(jeofoe/
Society*. jWly ftKJ _
, s (
BEER, DRAGONS, AND SUNDRIES.


This was the war that Joe made—
There Is the land they call the Rand, and in this fight for British Right—
v quite by the way, as one might say. This beautiful land they call the Rand
the wonderful Joseph gained.
These are the •*flats” that waved their hats, and hastened forth from South
and North, with clatter of arms, to burn the farms that smiled In the land
that Joe gained.
These are the Chows that, spite of the vows of
Brummagem Joe to the wild Jingo, dig for the
gold that lies in the mould—the valuable mould
that Joe gained.
These are the Jews that
worked the riise, to win
through a flood of Gentile
blood, the diamonds and gold
that lie in the mould that Joe
gained.
These are the folk whose hearts were broke, because of the Jews who
worked the ruse, to gain the gold that lay in the mould, of the beauti-
ful land that's called the Rand the sorrowful land that Joe gained.
This Is the spot where victims rot, of the
foolish crew who fought for the Jew and
the yellow son of a Chinese gun, who digs
for the gold that lies in the mould, the
mould of the land, the sorrowful land that
Joe gained.
End of this story—tills is the glory the nation got when, all
lor the son of a yellow gun, and the Hook-nosed lot—it had
slopped through a flood of innocent blood to gather the gold
that lay In the mould—the valuable mould—of the Dutch-
man’s land, the wonderful Rand—that sorrowful land that
Joe gained. • —Alpenstock.
LOOKING BACKWARD.


\
Tile Worlds]
ii Dentifrice
Everyone who daily cleanses the
mouth and teeth with Odol will
soon discover from a general sense
of freshness and stimulated energy-
how beneficial is the purification of
the mouth with this preparation*
Price &/6 a bottle of Odol, lusting for
several months (the half-size bottle 1/6).
Of all Chemists,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bill Lyne’s brother Mick (Mick is short
for Carmichael), a well-to-do farmer and plodding
politician, is getting ready for a Federal seat. He
is a staunch believer in Brother Bill, and he might
believe in a worse man than Brother Bill.
“ Mitchell’s Press Directory,” 1906, men-
tions the demise of Mrs. Pike, the only woman
who ever founded a daily newspaper in England.
She established the Derby Telegraph, in 1879,
and it is still a prosperous concern.
W. P. Crick is alleged to have made a
heavy bet that he would be acquitted of the
charge of corruption levelled against him. Bets
on the results of trials were common years ago. In
Dan O’Connell’s day in Ireland many trials were
vitiated by reason of jurors having a side wager
on the event.
Bishop Barker, the much-married, the far-
travelled, the tireless collector of cheques for
church building, the “first Primate of Australia
and Tasmania,” has been allotted a Carara marble
tablet in St. Andrew’s, Sydney. He was a
kindly, imported old soul, and he has his im-
ported monument.
“A.H.M.”: jße your query as to the
present whereabouts of J. Melbourne Carter,
alleged to be the first white child b' >rn in Mel-
bourne. He is very much alive, so is his wife ;
and they keep a refreshment and ac< jmrnodation
house at Lohb’s Hole, beside Turn t River, on
the road between Tumbarumba t.nd Kiandra
(N.S.W.).
Joseph Cook has stated to Sydney Tele-
graph that “there is nothing so amusing in Aus-
tralian politics as the lightning changes of public
men.” And in quoting instances he quite forgot
the Protectionist-Socialist-Laborite who threw up
his party to take office as N.S.W. Postmaster-
General and became a Freetrader, a Tory, and a
virulent kicker of the laddei by which he rose.
“ Let me put the case concisely for you,”
said Justice Real the other day in the Q. Full
Court to barrister Feez. Then he went on for an
hour. Carried away by his enthusiasm, he seemed
just on the point of giving a verdict, when Chief-
Justice Cooper coughed and Justice Chubb
cleared his throat to remind their learned brother
that he wasn’t alone.
THE GOOD OLD FLAG.
All the good the war did was to send the Chows there.
Man in railway carnage.
CHOW : “ Welly nice carpet!”
J.B.: "I’ve been a fool!”
A Melbourne politician, who is also a
business man, was troubled recently about his
correspondence going astray. He found that a
new office-boy was selling the stamps, and trading
off the letters to autograph-collecting friends, in
order that he might spend the proceeds on “Every
Boy’s Library of Blood and Horror.” The irre-
sponsible youth cherished the ambition of making
a complete collection of “Blood and Horror,”
comprising some thousands of penny dreadfuls.
How many old persons—and other per-
sons—die in Australia annually from cold water
shock ? V. M. Dowling, ex-chairman of the
Mount Morgan G.M. Co., came back the other
morning from the bath, complained of weakness,
and in an hour or two the light had spluttered
out. He was aged 54. For many years Dowling
was identified with Central Queensland squatting
industries.
The late William M'Lellan, long known in
the Victorian Assembly as the Dove of Ararat,
was a large, blustering man with a voice like the
bulls of Bashan and a wind-mill style of gesticu-
lation. He represented Ararat for years, hence
the sobriquet. On one occasion when in office,
M'Lellan, irritated by Oppositionist Zox, bore
down upon the Hebrew like a hundred head of
cattle, and thundered a terrific diatribe in his
ear. Zox sat very still under it, and when Mac
paused for breath said, sweetly: “I beg your
pardon; would you mind repeating that? I
didn’t hear you.” Mac roared his accusation
again in a voice that made the premises tremble.
“There, there,” cried Zox, “that will do. I’ll
never hear anything again.” But Mac was really
a harmless man, and a prominent Vic. politician
used to tell of a comment of Mrs. Mac, who took
her husband’s nickname seriously. “Really, he
is a dove,” she said, “but I thought be deceived
everybody except me.”
“ Jimmy ”
Robertson, who
recently shot
himself in Mel-
bourne, was well
known and
kindly remem-
bered in West-
ern N. S. W.
H e managed
Yantara station
for some years,
and Kulkyne
station, on the
Vic. border, till
within a few
years of its
lease expiry.
He married a
daughter of
William Cro-
zier not long
ago. His sui-
cide, after a
drinking bout,
was probably
suggested by
that of an old
palin Mildura,
who, after en-
tertaining a
New Year
party, and
genially seeing
his friends off
the premises,
returned to his
quiet rooms
and shot him-
self before a
mirror.
John Fer-
guson, lately
dead in Syd-
ney, was one
of the four
men (Hall, Pat
terson, D’Arcy,
and Ferguson,
of whom only
D’Arcy is left)
who bought
the Mt. Mor-
gan mine from
Fred. Morgan,
paying £BO,OOO
for it. He made
a pot of money out of the deal. Yet he did little
for mining in return. When some years back he
offered £2OOO towards establishing a school of
mines at Rockhampton he so hedged the offer
about with conditions that nothing came of it.
J. T. Bell, Kidston’s Minister for Lands, married
one of Ferguson’s daughters.
A Launceston Hindu laundry man puts in
a claim, by window placard, “Support the
British.” This means against the Chow. Ghol-
lah and Chunder are our brothers, not aliens like
Hung Fat.
Camped in a tent in the grounds of Mel-
bourne Children’s Hospital is a little morsel of
humanity 2J years old, who seems to be taking
the full peck of life’s troubles all in a lump, so to
speak. Three weeks back she was brought thither
suffering from pneumonia ; a few days later she
developed meningitis ; then typhoid tackled her,
and now she is grappling with laryngeal diph-
theria. She is a tough little animal and seems
likely to pull through—partly, perhaps, because
her name is Smith.
“A well-known Tasmanian skipper ” tells
the Watchman, of August 21, that there is in
Launceston a seventy-year-old battler named
Solomon who, with his five sons, preached twelve
sermons in six different places on the same recent
Sunday. The skipper adds that the father and
three of the sons were invited to stand for
Parliament at the last State elections, but de-
clined. The father is a magistrate, one son is a
barrister, and all are natives. There are points of
novelty about such a family.
Just deceased is W. L. Edwards, who for
40 years was on the staff of N.S.W. Legislative
Council, and who attained the high honor, pomp,
and dignity of being called “ Black Rod,” which
uselessness still survives throughout Democratic
Australia. Edwards was a Protestant, but he was
buried in a Roman Catholic grave, that he might
lie with his wife, and consequently neither “Chris-
tian ” church would officiate at the funeral. Jus-
tice O’Connor, being a better Christian than the
churches, addressed those round the grave.
Maoriland Chief Justice Robert Stout, in
Sydney the other day, was reminded of his visit
to Eastern Australia about 20 years ago. Then
the name of Robert Stout stood for Radicalism
and Atheism. Stout’s lectures, mostly with
Tommy Walker as chairman, were regarded by
the churches as a judgment on the country for its
sins. Moncur Conway was haranguing at the
same time, and many thought that among Stout,
Tommy and Conway the fate of Sodom and Gom-
morrah might happen at any moment. Conway
is dead. Stout wears a title, and is a very orderly
person. And Tommy is a much-battered Re-
former, wearing at present a new suit of political
clothes, but still much the same old Tommy. A
man named Tommy generally remains the same
old Tommy.
Two Yic. mining veterans have pegged out
their last claims in the past fortnight. Zebina
Lane, senr., wasn’t so well known as his son—the
man who, passing on from Broken Hill Block 14,
had amazing luck at the Great Boulder, and has
settled down as a Westralian M.L.C. with a nice
dry bit to comfort him. Zcb. senr. was best
known as manager of the Lord Nelson, St.
Arnaud(Vic.) —he banged away at that mine on
one plan for 20 years. A hard nail to hit he was.
Spence, now M.H.R., and virtual founder of the
Yic. Miners’ Association, put him down as the
most determined old party he ever tried to come
to an agreement with. He retired, after a stroke
of paralysis, two years ago. The other veteran
was William Graham, of Cresvvick, Daylesford
and Clunes—more of an investor, though, than a
miner.
Labor Premier Price, of S.A., is a tee-
totaller of lifelong standing, so he can afford to
laugh at this yarn. On a previous visit to N.S.W.
Price was suffering from a severe bilious attack,
and during the train journey across he became ex-
tremely unwell, to put it mildly. Among his fel-
low passengers were three members of the N.S.W.
Lr '. Council, and from their experience of the
ha its of that body they rashly diagnosed Price’s
symptoms as due to whisky. On arrival at Sydney
the oldest of the trio hurried after the S.A. Pre-
mier and confidentially said, “I’m an older man
than you, and have been in politics longer, so you
mustn’t mind my interference. Use a good thing
in moderation ; but remember, if you abuse it,
you bring disgrace upon your State.” “ Drive on,
cabby,” was all Price could faintly murmur in
reply.
IN THE EARLY MORNING.
ATTENDANT (looking cut): “ Hi, there! Whats
the matter ?”
DEPUTATION OF DRUNKS : “ We’ve brought sher
a new (hie) case. Our fren' here —Vs very
bad! ”
This par. appeared in a recent issue of The
Bulletin :
Mrs. Bowler, relict of “ the late ’’ —as Sydney Tele-
graph has it—Mr. James Bowler, died at Molong (N.S.W.),
last week, aged 75 years. She had resided in the dis-
trict half a century. The Bowlers are a very old family
out West, the head being John Bowler, Major of the
80th Regiment, who died at Wyagden (N.S.W.) in August.
1872. Mrs. W. H. Suttor is a daughter of Major Bowler. ’
Mrs. W. H. Suttor now writes to say that the late
Mr. Bowler, husband of the not quite so late Mrs.
Bowler, was in no way related to the much later
Major Bowler, and that the late Major Bowler
didn’t die at Wyagden in ’72. The Bulletin can
only say that it had its information from an old
and highly unreliable correspondent, and that
there seems to be some confusion about the
Bowlers.
“ S.S.” : Whafc strikes me as quite as
significant as John Wren’s great friendliness with
Senators, M’s.H.R., and M’s.L.A., including
Ministers of the Crown, is the illegal tote
man’s seeming fondness for policemen. Accord-
ing to my observations, the idea of a tremend-
ous trial of strength between Wren and the
Fores is ridiculous, and when Jack and a
“john” come together their cordiality is
quite remarkable. The other night, within
a space of five minutes, I saw four young
constables greet Boss Wren in Bourke-street with
the enthusiasm of brothers.
The unsatisfactory David Gaunson is
threatened with an opponent for his Public Ser-
vice seat in Vic. Assembly. Detective John
Carter, who has just retired from the police force,
intends to devote his time to the repeal of the
Separate Representation Act, and as a first step
he will oppose Gaunson, “ unless a better man
with the same aim comes forward.” Gaunson has
had numerous public hints that he is a riotous
and deafening failure, and he will probably get
the last hint of all at next election.
“M.A.P.” publishes a yarn as to how
Frank Gardner laid the foundations of his for-
tune. When he was “managing” Carrie Swain
racing excitement was high, and in reading over
to Carrie a new, sensational play, he came on a
line which ran, “ Vengeance is mine, said the ad-
miral, and he rushed for his carbine.” Carrie
seized the idea that the line was a tip for a treble.
Gardner, so the yarn goes, backed Vengeance,
Admiral, and Carbine for the Caulfield Cup, the
Victorian Derby, and the Melbourne Cup, and
landed a huge stake. But probably the biggest
odds Frank Gardner ever got about a horse were
nothing compared to the odds that this yarn is a
lie.
Jabez Balfour, the fat, flabby man, of
whom it was said that his imprisonment would
kill him, has just been released after doing 11
years. The gaol has made a new, healthy man of
Jabez, and he talks of taking to literature. The
story of Balfour, and his original building society,
and the subsequent half-dozen companies which
were allied with it, and the bank formed for sup-
plying them with the cash necessary to pay bogus
dividends, is almost identical in plot with Mel-
bourne’s principal land-boom stories. But whereas
millions of pounds in gold passed through Balfour’s
companies during his 25 years of business, the
millions that the Melbourne boomsters played
with were mostly represented by paper all the
time.
Black-browed Wilbur Glenn Voliva, who
from Melbourne acted as overseer of the Zion
brood in Australia, supplants Elijah Dowieasboss
prophet of the Holy City in America. Voliva
used to live, with a fascinating little wife, in St.
Hilda, and drove daily into Melbourne in a dash-
ing carriage, with costly horses, plated harness,
and much flunkey. His dark, rolling eye almost
persuaded many unattached females in St. Hilda
to embrace Dowieism. When the Prophet visited
Melbourne in all his glory, Voliva buzzed round
him with busy reverence, and tried his hardest to
stall off interviewers. Now he plays Jacob to
Dowie’s Esau. The impression left by Voliva on
men who met him was that he was a specially
smart business man. That he got to America in
time to see Dowie capsized, and to grab th® vacant
job for himself, loaves the impression undis-
turbed.
William Farrer, “the Burbank of Aus-
tralia,” was pathetically conscious of the approach
of death. He used to write accounts of his symp-
toms (angina pectoris was the trouble), and his
diagnosis was uniformly correct. He had studied
medicine as a young man, but arrived in N.S.W.
as tutor to a bush family ; then he married a
daughter of squatter De Salis, M.L.C., and went
in for scientific wheat growing. N.S.W. Govern-
ment employed him as wheat experimentalist,
and in agricultural circles he earned a high repu-
tation.
About Elijah 11., who takes over the
Purple Wings of Zion from the sacked Elijah I. :—
Voliva is the boss vituperator among all the vitupera-
tors that ever visited Australia. His command of Eng-
lish (both descriptive and expletive) is simply marvellous.
He didn’t seem ever to stop. He just started about one
particular man or thing, and kept right along till he
finished with it. He must have breathed through his
nose—but, no 1 he always talked through his nose ; so he
must have breathed through his mouth and let the words
go out of his nose in a continuous torrent. Dowie was a
fair performer himself. But Dowie used to run over
himself. His brain didn’t work quickly enough, and
he used to end with a “ faugh !” of disgust, and spit to
show his contemptuous anger, and make a noise like a cat.
Voliva was too much of an artist to descend to expectora-
tion. He always knew enough words to keep pegging
along. Voliva should be a much more successful prophet
than Dowie for the reason of his surpassing eloquence ;
also because he is a smart up-to-date business man, young
and good looking and, when he isn’t firing insults like a
Maxim gun, suave and gracious in manner.
ft An air of mystery surrounds the defection
of Wilkins, M.L.A., from the Victorian Labbr
party. Wilkins is one of the oldest Laborites in
the State Assembly. He entered before the
Earty was organised, became a duly accredited
labor member directly the organisation was
complete, and till now remained faithful to all its
principles. Yet he has deliberately flouted the
rule of the Labor League that every accredited
representative and candidate must be a financial
member of the local branch. Wilkins’ omission
to pay his yearly shilling was not due to over-
sight, as proved by the fact that he was re-
peatedly dunned for the money; and the reason
for his deliberate default is hard to surmise. He
is probably the richest man in the Assembly, so
he can spare the annual bob ; and, anyhow, he
could have borrowed it from Beazley. He was
never a man who aspired to leadership, and
it is impossible that he can have regarded
his claims as superior to those of Pren-
dergast. He has done nothing to indicate that
he has been converted to Toryism. The only
suggestion of motive comes from the fact that, a
few weeks ago, he gave up the butcher’s shop he
had carried on for 30 years, and it is alleged that he
has developed aspirations to “enter Society,” and
is casting off the plebeian Labor party together with
the plebeian beef emporium. There is also a
footless and headless rumor that T. Bent pro-
mised him a portfolio conditionally on his leaving
Labor. Anyhow, Wilkins is politically dead as
far as Colling wood is concerned. The man with-
out the Labor nomination in that district might
as well save his voice. John Wren, of the illegal
tote, is mentioned as Wilkins’ successor, but it is to
be hoped that the Labor League will not commit
that blunder.
A PRELIMINARY SMELL ROUND.
I’m not connected with any Federal party, and I do
not come to you as a candidate or intending candidate. —
Me. Irvine on Federal politics.
An old public servant died last week in
the person of Mary Jowett, who spent 40 years of
her life in caring for the juvenile waifs and strays
of N.S.W., in Biloela gaol, in the old orphan
school at Parramatta, and latterly under the new
State Children’s Department. Under the State
Children’s Department alone she helped to start
about 8000 youngsters on life’s journey, and spared
no effort to make the start a good one.
HENRY BUTLER’S NOSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The intimation was cabled at length from Kalgoorlie
that big importer Henry Butler, now visiting Westralia,
was suffering from bleeding at the nose.
The nation weeps ; all mirth is sapped ;
Our folks are feeling poorly,
For Henry’s claret has been tapped
Way back at far Kalgoorlie.
And, oh, it’s very sad indeed
That Henry Butler’s nose should bleed.
Did he with Freetrade ardor burn
To a degree excessive ?
Or did he speak out of his turn ?
Or was the heat oppressive ?
Did some unlooked-for sickening thud
Make Henry Butler spill his blood ?
We cannot tell. We only know
Our hearts are in a flutter,
To think of Henry bending low
Above a crimsoned gutter.
The worst of all our many woes
Is Henry Butler’s stricken nose.
VIC.
A.B.


These are Days o/ PRECISION.
;S
' > >
eßSg'
J
1 bL
kgay \ ‘l^j
■0
o—p
p* l
£9
<55
F>
s
UCCESSFUL MEN are INVARIABLY PRECISE, and managers of large BUSINESS
CONCERNS find that PRECISE MEN are better than “sloppy” workers, who IRUSI
TO CHANCE RATHER THAN METHOD.
The ACCOUNTANT and the ACTUARY are MORE NEEDFUL THAN EVER.
ERRORS in the ACCOUNTS of big UNDERTAKINGS may lead to SERIOUS.COMPLICA-
TIONS, and WRONG CALCULATIONS in tables of A LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
might be the means of THE DIREST DISTRESS.
In these LATTER DAYS it is the CUSTOM, and rightly so, to EVERY-
THING ; to SCIENTIFICALLY AUDIT Balance-sheets, to have OCULAR DEMONSTRA-
TION that the money is in THE MONEY BAGS, and to take no MAN’S WORD for anything.
IN INDUSTRIAL LIFE
it is the same. The ARTISAN, the ENGINEER, the CARVER, the MACHINE-MAKER,
the LOCOMOTIVE-BUILDER, all work with
TOOLS of PRECISION.
NONE OTHER WILL DO. The SIMPLEST TOOLS that SKILLED ARTISANS use are
made on LINES OF PRECISION—To guage measurements to THE THOUSANDTH PARI
of an inch, to EXACTLY CALCULATE the REVOLUTION of a SHAFT, to gauge , L HICK-
NESS, spaces, and DEPTHS TO A HAIRBREADTH, and to do all kinds of PRECISE WORK
in connection with ENGINEERS and DRAFTSMEN.
No. 20 Inside
No. 27 Outside
Improved Firm Joint Callipers.
3 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
1/2 1/6 1/8 1/11 2/4 2/8 2/11 Pair.
THE IMPROVEMENT IN THESE CALLIPERS (Nos. 20 and 27) consists in the construc-
tion of the joint, which is so made as to BE DRAWN TOGETHER by means of a screw Hie
main stud is SQUARED and FITTED to ONE LEG, thus PREVENTING IHE STUD from
turning when loosening and tightening, and INSURING A SMOOTH and UNIFORM
FRICTION, of more or less tension to suit the uzer.
The QUALITY OF THESE CALLIPERS is incomparably SUPERIOR TO THAT OF
ANY OLD STYLE RIVETED-JOINT CALLIPER on the market.
No. 77.— Fay Patent Spring Dividers.
2^
3/4
3
3/4
4
4/-
5
4/-
6
57-
inch.
Pair.
No 77 —SPRING DIVIDERS, with new quick-adjusting, automatic closing spring nut.
CRITICAL EXAMINATION will at once show THEIR SUPERIORITY over all others on
A UJXJLXIUA-Li JLAAIYLIIN anwiN Will iit onue smuw i nmu uuxijxuvxjux ... v, ™ 7
the market. Their use will SAVE MUCH VALUABLE TIME m opening and closing spring-
bow callipers and dividers.
No. 9-COMBINATION sets.
9
12/6
12
13/6
18
16/-
24 inch.
18/- Complete.
No. 9. —COMBINATION SQUARE with centre head and 7-INCH BEVEL PROTRAC-
TOR head Each head may be instantly removed, or replaced and USED INTERCHANGE-
ABLY WITH THE SCALE, thus forming the MOST USEFUL COMBINATION SET OF
TOOLS ever devised for Mechanics’ use.
No. 125.— Adjustable Calliper Gauge.
3 6 inch.
3/0 5/- Each.
No. 125 Was designed for INTERNAL MEASUREMENTS of large cylinders and of
DISTANCES BETWEEN UPRIGHTS. The body of the tool is a steel tube PROVIDED
WTTFT A BINDING CHUCK on each of its ends. Into one end is clamped a plain rod, that,
when the chuck is loosened, can be QUICKLY ADJUSTED to any APPROXIMATE SIZE.
Into the other end is screwed a threaded anvil FOR FINE ADJUSTMENT.
out or
To set the gauge, LOOSEN THE CHUCK that clamps the wire rod, SLIDE THE ROD
or in to the required size, and CLAMP IT. IF NOT QUITE CORRECT, loosen the chuck
on the opposite end and TURN THE ANVIL out or in what little is needed.
Made from steel throughout, and NICELY FINISHED.
ANTHONY HORDERN <O. Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyeiia’
/Trmvre*,,
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
There’s Music in the Home!
MASK
TRAD B
PSjUotu
otmM
The best music is in the home when
you inave an EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
Its resources are marvellous—its power
to entertain unequalled.
GENUINE EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS.
Our stock is one of the largest in
Australia. If you live near, call in and
hear them ; if not, we will send you full
particulars by return mail.
The Edison Gem Phonograph - £2 10s
The Edison Standard Phonograph £5
The Edison Home Phonograph £7 lOs
Catalogues and Lists of New Records —FREE. Write
to=day for them.
OSBORN & JERMN, Ltd.
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
Scattered all over Maoriland are little tin-
pot societies, or cliques, such as the Scottish,
Lancashire, Yorkshire, and Timbuctoo societies.
And now a Cymrodorion Society has sprung- up,
and is waiting for its whiskers to grow. This
show is to bring Welshmen into closer touch, and
to preserve and cultivate Welsh music and litera-
ture. The Taffies in M.L. think no small beans
of themselves since Wales sat on the panting chest
of the State’s travelling footballers.
Yic. Customs Detective Christie showed a
fine vein of satire the other day. Arresting a
prohibited Chow, he called upon him to write the
following passage :
If the Prime Minister, irV the negotiations he is con-
ducting, can make some arrangement which soothes the
susceptibilities of our friendly and allied neighbors with-
out making an actual interference with a White Aus-
tralia policy, he will do well. Our right to exclude
whom we will is admitted by all authorities.
John said “No savvy,” and the door was locked
on his soothed susceptibilities.
Several learned individuals have been
making remarks about this year being the 300th
anniversary of the discovery of Australia, because
it was in 1600 that the Dutch ship Duyphen sailed
into the Gulf cf Carpentaria, and its crew
acquired a bad opinion of the aboriginal popula-
tion. But seeing that Australia appeared more
or less accurately on Portuguese and French maps,
some 60, or 80, or 100 years earlier, it seems as if
the real date of the finding of the country would
never be located with sufficient accuracy to be
worth celebrating.
According to the Auckland Observer, a
Maoriland bench of J.’sP. has just broken all
records of imbecility. A man was charged with
having stolen cattle, but his lawyer, before enter-
ing on his defence, submitted that the evidence for
the prosecution showed it was not a case of steal-
ing at all, but of disputed ownership, and, as such,
a case for civil action and not criminal prosecution.
Under the circumstances, the arrest of his client
was an outrage, and an action for which he was
entitled to compensation. The justices retired,
and, later on, announced that it was a, case for a
civii action, and that the matter was improperly
before them. But— as it was before them, and
they had heard the evidence for the prosecution,
they had better, in a spirit of fair-play, hear the
defence. So they ordered the accused out of the
court, and, to prevent him getting away surrep-
titiously, locked him up in one of the rooms of the
court-house. Then they settled down to hear the
evidence for the defence, and unanimously com-
mitted the man for trial at the sessions, explaining
that it made no difference, as the Grand Jury
would certainly dismiss the case, the proceedings
being quite irregular and illegal.
Somebody having informed N.S.W.
Premier Oarruthers that the Sydney Imperial
Mint is on State land, Joseph has given the
Empire notice to quit, and announces his intention
of building new Law Courts on the site. So far
so good. N.S.W. law is at present administered
in a dozen barn-like structures, scattered all over
Sydney, all badly lit and most of them badly
situated, and a big central structure where all the
law and the prophets will be under one roof is
very necessary. But if Carruthers intends (and
it is 50 to one that he does) to build the courts out
of loan money, it is time the great Deform party
woke up and complained. Anyway the scattered
and uncomfortable Law Courts, are not a circum-
stance to the scattered and deplorable asylums
for the aged poor. And the scattered and de-
plorable loan is as objectionable as either of them.
When a Protectionist policy was first advo-
cated in the Canadian Parliament a local Tory
tried to pound it to death with a Yankee catch-
phrase. “The Protectionists,” he said, “were
trying to lift themselves over the fence by their
boot-straps.” The George Reids of Canada
quoted this as an irresistible argument for years
afterwards. It is quite dead now.
John Chinaman begins to “talk back”
with a vengeance. The Chinese Ambassador at
Washington recently presented to the U.S.A.
Government a record of all the Chinese killed in
the States for the last 25 years, and whose mur-
derers were not in any way punished. This was
in response to a complaint about the latest mis-
sionary outrage.


A SP
o
V
❖
%
©
4V
!R
V
\\
$
cv
A6'
<T°
//
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
—-wholesale only
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON*;
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
§>v
IjoU Are the Ideal f>\Bß.icS
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 24, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
Perhaps the archangels have a fresh point of
view to bring to bear on horse races (an angel’s eye
view of a steeplechase would surely be new). I
have not. Fancy an archangel leaning his celes-
tial elbow for a meditative minute on a cloud, and
glancing earthward, and remarking to one of the
seraphim : “ The microbes are very excited this
week; they are having germ races again.” And
the seraph, perhaps with a smile, saying : “ They
need excitement. It keeps them from brooding
upon the fact that they are microbes.”
At every big race meeting there is at least one
woman who must have gone to her dressmaker
(and a very good costumiere at that) and said, “ I
want you to make me a gown the like of which
has never been seen before. Above all things it
must be conspicuous. I want the whole attend-
ance to say between races, ‘Have you seen It?’
I don’t mind a bit being called It or That so long
as lam noticed with a 40,000-h.p. notice. Now
the loveliest Paris-made gown will pass un-
observed when the procession of the freak frock
will be followed by a thousand eyes. So I want
to look like a cross between an ochre mine and
the Seven Deadly Shocks.”
When last Saturday’s freak frocker was nego-
tiating she must have added, “ I have, whilst in a
nightmare, thought out my mode. Last night I
ate a heavy supper of fried tripe and sparkling
Moselle. Then I dreamt I saw myself tightly
swathed, as a sausage, in a chiffon velvet corselet-
skirt; the color of the scarlet poppy. My sheath-
skirt was padded all around the back of the waist
line from hip to hip, so that I billowed out like
the front of a roll-top desk, and then curved
in at the knees, where my Scarlet envelope
was gummed, so to speak, so closely that I
couldn’t take more than inch-long steps,
and had I been pursued even by a fat cater-
pillar, I must have been caught. My skirt was
short enough to display my ankles (which are
worthy of inspection), and when I stood, in my
dream, as 1 intend to do in reality, on the stairs
that slope from the eastern end of the grandstand,
I heard men say (remember, gentle dressmaker, I
do but relate a dream), “She wears green garters
to match her shoes.” Doesn’t Nature know what
she’s about when she grows green leaves around
red blossoms ? Miy hat shall be a green boxer
worn on the bias and carrying two huge
scarlet feathers, curling back and front.
With my face whitened to a paper hue,
my lips carmined, and my eye lashes
darkened so as to make my expression mysterious
and alluring, I think I shall be the most distingue
freak on the lawn. If I were Lady Northcote,
a grass-lawn with Valenciennes would do me as
well as one of your masterpieces, but as the poet
Blake remarks, ‘The fox provides for himself,
but God provides for the lion.’ So fashion me
my fancy frock, and have the high lights all over
■ it so no eye in all the 32,000 may miss it.”
And behold it was all done as she commanded,
and all people said when they saw It, “I am glad
I came.”
To strike live novelties at these otherwise
wearisome race meetings you must prowl around
and if a novelty with sparrows’ nests in his hair
and beard speaks to you, you must not give him
the Polar-ice eye and go away. I found one who
told me that at every big race meeting a splendid
gathering of spook horses, ridden by ghost
jockeys, and viewed by hundreds of thousands of
phantom men and women, gave Randwiek and
Flemington their attraction for him. He tried to
make me see Mentor and Musket ridden by well-
known dead jockeys, and he said the best-dressed
woman present was Mrs. . “There she is
sitting behind the Governor’s box. Doesn’t the
chignon show off her hair well, and make the
other women look old-fashioned ? ” He also indi-
cated another belle “in a crinoline.”
At Saturday’s meet, which was another warm-
pea-soup day, there were some real peacock
clothes. Which reminds nfe that someone has
“ The pride of the peacock is the glory
°f God.” The air y> fair y Hordern girl who mar-
ried a Gaden was in sapphire blue velvet with a
crown of light-shade violets on her hat. It was a
nocturne—a twilight and midnight-sky effect.
Mrs. “Willie” Bowman, one of a wool family
was of the few who had a new toilette for every
day, and Mrs. F. M‘Master, a Dalkeith squat-
-teress, was reckoned one of the best toqued. A
white beaver with the skin of some other rare
white animal, and a wreath of roses shaded from
mauve to pink, worn with a peach crepe de chine
were among the fixtures. The new color—auber-
gine—the hue of the egg-plant, which is a kind of
deep mauve, was tapestried into the embroidery
on a smart red frock worn by Miss Hilda Caro.
Man-o’-war Gaunt—a brother of Mary Gaunt
whose stories and articles on “Little Industries
for Women” were once the joy of Melbourne
Argus readers—had a fairer half there, all in pale
blue clothes, flaxen hair, and infantile features
and coloring. She is said to have been a belle of
Dublin—which is a pretty large label for such a
very small woman.
The orchid often enters into the philosophy of
the clothes of the Hay family. Dr. and Missus
pinned bn to their race clothes some rare blooms
of their own North Sydney raising. Miss Flor-
ence Young, in brown silk (doesn’t it sound like a
Dorcas meeting ?), white ostrich feathers and tur-
quoise ear-rings, was the only well-known stage
charmer present. The funeral of Robert Brough
was occurring that afternoon, and the stage stayed
away from Rand wick in large numbers.
Talking of Florence Young and others. This
from a current novel: “ Great singers and gener-
ally all good singers are perfectly healthy animals
with solid nerves, in which respect they differ
from other artists with hardly an exception. They
have good appetites, they sleep soundly. .
Without a large gift of calm, physical strength
they could not possibly do the physical work re-
quired of them . . . their feelings are natural and
healthy, when those of other musicians are apt to
be frightfully morbid.”
Talking some more of singers : A considerable
section of musical Sydney is asserting that we have
the world-tenor-in-the-making amongst us. Mr.
George Grimm, himself a well-known singer and
teacher of singing, found the phenomenon, Gerald
Kean by name, in Ballarat. Mr. Kean is 22 years
of age, of medium height, and with all the physi-
cal equipment of the great singer. His teacher
works at him every day, and the crudely-mag-
nificent voice is being trained for grand opera.
Kean, though of Australian birth, has some
brogue, and looks a humorist; he writes stories
and verse, and a few years ago he broke the record
for speed at shorthand, writing 258 words a
minute. It will be a great advertisement of our
immense natural resources if Australia’s musical
output should include, as well as the world’s
soprano, a voice that will put Caruso’s into second
place.
MISS DINA COOPER , as Cora Williams in
“ The Fatal Wedding.”
Photo, by Johnstone O’Shannessy, Sydney.
Mrs. Sep. Levy, the smart little Jewess who
has been one of the most artistically-dressed
Australians abroad for the last few years, is back
in Sydney, wearing gems of special collection.
Mr. Marks, the Jap Consul in Melbourne, is Mrs.
Sep’s father, and report says she is heavily gilded
from the estate of her late mother.
Mr. Francis Foy, the senior man of the Foy
firm, and his wife left by the s.s. Yarra on
Saturday for a holiday trip.
Mrs. William Melville, widow of a once well-
known Sydney mining man and daughter of the
late Dr. McNally, Q.C., M.P. of Dublin, died at
Pretoria (South Africa) recently. The lady was a
well-known and favorite personality in the western
district of N.S.W.
Herr Franz Degen, the violinist from the Brus-
sels Conservatoire, will give the first of his recitals
on Thursday (April 26) at the Centenary Hall.
Sydney society, and musicians whether in or out
of society, are so full of expectation that reason is
almost tottering on its throne.
The Philip Mortons and Miss Hay are back in
Sydney from their trip, and the heretofore too
ethereal Mrs. Phil, is said to be a pound or two
heavier.
Amongst the departures by the Orotava was a
composer and pianist, who was so modest that he
failed to blow his own trumpet. Mr. J. M.
Stevens is a native of Sydney, as his father and
grandfather were before him. He composed the
Australian National Anthem sung at all the
schools during the Commonwealth celebrations.
He has taken to England with him a number of
pianoforte caprices and romances and original
songs, which he has great hopes of introducing to
London.
A Sydney man was Eastering in a country
township and asked the Oldest Inhabitant about
the people, and if they were all sociable-like.
“Lumme,” said the Oldest Inhabitant, “the’ole
township’s split into three. There’s the toffs, and
them what kids they’re toffs, and there’s me
old woman and me.” Which about sums up the
average country township.
More than likely that another of King Edward’s
nieces will follow Ena of Battenberg Romewards.
The Prince Royal of Portugal is billed to visit
England to inspect the stock in the royal matri-
monial market. Patricia of Connaught is favorite
in the betting. A Fife miss is second, but
Patrickess of Connaught is entering the straight,
while the other girl isn’t half-way round the
course yet.
I was sitting in a railway carriage the other
day, when a young woman and her mother entered.
The girl was shockingly pale, thin, and obviously
consumptive. She took a seat by the open window
and looked out into the bright sunny day, but the
mother instantly called her into the shade and
shut down the window. The whole sad story of
the girl’s illness seemed to be told in that mis-
taken action. I wonder how many people, who
go into consumptives’ graves are sent there by
the misdirected kindnessof good fat relatives.
A returned Australite says, commenting on
the cable that a Russian celebrity and his
mistress (an “actress”) had been cut in New
York for the reasons (1) that he had in-
troduced the Flossie as his wife; (2) that he had
the Flossie: “Whilst the Russ.-Jap war w ? as on
I was in Paris and used to meet constantly a Russian
merchant, who never spoke of his wife and family
(in St. Petersburg) without a tremolo in his voice
and a tear of affection in his eye. He was always
accompanied in his drivesand rides, and in his opera
box, by a handsome, superbly-dressed and jewelled
woman. I missed the pair for a week; then,
finding him dining alone at a quiet cafe,
asked the cause of his recent absence.
‘Ma maitresse,’ he explained, ‘has sprained her
ankle severely. If I were seen abroad without
her no one would believe that explanation. All
mercantile Paris would say I was insolvent, that
I could no longer afford her, and my credit would
be gone.’” Perhaps the celebrity thought New
York does as Paris does. Maybe he only brought
his Flossie as a guarantee of liis solvency.
Sunshine, seashine, starshine and physical
culture on well-rolled, scented, shaven turf.
These are the better parts chosen by the women
bowlers. The Ladies are taking to the
sport in Sydney as if it were a new
hat. At the Warringah Bowling Club at
Mosman’s, last night, Melbourne lady bowlers
played some of the club’s best men, and won. At
least, so far as I could make out, they scored
brilliantly under the windless sky and the Lux
light. The president of the club, Mr. Denyer,
said they did, and he ought to know; also the
Mayor of Mosrnan backed him up, and the accu-
racy of mayors amounts to a disease. Mrs. E. I).
Heather, who is one of the rink captains of the
Albert Park (Melb.) Women’s Club, and her
fellow bowleresses (or bowlesses), seemed to get all
the compliments that were coming to them. Then
there was tea and harmony, and the crowded
attendance looked over the sward at radiant
statues, and said it was a lot better than being in
San Francisco. Last week, at “Kentville,” Annan-
dale, Mr. John Young’s place, the visiting
bowlers from Victoria and Queensland, and a host
of local people were entertained at a lunch or
garden party, dinner and ball. Bowling seems to
develop in those who practise it the qualities of
cheerfulness and hospitality, and, as R. L.
Stevenson says, of such persons are the kingdom
of heaven.
Rose Musgrove has given her name to the skirt
that she wears in the first act of “ The Cingalee.”
The frock (it is of greyish-blue silk with a little
chiffon velvet coat) always causes the hoisting of
a number of opera glasses—to women’s eyes, of
course, “Look at the pleats down the skirt.
They stand out straight edge-on.” So they do.
for they are wired in the way they should go.
The fashion was of accidental origin. A rebellious
pleat stood out on its own, and Rose grasped the
skirts of happy chance, so to speak, and said,
“Let ’em all come so.” Hence the “Musgrove
skirt.”
The humorous episode at Gov.-General North-
cote’s ball on Thursday night was caused by a Her
and a Herr. She was pouring a Niagara of small
talk over him, and their noses almost touched as
their flirting phrases balanced to corners.
Suddenly the German leaned back—to laugh,
probably—and leaned against the knob of
the electric-lighting apparatus, and half
the room was left in darkness. The flight
from that quarter! It almost deserved to be
called the Hegira. No one wanted their Exes
to think that he or she had done the deed. The
Chief Justice’s wife (in mauve, with her hair done
sausage-fashion down the back of her head) led
the rout.
The debutantes at the ball had a dull time. I
reckon those nice, white-robed girls jumped on
the coming-out posies when they got home.
Possibly they played a tear-drop prelude. Very
few Sydney' dancing men were asked to the ball.
So many foreign men-o’-war are in harbor that
the males present were English, French, American
and German guns, who either danced with the
official women or didn’t dance at all. One debu-
tante’s mother danced every giddy round dance,
whilst her “bud” looked on approvingly from a
coign of crowded isolation. Amongst the “ buds ”
were the daughters of the E. P. Simpsons, of A.
Hangar, and of Senator A. J. Gould. Last had a
specially fetching robe of satin chiffon, Mechlin
lace and spangles.
Miss Drummond, who forms part of the glitter-
ing vice-regal tail these days, has her hair done
above her shoulder-blades and hanging in an onion-
bag. Several Sydney girls are copying the
unstylish style.
Mrs. Cruickshank, widow of the late squatter
politician, and sister of Rupert Clarke, is learning
the art of massage from that fashionable Sydney
masseuse, Miss Stafford. Mrs. Cruickshank has
an adopted child who is weakly, and for its sake
is undertaking the new study.
An allusion in this letter away back in the Dark
Ages of April 5, to “Arlington,” the new resi-
dence of the Herbert Marks family, as “ a rather
tumble-down old place” has induced the legal
firm of Westgarth, Nathan and Co. to demand an
explanation, and also to demand a guinea for
wear and tear of the firm in demanding the ex-
planation. It seems that the house has had £BOO
spent on it, and if it ever was tumble-down it has
tumbled up again. Anyhow, it now stands
firmly and respectably on its feet, and won’t
tumble sideways unless a very big earthquake
comes. Probably it won’t tumble even then.
This is the first time I ever did a serious wrong or
injury to a house, and I am anxious to repair it
(the injury, not the house) as completely as pos-
sible. I hate to hurt a house . unless in self-
defence.
The fashionable wedding craze has been
savagely burlesqued at Harrisburg, U.S.A. Last
January two apes were solemnly married in that
city by Judge So-and-So. The contracting
parties were named “Prince Bismarck” and
“Miss Evolution.” The owner of the “Prince”
decided he should have a mate, and so sent East
and bought the creature. “Miss Evolution”
arrived per train, and was met at the station by
the bridegroom-elect, with friends and a carriage.
The ceremony was performed with due solemnity,
the “Judge” officiating. George Laubader
acted as best man, and Jane Ketch as bridesmaid.
The bride and bridegroom wore the orthodox
wedding costumes —the lady-ape tulle veil, white
satin gown and orange blossoms —and conducted
themselves with the utmostdecorum throughoutthe
ceremony, and at the banquet, where their health
and happiness were toasted by the numerous
guests. Cards, intimating that Mr. and Mrs.
Bismarck would be “At Home ” to their friends
at the Hotel Lokta after January 15, were sent
out. In. justice to the parsonic profession, it may
be mentioned that, in spite of the tremendous fees
offered by the owner of the apes, every reverend
declined emphatically to. officiate at the ape
travesty on marriage.
An example we might follow in Australia when
we begin to improve the status of the domestic
servant. Call the girls “employees of private
houses.” That is how they are known in the
training schools lately founded in German cities.
Each pupil pays about twelve dollars for a com-
plete course of one year in weekly instalments.
They get a free lunch. School opens at eight,
pupils are supposed to remain till seven in the
evening, and the course includes making-up of
bedrooms, cooking in all its branches, mending,
sewing, dress-making, washing and the rest.
I rushed from the Governor-General Northcote
garden-party this minute to tell you that mine
eyes have seen a sight as fine as the Coming of the
Lord ! The German, officers from the Condor !
They are tailor-built, on Egyptian squares and
angles, and their corsets are so tight that
their elbows are turned inside out, and the palms
of their hands are open to the public. Every
young man looks like Prince Eitel, and their
chests are cushions deep enough to hold hat pins
driven up to the head.
My Adelaide correspondent writes: —
I send this in great haste to tell you that my State has
been re-christened. It is no longer to be called South
Oss but Tram Oss, in memory of an animal that, we
believe, is shortly to disappear. The Government, it is
reported, has bought the tramways, and is going to start
an electric system, and the spectacle of a sort of dog-
kennel on wheels, dragged by two skeletons, or animated
crinolines disguised in hide, will soon infest the streets no
more.
Adelaide has witnessed another smart matrimonial
shivoo this month. It has them about twice a year,
just to keep up the spirits of the inhabitants of the
horse-car State. The picturesque victim this time was
Miss Effie Melrose, a pink-and-white society beauty, who
has been much sought by the amazed and affluent youth
of the State. Her accomplice was Mr. David Fulton,
a nice-looking boy of reputed wealth, who is
connected with most of Adelaide’s notabilities. The
pair were roped together at the cathedral, in the presence
of a full house (standing room only). Guests were many
and costly, likewise frocks, likewise bridesmaids. The
latter were six in number —three disguised in scarlet,
three concealed in pale blue ; and the bride was the
prettiest thing of the kind seen here for many a long day.
The decorations Were carried out in scarlet cacti, but it’s
rather a futile game to try to decorate a cathedral. It’s
like hanging up a Chinese lantern in a desert.
Ari astonished English pilot found himself at Port
Adelaide last week. He started to take an Italian barque
down-channel from London to the Lizard last Christmas
Day, but when he had got as far as he proposed to go, the
ship was violently blown out into various oceans, and
S.A. was the first land touched. The visitor does not
worry any. His kidnappers have to pay all the expenses
of his return journey, and he says his wife will guess what
has happened ; in fact, it has happened before, but that
time he was transferred to a homeward-bound ship some-
where about the Equator.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“Crade” : What’s all this fuss «bout a
White Australia ? Aren’t our Northern brethren
quite as patriotic as ourselves? Didn’t I stroll
down Exhibition-street (Melbourne) the other
night, and come across the “Commonwealth
Cafe;” proprietor, Bister Boom? At the door a
Hindu lady talked volubly with a Chinawoman
in the Lord-knows-what language. About them
crawled a tribe of children of many tints. Still it
was ‘‘ Commonwealth Cafe ” ! A ’Stralian would
have called it Paris Cafe, or Swiss Cafe, or
Continental Cafe.
The least suggestion of an earthquake in
Sydney or Melbourne would cause a heavy fall in
the value of certain city properties. Tenants of
offices in the loftiest buildings would prefer to
change their place of business. The elevator as a
means of transit would lose a lot of its present
usefulness. Excited gatherings of stout, elderly
gentlemen would pass resolutions in favor of
diminishing the altitude of their club premises,
and the anxiety to get away fiom “ stately piles”
would be a pronounced characteristic of commercial
life. The earthquakes of San Francisco happened
luckily at 5.15 a.m., when the streets were deserted,
and only a few hotels, lodging-houses and newspaper
offices were thickly populated. The same catas-
trophe at 5 p.m. might have been fifty times more
fatal. May the Lord preserve Australia from such
a fall of bricks and masonry as occurred in San
Francisco last week ; but if a, warning tremor is to
be felt in either of the biggest cities, The
Bulletin would like it to come when all the avail-
able stout gentlemen are on the spot, so that the
pomps and vanities of this world may positively
scare them (for the moment) and the all-round
effect of their perturbation may be' humorous.
One can imagine an alderman at that time wish-
ing he were an old age pensioner in a thatched
cottage, and never exposed to the awful risk of
attending committee meetings at the Equitable
Building, and never in danger of being buried
amidst the ruins of a bank. A very small earth-
quake just now would suffice to prompt many a
city magnate to go camping-out.
Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady sell cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, ar.d the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. (id., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to .expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135.. according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*


OUR White Rubber Spread
Lady’s and Gent.'s Water*
proofs will set the fashion
for the coming Winter,
They bear the Stamp pf
Quatity, and being both
Stylishly Cut and Well
Made will appeal to every,
one who likes to be well
dressed. Easily cleaned.
Made in various designs,
and to order if desired.
Obtainable all leading
Stores. ’ Specify “Hercules”
brand, and if any difficulty
in obtaining same, send to
us direct for design plates,
prices, etc. Correspon-
dence from Trade invited.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Christchurch, N.Z.
P.D. The N
orsets
For Distinction e*f
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . ♦
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 24, 1906.
My Dear Yarrte.—.
Tb.e tired Talbottle Ex. is in the hands just now
of .strangers.. Attache No. 1 lisps, and isn’t quite
sure of the Yictorian way of licking the stamps,
and it takes an A.D.C. quite a time to, learn, a
little thing like that. Caddy No. 2 is still troubled
with curls and a suppressed grin, also an in-
ability to carry the Talbottle Dame’s coat up to
time. The consequences are sometimes comic.
At a stylish hop the other night No. 2 was espied
dragging on a stubborn pair of white gloves in
the track of the long Exes. All down the length
of the hall he tugged at them, as if he were pulling
a cat by the tail through a hole in the fence, and
even at the carpeted sanctuary he still pulled and
strained. Now, an aide should at least have energy
enough to dress before going forth.
The rash rush to matrimony marks the after-
Jtastcr season. Roman Catholics and Tall
Church Anglicans who saved up their emo-
*lonfu * or . ,^ le cl ? s ? °f Lent have passed
up the aisle and joined hands in scores, while
the pastors, glad of the boom in the most pay-
ing branch of their shepherdship, have hurried
up the Breathing of the Voice until it almost
panted so as to get more than one couple off the
mat in an afternoon. A couple of last Wednes-
day s matings have a romance to record. The bride
was a ward and the groom her guardian. They
were on purely platonic terms till a knotty bit of
legal business cropped up. It was such a difficult
matter to decide that the guardian asked if the
ward were willing that they should put their
heads together and cogitate on the matter. He
proposed in the midst of the cogitation, and the
lady was willing. It’s a good thing to be in the
position to marry a difficulty, and so escape
single responsibility.
Lhe Matrons’ hop was a stately ceremony and
slow-very, very slow. The Toorak Try Society
was the charity to be aided, but the Try matrons
tailed to put enough enthusiasm into the venture.
Only a hundred or two transpired, and this hand-
ful of waltzers was as lost in the large area of the
town Hall as a dozen flies would be in Egypt.
Ihe local Exes, proeeshed in and the hoppers
pattered themselves over the uninhabited area to
the best of their spreading capacity. The Ston-
mgton dame was in mauve or bruised plum taffeta,
and a lighter stuff in a lighter tone called atten-
tion to a pair of aristocratically narrow shoulders.
At her most eminent part she sported diamonds,
u °P e ping set all were grave and senior, with
the exception of Aide Crichton, who was as lively
as a kitten at a meeting of church elders. But he
made the wrong moves all the time, and was as
badly disarranged as the Californian earthquake.
j W i as a ( l ueer o P en ing set, and remained to finish
a delayed fifth figure after all the other sets had
dispersed.
It wasn’t Miss Alison Fairbairn, after all, who
showed as the dazzler of that select matrons’ hop,
but Miss Lesly Madden, up from Erankston to
star as a surprise among the Toorakety twinklers.
The chubby Miss was regal and attractive in
chaste ivory chiffons—a sort of topcoat, with
lengthy tails reaching down to the back of the
knees, over a petticoat of coastal foam. A touch
or two of sea-green velvet brought the marine
suggestion out the stronger.
Little Leila Doubleday was commanded to the
Stonington presence the other day, and fiddled and
strummed for the grey Ex. A roomful of
chatterers isn’t in it for distraction with a tall
party of one seated in stately solitude. But
doubtless the gifted Leila, who wraps herself all
round her music, didn’t drop a note of
nervousness.
A droll yarn is in circulation. The lad servant
of a charitable dame died, and word was at once
sent to the relatives to ask what would they like
the benefactress to do in the shape of a small
gravestone or some other little monument to his
memory. The family immediately replied that
they thought a piano would be the nicest token
of remembrance. So little Willie’s memorial was
a piano. The family got it, and are now probably
keeping his memory green by funeral marches and
coon songs.
Sixteen fledglings are booked to see the first
light of the social day at the ’Varsity hop. And
there are more to follow. When one thinks of the
surplus supply of girl already crowding the polka
scene, and learns of the flocks coming out at this
hop and t’other, a great pity wells up in the heart
for the sweet young things who have got to learn
before they swing round with their partners half
a dozen times, that many have been called but few
are chosen. Why doesn’t some idle philanthropist
open up a school for boy debutants, and award
each raw recruit that comes along—say by giving
him a smoking outfit for life or a jolly start in a
banking account. Unless something of the kind
is done, the terrible swarm of girl about these
parts will result in closed ballrooms. Fancy a
notice to this effect : “Closed in consequence of a
Man Famine.” It’s not altogether a nonsensical
supposition.
The love sorrows of Romeo Truda deserve the
admiring sympathy of every She in Melbourne,
save, perhaps, the Juliet of his affections, who
finds them too tempestuous. Juliet —proper
name, Gwendoline Bate—was compelled to take
out a warrant for Romeo’s arrest the other day.
He demands marriage or her life, whilst she
wishes to remain alive and single, as far as he is
concerned. So Romeo has been playing up with
a revolver; also he smashes windows at the resi-
dence of his hated love, and haunts the veran-
dah wringing his hands and flourishing a walking-
stick. Sentimentally considered, Romeo’s passion
is a beautiful compliment to the sex. In the
agony of his disappointed longings he utters the
most awful threats. Says he will treat the girl—
she is young and pretty—worse than Jack the
Ripper treated his victims. Talks of bringing all
the blackfellows in Melbourne to assist at the gory
proceedings. He is a musician—an Italian
musician—which helps to explain the sweet un-
reasonableness of his pertinacity. Music is the
food of love, and all day long poor Romeo inflames
his appetite with tit-bits of Verdi, and Donizetti,
not to mention Bellini and the older composers,
whose melodies suggested every possible variety of
lingering embrace. But the pampered, bloated
passion remains’ faithful to its ideal, murderously
constant to its inspiration. Only one girl in the
world for Romeo these past nine months, and
now the law, with cruel irony, has bound him over
to keep the peace. Not the piece, alas ! not the
piece.
The Osbornes rather proudly charge their scat-
tered numbers to two pioneers, James and Henry,
who landed here in the thirties, when Vic-
toria and N.S.W. were in pinnies and short socks.
These brothers stand responsible for a progeny
running to, three, numerals. And in their por-
traits they look eyery bit responsible. Over 6ft.
high, powerfully constructed, the pair gaze af
the camera with a strong expression of family
virtue. The whole immense clan riots in medium
lawyers, prosperous squatters, and champion
sports. There have been two secessions—one to
the footlights and t’other to the cloth.
Re the current agitation for funeral reform in
Melbourne—so far as I can see, the Australian
extravagance in funerals, as in other matters, runs
to horses. In two Melbourne funerals lately, I have
seen four-horse hearses and four-horse mourning
coaches. This excessive waste of horse-power
makes the funeral of an important citizen look
very like a circus.
The police were given a job the other night
because a gentleman who claimed to be the “ best-
looking man in Melbourne ” got a hit in the eye
from his mate because of his overweening vanity.
He wasn’t a shop-walker or a beauty-actor either ;
just a Russian sailor on a third-rate old wind-
jammer.
Miss Violet Mount is to have a concert at
Melbourne Town Hall on May 2nd. The air is
full of dates and rumors of complimentary con-
certs. Little Leila Doubleday’s great occasion is
fixed for the 16th, and some day at the far end of
the month there is to be a rally on behalf of
Hector Lightfoot. Hector, with all the courage
of his classic namesake, has decided to sell up his
belongings and depart for London with his wife
and five children. Not necessarily to set the
Thames on fire the moment he arrives, but to
make his fine voice heard in the land and see what
comes of it.
“Was Eve dark or fair?” was the subject of
discussion at a Melbourne debating society the
other week. One member triumphantly pro-
duced an old portrait to support his contention
that Eve was fair. It was a colored photograph
of a French painting, and the society gravely
accepted it as evidence—rather doubtful evidence,
but evidence all the same—and the balance of
opinion was that Eve had golden hair a-hanging
down her back.
More staggering tidings reach here of Percy
Grainger’s success in the Cold Country. All the
dames of most blue-veined account are vieing in
attentions to the golden-thatched strummer. One
Princess of something or other that sounds like a
champagne label or the blowing out of a soda-water
cork fell on Percy’s shoulders and murmured her
royal applause right in the young man’s ear. Subse-
quently she arranged for his visit to her castle in
Spain—no, France.
Reginald Bright, the grey beau of this Bent
State, has just journeyed back from a grand gad.
He looks as pretty an old philanderer as ever, and
flies the red flower of gaiety in his buttonhole
with the same old dainty fervor, but the flowers
have faded right out from his veteran cheeks.
Still one can’t expect youth to retain its bloom in
the face of the seventies, and Bachelor Bright has
nothing to complain of from the sex, which has
always accorded him its fondest smile.
The dame of the Commissioner of Railways has
set off for a look in at her own snowy, bear-
infested country. Mrs. Tait takes her one chick
on the journey across the Pacific. Mr. Tait will
wear weeds during his grass-widowerhood—weeds
in his mouth.
They’re making efforts to fight the heavy debt
incurred by the building of St. Vincent’s Hospi-
tal, and the Sister Superior of the order—probably
the most successful fleecer in this land —goes
abroad to raise the wind somehow. Her P.P.G.
cards convey the news, and add a naive little
appeal to the effect that any assistance offered to
help fill the great gap will be deeply appreciated
—a guinea being the maximum amount accepted.
The off-to-Europe concert is getting on the
nerves of the ticket-buyers. The latest is always
the absolutely most deserving case of the lot—the
last canary is always to sing a higher, truer,
deeper, stronger note than any who have yet
raised their song to high Heaven. The Immigra-
tion League might add to its duties the stoppage
of the emigration of singers.
Certain charmers in an amateur show have
been camera-ed and published as a set of “ Walk-
ing Ladies ’’—and some of the relatives have
strongly objected to the label. Either the photo-
grapher or the paper should be sentenced to some-
thing or other—any old thing, in taut —without
the option. “ Walking Ladies ”is not quite the
most poetic title for a flock of sweet young flut-
tered on the amateur planks.
The smart girl of this city is a sore trial to an
old-fashioned parent. It’s an unfortunate thing
that a conservative and rather cobwebby parent
will sometimes be inflicted with a daughter who
runs right ahead of her time, and bumps her
forehead against the gate-posts of the Future, so
to speak, in a hurry to get along. There’s one
instance in a stylish suburb of such a forward
March chick. So fervently does she race ahead
of everyone else that the backward parent is left
damp with the tears of inefficiency away to the
rear of Time. Now and then only does the
unhappy progenitor reach out a zealous hand
and catch the passing skirt of the advanced off-
spring. Then she is implored to go slow,
and not invite disaster. One day recently
she was lectured so bard that she said
“Botheration!” with a stamp of her high heel,
and packed up her tooth-brush and walked off.
She remained away for four nights, and then a
repentant daddie went and sought her forgiveness.
She heard him with a haughty, angry air, but
finally forgave the poor old man, ordered a cab,
and returned to the parent nest. Now she’s
tearing ahead again, and a once-bitten, twiee-shy
daddie holds his peace. But what a revolution —
also what a revelation —it would be if that parent
took his courage in both hands, and caned his
insurrectionary descendant, and then locked her
in the coal-cellar.
Miss Stuart-Wortley has suddenly decamped.
One day the public learnt that she had gone.
There were no parting tears, and the pretty miss
went unfarewelled and unsung.
Leslie Harris, the Hop o’ my Thumb showman,
is a cheerful and highly comic cuss off the plat-
form. He is a small round wag with peculiarities.
He unblushingly sports a gold bangle on a little
fat wrist. This affectation, he says, is good for
business. And then he reels off a yarn as an
instance, for instance. He is packed full of bright
nonsense, and his features help wonderfully.
Nose, eyes and mouth all work in faithful partner-
ship. There’s, a jolly little wife ev< tour, and a
jolly little Harris. Leslie himsejf was an organist.
That was the beginning of his fall. Thh parson?
yarns that, for obvious reasons, he doesn’t relate
in the halls are among his. drbllest. The cleric
who takes himself and the world neat is a good
subject for a showman who had the opportunity
of taking his shepherd off the shell, as it were.
The handsomest benedict in the State of Bent
figures in a triangular trouble of great local
interest.
A daughter of the late George Coppin was
married quietly the ocher day. The knot-tying
was the climax to a romance that started 10 years
ago, and managed to thrive on very small en-
couragement from the heroine.
The most desperate ogler on the sing-song plat-
form, who rolls his great handsome orbs at all the
petticoated of his audience, and shakes out his
top-notes with a thrillful amount of foreign emo-
tion, is booked for matrimony with a charmer of
high-bred qualities.
Mrs. Bland Holt had a birthday on the Sydney
express. It was celebrated before Moss Vale
was sighted. All the Melbourne gifts—Mrs,
Bland’s circle of chums is as rare and wonderful
as the truth —were emptied into her hands, and all
the dreamers rubbed the cobwebs of the night
from their eyes to enjoy full view of the offerings,
Loveliest of all was a set of the palest pink cameos
—donated by Bland and a few intimates. This
set adds to a collection of gems that for barbaric,
bold, or unique interest isn’t surpassed by any
other in Australia.
The tea and muffin spree served up by the
’Varsity Chancellor and Iris dame to-day (Monday)
represents a mild and subdued celebration of the
place’s Jubilee. ' The Wrixons always select the
tea and crumpet to demonstrate with.
When the Albury (N.S.W.) residents learnt
that a common or paddock shearer was likely to
come in for a million or two or three, they fussed
considerably, and wanted to get the heir of
Brooks’ estate on show. They ascertained all
they could about him. An Albury chick sends
me a comic account of the excitement and the
curiosity. “Was he married?” asked the girls,
“Can he stand oats?” asked the men. The two
queries summed up the feeling of the town on the
matter. But he is very much married, and the
girls are disappointed.
The ’Varsity hop is to have a number of side-
shows, among them a doctor from Monkeyland,
The little treacle-colored professor is reckoned a
large attraction. Probably the local girl will beg
for his vest buttons, and ask for any other detach-
able part of his gear as a souvenir of brown
memories.
People at Gamperdown have suddenly awakened
to the fact that horse interests are dulling theip
mental outlook, so the squatteress is at the head
of a literary movement by which Thought is to bp
exercised strenuously throughout this cold seasoiv
It is to be hoped that the unusual mental strain
will not have any upsetting results. The pro-
gramme arranged for the series includes such
topics as “The Evolution of an Egg” and “Soap
Bubbles.” Weighty subjects like these are likely
to cause brain earthquakes.
Big Senator Playford came out of his social
shell in Bananaland recently. He brought his
domestic mate along, and the pair dined and
supped some military Brisbanites and their she-
partners. That’s more than the massive and
blunt old Federalist has ever done in this quarter.
Geelong boasts a she-whistler, Miss Clarice
Robertson, who this year bewitched all the carni-
val tqwnies and visitors. She produces some
notes that might be mistaken for the lower flute
range, and doesn’t grimace any.
The M‘Eacharns (mama and chick) went along
to Brisbane to conduct Malcolm on his way back
from Monkeydom to Melbourne. The munici-
pality girds up its loins for a festive outbreak
when he returns.
Little Miss Margaret Baskerville, Melbourne’s
sculptress, is returning to Australia after two
years’ sojourn in the Land of Fog. A much im-
proved artist will be welcomed back as the result
of her close study under Lanteri, the leading
master in the sculping line in London, who has
written most enthusiastic commendations of her
work. Prior to quitting England for a couple of
months’ run round the European art reposi-
tories, Miss Baskerville held an exhibition of
sculpture and pictures at her Chelsea studio, and
the Morning Post and other papers waxed quite
eloquent in her praise. Her modelling and
carving have become much stronger, and even
her one or two English sketches, chiefly Thames
views, are broader in treatment, although she has
devoted less attention to this branch of her art than
to the other. Miss Baskerville’s paintings have
been so much appreciated in England that,
although she hasn’t rushed round trying to sell
things, she has disposed of over a dozen works.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying, as in the ease of
“ Valaze ” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skin-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
‘‘ Valaze ” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called .
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “ Valaze.”
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “ Valaze ” are widely recognised. There is
scarcely a dressing table where the simple, but dainty
little white porcelain “ Valaze ” pot is not found. Price,
3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Oomtesse Potocka’s
“ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake .
Comtesse Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “ Valaze ” special “Blacl -
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed. 3s. 6d. jai.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in your home from
Bs. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
Now that the butchery of those mt xbers
of the Ethiopian Church in S’Africa has p capi-
tated the trouble it was designed to aver; die
coolie-ridden province of Natal finds itself a
tight place. The Imperial Government interfered
on the ground that if trouble rose with the
natives, Britain would have to do the fighting.
But Natal threatened so loudly about cutting
the painter that it had its way, and now it doesn’t
like to go to the old lady in London and admit
that it has bpen noisy, boastful kid. Bp i£
strikes an attitude and says it will, at any cost,
face the problem on its own, and yyill give the
Imperial Government no chance to remarlc-
“Told you so.” In the meantime it is appealing
for aid in a roundabout sort of way to the Transvaal
and Cape Colony, and is actually accepting
assistance from the Boers, against whom it raved
a few years back.


POLICY-HOLDERS in the AUSTRA-
LIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT Society
should vote for ARTHUR GRAHAM WALD,
the South Australian Candidate, who has
had 18 years of practical experience of Life
Assurance in Australasia, and favors:—The
Election of Local Boards by each State; an In-
dependent State Audit of the Accounts; a Reduc-
tion in Interest on Overdue Premiums from 8 per
cent, to 5 per cent. The Interest on Loans on
Policies to be Reduced to a Uniform Rate of 5 per
cent, per annum ; the Status of the Canvassing
Staff to be Greatly Improved, and whilst favoring
the Extension of the Society to the United King-
dom and British South African Colonies, would
strongly oppose any further extension.
Pt 2
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 8 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO„
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ I come to Australia in this crisis and
proclaim a fiscal peace.”—George Reid at Dubbo
(N.S. W. ). And he said : “Let there be peace,”
and there was a of a row.
The Queensland Commission to investi-
gate the labor question on the cane-fields will only
draw enough remuneration to pay its board and
lodging, with nothing over for drinks. Premier
Kidston is a Scotchman and he is in a hurry. He
knows that that kind of Commission is the kind
that reports quickly.
“We shall go forward to the fight as
fanatically as Mahommedans” is the statement
ascribed to one Labor man. It sounds well, but
is the lack of any fiscal opinions a thing that it is
easy to be fanatical about ? Fancy rushing madly
to battle with a gory sword and a bloodshot eye
and a banner inscribed “ Dunno.”
ALL BRAKE.
The Braddon Clause has acted as an excellent brake on
the spending powers of the Commonwealth Parliament.
—ARGUS.
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, has fixed
up an agreement with the local agricultural im-
plement firms for more Protection, more local
industry, and lower prices. The new duties have
been agreed upon, and for every £1 of extra duty
put on ss. is to be taken off the cost of the article
to the public. Did some one make a remark
about the nefarious way Protection always raises
the cost to the consumer ?
A few weeks back the master of a German
ship, backed up by his Australian agents who are
not German, defied the Sydney Harbor authori-
ties, and took the ship out in spite of their
embargo, on the ground that the vessel, being
foreign-owned, was outside local authority.
Almost the very same day, at Barry, in England,
Captain Brudiman, of the German steamer Hilda
Horn, was telling a court the same yarn. But
the English court said £3O and costs, warrant of
distress to issue if the money were not paid forth-
with.
By a recent proclamation in England the
place of “first Commoner” was taken from the
Speaker and given to the Prime Minister—as far
as a notice in a Gazette can settle such things.
Probably it doesn’t matter three straws, anyway.
Boiled down it simply amounts to a question as to
who shall, in certain circumstances, go through a
door first; and when it really matters who goes
through first, then the order prescribed by a
Gazette won’t be followed, any more than it was
followed when the late O. Cromwell used to get
there first without any Gazette.
In the course of a letter which has been
privately addressed to every member of the fas
manian Assembly, it is alleged that by a wholesale
system of dummying one firm has put its paw on
10,000 acres of that poor little scrap of earth
known as King Island, and that others have
grabbed just about as large a handful.
“T.D.” : As an inky-way man, it was my
melancholy duty to try and extract a few plain
statements from many pieces of undigested legis-
lation. The most tangled sentiment I ever came
across : “ Any reference in any Act to any enact-
ment so repealed shall be construed as referring
to any such enactment as re-enacted in this Act
with any modifications thereof.”
“G.A.” writes :
If the Australian Labor party won’t help the Govern-
ment to pass a high Protectionist tariff, and, in conse-
quence, the Government won’t help the Labor party to
pass its graduated land-tax, how long will it be before
anything happens ? The Labor party has been instructed
to make no alliances. It isn’t strong enough to get any-
thing without alliances, so apparently the country will
get nothing except stagnation, paralysis, and an occa-
sional view of George Reid.
Something has dawned upon the Queens-
land Treasurer. Many thousands of pounds have
been advanced at 5 per cent, interest to pastoral
lessees to enable them to build bunny-proof fences.
But as the life of the wire barrier at best is only
20 years, and no one seems to know just where
the security will be when new fences are required,
as likely as not the lessee will want another loan
then, with the old one still unpaid and the old
ence gone. Kidston begins to wonder if he is up
against another of his predecessor’s bad debts.
Thus “ John Pro Bono Pub.” :
Some paper (I think it was you) said that £7OO a year
was not enough for a principal of the Training College
for Teachers, and that if we want a good man we must
pay a good salary. I used to have foolish notions like
that, but never again. Look at members of Parliament.
When they are paid good salaries they are no good. In
England (so my fellow-boarders say), where no salaries
are paid to members, men of the highest ability and
honesty do the work for the mere love of graft. Now
what about advertising for a principal for the Training
College—no salary to be paid? If you want a good man,
that’s the way to get him. I’m surprised that in this age
of reform the idea hasn’t caught on long ago.
Ex-Premier Philp of Queensland is strong
on the theory that the Commonwealth should take
over the State debts. But in addition to this he
thinks that it should pay cash to the States for
the transferred properties so that the States can
have a bust with the money. (The transferred
properties were paid for out of loans, and when
the Commonwealth takes the responsibility of
those loans Philp wants it to float more loans and
pay for the properties again, so that there will be
£2OOO of debts on £lOOO of property.) Also Philp
thinks that there should be no limit on new State
borrowings, and is of opinion that when the
Commonwealth takes over the existing debts the
States will be able to whoop up quite a lot of fresh
liabilities in London. A great and wonderful
man is Philp.
In Victoria the voice of Cold Tea is heard
crying for more local option polls, but the voice of
Bent is heard bellowing back that it cost
£50,000 to close up 37 hotels at North Mel-
bourne, and he isn’t making any more free
gifts to brewers, landlords and the pub-
licans that are left. A return, showing
the existing number of hotels and the
statutory number makes amazing reading.
Altogether Victoria has 3508 hotels,
though the law allows but 2440. Pretty
well every district has more than it should
—the most notable exceptions being such
suburbs as Elsternwick, Royal Park,
Toorak, Caulfield, Kew, and North
Carlton. Melbourne is crowded with 270
pubs, as against the statutory 78 ; Castle-
maine has 49 instead of the 12 allowed;
Daylesford, 21 instead of six; Melton,
26instead of eight; Heathcote, 24 instead
of nine; Echuca, 23 instead of seven.
Four districts are without a single beer-
pump—Mildura (entitled to six), Peechelba
(four), Elsternwick (six), and Caulfield (11).
London Financial Times, concern-
ning Australia’s outlook :
Prosperity is the best and greatest attracter of popula-
tion, and before long the flow of immigration should
re-eommence on a fair scale. To the man with sufficient
capital to get a start, Australia presents great possi-
bilities.
Did someone remark that Australia's Labor legis-
lation was frightening British immigrants and
capital away from the country ?
Webster, Labor M.H.R. for Gwydir (N.S.
Wales), has a healthy sort of electorate. On Feb.
28 he began to call on his constituents, and by
April 12 had covered 1700 miles—6oo per horse
and vehicle —and had seen a few of them. Then
he rested. On May 16 he starts out again,
and, from Narrabri, will talk up to the Queens-
land border, then turn back again to Reedy Creek,
Baan Baa, Gurlewis, Breeza, Quirindi, Werris
Greek, Quipolly, and other weird places. By
then he’ll have covered another 1000 miles per
moke, and another 800 by rail; and it will be the
end of May, and he’ll have seen a few more con-
stituents. As for seeing all his constituents, that
would take years.
The High Court can take no Arbitration
business until August, pressure of appeal work
standing in the way. It is evident that the High
Court will have to oe reinforced. It gets through
its work with astonishing rapidity—Chief Justice
Griffith makes law with the speed and the cer-
tainty of a brick-making machine —but the appeal
work alone is almost too much for the Bench.
When there is added to that, original-jurisdic-
tion work (which is increasing every month) and
Arbitration work, something has to wait. The
Australian Parliament made a great deal of fuss
over the Arbitration Act. _ Is it content to allow
an indefinite delay in bringing it into operation ?
Now that Melbourne’s typhoid outbreak
has been traced back to its source, it is found that
the blame lies, as usual, directly at the doors of
the Fat Landlords of Parliament—chiefly in the
Upper House. Section 255 of the Health Act origi-
nally forbade the depositing on the land of night-
soil unless it had been deodorised and disinfected ;
but, as usual, the landlords said this was all right
for towns and cities, but the country mustn’t be
harassed in any way, so the section was made not
to apply to shires except by special order of the
Governor in Council. Consequently Preston
shire allowed the old obscene practice to continue,
with the result that might have been anticipated.
“IN THE SHADE OF THE PALM.”
Nicholas Willis has got a step further for-
ward—that is to say, a Natal magistrate named
Binns has ordered his extradition, and he has
appealed to the Supreme Court which will begin
to again consider Nicholas some time in April
or May. If the Supreme Court decides against
him there will, of course, be the Privy Council
still to go to, and it is very remote, old, tired,
busy and deliberate. So when it will finish con-
sidering Nicholas, if it has to consider Nicholas,
no man knows.
The beginning of the Australian Navy
seems to be promised in this cable from London
(16/4/’O6): —
The Daily Express states that Captain Gresswell,
Director of the Australian naval forces, after visiting the
shipyards of the Tyne and the Clyde, has forwarded to
Senator Playford, the Commonwealth Minister for
Defence, specifications and estimates for four torpedo-
boat destroyers and four torpedo-boats.
But is it the right way to go to work ? Captain
Cresswell seems to have gone round the shipyards
and asked what they had to offer, instead of pre-
paring his own specifications and getting a quota-
tion.
Apropos the howl that starts from the
“right-thinking” grocer in Natal because the
Hindu won’t stick to the manual labor that the
grocer helped to import him for, but opens out
m the grocery line too. The Jap spreads him-
self more quickly than the Hindu. Amongst last
year’s Monkey immigrants to 'Frisco were 280
professional men, including 44 actors, 20 civil
engineers, 21 doctors, 37 teachers; also 14 bankers
and 60 hotelkeepers. The Bulletin leaves Bruce
Smith to find out for himself how many lawyers
there were—just to impress on his mind that
when the Jap does come he won’t come simply to
dive for pearls, or do navvying and farm-laboring.
By the Federal redistribution of seats
Melbourne gets one extra member, the Victorian
country districts lose two, and the net result
is one member less for Victoria, This means
more power for the trades unionists of the
city, and less for what the Argus calls the i
“Backbone of the Community” when it is 1
hollering its war cry of “ Back to the 1
Land.” If there was a wholesale and re- I
morseless cutting up of big estates the fl
influx of population might suddenly give
Victoria two or three extra members, all
country members representing the Back-
bone of the Community that the Argus
talks about. But when the Argus tells
people to go Back to the Land they find
they can’t because there is no land
to go back to, Chirnside and Manifold
having got it. So they leave Victoria,
and Melbourne becomes more and more
relatively predominant for want of an
agricultural population, and Melbourne
is full of trades unionists who laugh at
the Argus. Which all works round to the
fact that the Argus is a hopeless ass.
Bent’s tentative appointment of two public
servants and a suburban council-clerlt as Water
Commissioners (practically to control and ad-
minister the State’s irrigation schemes) meets
with the cordial disapproval of the farmers in irri-
gated districts, the men who will neither use the
water adequately after clamoring to have it sup-
plied, nor pay for the little .they do use. The
swindling Rodney farmers met the other day and
decided that Bent would “commit a distinct
breach of faith ” unless he appointed a man versed
in Victorian irrigation, and a competent land
valuer. In other words: “ Won’t we do, Mr.
Bent?”
“ Bagdad ” : I want this Tommy Tanna
business cleared up. This is how it seems to
stand :
(1) There was a weep because the Christianised Tommy
was to be sent back to be murdered by his savage rela-
tives.
(2) We now hear that Tommy, when he gets back,
threatens to butcher all the white men on his island, and
also threatens to make trouble before he leaves Australia.
(3) We are told that because he is such a dangerous
and murderous cuss we should keep him here with us.
(We are also told that we should keep him because he is
so gentle and civilised.)
Will someone sift these things out ?
“ JEdile,” from Forbes (N.S.W.): —
I have read the shocking report in the S. M. Herald
and Telegraph about G. H. Reid’s great and triumphant
meeting at Forbes. I was there. The hall was not nearly
full, and many people left before the show was over. A
great part of the audience attended to hear Reid’s jokes,
and he didn’t joke at all. He stuck closely to politics,
and was as heavy as a mountain. An overflow meeting had
been advertised, but in the absence of any overflow, it
naturally didn’t take place. The joyous assumption that
there would be an overflow was one of the jests of the
evening. The other jest was an accident by the Mayor.
His Worship opened proceedings thus: “ There is no need
for me to tell you the positions Mr. Reid has filled in the
political life of the country, or to introduce him to you,
as his name has been a political bye-word, for years past.”
That was the other jest.
One Hickford, ‘ ‘ President of the
Freetrade League bf Victoria,” wrote
a congratulatory letter to British
Premier Bannerman, and by the last
mail received a reply, which was
duly blazoned forth in the Freetrade
press. Hickford is a person who spent
some minutes in the State Assembly
for the Brunswick district, his loud pro-
testations of democratic principles
having caused the brickmakers of that
suburb to overlook the fact, that if he
had his way, their works would be shut
down and all bricks imported from
somewhere else. But directly Hickford
entered Parliament he proved once
more what is becoming a truism, that
every Australian Freetrader is a Tory
at heart. He joined the unspeakable
Irvine gang and voted solidly on the
side of reaction, while talking Liberalism
as loudly as ever. Accordingly the next
opportunity the brickmakers got they
passed him out on his ear. The Freetrade
f League of Victoria is, in point of national
importance, very small potatoes as compared
with the North Star United Football Club of
Footscray, and is vastly smaller as regards
membership. The annual meetings generally
consist of about five of the office-bearers, who re-
appoint themselves to various positions, and put
the names of a host of absent persons on the com-
mittee list. The committee list includes nearly
everybody who has consistently stayed away from
the meetings.
G. Reid sometimes drops pearls of wis-
dom, and the S.M. Herald picks them up and
sets them. A sample from the Forbes (N.S.W.)
meeting
This led him to deal with the unsatisfactory tri-partv
position, and he once more urged the voters to return at
the election one party strong enough to govern the
country on constitutional lines. “ You will never,” he
said, “have the country managed properly while an
insignificant minority pretend to rule, whereas they are
really being driven by another party not in office.”
Let’s see. From Aug., 1894 to Sept., 1899, a
politician named G. Reid was Premier, leading an
insignificant minority, but kept in power by a
third party. Even then, after over five years, G.
Reid didn’t see what a shocking thing he was
doing, but hung on desperately until the third
paity withdrew the prop, and let G. Reid fall.
The bash in the ground where he fell is used as a
tank to this day.
A pressman who was there writes :—-
Freetrader Fowler, of the Tariff Commission, has all
along been an ostrich for rooting out evidence showing
Protection increases prices. So when importer Simon
Hill appeared as a witness, and tendered his statement
eloquently advocating Protection and convincingly
demonstrating the fact that increased duties don’t
necessarily mean increased prices, Fowler, aghast at the
idea of one who knew the importers’ bag of tricks giving
the show away publicly, objected to the document being
received. Commissioner Clarke gently remarked that
the statement bore directly upon the effect of Protection
on prices, and asked Fowler wasn’t that the sort of
information he had been looking for right through. But
Fowler, in a deep, stern, righteous voice, firmly objected
to a witness wasting the time of the Commission with
irrelevant evidence about prices. Then the pressmen
found themselve emptied out of the room, with the other
“ strangers,” while the Commission “ considered ” the
matter. In the end importer Hill’s statement was re-
ceived, and during the remainder of the sitting Fowler's
loud silence concerning prices could be heard out beyond
Botany.
FAT’S TRIANGLE.
Among the anti-Socialists one faction is clamoring for
Irvine as a leader. Another asks for Bruce Smith, and,
incredible as it may seem, some prefer Reid.
Sydney Telegraph, which is in some
sense the official organ of the present N.S.W.
Ministry, recently discoursed at length as to the
steps Carruthers and Co. were going to take to
get rid of Chief Railway Commissioner Oliver,
for being unable to agree with his colleagues
Kirkcaldie and Fehon, and added —
The position in relation to the coal contract has not, it
is stated, yet received the careful consideration of the
Cabinet.
The Carruthers Government has a capacity for
looking suspicious that amounts almost to
genius. The “inharmonious relations,” which
don’t involve the public in any loss, but which seem
to offer an excuse for getting rid of Oliver, the
man who objected to the wonderful coal contract,
have apparently received a whole lot of prompt
consideration. The wonderful coal contract,
fixed up by Kirkcaldie and Fehon, which seems
likely to involve a whole heap of loss, is a thing
that can be considered an 3 time.
THE LAME KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The King of England is now permanently lame and
walks with a stick.— News item from the American press.
No injury of yesterday
Induced the lameness monarchs show,
’Tis but the long-drawn-out decay
That started centuries ago.
Relaxed for ever is their hold ;
The crutch has long displaced the rod.
Far less are they the kings of old
Than fossils are the sauropod.
In upper air with movements fleet
No famished pterodactyls lurk ;
No dinosaurs invade the street
To scoff us on our way to work ;
No idols crave to be appeased
With human sacrifices much ;
But down the ways that Time has greased
The kings still hobble on their crutch.
The old ideas decompose—
Though slowly, surely as the rest,
Amidst the purring dynamos
That have more power than kings e’er guessed ;
Exhibits in museum courts,
Upon their sticks they stand alone,
Just solemn atavistic sports
Surviving since the Age of Stone.
vie.
C.N.


Standing Room Only
THAT’S ALL YOU WANT.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS
f Have just enough
I room where room
is needed for per -
l feet comfort.
They are snug’ and easy in the proper spots.
They have no baggy wrinkles or ugly joints.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS conceal Nature’s defects and impart
a TRIM APPEARANCE, even to “a foot unfavored.”
g
i
r HAVE
YOU
SEEN
THEM ?
If not,
Try
This Boot.
MADE IN:—
TAN WILLOW CALF
WIDE WELTS
FINE BLACK VICI KID
WIDE WELTS 1
Postage, Is ex bra.
23/6
25/-
‘Callaghan & Son.
“ Dear Sirs,—l am in receipt of the Boots,
like a glove, and give every satisfaction.-
iLbagoolah, Queensland.”
They fit
-C.J.H.,
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St., Sydney.
Send for our Style-Book—Post Free.
“ Disgusted ” writes :
What does the N.S.W. Public Service Board do, any-
way ? About two years ago I heard that a new billet was
to evolve in my special line. I corresponded with a num-
ber of obedient servants who “ had the honor to inform
me,” on expensive letter paper, that they knew nothing-.
At last I discovered that there was no money to pay the
salary oi the new official, and things were at a stand
until something turned up. A year ago l got wind that
things were stirring, and corresponded some more with
obedient servants, who continually referred me to some-
one else, and “ had the honor to be, &e.,” until one dis-
covered the appointment was not yet, but when it was I
would be notified. As a side issue 1 heard that a certain
man had been appointed. Nothing happened until some
months ago, when I received more expensive letter paper
—drawing my attention to advertisements in the Sydney
papers calling for applications. Another month, and I
was informed the selection committee would interview
applicants on a certain da.y. I went, and tried to be elo-
quent on my own behalf to three bored-looking gentle-
man. Still another couple of weeks, and somebody “ bad
the honor to inform me I was not selected.” Made
inquiries, and found the billet had gone to the man of
whose, alleged subterranean appointment I had heard
rumblings ayear ago. He may have been the best man
for the place ; but why all the worry and wasted hopes if
the thing was settled a year ago? And I’ve got a bill for
the typing of a gallon of testimonials.
This Elastic Truss
&£fHRn
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., .Melbourne
sdfsdfsd
WE ARE
Giving this Away
in return for a couple
of hours of your spare
time, or you may have
your choice of a
number of
Other Va'uabte
Presents.
This remarkable offer is
made to men, women
and children. Write at
once for full particu-
lars. Be careful to cut
out this advertisement,
as it will not ap-
pear again, and en-
close it in your letter.
The Union IVlfg.
& Aqency Co.,
299 E lizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Missi ig men.is
JOHN OONSIDINE please communicate
with undersigned brother. Urgent.
M. B. CON3IDINE,
Mildura, Victoria.
A great *
MaciotoSh.
BUY IT BY MAIL.
ms
■
i
A Good Macintosh—one that is WATER-
-1 ROOF—is better than, a Doctor’s Bill.
Our Macintoshes are made of honest
materials, and sold at honest prices.
Every one we sell will sell another—that’s'
now we build a reputation. These are*
priced to go quick !
Made or finest proofed Materials
in the styles of to-day.
Price -27 s 6d
CARRIAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Guarantee for Two Years
MURDOCH’S
• . . in . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
A Few Guinea Panamas
f
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
IN THIS
country the roof is required not only
to keep out rain and cold, but also
the terrific heat of a semi-tropic sun.
The
CLIMATE
is subject to severe changes, and a
Roofing to be successful must be a
non-conductor of heat and cold. Mal-
thoid is climate proof.
If it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”—Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aast. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Yic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.z!
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z,
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia, Limited
THE TWENTY-SIXTH REPORT of the Directors of
THE COLONIAL BANK of AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Twenty-Sixth Ordinary General Meeting, to be heW
at the Bank, 126 Elizabeth-street, at noon on Thursday, 26th April, 1906.
REPORT.
T HE Rectors h,ig H to the Shareholders their Twenty-Sixth Report, with a Balance Sheet
and Statement of Profit and Loss, for the half-year ended 3lst March, 1906, duly audited.
'^■ t T> ei u^ >roVl^ln 9 f° r ® x P enses °f Management, Interest Accrued on Deposits,
Rebate on Bills Current, Tax on Note Circulation, Income Tax, and making
provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts, the net profit amounted to
Brought forward from 30th September, 1905
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.
Di vidend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
lo Reserve Fund (making it £90,000)
Balance carried forward
£19,405 2 11
5,772 11 2
£25,177 14 1
£7,601 2 0
3,380 18 3
10,000 0 0
4,195 13 10
£25,177 14 1
and Werribee^ 6 half ' year Branches of the Bank were opened at Lake Bolac, Macarthur,. Warburton
The Dividend will be payable at the Head Office on and after the 27th inst., and at the Branches
on receipt of advice.
The Twenty-Sixth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of
the Company, 126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 26th day of April, 1906, at noon.
„ , By order of the Board,
Melbourne, 12th April, 1906. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
Balance Sheet of The Colonial Bank of Australasia,
l >r - FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1906.
Limited,
Cr.
To Capital Paid up, viz. :
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9lss. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £llss. 135,236 10 0
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Government Deposits—
not bearing 1 interest,
£24,088 9s. 4d. ;
bearing interest,
£367,091 13s. Id. ..
©ther Deposits Re-
bate and interest
accrued—not bearing
interest, £996,304 2s.
lid. ; bearing in-
terest, £1,367,540 2s.
3d
£439,280 10
90,000 0
15,177 14
120,703 0
274,518 12
£391,180 2 5
2,363,844 5 2
Contingent Liabilities, as per contra
-£2,755,024 7
66,976 19
£3,761,681 3 0
By Coin, Bullion, and Cash
at Bankers .. ..£609,660 13 8
British Consols, £70,668
15s. 2d. at £B5 per cent.,
£60,068 Ss. 9d. ; Vic-
toria Government Stock
and Debentures, Metro-
politan Board of Works,
Municipal and Savings
Bank Debentures, at
valuation,£67,3697s. 2d. 127,437 15 11
Bills and Remittances in
transitu 336,815 3 5
Notes of other Banks .. 1,616 8 9
Balances due from other
Banks 28,008 15 3
Stamps 963 2 5
„ £1,104,501 19 5
Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank Premises, at cost to new Bank .. 196,661 10 11
Other Real Estate, at valuation.. .. 54,059 2 5
Bills Discounted and other Advances,
exclusive of provision for Bad or
Doubtful Debts 2,338,010 14 5
Shares in other Companies, at valuation 270 16 8
Chattel Property, at valuation .. .. 1,200 0 0
Liabilities of customers and others in
respect of Contingent Liabilities, as
per contra 66,976 19 2
£3,761,681 3 0
PROFIT AND ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including- salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery &c.)
Bank note tax
Transfer to reserve fund.. ” "
Balance
£24,913 14 6
1,131 7 6
10,000 0 0
15,177 14 1
£51,222 16 1
By balance brought forward .. .. .. £5,772 11 2
Gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing- for interest accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making- provision for income tax and
bad and doubtful debts .. .. 45,450 411
£51.222 lfi 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
.. £90,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward £BO,OOO 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 10,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
_______ ~ 5 tx/ 1 iu XuxLx 13J
THE HOULDER LUSTS STEAMERS Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE ..
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE..
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE
RIPPINGIIAM GRANGE .. ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS ..
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
~ . I 1 irst. Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Lis-ht
mVn \r :l !i tlC Q w S ’ T a|)|) i V at tie O, ' FIC ES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Aires 446 CalkTSan °Marti R n Wa . ter -® treet - L ' ver P°°l. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aues. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Veises.
Price 1/1
Post
Fret,
Y B y prank renar. y
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney


“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
At Randwick, on Anniversary day, the seventh
horse in the book won three different events. 777 is
the number of Tattersalls’ golden pen. Try your luck
with one when you order your sweep ticket. Box of
eighteen for sixpence anywhere, or send eig'htpence in
stamps to 777, Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney'.*
OPEN SESAME. —Hunyadi Janos Water
is the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Bbewekt and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
On Saturday last Sydney cricketers rolled up in
force to see how Burwood and Glebe in their struggle for
the premiership would make chopping blocks of Waverley
and University. Burwood won the toss and sent Waver-
ley to the sticks. Slight showers had fallen in the morn-
ing, and the Burwood captain thought his bowlers might
turn them to account. They did. The first two wickets
fell for 13. Then, by a desperate effort, the batsmen
lifted the score to 43, when another wicket fell. At'
tlje fourth'feji, a'rjd the irjmngs closed for 154.' Garnsey,
bfegg and s’Cop'nor each took three wickets, for 21, 25
arid 77 respectively. Burwood'started well, scorjng 75 fop
a loss of two wickets’. At Wentworth Park the Uni-
versity men won the toss and went' in. They
didn’t stay long, and the debacle started right
away, the first two wickets going for four. Three
more followed for five, and at 34 two more went down.
Then there was a slight rally, but nothing to speak of,
and at 62 the eighth wicket was captured, followed by
another at 68, and the last went for 127. Grounds was
the destroying angel this time, his 204 overs being respon-
sible for seven wickets at a cost of 34 runs. The other
three fell to Bowden, who bowled 21 overs and had 69
scored off him, Then Glebe started to slog mightily till
the light failed, when it had lost one wicket for 76 runs.
If Glebe can score a three-point win and Burwood only
makes a two-point one, they will be level, and will have
to play off. At present, any advantage that may exist is
on the side of Glebe, but it is a microscopic one.
* » * *
The best performers with the willow were Syd.
Gregory and A, C. Mackenzie for Waverley ; they made
62 and 52 against Burwood respectively. W. W. Bardsley
made 45 (not out) for Glebe against the Uni. ; and E, N.
Docker carried his bat for 43 for Uni. against Glebe.
* « * *
In the Inter-Varsity cricket match, won by
Melbourne by eight wickets, the Sydney boys owed some
of their defeat to their bad fielding and running between
wickets, On the second day they missed many catches.
With the luck of the weather against them, and dis-
heartened, perhaps, by the fact that their skipper had
made a mistake in taking the field instead of the bat on
the first day, they played a less solid game than the Mel-
bournians,
* * * *
Jack Noel, still active in district cricket in
Adelaide, has just turned 50. Noel made top score (33)
for the S.A. XVIII. against Harris’s English team in 1877,
and played against the first Australian XI. before it
started Londonwards, Also he made 18 out of the disas-
trous total of 23 for which S.A. was once dismissed by
Victoria, His average this past season in first-class club
cricket was 39.
Qnkaparinga Racing Club, which races on
Easter Monday only, had a fine day this time on its pretty
course in the hills behind Adelaide. Last year the rain
poured all day, and the Club lost £lOOO ; so it cut down
its Steeplechase to £9OO, and the day’s stakes to £2250, and
went slow with invitations to lunch. But all Adelaide
flocked up to the meeting, Totalisator takings went up
again to £lB,OOO, from last year’s disastrous £12,000, and
the debit balance Was wiped out. The chief feature of
the day’s sport was the failure of the Melbourne horses,
which generally win most of the stake-money.
* * * *
W, P. Crick will be able to afford two bottles of
champagne for dinner every day for quite a long time
now, thanks to Collarit. The statesman’s prize-money at
A.J,C, Autumn meeting amounted to £1753, and as he
always backs his horses heavily, no doubt his losses on
Ossian were more than compensated.
•*** ■*
A.J.C, gave away less than £16,000 for the just-
closed Autumn meeting. However, owing to the won-,
derful development of our magnificent natural re-
sources, or something, next year the club will shell out
£33,000, which will be an Australian record, unless some
other club gets ahead meanwhile,
* * * *
Little Toy, winner of the Doncaster Handicap,
was saved up quite a long time for that particular event.
But, in spite of all the secrecy, someone whispered to the
inevitable best girl a week or two before the stable made
its plunge, and the best girl apparently told all her
friends the dead secret. Anyhow, quite a small crowd of
people got ahead of the owner at the long prices, and
thereby reduced his winnings to a miserable £15,000 or
so, much of which came through backing the Little Toy-
Noreen double. This sort of thing is a serious reflection
on the value of the early-morning scribe who watches
sprints and gallops, and writes dreary columns about how
Humbug ran a mile in ljmin.
When it was announced that the owner of
Proceed had appealed to the A. J.O. against the action of
the stewards in dismissing- his appeal agaiiftt Noreen in
the Sydney Cup, the drawer of Noreen in Tattersall’s
sweep got a great scare. As usual astute John Wren was
hovering around, and he promptly gave the drawer £2500
for his chance. When the protest was withdrawn Wren’s
profit was £l5OO. No word as to the original drawer’s
feelings has been received.
* * * *
During the course of the Autumn meeting at
Randwick, turfman J. Brennan bought Kaffirpan for
500 guineas. On the last day the. beautiful dark bay
scooped in the Rous Handicap and about £2OOO in bets.
The cruel part of the business was that Kaffirpan just
snatched the race from his late stable’s representative,
Bluster, on which his late owners had planked a huge
heap of coin. Moral: Never part with your horse
during a race meeting.
• * * *
Compare two-upping with horse-racing and see
how much fairer a game is the spin of the coin. On the
last day of the Randwick meeting the official race-book
showed 22 horses entered for the Rous Handicap—ll
started. For the Place Handicap 33 listed, but only six
faced the starter. Of the 10 horses anyone was invited
to back for the second Steeplechase, only five gave their
backers a run for their money. For the A.J.C. Plate
only four of the 11 carded went out. The second
Nursery saw 19 out of 38 mentioned in the book,
and in the Final Handicap only 13 out of 51 appeared
at the tape. Total horses listed to start, 165 ; total horses
starting, 58. This means that the bookmaker had 165
horses running for him, 107 of which were sure things
(the horse that runs best for the book being the one that
doesn’t run at all). On the other hand, the unfortunate
punter had only 58 even nominally running for him, and
only Heaven and their owners and jockeys know how
many of the 58 starters were dead, stiff, and otherwise
unable to give a fair go for the money. And yet the
police raid two-up schools, where every punter gets an
honest toss for his cash ; while the Governor-General
graces the racing swindle with his presence.
■**■*•*
The Victorian jockey, W. Redfearn, said a long
farewell to Melbourne the other day, having taken an
engagement to ride at Singapore, where his brother
George has a stable. But the Southern Ocean was in a
particularly vicious mood, and by the time Redfearn
reached Port Adelaide he declared himself wiped off that
course for life. So he returned to Melbourne by train,
and Singapore has a vacancy for a horseman with a
better-balanced stomach. Redfearn doesn’t lose much.
Singapore is Sheol multiplied by seven and then boiled.
■* * » *
Somebody sends along an amazing picture
printed in a curious Sydney paper, which purports to
show that Skuthorp’s successful riding of Martini’s buck-
jumper “ Bobs” was due to the fact that he was hooked
on to the horse. Skuthorp is alleged to have had steel
rings fastened to his girth, through which rings he hooked
his great long spurs. The idea is too lovely for words.
There were no rings on the girth which Martini’s men
carried round and showed to the public that night while
the dispute over the saddle was in full blast, for the
writer saw it. And it was Martini’s own men who trans-
ferred the girth from that saddle to the one Skuthorp
rode. Also it is a gross libel on Martini’s cuteness to
suppose that he allowed this swindle tp be workecj on
him 1 Further, it is a libel on Skufhorp’s intelligence tp
suppose that he'wbukjl practically tie himself on to'a
horse like Bobs in such' a manner. A circus performer
would want £ISQ per week to do it.
' 1 V * * *
The final of Skuthorp’s buckjumping contest
for £lOO will be bucked off at Sydney Agricultural Ground
this coming Saturday, when the contestants will ride in
English hunting saddles, and people who are not con-
testants will ride bucking bullocks, and other specimens
of the animal creation, between the football matches.
This will be Skuthorp’s last exhibition in Sydney at
present, as he has disposed of his interest in the show to
Mr. Castles, who will then move on to Melbourne.
Understood that the “ Professor ” will return to Queens-
land.
* * * *
Mayer and Rutt, the two German cyclists who
have been riding here mostly for appearance money, and
are sadly disgusted at the smallness thereof, will shake
this continent off their feet at the end of the month. They
will arrive in Europe just in time to pick up form for the
World’s Championships, which are to be run off in Geneva
on July 29 and August 5. There they will find themselves
once more up against Ellegaard, who is said to be riding
better than ever.
* * * *
Cyclist “Dick” Arast, winner of the Sydney
Thousand, was a bit short of work when he raced at Lan-
oaster Park, Christchurch (M.L.), on Good Friday. The
fields he met were strong, too, and the pace set in every
event was as hot as Vesuvius, and Arnst’s hash was
settled every time. George Sutherland still retains his
supremacy as boss track-rider. The Eastern Wheel Race
fell to him from scratch, but in the Royal Enfield Cup
race (all off the mark) he was downed by C. Baker, a rider
with a future.
* * * *
At the recent Crystal Palace Motor Show,
London, a detachable engine for use on ordinary roadster
bikes created something like a sensation. The engine
itself weighs 151 b. aria with everything on, engine, coil,
electric accumulator, petrol and oil, had a gross poundage
of only 351 b. Its indicated horse-power is 2J, and the amaz-
ing little creation is double-cylindered, and fitted with an
automatic device for stopping the machine if the rider is
thrown out of the saddle. With a gear of 5J to 1 this
attachment will drive a 651 b. bike at any rate from 5 to 30
miles an hour, for a distance of 80 miles without re-
plenishing the petrol tank, at a cost of 74d, As the cost
of the whole appliance is 15 guineas, and it can be fitted
to any bicycle with the standard frame, this makes it
possible to have a reliable bike which can be changed at
will to a motor for a cost of about £32. Which is very
moderate.
* * * *
The petrol car people still profess to be unafraid
of the steam automobile, in spite of its recently proved
speed prowess, Marriot’s Stanley car was fitted with a
new kind of generator, which simply flashed the water
into steam immediately it came in contact with it. But
the petrol people cheerfully explain that a stfeam car’s
machinery takes up more room than that of a “ blaster,”
and, moreover, the car has to carry water and oil,
whereas the “blaster” has to carry oil only. IThey
declare that in addition to these drawbacks, steam
machinery gets out of order much more easily, and,
above all,'that the cost of running is 20 per cent, higher
than that of a petrol car of the same power and carrying
capacity. The U.S.A. makers, who are the champions of
the steam machine, have replied to these remarks by
building specimen cars which carry, without occupying
any floor space at all, sufficient fuel and water to complete
a run of 150 miles. They ran ledges round the car, and
stored the fuel and water on the outside. Also they
threaten to turn out steam cars at one-third the present
price. Altogether, it looks as though a very pretty
struggle has started. In England there are quite a num-
ber of works turning out' steam cars—especially for
traction and luggage-carrying purposes.
* ■* # *
The latest invention is the topsy-turvey develop-
ment known as the horse velocipede. This weird arrange-
ment is an ingenious device by which the horse, instead
of dragging the vehicle after him, drives it by machinery.
He first of all gets inside, and stands on an endless roller
floor, like that J. C. Williamson used in the chariot race
in “BenHuix” The faster he gallops the faster flies the
floor and turn the wheels. By ingenious gearing
several speeds are obtainable, and going down hill the
neddie can have a rest if he has sense enough to stop
galloping, as his weight propels the machine by gravita-
tion. This will be a great boon to the old-fashioned
bucks who do not feel that they are enjoying themselves
in a vehicle unless a horse is shaking- its tail in their
faces.
* * * *
Someone has gone to the trouble to collect the
various titles by which spirit and steam-driven cars and
bicycles have been described. For a long time there
seems to have been considerable doubt what to call the
new type of carriage,, and the first attempt in both
America and Europe was “ horseless carriage.” This was
horse worship with a vengeance. In Europe the police
first described them, and in some places still describe
them, as “ power vehicles.” The Yankees called them
steam or spirit carriages. The French evolved the term
automobile. And the only serious rival that name has in
the British dominions is the term motor-car or motor-
bike. Both names are, however, somew-hat long, and the
Yankees are already cutting them down to automob. and
mote. In the British empire there is a distinct tendency
to shorten them to “ auto ” and “ motor.” In the U.S.A.
the struggle between the explosive and steam-driven cars
has evolved the distinctive titles of “ blasters ” and
“ wheezers,” both of which are just plain horrible.
* » * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co. desire to notify all
Bulletin readers who took part in the recent Dunlop
Design Competition that, owing to the great number of
coupons sent in—15,711 —and the immense amount of
labor entailed in. examining each slip, the winners of
the £35, £lO, and £5 prizes will probably not be available
until about the middle of May.*
* * * *
Ballarat bowls team, playing combined South
Australia on the Adelaide Oval, managed to make the
most exciting finish on record. Each side had won the
Chalk challenge shield once, and this match was to settle
it outright. Score, when three greens had finished, 101
all. Remaining green one end to play. It was S. A.’s best
four, and had been doing well, but this time Ballarat had
the best of it till the last bowl of the day was sent up.
That particular bowl cut in among the other 15, cut the
opposing side out, and won the “end,” the match, the
shield —in fact, it pretty nearly won the universe. The
winning four consisted of John Creswell, John Hill (Clem.
Hill’s father), Pettinger, and Mostyn Evan.
• * * *
The lacrosse competition will start on May 12th,
by which time it is pretty certain, judging by the
strenuous practice they are going in for, that the new
men will be in good nick and familiar with their sticks.
The association has made arrangement for the supply of
properly-qualified referees, and the game seems to have
been placed on a much better footing than hitherto.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association succeeded in get-
ting its eight-oar crew off to Westralia, and the team
took a good hearty curse with it. From a social point of
view it is an ideal team, and the working man has been
most carefully weeded out. When the crew gets to
Perth it may not do much good on the Swan River, buc
it will be a howling success in the drawing rooms.
Every member of it is an irreproachable gentleman, and
a proper gentleman at that.
The U.S.A. cruiser Baltimore has a crack
rowing team aboard, and, regardless of what happened
to the rowers on the Glacier, a Yankee transport, when
they met a crew from the Royal Arthur, in Port Jackson,
the Baltimore has been trailing the tail of its sculling
jersey before all and sundry. Both the Naval Brigade
and the Firemen have jumped on the garment with much
enthusiasm, so, in all probability, there will be another
Yankee defeat shortly.
* * » -
Somewhere abouf; eight fine-lo,oking athletic
young ladies are holding a newspaper wrangle as to who
holds tl)e ladies’ d.oufile scplls championship ofN.S.W.
Therp o'qght to be i)Q occasion to wrangle oyer it; there’s
both money apd hppor to be gained by deciding it in the
only satisfactory way—by a race on the Parramatta
River.
Yankee papers are now saying that O’Brien’s
walloping of Fitzsimmons has excited considerable
suspicion in the minds of the sporting bucks who
watched the contest. In fact, there is a regular wave of
suspicion sweeping over all Yankee pugilism just now.
Its first ripple was a declaration by a coon named
Joe Gans, of Baltimore, that his fight with famous Jinimy
Britt was a fake. The circumstances of the fight were
that Britt walked all over Gans, bashed him round the
ring, and generally demonstrated that the colored man
was no match for him. But in the audience backers of
Gans swore that the white man couldn’t last ; that the
black’s forte was capacity to endure punishment ; and
they demonstrated their faith by taking the liberal odds
that were offering. When the market seemed skinned
Britt committed a most glaring foul, and the referee had
no option but to award the fight to Gans. Now that
Gans has “blown the gaff,” people are recalling similar
remarkable fights, and the only bruiser who is not looked
at sideways just now is retired champion Jim Jeffries ;
who, by the way, is expected to shortly return to the
square “ ring.”
* * * *
“C.N.”: How is it that such a proportion of
latter-day Australian pugs get their hair off so easily, not
in the sense of losing their tempers, but their scalp fur?
Fitzsimmons has been egg-bald for 15 years ; Squires at
26 hasn’t enough hair on his head to make a decent
paint-brush ; Fennessey, only a year or two older, shows
even worse development; and Smith, of Newcastle, and
Lang, of Richmond, though younger than the champion,
will resemble J. D. Rockefeller about the roof in a few
years. Is pugilism becoming such a scientific game that
its exponents suffer the usual fate of the brain worker in
resoect to hair?
* • * *
Mr. Bob Turner being unable, owing to injuries
received, to face Mr. Rollo at Sydney Gaiety on Saturday
night, Mr. Mat Mitchie, who used to delve for silver at
Broken Hill, kindly filled the breach. Notwithstanding
that Mitchie was totally unprepared, Rollo showed a
marked disinclination to let the ex-digger get too close, and
Mitchie had to do all the fighting. It was not till the fourth
round that Mitchie succeeded in getting near enough
to do damage, and then he banged Rollo about the body
in a very business-like manner. Rollo again faded con-
sistently, and was apparently waiting till Mitchie should
tire sufficiently to be at his mercy. The sixth found him
weakening considerably, and Rollo began tp land a few
on his own account. By the ninth Mitchie was dog-
tired, and Rollo waded in savagely and sent him to
the hoards thrice. It was hard to say whether he was
knocked or thrown down ; but the referee had no doubt
on the subject, and he was in a position to see clearly.
He jumped into the ring and gave Mitchie the verdict on
afoul, and Matthew went off to collect the end of the gate
that he had no hope of winning but for Rollo’s impetuous-
ness.
* * * *
The downfall of Daniel Hiam, of His Britannic
Majesty’s Navy, at Sydney National Sporting Club
last week, was far from being a picturesque function-
like that of Alp Arslan, for instance. Daniel was a heavy,
lumbering marine puffing around after a mail who .was
somewhat better conditioned. Though the difference
between them was slight it was enough, and Willis had
superior skill with his footwork, which enabled him to
keep administering a stream of short arm jolts and yet
get away in time to avoid the marine’s long, deliberate
swings. A wild mix-up occurred in the 12th round, in
which the exhausted Hiam was worsted, and, after being
sent down twice, Daniel was finally knocked, out by con-
cussion on the jaw.
William Lang, a massive 13st. pug, met a much
lighter Bob Fraser, in a 20-round glove contest at the
Cyclorama Building (Melbourne) on Friday night. The
contestants commenced hostilities fully 50 minutes behind
the usual starting time, owing to a wrangle over weights.
Lang had agreed to forfeit a certain sum if he scaled over
12st. 91b. He exceeded the stipulated weight, and he
wished to fight on condition that the winner took the
total gate receipts of a meagre house. Eventually the
management agreed to pay half of Bill’s forfeit in order to
keep faith with an already weary public. The contest
went the full 20 rounds, Fraser piling up points from the
jump, and punishing his wild and angry opponent with
some effective straight left shocks that landed on the eye.
The fight throughout resembled a catch as catch can
wrestling match in the upright position, and in the 13th
round both men met the boards after a clinch and
wrestle. Lang, who tried hard to force the fighting,
could make no headway with his hands, and simply bored
in with his sheer weight, only to be met by a good left
from the cooler and more agile Fraser, whom Stokesbury
declared the winner on points.
* * * *
Sydney National Sporting Club has announced
a long required reform. Hitherto it has been the custom
for fights billed to start at 9 p.m. to commence any time
between that and half an hour later. Sometimes, if the
preliminary was brief and brilliant or brief and hot bril-
liant, this meant a wait of about an hour, and time hung
heavily. The new rule provides that the pugs who are to
provide the star act of the evening must enter the ring
immediately the space has been cleared of the blood and
bones of the man who went under in the preliminary.
* * * *
Tim Murphy will meet Bill Squires in Mel-
bourne Exhibition Building, under the management of
John Wren, this coming Saturday night. Tim says he is
quite confident, and Squires says nothing, but he smiles
in a way that would make Murphy uncomfortable if he
could only see William doing it.
“Philo”: “C.N.” talks (B. 12/4/’O6) about
getting knocked out. I don’t think he was really and
truly knocked out at all. I was once, and I didn’t see
any beautiful scenery such as “ C.N.” describes. It hap-
pened this way. I used to have a friend named Jim. One
day Jim showed me a medal he’d got for boxing. It
wasn’t hard to learn, he assured me, and he
said we would have a “go.” We had a “go.” Jim
showed me how and where to hit. He merely
touched me about the face and body with the tips of his
gloves, while I threw vigorous stoush at certain favored
spots on Jim. I got tired of this, and tried bard to hit
him on a spot he objected to, and by bad luck I did it.
(I don’t know why he was so anxious about that fspot
unless it had been bequeathed to him by a deceased parent.)
Then there was a tremendous explosion. My roof was
blown off. The sun went out. The earth vanished.
Inky darkness swallowed me up, and I fell 1000 miles
through space. When I lived again, some minutes later,
the sun was a dozen times hotter than I had ever felt it
before and 50 times more dazzling. Jim was sorry, but he
wasn’t half as sorry as I was. That was my knock out.
* * * *
The police made a raid upon an alleged betting
shop in King-street, Sydney, on Saturday afternoon and
arrested 12 persons. They also seized all the coin—one
shilling! Why not raid some gambling den where the
visible coin is at least eighteenpence? There are plenty of
them, and quite a lot of rich merchants and solicitors
could be captured if the raid was properly planned.
AN OBJECT OF MIRTH.
THIS greatly amused the audience. —Frequent extract
from Tory paper reports of Reid’s speeches.
“Alba” : Seismic experts are blowing off
steam since the great fall of brick and flat-iron
building at San Francisco. M. Flammarion and
H. G-. Wells appeared to have been at work on
the first cable, when we were told that the earth
had swung off its axis and had broken its crust
trying to regain lost equilibrium. Professor
Milne’s alleged theory reads like a scientific joke.
Any sudden deviation on the earth’s part from
its correct poise would surely mean an inexor-
able rending of continents by
violent tidal disturbances in all directions The
Arctic and Antarctic regions would receive the
brunt of the “pitch.” The dip or swerve
would be three times greater at the earth’s ex-
tremes than at the Equator. Imagine the terrific
ice-cannonade that would happen at the Poles if
the earth took a sudden list to starboard, and then
struggled for a recovery. Hell let loose would
be a feeble picture in comparison. The seismo-
graph pendulum, at San Francisco, swung
for nine minutes across the width of the
photographic roll, which would mean an alarming
deviation at the Poles, assuming that Milne’s
axis-theory is correct. Imagine vast areas of stiff,
immovable ice subjected to such a wrench. I lay
awake all one night, listening for the first rush of
dislodged ice fields tearing up from the South
Pole. If ever the earth attempts to assume the
perpendicular, it will pay the British Government
to harness the Himalayas in order to prevent
them sliding into the Bay of Bengal.
The case of Mdlle. Smoljamnoff, cabled
last week, throws a sidelight on Russia’s political
jobbery. The beauteous creature, it seems, had
been acting for five years as a Russian spy in Ger-
many at a salary of £2OOO a year, when she was
caught in some silly amateur act of espionage
(making a pretence, probably for the first time, to
earn her salary) and sentenced to 15 months
imprisonment by the Leipzig tribunal. Any in-
formation that she could give to the Russian
Government re German defences was practically
worthless, seeing that no invasion was intended
to come of it, but Mdlle. is one among a crowd of
charming Russian women whose influential gentle-
men' friends are expected to provide for them,
therefore she got the billet of spy and was charge-
able on the Treasury for £4O a week. Picturesque
creatures these Russian ladies—especially in
society plays and lurid melodramas. Victor Sar-
dou represents the Countess Zichy as a genuine
political agent who is to be taken seriously. But
when large sums of secret-service money are paid
toj a pretty woman who probably doesn’t know
orie end of a gun from the other, the real nature
of her secret services is not officially stated.
Blood Poisoning.
The Wonderful Blood Purifying and Heal-
ing Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills Exemplified.
Mr. John Cummins, of Cummins Bros., cabinet
makers, &e., 9 Queen’s Court, Queen’s Place,
Sydney, relates in the following letter how, having
contracted barber’s rash, he took a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills and was perfectly cured
in a few days. He says:—•“ I may state that Dr.
Mr. JOHN CUMINS
(From a photo.)
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have been our
family medicine for
years, and their valu-
able curative proper-
ties for all common
ailments and disorders
of the blood need no
further comment than
to say that we have
always found them
most satisfactory. A
short time since I con-
tracted barber’s rash,
which in a couple of
days completely cov-
ered my chin and even
reached my ears. I
was advised by a
friend, a barber, to
apply carbolic oil to
the face and use Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills regularly until all
traces have disappeared. In less than 10 days my
skin was quite clear again and perfectly healed.
I still take a pill or two occasionally, which keeps
my system in a healthy condition, and at home
we are never without a supply. I may mention
that I subsequently saw my friend and asked him
why he had recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. He replied that he and his family had
been using them for some time, and lie reckoned
that they were the best blood medicine on the
market.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier, and a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*


T # FAVORITE CIGAR
W//M
m
M
■
m
//A.
ssv
m
y/s
Mm
M
THE
MARSUMA
is smoked by
Lord Dunrttven,
Earl Trafalgar*
Lord Mostyn,
Lord George Campbell,
Viscount Moncke,
The Hon. Alex. Yorke,
Lord Hastings,
Sir I Vm. Onslow, Bart,,
arid hundreds of other well-known noblemen.
of the
SOLJ]
FELDHEIM, CfITTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOYMERCILL & CO.* Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN* Fltzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs, WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0, BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
13
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDiC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting- Verntirt dead ]
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best*
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Sinall 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of
Lancaster, made in the matter of the estate of
JAMES BUCKLEY deceased LOWE v.
SWIRE 1902. Letter L No. 155 whereby an
enquiry was directed what grandchildren of the
Testator issue of his four children MARY
LUOKLEY, FRANCES BUCKLEY, SARAH
ANN BUCKLEY, and JAMES THOMAS
BUCKLEY were living at the decease of the last
survivor of the said four children and whether any
and which of such grandchildren have since died and
if so who are the legal personal representatives of
the one or more so dying and whereby a further
enquiry was directed whether any grandchild
or grandchildren of the Testator issue of his said
four children had died prior to the decease of the
last survivor of the said Testator’s said four
children leaving issue and if so who were the
issue of such children so dying before such date
leaving issue and whether any one or more of such
issue are now dead and if so who are their re"
spective legal personal representatives, All
persons claiming to be any of the persons referred
to in either of the said enquiries are by their soli"
citors on Or before the 2nd day of July 1906 to
come in and prove his her or their claim before
the Registrar of the Manchester District of the
said Court at his Chambers situate in Duchy
Chambers 4 Clarence-street, Manchester, Eng-
land, or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
THURSDAY, the 12th day of July, 1906, at 11
o’clock in the forenoon, at the said chambers, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
NOTE.—The survivor of the Testator’s said four
children was JAMES THOMAS BUCKLEY,
who died on the 31st of October, 1879. Two of
the children of the Testator’s said daughter
MARY (afterwards MARY SWIRE), namely,
THOMAS SWIRE and HENRY SWIRE, were
last heard of about 40 years ago, when they
respectively went to Australia, and afterwards
they or one of them went to America.
Any person having knowledge of the where-
abouts of the said THOMAS SWIRE and
HENRY SWIRE, or either of them if living, or
of their respective children if living, or of the
place or places of their respective decease if dead,
is requested to communicate with Messrs.
WATSON and SON, of 11 Church Lane, Oldham,
England.
Dated this 13th day of March, 1906.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
WATSON and SON,
of 11 Church Lane, Oldham, England,
Plaintiffs Solicitors.
ANDREW FANE EDGE “
otherwise J. FOSTER.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court
of Justi'ce Chancery Division made in the
matter of the Trusts of the share of ANDREW
FANE EDGE under the Marriage Settlement of
the Reverend CHARLES FANE EDGE and
EMMA MERRICK DANSEY And in the Mat-
ter of the Trustee Act 1893, 1905, E. No. 858.
An enquiry was directed whether ANDREW
FANE EDGE is living or dead and if he be dead
whether he died testate or intestate and whether
he left a Widow and any and (if any) what chil-
dren. Now the said ANDREW FANE EDGE
and all persons claiming under the above enquiry
are by their Solicitors on or before the 30th June,
1906, to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Air. Justice Kekewich and Mr. Jus-
tice Joyce, Royal Courts of Justice, London, Eng-
land, or in default they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said order.
Tuesday the 10th July, 1906, at 12.30 o’clock in
the afternoon at Room 689 in the said Chambers
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the claims.
Dated this 6th day of March, 1906.
W. O. HEWLETT,
NOTE.—The above named ANDREW FANE
EDGE went to Australia in or about the year
1886 where he passed under the name of J.
FOSTER. His last known address was the
Miclere Post Office via Clermont Queensland.
It is believed that in 1898 he contemplated going
to the Klondvke Goldfields and he has not been
heard of since 1898.
CHAS. GEO. SCOTT,
41 & 42 New Broad Street,
London, England,
Amusements.
TT I VO 1.1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. SLADE MURRAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
8 ENGLISH PRIMROSES 8. and THE TWO BELLS.
Great Success of TAMBO and TAMBO, Direct from
London. The Original and Only Tambourine Spinners.
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP.
THE THREE LEES. THE GILBERT SISTERS.
HARRY SADLER. BABY WATSON, FRED. BLUETT
MISS MAY COLLINS, MISS FANNY POWERS, &c.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MARTINETTI and GROSSI, Novelty Act.
NADA MORET, Vocalist Raconteur.
O’NATIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers.
MDLLE. OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
THE CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS, Part Singers.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
Plan at Allan’s. gST PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
[!Va EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
THE MIDNIGHT MAIL
Reappearance of Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
B ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
DOROTHY VERNON, OF HADDON HALL
Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual, Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, Magnificent Production by
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S GRAND AUSTRALIAN
COMIC OPERA 00. of Jacques Offenbach’s Celebrated
Romantic Military and Spectacular Opera Bouffe,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
N/EU M HALL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28, LAST NIGHT of the
WORLD-FAMED SOCIETY ENTERTAINERS
MADAME YEAMANS TITUS
AND
MR. LESLIE HARRIS,
in HUMOROUS SKETCHES, SONGS and STORIES
MUSICAL MONOLOGUES.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS
THE BEST, SWEETEST, STRONGEST,
AND LOUDEST IN THE WORLD.
system'
, PROFESSIONAL--*^
’Tcs—. PROFESSIONAL,—
BOOMERANG.
“ Professional,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-, post free
“ Boomerang,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6, post free
&
MT
5^
Edison Gold-Moulded
Records,
Price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SON,
137 KIND ST., SYDNEY.
Largest Wholesale and Retail Stores
for Music, Musical Instruments,
Violins, Accordeons, etc., Edison
Phonographs and Records.
CATALOGUES FREE.
WHOLESALE SUPPLIED.
ents
of the
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
sdf
A
“MASfA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDHEIM*
rn c,,..
E. T. WALSH,
Practical Tailor,
Expert Cutter,
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUN.TRY CUSTOMERS.—Send your name and I will send my illustrated Style Catalogue,
also Samples and Measurement Chart and Outfit for measurements.
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUR MONEY BACK.
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street,
London, employed.
NO FACTORY WORK.
359 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
SKINS &HIDES
T>
>
J. Rennon&iSons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw fkins in Victoria £* &
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Other SKins, etc,
to keep their works going.
■ o
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment —and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and N.Z. should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sales sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Kennon & tSons
TANNERS (Si EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING.
BLAND HOLT and his
FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in a Complete Representation of the Up-to-Date
Russo-Japanese War Drama,
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR,
or, ALLIES AND ENEMIES.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction of
CLYDE MEYNELL and JOHN GUNN.
EVENINGS, at 8. MATINEE, WED. and SAT.
The Phenomenally Successful Play,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
HUNDREDS TURNED AWAY NIGHTLY 1
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manae-er .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in—
THE CINGALEE.
SATTURDAY NEXT, APRIL 28, THE ORCHID.
Box Plan at Paling’s. I3§F“ PRICES AS USUAL.
• j—« " ■ '
pALACE T H EAT RE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28,
Mr. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
in Alfred Hill’s Romantic Comic Opera,
A MOORISH MAID.
Produced Regardless of Expense.
Introducing
f A ; MISS ROSINA BUCKMANN, •
Es ""'English Dramatic Soprano. A Great Artist
with a Great Voice.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
PALACE SEASON ENDS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, of
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE lINEST IN THE WORLD, in conjunction with
THE BRESCIANS,
Orchestra and Singers from the Royal Albert Hall.
TOWN HALL, SATURDAY AFTERNOON NEXT,
A FAREWELL SEASON of SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
W I R T H BROS.’
GREATEST SHOWS ON EARTH.
PRINQE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION GROUND.
; : EVERY EVENING, at 8.
MATJNEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at S.
NEW ARTISTS, NEW HORSES, AND
WILD ANIMAL ACTS.
A Champion Programme of 30 Wonderful Acts.
ALL NEW SHOWS IN ALL NEW TENTS WITH
ALL NEW ARTISTS.
PRICES—Is, 2s, 3s. Reserved Chairs; 4s.
Plan at Paling’s. Children under 10, Half-price, except
to Gallery.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURGIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia.
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public.
All subjects instructive and entertaining.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat. Each artist a star.
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmony,
and finish.
COBAR, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 27.
NYNCAN, SATURDAY, MONDAY, APRIL 28, 30.
BOUBKE, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY MAY ■> s


WEDDING
m
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, cut crystal glass, 255.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE WILL
PROVE AN INVALUABLE HELP, AND AID
YOU IN MAKING A SELECTION.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-mounted TOBACCO JAR and PIPE
STAND, Oak Base, 20s. Other styles, 27s 6d, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Walnut CABINET CLOCK, 8-
day, strikes hours and halves, I7in
high, 17s 6d. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s 9d.
i«r-
WE PREPAY ALL EXPRESS CHARGES TO
ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA, WHICH
MEANS A BIG SAVING TO YOU.
!
JsrJVJSOy.
«MW
igSitKKtiiS®
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, pure silver
plated, cut crystal bottles, 12s
fid; other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
PRESENTS
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver SEWING COM-
PANION, comprising 4 articles, m
silk-lined case, £2. Other styles, 15s
6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic CALL BKLL, pure silver-
plated, richly embossed, 12s Cd. Other
styles, 4s Cd. 255.
YOU MUST
BE
SATISFIED
The very widest
range of choice, and
the very highest
quality at prices
LESS THAN ELSE-
WHERE.
Our Guarantee is
YOU MUST BE
SATISFIED.
All Goods sent
POST FREE to
any address in
Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRYSTALITE SPECS, 3s 6d; Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
English Gold-filled Frames, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s; Solid Gold, zds, 30s, 40s.
We ask you at your leisure to pay a visit to our Optical Rooms, and have
your sight carefully tested by a skilled Refractionist. Examination and advice
Free. If unable to call, send for Home Eye-test Chart, sent post free
SEND
FOR IT
NOW.
Our Illustrated
Catalogue enables
you to shop
leisurely and con-
veniently in the
privacy of your
own home.
Write to-day.
You will receive
it by return mail.
You assume no risk
when dealing
with us.
A. SAUNDERS:
SHAVING MUG, pure silver-
plated, 20s. Other styles, 13s
6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel SHAVING COMPANION, com-
prising Mirror, Soap, and Ilot-water Bowl,
Brush, and Paper-clip, on wooden base, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET BOOK, Morocco Leather,
pure silver mounts and lock, 12s
6d. Other styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, lCs 6d, 15s.
Sydney
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, cut glass, solid
silver mounts, and spoons, in silk-
lined case, 12s 6d. Heart-shaped, 13s
6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, pure silver-
plated, opal Venetian glass, SOs.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, £2'.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure silver-
plated, satin finish, richly pierced, 4s 6d.
Other styles, ss'6d, 7s fid.
SB
■OeS
A. SAUNDERS.
CAIiE BASKET, pure silver-plated on nickel
silver, richly embossed, serrated edge, £2 10s.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid silver HAIR
BRUSH, finest white
bristles, 15s 6d.
Others, 12s 6d, 17s
6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed, 10s 6d Other
styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,' 8s 6d, 32s 6d, 15s.
JksJcuJjnd&W
HUgg r ' '> '
m
i ■ •"
A. SAUNDERS.
Jam Spoon, Butter Knife, and Sugar Sifter,
solid silver, mother-of-pearl handles, gilt bowls,
in silk-lined case, 30s. Other styles, 255, 355, 40s.
U|
::
r>, yam,, v/m*. yjsrfwvß! v jm. v 3n! vj®!!?
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 4 cut crystal
bottles, pure silver-plated, 255.
Other styles, Its 6d, 17s 6d
21s. 325.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SUGAR BASIN,
China lining, pure silver-plated
mounts, 15s 6d. Extra mounted,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, tinted
enamel dial, Onyx base, accurate
timekeeper, 12in high, £2 ss. Other styles,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or MARINE GLASSES,
sharp definition, with leather
sling and case, £2. Other
styles, 20s
A. bACXDERS.
English Oak CRIB-
BAGE BOARD and
Card Drawer, pure
silver-plated mounts,
15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and
pure silver-plated on nickel silver,
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
TONGS,
12s 6d.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, fitted every
convenience, 20s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s, 253, 30s, 355, 40s.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather PURSE, pure silver mounts
and lock, in tan or green, 8s 6d. Other styles, 4s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Oak PEPPER MILL,
pure silver-plated mounts,
Sj 6d. Others, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
Gent.’s TRAVELLING CO M
PANION, comprising Brush,
Comb, and Mirror, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CEREBOS SALT
CASTOR, pure Sliver-
mounted, 3s 6d.
Others, 3s 6d, 5s 6d.
WINCriELD RowbothamaCS
s
p
wmmm
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation CUTLERY SET, comprising set carvers,
1-dozen each Dessert and Dinner Knives, best Sheffield
Steel, £2 ss. Extra Mounted, £2 10s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, J
A. SAUNDERS
i 809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817)
\ GEORGE-STREET, j
Opp.
Railway-
Station,
Sydney.


m
m v
mm
1
iiiiiii
■
Mi
m
1
<0
9
im
mm
m
a
; v- •- '•
m
m
IiHI
I
mt
m
mm*
The Track is never lonely if you’ve
HAVELOCK TOBACCO!


*72
01
?
s*
fs
0
C:,
j.vw ';
h' : Vr'
I rHr
2S
■■
.
m
rI . jail)
'
vn
H .3. w
"Yes, that’s the stuff! It’s MarricKville; I grew it!”
MARRICKVILLE, TWELDS
ARE PURE WOOL, * *


2s.
m
r
>
rP
*
X x
>
ss
V,
I
mm
,-•
- ';
W
|P
-
-•r
»
• ■ .
■-:&-■■■ :
.. . v .
'•V
.
:>
i
*sPs2
■
:••*
v.:
ll®
•':
:V.u:.-'
i
sV . :
m
m ?
«S»"S
S 3
mm
.1 - -
T.rtr
e
uriiv^
"Wi^t-erv.
Queensland makes Sunny Winter
The Tourists* Ideal Trip in Winter is to
go aboard tbe Mail Train at Sydney or
Melbourne, and waKe up in Sunny
Queensland*
Write to the Queensland Railway Department
Brisbane, for full particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE - » - - &O O
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON » - lO O
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE - - - 12 O
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON - - 14 5
‘BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE - - - 9 15
‘BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS - - lO lO
‘BRISBANE and CAIRNS - - - - lO 17
■“lncluding Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
0 0 0 0 0 0®


■
i n
m
«SISS
M
m
¥
¥
». ■ *
m
...'■ "
Ik V
*
kXLt
ll' \
>\‘|N
X.
hi
Ms ' «' i
a#?
. *•
k
ffigtSsU
Casting
JBa c/c
JFjrojntt
<*>S
j&j
’••/4S -,'V..S
® **<«&©
it
jp
mHUT
&&&s&£
THE chief feature of the Beale Australian Pianos is the Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-Plank, which forms a part of the usual cast-iron frame. We cast the frames for our pianos in our own foundry
at our factories, Annandale, near Sydney, N.S.W. We manufacture, ourselves, the whole of the Beale Pianos, every detail, at our factories and thus obtain complete control of the material, workman-
ship and design. The Beale-Vader Pateut Iron Wrest-Plank takes the place of the wooden plank used in all imported pianos. This wooden plank, with a surface area of only 1| square feet, is drilled
with no less than two hundred and sixteen |-inch holes, into which are hammered steel pins and to these tire attached the strings or wires. The total strain on these pins is Twenty Tons, and the pinch of
the timber is all that there is to hold them and keep the strings at true pitch. They do not hold at concert pitch for any length of time, and tuning tends to rub down the fibres of the wood, so that it loses
its pinch and the pins become loose. Hence our invention of an iron wrest-plank. We shall be pleased to send you a booklet, giving full information on the subject, on receipt of your name and address.
We have Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth, and our Pianos may be obtained for cash or upon easy terms anywhere. Write, or call, for Catalogue mid Circulars.
LTD.
474 George Street, Sydney
207 King Street, Newtown
/07 Swanston St., Melbourne
101 Brisbane Street, Launceston
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide
615 Hay Street, Perth


CITIZENS’
Life Assurance Company
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :
CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLEREAGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES :
NEW SOUTH WALES : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLE-
REAGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 281-283 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 381-383 QUEEN
STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDTNG, 131 KING
WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA : 241 ST. GEORGE S TERRACE
PERTH. *
TASMANIA : LIVERPOOL AND MURRAY STREETS.
HOBART; 66 ST. JOHN STREET, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND : LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.
UNITED KINGDOM : CITIZENS’ HOUSE, 24 AND 25
KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Assets at 31st December, 1905 - £1,547,790 9s. sd.
*Tnii Bulletin, 22nd February, 1906, said : “ The increase in the holding of public securities—which
means safety is notable. No other Australian office of hrst or second rank has so large a proportion.
The Company’s Consulting Actuary, Mr. R. P. HARDY.
F.1.A., F.F.A., in bis Report on tbe 1904
Valuation, says:
Mr. Ralph P. Hardy, F.1.A., F.F.A.
“ ThG Directors are fully entitled to claim that the Security
they offer, both to the present Assured and to the Public generally,
for the redemption of their contracts is of the highest possible
character.
“They should use every means to educate the public to
appreciate, not merely the great protection afforded by esti-
mating the Liabilities upon the basis of only a 3 per cent. yield,
but further, that such prudential course has the additional
advantage of providing a Bonus fund that will grew as the Com-
pany grows in age, and will enable compensation to be made to
those longer livers whose contributions will have helped to build
up the Company.”
Specimen Bonuses
In resped of the One Year 1905, per £>loo of Policy.
WHOLE
TERM
OF LIFE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE
MATURING AT AGE 60.
POLICIES IN FORCE.
POLICIES IN FORCE.


One of the horrors of Salvation Army
“Rescue” work got into the papers a little while
ago. At the Islington (N.S.W.) Rescue Home of
the Army an infant was being bathed by a female
inmate, who scalded it horribly. She said nothing,
but put the child to bed, and for three hours it
was left suffering and unattended. Then medical
skill was powerless to save its life. At the in-
quest it was shown that the child was originally
received at Melbourne, was transferred thence to
Burwood (N.S.W.), and then again to Islington
(N.S.W.). No one at the “Home” knew any-
thing as to its identity. Such are the institutions,
subsidised by public and private charity !
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
i For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £16 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10s..
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Tinder Agreement Extending to 30th June, 192 L.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia,(Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The trustees, exlcu i uhs
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jhssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Olyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461 —Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272. ' *
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable* Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. 0. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Public Notice.
mO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—As our respective terms of
office as Directors of your Society expire at the approach-
ing Annual Meeting, we have the honor to announce that
we are candidates for re-election.
Respectfully soliciting a continuance of your support,
We beg to subscribe ourselves
Your faithful servants,
J. T. WALKER.
BENJAMIN SHORT.
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
Election of Directors, 1906.
FELLOW MEMBERS,—We beg to announce that we
are Candidates for the Three Vacant Seats on your
Board of Directors at the forthcoming election, and
respectfully solicit your support. We are opposed to the
London, &e., and S. African Extension policy.
GERALD R. CAMPBELL,
RICHARD ARTHUR (M.D., M.L.A.),
Sydney. JOHN KIRKLAND (J. Kirkland & Co.).
SOUTH MOUNT CAMERON TIN MINING CO.
N.L., Ringarooma River, Tasmania.
is hereby given that a DIVIDEND ('the 1st) of
N 9d. per share has been declared upon all the shares in
the above Company, PAYABLE at the registered office of
the Company, National, Mutual Buildings, 395 Collins-
street, Melbourne, on and after MONDAY, 7th MAY, 1906.
By order of the Board,
E. J. KENNEDY, Manager.
N.B.—Transfer Books will be closed from Monday, 30th
April, to Saturday, 5th May, both days inclusive.
inimM
B. MOUNTCASTLE
H & SONS
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
*PRINZ SICISMUMD, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUBTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (Under cover) to any part (
of Australasia or New Zealand.
S6lb Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRABG and ASTKEN,
N. S. W. Barber’s Supply House,
654 George Street, SYDNEY
sd
WHITE STAR LINE.
i
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
12th MAY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
- on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
•MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
R. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding;
A. Simpson
Noon, May 19
Noon, June 2
Noon, June 30
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class,
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
JDalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QaBANXC S.S. 00. A. & A. X.I3NTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS CINE.
* R.M S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 30.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
fsd
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras ; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“ Holiday Hints ” ?
BURNS,
PHILP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL
£100,000
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
font de pete Q.’fi |.CO‘>[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Pe Royal gank of Queensland
T I 7ir T rm* gn *
L1M1TJSX),
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FiraD(Invested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURGH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS —
May 14, June 11, July 9.
The
Most
Interesting
Route
to
Europe.
S3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing- Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheea of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager. rw
T s e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPM
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Grantala, May 2.
S.S. Marloo, May 4.
S.S. Yongala, May 16.
BRISBANE, I <
MACKAY. |
TOWNSVILLE, p
And Ports North to Cairns. I {
S.S. Wollowra, April 28.
■S.S. Yongala, May 9.
S.S. Marloo, May 12.
Best anil Cheapest Jloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessag eries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN Otf BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
Ml HE Largest and Lesc-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
hyju-am. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully-
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Banking. Public Companies, &c. '
fjje]jank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Minaaer Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j p. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised -. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up •• £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f
£370,000


xn-|9)ra>.
m™*
1
j ■»•:*,>.'«• *:» •v’ 1
" •. ■ ”
NEW PREMISES of DAVID BRAHAM & CO., Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.
MELBOURNE.
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, tojclear the whole
of their stock :
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to . £2 17 8
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete;
usual price £lO, reduced to .. .. ..£5OO
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, ' steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £1 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels ; reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap £0 6 9
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb. ; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
f best proof of the claim of
OttMge
£ungTonfc
\to be the WOKLD'S CUEE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
f
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With t, 2,3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for cur 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276*278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The tragedy of Smith, as related by John-
son :
Smith was obstinate. He had a bad stutter, and had x
terrible wife. He drank a little at times, but we all liked
Smith.
Because we knew his wife, Brown and I were resolved
that night that Smith must not lose his last train. It
became necessary therefore about 11.45 to interrupt him
in the midst of an interesting stutter he was doing to a
barmaid. Amid spluttering protests we firmly led him
out by the side door.
Five minutes to catch the train, and with maudlin
obstinacy Smith wanted to go in the wrong direction. It
was no time for argument, so, each grasping an arm, we
ran down the street despite strenuous resistance. Smith
spluttered more than ever, but his infirmity was mixed
with beer and he said nothing definite. At one stage,
however, his resistance became so violent that a police-
man nearly arrested us for garrotting.
We landed Smith on the platform with one and a half
seconds to spare. Here again his resistance, when we
proceeded to assist him into the train, was so pronounced
that had we not known Mrs. Smith we would certainly
have let him stay out all night and take the consequences.
However, we shut him in and held the door or he would
have been out on the platform again, and when the train
started we ran alongside for some distance, still holding
the door and shoving Smith back into the carriage. He
still spluttered. A fellow passenger promised to put him
out at Brighton, and to see that he didn’t get out at any
previous station.
As the train fled into the distance Jones came up ;
“ Where’s Smith off to to-night ? ” he inquired.
“ Home, of course,” I replied.
“But what’s he doing on that line?” persisted Jones.
“ He told me last week he had moved up from Brighton*”
Brown and I gazed sadly at one another as it dawned
on us that perhaps Smith’s obstinacy was not without
reason.
Smith walked back from Brighton stuttering all the
way, and reached home at 4 a.m.
The Australian patent law needs amend-
ment to prevent a person obtaining a patent for
what is public property and then by bluff and
threats, backed by ample foreign capital, exploit-
ing the public and compelling it to pay a large
royalty for an article which is its own property.
Australia follows the British system of granting a
patent and allowing it to be tested afterwards ; it
saves trouble in the Patent Office, but Hat the
expense of the people.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
<Mo ’“' ) cHrcFOFncEforn.&w.— 263 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
15he PLUM.
Gentlemen, —This razor is superior to any other It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of years, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ Plum ” Razor Strops, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
“Razoleo” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10'6> Pair, in beautiful
_ Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
* B,C Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15'-, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30/-
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Solo Agents—CßAlG & AITKEN, 654 CEORCE STREET, SYPMEY...
}: '"A
mmM
m
miv
"cferUmWL ■ *s,'
from all VA Tl
GranpWbras rV
lncludiim\' teeic
Recorfjjpsas
Sj!gnor(MjOt)ANl
FIT)
ws
NICOLE, ■—
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL g The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS * The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
%
s=i
Better than ever
id
86 the best watches in
& the world.
□o
□o
88
m
them
are
□□
db
Bpg
a
8
□c
8
□c
I
I
strong guarantee, 8
1
£
century
dDS
r in
do reputation
Behind
half a
of high
and a
Jao good for all time.
The
Ttli iVEL TUCtcfWAR.
IVEL” acr,cultural
MOTOR
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation tor
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
sdfdsf
(jIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
*■' U post free.
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Tipped with
White.
WRITE NOW.
i'NIILLERS
«P
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
’Black, White, Cream,
INatural, or Black Tipped with
White.
5/-
Length, 12 inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
■cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
i uoiai ur money
Order payable to Jorralfru er. Illustrated Price List Free
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Strand Arcade,
Piti t Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Aiso at Comer of Bourse and: Swam 'Aon Streets, Melbourne.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
TUA.T . . .
Nea/e’s Temperance Hoiei
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk,
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
X
Lockwood Bros., Ltd .
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
N KNIVES
are the
BEST.
SolcT
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3 —Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 lOs, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing- Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
ASK foi\
>
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
AND REFUSE
[substitutesJ
sf
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qmstion
if not perfectly sat : *ictory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted s% years.
Latest
models
to £&
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres. Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. Wc guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes,
good as new,
£1 to £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders frpm sample
machine. ActlYe Agenta
warned in eacn district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage,
lyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc., half prices,
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. B39
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.


For Skin Tortured Babies
and Rest for Tired
Mothers
&
/
In Warm Baths with
4-
And gentle anointings
with Cuticura Ointment,
the great Skin Cure, and
purest and sweetest of
emollients. It means in-
stant relief and refresh-
ing sleep for tortured,
disfigured, itching, and
burning babies, and rest
for tired, fretted mothers,
when all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Fills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
5 Hue de la Faix: Australia, It. Towns Jc Co., Sydney;
.Boston, U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
3QT“ Mailed tree, 44 How to Cure Baby Humours.’*
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sd
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
f you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use ...
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
JELLY CRYSTALS.
Superior flavors, and
very transparent.
B M OIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE
It is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
SYDHEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [3
m
L~.m
L-S3
'Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out 6f careless ones.
.'SYSTEMS for 'Correspond-
ence.
"SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
: SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
: SYSTEMS for Indexing.
: SYSTEMS for all Records.
; SYSTEM kor Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building 1 , Perth.
’Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St, Sydney,
Solis Australian Agjsnt
ASTRONOMY AND CASTRONOMY.
Moonshine and Mai - Digestion Mother
Seigel’s Syrup is a Sure Cure for Stomach
Troubles.
He was but a poor astronomer who preferred
the moon to the sun, defending his choice by ex-
plaining that whereas the sun shines only in the
daytime, when it is not wanted at all, the moon
renders great service by lighting us at night! It
is one of the many cases which show the danger
of speaking of matters which we do not under-
stand. And yet, speaking at random is hardly
more safe than acting at random.
When Mr. Joseph Ruane, of “Woonnona”
Ed ward-street, Woollahra, N.S.W., was advised
by his friend to take Mother Seigel’s Syrup, that
advice was not based upon any random idea, but
on positive knowledge that it would cure indiges-
tion, the complaint from which he suffered.
Writing on November 21st, 1905, Mr Ruane says:
“ Seven years ago, when living in Newcastle in
this State, I became very ill, and my ailments
increased as time went on. I had frequent attacks
of indigestion, biliousness and headaches, and was
‘ all out of sorts.’ jor days together I was unable
to attend to my business, and it appeared to be
a question of only a brief time when I should be
compelled to give up my occupation entirely.
One of my most distressing symptoms was giddi-
ness, which at times rendered me as unsteady as a
drunken man. Often I was obliged to catch hold
of things to save myself from falling. Removal to
Bathurst helped me for a little while, but soon I
was as bad as ever again. While in that city,
however, a friend advised me to try Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. I had but little hope of benefit
from the Syrup, but, to my great joy, when I had
taken it for about a week I felt a change for the
better. Naturally, I continued its use, and with
surprising results, my health and’ strength im-
proving daily. Soon my step became as firm and
confident as ever it had been, the giddiness having
entirely left me. The biliousness, indigestion,
and headaches also disappeared, and by the time
I had taken nine bottles Of the remedy I was
transformed from an invalid into a sound, strong,
hearty man.”
A Splendid
Article.^*
Only 1/6.
THE MOST USEFUL ARTICLE
EVER INTRODUCED.
It consists of a beautifully-finished
Exquisite PEN, Telescopic
PENCIL, and FOLDING
RUBBER STAMP, with any
name and in any design, together
with Self-Inking Pad. Stamp very
useful for your letters, books,
photos., music, linen, &c. Order
one NOW. Don’t be without such
a useful article. Makes a Good
Present. Price 1/6 posted.
One buyer says: “It is a wonderful
outfit for the money. Send 8 more.”
We have also in Stock
BEAUTIFUL
NICKEL LOCKETS
to hang on your Watch Chain ;
inside contains Rubber Stamp
with your Name, or Mono-
gram, and neat Self-
Inking Pad.
A Vert Pretty
Novelty.
2/6
Posted.
fsd
ALUMINIUM SOVEREIGN OASES WITH NAME BTAMP, 2/10.
1. 1 SmiTH & CO.
6 MOORE ST.
SYDNEY.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
rpHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along |
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
size
Rheumatic and Gouty Affections.
(By “Origin.”)
The unnatural retention of uric acid and other urinary and biliary poisons in the blood produces
a group of complaints which inflict upon humanity long, continued suffering and intense pain. The
most common of these complaints are rheumatism, gout, lumbago, sciatica, and neuralgia. The kid-
neys arid liver are the organs upon which nature has imposed the task of extracting from the blood
certain matter which is being continuously manufactured in the body, owing to the wasting of the
tissues. It is as necessary to life that the wasting of the tissues must proceed uninterruptedly as it is
that the substance of the body must be regularly renewed by the food we eat, the water we drink, and
the air we breathe. It is equally necessary to health that the waste matter should be expelled from
the body continuously, for its presence in the blood entails disease or death.
The treatment of rheumatic and gouty affections by the outward application of liniments,
ointments and embrocations is seldom productive of much lasting benefit. They may afford tem-
Eorary relief in some cases, but they do not reach the seat of the disorder. The only way in which
ealth can be permanently resl ® ed, and pain permanently removed, is to take measures to ensure
the regular action of the kidneys and the liver. When these organs are performing their allotted
task naturally and freely, the uric acid, and other urinary and biliary poisons, pass from the system
through the ordinary channels, and any suffering caused by the presence of such poisons in the blood
is at an end.
Owing to its specific action, Warner’s Safe Cure, every moment during the past twenty-five
years, has been demonstrating its remarkable power of restoring the kidneys and liver to health and
activity. Warner’s Safe Cure not only cures Bright’s Disease and other specific diseases of those
vital organs, but rheumatism, gout, gravel, stone, bladder troubles, indigestion, biliousness, aneemia,
impure blood, and all disorders caused by the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons,
speedily yield to the influence of the medicine, simply because of its healing and stimulating in-
fluence upon the kidneys and the liver. Cures thus effected are permanent, simply because they are
natural.
A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine, passed the
first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then
cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in
it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or
Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result. [2.
WELSBACH
MANTLES *
Made in Australia by Australians for Australians.
•• The House that Jack built.” —No. 6
This burglar man got such a fright
When Jack turned on the Welsbach Light;
Caught in the act—and serve him right-
inside the house that Jack built.”
Look for the Trade Hark
on every article.
WELSBACH Mantles
and Fittings can be
had of all Ironmongers
and Plumbers.
W
G
The UJelsbach tight Company
Have Showrooms at . . .
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co*,
Adelaide
Perry Bros*, Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth,
W.A.
'
//,
1
U V.
£ t
■M
JR? Si is 1
J§ £ 5
p I
’p'/.'if fi
iias i in *k
s a
B?S££ §
IS: I
-“A
u
u
IK
Business, Robbery, etc.
Another pleasing caper of the foreign harvester-
selling agent was exposed in Melbourne lately, when a
farmer was sued for £99—the price of a harvester he had
bought conditionally last November, and returned un-
used. One of the conditions of purchase was that if the
machine was returned nnused the proposing buyer must
neither use nor buy any other harvester within four
months after date of cancelling his contract. Judge
Chomley held that, the farmer having cancelled the order,
it could not be revived at the will of the harvester co.,
and the farmer was therefore legally in a position to do
as he liked with regard to any other harvester, and non-
suited the co., with costs. Fancy a man buying a horse
on approval, and returning it after trial as being lame or
broken-kneed or something, yet not being allowed to buy
another horse for four months ! And fancy anybody
trying to enforce such an absurd stipulation. Nobody
but an importer, in a country which has made a smail
tin-god of importers, would think of it.
k * •
“Yorkist”: Be glass manufacturers before
Tariff Commission (l/5/’O6). The glass trade must have
sunk to a low level if the men only get 425.
per week. We here in Australia are following the
Englishmen in the matter of losing trade. In England
(in 1903) 52 per cent, of glass-blowers were out of work
1,500,000 gross of bottles were imported ; and the most
remarkable feature of the case is that most of the glass
workers are Freetraders. England is the dumping ground
for the surplus stock of the cheap continental nations.
The only rival to be feared in Australia is the Jap, or the
German among the European nations. Glass-blowing is
very hot work, but healthy. If the advocates of nigger
labor would only pay a visit to some of the factories and
see what amount of heat a white man can endure, they
would never preach nigger labor again.
• * * •
His Honor A’Beckett, of Victoria, extending
the legal dictum that an infant is only liable at law for
“ necessaries,” and that a tradesman supplies anything
else to him at his peril, lately laid it down that, if an
infant proposed to get married, the furniture and the
rest of the haberdashery to make up a happy home must
be considered necessaries, and duly paid for; but, said
his Honor, if the prospective wedding didn’t actually
transpire, then, though the infant had been supplied
with what were necessaries at time of purchase, the shop-
keeper would nevertheless fail in an action for payment
—on the ground, presumably, that a wedding outfit,
without a wedding is mere superfluous frill for the infant.
* • •
“J.A.C.”: The postal authorities move in a
mysterious way. Some months ago a man while travel-
ling sent a postal note to his wife in Sydney. About the.
time it should have arrived, she shifted to another house,,
and, although she notified the change of address to the-
Post Office, the letter was not delivered. She then appliedl
to the Postal Department and was furnished with an.
application form, which she filled up and sent in. Then,
the mighty machinery of the Post Office was set in>
motion. Letters and despatches were sent all over the
country; a very civil detective put himself to a great,
deal of trouble, but with no result further than that He-
was able to say definitely the number of the note had!
been traced and it had not been presented for payment..
Some months afterwards the lady received the note from,
herhusband. The letter had been reposing peacefully in. the-
Sydney dead-letter office, and when its time was updifc had!
been opened and returned to the address whence w came-
Another instance. A friend of mine sent a wins to Nov.
101 Blank-street. He had previously sent letters there,
which had been delivered. His telegram was returned
with the intimation that there was no such number.
Being Sure he was right, he wrote to the P. 0., and was
informed that the numbers left off at 99 and began again,
at 103. To be sure, there was a house between these two-
numbers, but it was unnumbered, being designated only
by name. It might have occurred to some people that,
between 99 and 103 there was a reasonable probability of
finding 101. On the subject of the 6d. my friend had'
spent a dignified silence was maintained ; the P.O. still!
clings to the tanner.
* • • •
This casual sort of letter was received by a-
Bulletin correspondent, who sends it along in all it®
glory
“17 febuary
“1906 2mth.
“Dear Sir,
“ I want you to get me a good billet in a darks office
in S3 T dney at the Post office or can you get me into a
better one in Bathurst at a drapers shop I want you to-
try and get me a good one. If you carnt get me any dont
bother Cause I dont mind.
“ I remain Dear Sir
“ Yours truely
* * * *
“ TJ.”: Some tailors make an absurd effort to keep
up the myth that no women are allowed to put a stitch in
garments ordered from them. The sole reason for this
seems to be a foolish tradition that women cannot do
this class of work as well as men. While I was waiting in
a Melbourne shop, the other day, a pretty fluffy-haired girl
wandered in from the workrooms at the back, a just-
finished vest hanging over her arm. “ It's only the char-
woman,” lied the manager, and he hustled the girl out,
cautioning her in a stage whisper to stay away from the
shop while customers were present.
• • « «
“The Mussel” : I was under the impression
that the “before using” and “after using” form of
advertisement was played out, but I now know that the
said advertisement is just in its prime. Was walking along
an obscure street in North Melbourne recently, when, in
a small boot-repairer’s shop window, I saw two boots.
One was labelled “ Before mending,” the other “ After
mending.” The previous boot was an indescribable,
battered, green-mouldy wreck, with spiders’ webs cover-
ing it, and microbes of different nationalities, and as
large as cockatoos, wandering in the wrinkles. The sub-
sequent boot was a miracle of art; I can’t understand
how it got to such a locality. There is a pub. close by
where they’ll garrotte you for your socks, and my theory is
that some aide-de-camp, wandering back to Government
House from the Melbourne Cup, stopped to have a drink
in this pub. and was murdered for his boots. And, mind
you, this metamorphosis in boots can be done for the
sum of 2s. 6d. I spent half that night gathering old
boots on the West Melbourne tip that I might spend
2s. 6d. on them and sell them cheap for 15s.
HURRY UP AND DIE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Attention is directed to the special notification by Mr.
, undertaker, in our advertising columns this
evening:—“Noted for the best work and material.
Funerals from £5 10s. upwards.”— Melbourne Herald.
Hear the papers cry,
“Hurry up and die 1"
Prepare to meet your Maker,
And oblige the Undertaker,
Don’t be quite so merry, you !
He’s waiting now to bury you.
Now’s the time to make a deal,
His charges won’t be high ;
Nevermind how good you feel—
Hurry up and die 1
“ Hurry up and die !"
Now’s your time to buy—
Death’s waiting in the offin’,
Go and secure a coffin—
Something cheap in pine or oak,
Fit for millionaire or bloke.
Come along and choose the case
In which you’d like to lie ;
You’re only blocking up the place,
So hurry up and die !
Won’t you heed the cry—
“ Hurry up and die ?”
Won’t you rush to meet your Maker,
And oblige the Undertaker ?
Five-pounds-ten will be the fare,
“ First-class, single, Heaven.” There 1
Everything right up-to-date ;
Oh 1 you’ll simply fly
Bight away to Heaven’s gate,
So hurry up and die !
VIC.
O. C. CANOT.


This Watch was manufactured specially for
us by the Waltham Factory, and we Can re-
commend it to anyone requiring a reliable
and serviceable watch The hunting cases
are strong and of sterling silver. The move-
ment is a jewelled J-plate one, with exposed
winding wheels, Brequet spring and compen-
sating balance. Guaranteed for three years.
Price £3 10s. Better Grades, £4 lOs.,
£6 fOs. With Gold-filled Cases, £6 lOs.
We supply this Watch in four styles at
these prices : Crystal Front, Polished Steel
Case, 25s ; Hunting' Polished Steel Cases,
30s ; Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case,
35s ; Hunting- Solid Silver Cases, 40s.
The lever movement of this watch is
highly finished, has fourteen jewels, patent
screw balance, exposed winding wheels,
reliable keyless work, and we can recom-
mend it for the use of men or boys.
This shows a really dainty litth
Watch, popularly known as the “Prin
cess.” Although we sell many of these
every year, we seldom have a com-
plaint reach us, and this should be a
good guarantee that it is a reliable
article. We make with silver or gold
engraved cases in open face and full
hunting. The movement is keyless
and properly jewelled. Guaranteed
for two years. Price: Crystal Front
Silver, £2 ; Hunting, 50s ; Crystal
Front, 18ct. Gold, £4 10s ; Hunt-
ing, £5 10s.
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing Cased Watch, suitable for
young ladies. It has a reliable
jewelled movement exquisitely
engraved solid 14et. gold cases—
strong, keyless work, and altogether
is a sound and serviceable watch.
It is possible to sell a gold watch at
a lower price, but as the timekeep-
ing and construction is not such as
would give lasting satisfaction to
our customers, we do not stock
fcherri. Print** j£Z4L frtc.
DO YOU WANT A WATCH
These Watches we have tried and found satisfactory’ They are offered at prices lower than Watches of equal
quality can be bought for elsewhere. Our eight big business houses in Australasia explain why. Send your
order by mail. We will give it prompt attention. For other Grades see our Special Watch Book. We post it FREE.
Vi*?
St©
This shows our Lady’s Keyless
Defiance Watch, hundreds of which
have been sold, and have given
unbounded satisfaction. It is a really
reliable watch and priced very reason-
ably. The case is a solid silver one,
beautifully engraved. The movement
JS f-plate, jewelled and carefully'
finished in detail. Open Pace,
£1 fOs ; Hunting, £1 17s 6d.
This shows a dependable
small size Lady’s Crystal Front
Watch. The movement is a
keyless and jewelled, the dial
is of pretty decorated opal,
the case is polished steel, and
we find them to be excellent
little timekeepers. An ideal
ffirl’s watch. £f 2s 6d.
This is our Lady's Waltham Lever.
The movement is’ of solid nickel, is
jewelled, has compensating: balance and
Brequet spring'. The hunting- cases are
of solid silver, nicely engine turned and
engraved, with shield in centre, after the
style of the picture shown here. Pride
£4. Guaranteed for 3 years.
“THE NONPAREIL."
We have advertised and sold this
Watch wherever the English lan-
guage is spoken, and surely no other
has given such universal satisfac-
tion. Best Keyless Movement, 18ct.
Gold Cases. Hunters, £7 /Os.
Crystal Front, £6 10s.
t
#,
Our
Watches
are
Honest
Watches.
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths,
is a Triumph in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. It has a
very fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short-
winding movement, and the case is made of a
very hard nickel, beautifully polished, and fitted
with unbreakable crystal glass. Price 18s 6d.
With Silver Case, 30s. Steel Case, 18s 6d.
■
m
g
This is the famous
ull-capped English
•{-plate “Excelsior”
Watch. Solid Silver
HuntinsrCases, fine
fully jewelled
movement. Price
only £5 10s„
HEALTHY LIVER—A
Professor F. H. Griffin,
M.D., wrote:
t ' I only wish every soul in the world used
Kutnow’s Powder; they would experience
great benefit. Four of my family besides
myself use it regularly.” It is a splendid
corrective for liver disorders. It is as mild
as the purest water, but as certain as the
rising of the sun. It is delightfully refresh-
ing as a health-draught, and removes the
severest headache almost instanter.
Professor I. N. Love,
M.D., wrote:
u The great surgeon, Professor Lawson.
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a gouty
diathesis, was not only one of the world’s
greatest surgeons, but an able physician and
a skilful therapeutist. For years he found
Kutnow’s Powder of great value to him per-
sonally and in his practice, and this remedy
is one of the few he conspicuously endorsed
over his own signature. He realised, as all
careful, observing practitioners do, that it is
necessary to cleanse the system frequently,
to remove the debris of undigested food, and
to hasten the elimination of uric acid to
properly guard against serious disease. Kut-
now s Powder stimulates the activities of the
bowels and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in
a tumblerful of water taken immediately on
rising in the morning cleans out the bowels,
acts as a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys
in a most satisfactory way. Thorough
elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.”
Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children
and Hygiene, Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.
How many people are there to-day in the British Isles who could
answer the greeting—“ How are you?” by saying, “Very well,
thanks ! ”
The percentage who could truthfully say, “ Very well, thanks,”
is very small, but really (with care) everyone ought to be always well.
Good health is your birthright, but, unfortunately, you have an
organ to keep in order called the liver, an unruly member.
If you have a strong, active liver, you will lead a strong, active
life, but you must keep the liver up to the mark.
If you find a difficulty with the liver, be careful to avoid drugs,
mercurial pills, and all drastic remedies —they hurt.
Adopt Kutnow’s Powder, the liver encouraging remedy ; it acts
gently, yet, nevertheless, does its work with extraordinary efficiency.
If you wish to excel in brain-work you will find a dessert-spoon-
ful of Kutnow’s Powder of immense benefit. The same applies to
every action of our daily life—work, play, sleep—no matter what
you do, if you would do it well you must keep the great organs of the
body in perfect working order. The stomach needs cleansing, the
liver stimulating, the kidneys flushing, and the bowels clearing.
Herein lies the whole secret of health, and Kutnow’s Powder does
this for you, and does it perfectly.
IMPORTANT CAUTIONS
Kutnow’s Powder is sold everywhere, Dut should you be shown a bottle
similar to the genuine Kutnow's Powder, bear in mind that to be
genuine every bottle must have the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ld., and the registered trade-mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” on the carton and label on the bottle. This signature
and trade-mark alone ensure your obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER
Dr. A. A. O’Neill, M.D.,
wrote :
“ Columbia Hospital, Chicago,
“ June 10, 1904.
“It gives me pleasure to state with what
satisfaction I have used Kutnow’s Powder in
my practice. I find that it is one of the best
neutralisers, and at the same time a gentle
laxative and gastric sedative, which over-
comes the most distressing symptoms so
often remembered by patients with so much
dread. Given in small freshly made doses
every few minutes, it soon controls the
gastric distress, keeps up gentle peristalsis
and laxity, the importance of which surgeons
appreciate. “ A. A. O’NEILL, M.D.”
Dr. W. R. Jones,
Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology,
University College, Virginia, wrote:
“ I am constantly prescribing Kutnow’s
Powder, with invariably good results. I also
use it myself in order to regulate the
inactivity of the digestive and excretory
organs. It is especially beneficial in stimu-
lating a sluggish liver, preventing biliousness
and dyspepsia, and permanently removing
fche baneful effects of chronic constipation.”
Removes Liver Trouble.
“13, Acland Street, London E.,
“ August 4, 1904.
“ Sirs, —I have tried many remedies for
liver complaints, but they have done me very
little good. After the second trial of Kut-
now’s Powder I felt immense relief, so I
cannot help giving your Powder a good word.
“J. KINGSLEY.”
TAKE KUTNOW’S POWDER FOR YOUR LIVER.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors In U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[5-11]


Clean White
Teeth mean sound teeth, fit fop theip
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth , Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
; constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
FITS^URED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11,-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Nindooimhti
Adjoining
TABRAGALBA, Albert River,
Queensland.
Estate
The Kerry Paddocks, 6092 acres
in areas from 778
to 7223 acres.
Situated 51 miles from Brisbane, 4 miles from Beaudesert Railway Station by good
level road. Rainfall, 43fin., well distributed. Splendid water from Albert River and
Iverry Creek.. Considered the best Dairying and Agricultural land in the famous Albert
District, having alluvial lucerne flats nearly a mile wide.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION
At Beaudesert, on MONDAY, 7th MAY, 1906,
At Three o’clock.
Magnetic Terms: One-Tenth Cash, Balance to 20 years
At S per cent.
&
Isles, Love & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE,
Write for
Illustrated Pamphlet to
fsd
m
Wst
H
SEw
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
sizes the shells, supplies the exact quantity
of powder, and seats the bullets properly.
By using sfirst-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridges for accuracy,
reliability and excellence is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
SORE
S/NGLE TO N ’ S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAIL-C.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A CARD.
OLD DOCTOR LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
i to inform ins patients and the ailing public
generally that HE and HIS STAFF OF EXPERT SPECI-
ALISTS may still be consulted as in years past, either
personally or BY LETTER, FREE OF CHARGE.
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF MEDICAL ADVICE,
WRITE FOR QUESTION CHART AT OSIfiE.
POST FREE, Doctor Langston’s
Popular Medical Work, latest edition
{lllustrated):
MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know.
WRITE FOB IT NOW. I
THE DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1887.
All Communications Sacredly Confidential.
Mention this paper when writing .
WILL ANDRADE
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Oattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is.. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s Gd dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
■Jill
1
&
'A
Uf'A
%. ft
Free CataEogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring'Apparatus
and Bocks.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Becks for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6 —Books for the
Married,
No. 7—Advanced.
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer's Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make L>, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 panes, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, ls3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s (id. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d’
6d, and is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, Ins post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is, Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, f.y Dr.
Warren, is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush'-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU /WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address
Stamps, or Postal Notes, of any State will do.
. _. i
GLEASON S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated Deals with- breedum- bro,l- „„
tramino- sheltennjir, buying, selling ftjnn£atfe;racing, etc. IMseases-their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £/0 for its Information, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
k.
m
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
It non-heating. One cnp contains
more nourishment than XO caps a t
any ordinary cocoa.
FREE TRIALI
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade ELECT MIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It wilt cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
f
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME OUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST..
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility; and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYIDIIsrZEY-
WHAT IS CATARRH?
sdf
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining-passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4months'
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 ColUns-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
nglgkrn by Dr Langston’s Perfect
bUnCU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY &CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANCSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors — PK.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
“ Law ” : Ever eat Frankforts ? With
half a pound of potato-salad, two Frankforts make
a light supper that leads to wonderful dreams.
You can get them imported or local—with an
extra sixpence l for the imported., Take the latter.
A sausage-maker in Germany was recently pro-
secuted for mixing uncanny things in his wares’
and they were proved to contain “large quan-
tities of spoiled hams, decayed sides of pork,
sausage-skins that had been used before, the
intestines of cattle, and scraps of meat which had
been intended for dogs.” The defence was that
the use of some of the substances was customary !
In the face of this revelation I propose always to
support the local sausage-stuffer. His goods
mayn’t have that piquancy of flavor that comes
from decomposed pig and dog’s-meat, but I’m
willing to sacrifice that much for patriotism.
“ Drifter ” : There is > a staggering amount
of rigmarole attached to being initiated into a
Lodge. For a long time a member of the Dis-
united Confusion of Ancient Hottentots regu-
larly persecuted me to come and join the brother-
hood. He would bail me up in quiet corners, and
marvel at my improvidence in not being an
Ancient and Confused Hottentot. One night he
hinted that a man of my mental brilliance would
swiftly rise in the lodge and “go through the
chairs.” It got me. The idea of “ going through
the chairs ” fired my imagination. T’other night
I fixed up all preliminaries, and stepped up to the
ha.ll to be initiated. When I knocked at the door,
a janitor, with an astonishing amount of gorgeous
millinery around his neck, poked his head out and
gazed on me with the eye of dark suspicion. I
stated my business, and the gorgeous object
disappeared in a hurry. Soon a man with
black whiskers and a vivid blue shoulder
sash and other ornamental matter came out into
the passage. He took my depositions, then gave
a secret knock, and the door was again cautiously
opened. I heard the janitor cry : “Brother
Bronson craves admittance with a new member,
most noble chief!” Then a remote voice said
“Admit,” and the black-whiskered one grabbed
me fiercely by the arm and hurried through the
door. I felt like Marcus Superbus going to be
published before the lions. I was brought up !
with a jerk before a fat man who was decorated j
like an American battleship on Independence !
Day, and who sat on a dais between two other
gaily caparisoned Hottentots. The fat one read
me a long lecture from a biblical-looking volume
in a hoarse, unintelligible, voice, then made
elephantine attempts at a humorous speech of
welcome. When he had finished, the black-
whiskered man whisked me over to another
throne where two anaemic-looking young men !
in brilliant sashes and aprons, read more !
books at me, whispered the “password,” initiated
me into the mysteries of secret hand-grips and
door raps, and exhorted me to become a good
Confused Hottentot. I did my final “ buck ”
before the gorgeously arrayed fat man. Then the
Lodge stood up, and the thunder of its hoofs on
the floor, followed by a battle-cry, proclaimed a
new member was admitted to the fold. After
that I slunk to a seat, and a grey-haired old
Hottentot clasped my arm and called me
“ brother ! ”


SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
I
1
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with Over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s6dposted. Howto Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s;
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
HOrse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Eloci£
Tlonist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big ■ Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
> 18: Plates. 3d Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted... Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man H(s Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Liglitning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is Gd. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §•“ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated gatalogui
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, IS posted.
"Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. ■ Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
HOLLO WAYS PILLS
sd
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo»* welcome relief
in a very short time. ' ~
*
* Jp
n OINTMENT
L
“ is superior even to meat and oi
Inestimable value as a food.”
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL A
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,”
10 1,51
m
k
SPIRO Powder SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria — Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
THE BALLET GIRL
J
Her T1
Dome
Pos
The Lift
and Coi
SYDI
Bi
Post
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
80x‘913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DEAF
1 TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CUBE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one Interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF Lager
Superior
to
All Others.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills. —*■
“ I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
Ji\e Xarjcef describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
VJje British Jdedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
fsd
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd the AGED.
Benqer’s Food is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Treasurer Peake, of S.A., like Federal
Customs Minister Lyne, began his public life as a
Council Clerk in a country district. He was a
very good clerk and the electors of his district
sent him to Parliament. Now he is the' right
hand man of Premier Price, who needs a man like
Peake beside him. Peake is always calm and
collected, whereas Price’s sudden Welsh blood is
apt to boil at times.
Veteran Jules Joubert was a witness to
the first hoisting of the British flag in Maoriland,
when the commander of an English warship out-
witted a French ditto. Joubert also'took part in
the function of the annexation of New Caledonia
to France, when a French naval officer similarly
outwitted an English commander. There was a
lot of casual outwitting about the empire builders
of those days.
“ F.” : Apropos extraordinary front names
(B. 5/4/’O6). In Gladesville Asylum is a lunatic
who carries the front names, Australia J übilee.
He was born in 1836. What could a man with
these names do except go mad. By-the-bye, has
anything been heard lately of that miserable kid
who was christened (at the war fever and Federa-
tion period) Federation Australian Horse Smith ?
Is he alive yet ?
. The new British Government has taken
office at a stormy time. It not only has on its
hands the Chinese-South African problem, and
the Education problem, and the bloated expendi-
ture, and the disorganised army; on top of all
else, a London magistrate lately gave a decision
that only pot-still spirit can be legally sold as
whisky, and in one fatal whoop he disqualified
60,000,000 gallons of liquor in stock, and outlawed
all the distilleries in Scotland. That whisky
which has ceased to be whisky must be made
whisky again somehow, for Britain isn’t in a posi-
tion to fight the question ; its whole army is only
about 250,000 men, and what are 250,000 men
against 60,000,000 gallons of whisky ? They would
be drowned as well as drunk.


GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
The TRUSTEES will carry on the businesses under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WITHOUT ANY INTERMISSION, and under the same
management as during past years.
n Tiie Trustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses in
HOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUSTEES in the Estate of
the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any EIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
f
sdfsd
B
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids '
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in convar
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys" DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd ~ and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY
LIQUOR HABIT
druohabit
HAVE YOU FAILER THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR,
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. J have no desire for drink ,
in fact , have a repugnance to the very idea
°f U- Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
Tne Dr. Langston institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HA BIT
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
THCB FAMOUS FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
J&732’\7\7'A-TFZ.JEZ OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. I). McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“ It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co. '
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne. 1
“ For nine years nay wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. 0. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“ I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is naarvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria,
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa,
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to nay
soai, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” ' (Mrs.) W. J. WISH ART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“Having used your Bronchitis Cure in nay family at
different times for year's past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
coanplaint arising therefroiaa.” —Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
11 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your, Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken.” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“lean thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW, ‘Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses. ”
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet ; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W. ;
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
S 3 dney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W;
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing- and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely-
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W..
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the-
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two-
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne-
Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very had Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
Kindly forward another bottle of vour famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it'to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE' PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
MftwpHPM-oT- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
6000 1 GOOD 1 6000
SUNucHT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD SOAP
PURE SOAP
-ALL SOAP
319
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOTO GOOD GOOD GOOD
pm?
y»'S^ys''^-’S°yv,
-WV 5 * / ..VO^' ,A AO
SI
•<>'-' A \<3
y \<t x >i
#
_ t e
G*
SSt
>*' <e&
*cl
V> v V 4 „
V v V &
<V> oU*> -
yV v V
rt.O° V y V ' V
\\*
©>>*
**
,4®
w
<vf\^
o' v
THE MERITS OF
D 6 Sheldons
Magnetic
Linimentl
■■are
Htolled
I by
EVERY TONGUE
ULCERATED NECK
The Result of a Burst Steam-Pipe.
WHILE working at my trade of engine-driving,” says Mr. George Haigb, o
Newtown, Hamilton, Newcastle, N.S.W., “a steam-pipe burst and scaldec
my neck severely. As the result of this, my neck all broke out in ulcerated
and inflamed wounds, and caused me an immense amount of agony. 1
.i.jj)
consulted a doctor—also pretty well all th<
chemists in Newcastle—who prescribed differeni
lotions, which I applied, but without gaining anj
material benefit. Some of the treatments would heal
my neck temporarily, but it would soon break out
again. For two years I thus suffered agony, during
which period my neck was like raw meat. I could
not bear to wear a collar, but always a soft muffler
round my neck, and had great difficulty in turning
my head. I had often seen Zam-Buk advertised as a
cure for my trouble, and was often on the point ol
writing for a free sample as advertised, but failed to
do so, thinking that it would only be similar to the
many other treatments that had proved so useless.
One day I met a friend, and when explaining my
trouble to him he presented me with a sample pot
of Zam-Buk, which he happened to have with him,
and advised me to give it a fair trial, which I
promised to do. After the fourth dressing with
Zam-Buk, I found the inflammation greatly reduced,
and I could turn my head slightly without turn-
ing the whole of my body, as formerly. Thus
encouraged, I purchased a pot at the chemist’s
and continued with the treatment, and by the
time I had completed this pot my neck was
quite healed and as sound as before the accident occurred.
I can now wear a stiff collar without discomfort, and, in
fact, am my old self again. As you may be assured, the
wonderful healing powers of Zam-Buk came as a great revelation
to me, and I only wish I had secured it at the first, and
thus saved many and many a pound. I am working in
the Harbors and Rivers Department, Newcastle, and am
well known in that district, where I never fail to recom-
mend Zam-Buk, which, to my mind, ‘is worth its weight in
gold.’ I shall be pleased to grant a personal interview to anyone
to whom my experience may prove of benefit.”
ZAM-BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES. ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES, SORE LEGS, BARCOO, RASH, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, SCIATICA, etc. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a
HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS,
SORE THROAT, SORE CHEST, and SORE FEET, ZAM-BUK is INVALUABLE.
From all Medicine Vendors at 1/6, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times
the quantity).
am-
Mil*
Cow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AW, go write yer tinklin’ jingle, an’ yer
pretty phrases mingle,
Fer the mamby-pamby girl, all fluffy
frill.an’ shinin’ silk.
Them’s the sort ter fetch yer trouble, when yer
tries ’em in the double.
Blow yer beauty ! Wot’s the matter with the
maiden ’oo kin milk ?
Them there rhymers uv the wattle! An* the
bardlet uv the bottle—
'lm that sings uv sparklin’ wine, an’ does a perish
fer the beer;
An’ yer slap-dash ’orsey po-it! Garn ! If you
blol ves only know it,
You ’ave missed the single subjec’ fit ter rhyme
about down ’ere.
An’ although I ain’t a bard, with bloomin’ bays
upon me brow,
I kinsider that it’s up ter me ter sing about The
Cow.
Cow, Cow—
(Though it ain’t a pretty row,
It’s a word that ’ipnertises me ; I couldn’t tell yer
’ow.)
Though I ain’t a gifted rhymer,
Nor a blamed Parnassus climber,
I’m inspired ter sing a tune er two about the
Blessed Cow.
Oh, the cow-bells are a-tinklin’, and the daisies
are a twinklin’—
Well, that ain’t the style ersackly I intended fer
to sing.
’Ark, was ever music greater then the buzzin’
sepy-rater.
Coinin’gaily money daily fer the—no, that’s not the
thing !
’Omeward comes the cows a-lowin’, an’ the butter-
cups blowin’;
But there’s better butter in the—Blarst! That
ain’t the proper way !
See the pretty milkmaid walkin’—aw, it ain’t no
use er talkin’.
Listen ’ere, I want ter tell yer this : A cow’s ther
thing ter pay !
Sell yer ’orses, sell yer arrers, an’ yer reapers, an’
yer plough ;
If yer want yer land ter pay yer, sacritice yer life
ter Cow.
Cow, Cow—
Sittin’ underneath the bough,
With a hail, an’ with a pail, an’ with a little stool,
an’ thou
Kickin’ when I pull yer teat there,
Swishin’ flies, the pretty creatur.
Ah, there ain’t no music sweeter —money squirtin’
from the Cow.
Take away the wine-cup ; take it. An’ the
foamin’ flagon, break it.
Brimmin’ cups uv butter-milk’ll set yer glowin’
thro’ an’ thro’;
An’ the reason I’m teetotal is becos me thrifty
throat’ll
Jest refuse ter swaller stuff that’s costin’ me a
precious sou.
Once I wus a sinful spender. Used ter go a
roarin’ bender —
Used ter often spend a thruppence when ther’
wasn’t any need.
An’ the many ways I’ve busted money, when I
should er trusted
It ter cattle an’ erconomy, ’ud cause yer ’eart ter
bleed ;
But I’m glad, me friends, that godliness ’as made
me careful now ;
Tho’ I lorst the thing wot’s next it when I
cottoned ter the Cow.
Cow, Cow—
Trudgin’ thro’ the sloppy slough.
Ah, I once despised the Jews, but I kin under-
stand ’em now—
When they needed elevatin’,
An’ ole Moses kep’ ’em waitin’
Fer religi’n, they went straight ’n’ sorter substi-
chooted Cow.
Listen to the lowin’ cattle. Listen to the buckets
rattle,
See, the sun is ~(’Ere! You Bill! Yer goin’ter
stay all day asleep ?
’Ustle, or yer’ll get a taste er—Wot ? No cheek,
yer flamin’ waster !
This is wot I get fer payin’ ’arf a quid a week an’
keep !
Talk about yer Unions, will yer? Right, me
covey, wait until yer
Come ’ere crawlin’— Where’s that Sarah ? Ain’t
she finished milkin’ Spot ?
Is this wot I brought yer up fer ; reared, an’ give
yer bite an’ sup fer ?
’Struth ! A man’s own kids ’ll next be talkin’
Union, like as not!
Garn, I ain’t got time ter listen ter yer silly
sniv’lin’ now.
Understan’ me, you was born an’ bred ter think
an’ live fer Cow!)
Cow, Cow —
I’m a capitalist now :
Tho’ I once wus poor an’ lonely, an’ a waster I’ll
allow.
Now I’ve ’an’s that I kin ’ector :
I’m a Nupper ’Ouse elector ;
An the Sanit’ry Inspector is an interferin’ cow !
Talk about yer modrun schoolin’ ! Edjucation’s
wasteful foolin’ !
I got on without it; an’ it only teaches youngsters
cheek —
(Where’s young Tom ? Wot ? Ain’t’e back yet ?
Sam, go— —•. ’Ere ! You'll get the sack yet!
Wastin’ time there, washin’ buckets ! Them wus
washed larst Choosdee week !
Tell young Tom if ’e don’t ’urry, I’ll——-. Now,
mother, don’t yer worry.
I’ll deal Christian with ’im ; but I’m not a Bible
pa by ’alf.
That ole Scripchure cove’s a driv’lin’ idjut. When
’is son comes sniv’lin’,
Why, the blazin’, wasteful erim’nal goes an' kills
a poddy calf !
I’m no dotin’ daddy, but I know me jooty, you’ll
allow,
An* the children uv me loins is born to ’ave
respect fer Cow.)
Cow, Cow—
(Bow yer ’eads, yer blighters, bow !)
Come an’be initiated. Come an’ take the milky
vow,
Put yer wife an’ fam’ly in it;
Work ’em ev’ry waivin’ minit ;
Fetch yer sordid soul an’ pin it, signed an’ sealed
an’ sold ter COW.
S. A.
J. DENNIS.
The Man, the Woman, and the
Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT had been a delightful dance, and, to
crown it all, he walked home with me ! We
sat. down on a seat in the garden and his
little dog stood in a surprised way, directly in
front of us. I did not like the dog personally,
but realised that even a dog is a sort of chaperon,
and thought my mother would be pleased.
Suddenly the man caught hold of my hand and
rubbed it gently between his. I said, “Don’t
knead my hand, I need it myself.” He remarked,
“I love you.” I said, “You flatter me” —and
then the storm began !
I won’t go into details, but it was like a loud
anthem.
“ You have dropped your hat,” I murmured,
“ and, though an Englishman may forget his wife,
he never forgets his hat, and I think your dog is
worrying it.”
“I don’t care ! Kitty, do you love me?” I
spent a moment in silent meditation. “DoI ?”
I wondered. “He has a nice English accent; his
collars are irreproachable, and so is his position.”
I hate to be disagreeable, so I said, “ Yes.”
The dog walked away growling.
After a short interval for refreshments, I said,
“ Where have you put my bag with my shoes and
gloves ?”
“ Oh ! it’s quite safe on the seat,” he said, and
I left it to its fate.
When I finally told him he must go, we looked
for the bag. After the striking of many matches,
it was found. Alas for canine perfidy. The
dog knew I disliked him, so had meanly taken
advantage of my temporary absence of mind to
deliberately “deal with” that bag. It was in
rags. My gloves had disappeared, and my white
satin belt—which I always take off and carry
home in a bag if I think a man is likely to
propose—was lying on the ground in a shameful
condition of dirt and dissipation.
I was simply furious. I said, “That is how
you take care of one’s things. I will never speak
to you again. Don’t touch me! I could not
marry a man whose dog had such a vindictive
disposition. You can never have trained his
better instincts.”
The dog whined at this; but I was firm, and
with a scornful gesture of dismissal, I walked
determinedly into the house.
Next morning, before the unconscious family
had awakened, I stole up through the shrubbery
in quest of my white gloves—-ten buttons and new
for the occasion ! I found them. One, with two
fingers eaten off, was lying with its palm upturned
in angry protest to the skies; the other was
huddled miserably under the seat with an expres-
sion of acute anguish that wrenched my soul.
I gathered them up and retired to the house,
a sadder and a wiser woman. Never — never under
any circumstances should a man again carry home
my gloves or shoes.
I will say that this man posted me a parcel
that day containing shoes, gloves and chocolates.
These, in a proud moment, I returned, with the
words: “Sir. —I can no more accept your gifts
than I can accept yourself. The memory of your
dog would always come between us, and there
could be no true happiness for either. —Yours,
gloveless, beltless, and shoeless, but a chastened
woman.”
About a fortnight after, in a moment of expan-
sion, I told the whole pathetic story to a woman
friend, thinking in my simple wajr that it would
amuse her. It didn’t! She positively turned
and rent me. So tactless of her. I hate these
tactless people who, even if everything else in the
garden is beautiful and only the rhubarb won’t
grow, drag it in by the roots. I tried, a little
timidly, to defend the position, saying—“Well,
you see, it was a unique situation. The man was
proposing vociferously, I was enjoying the
development of the affair, and the dog was eating
his way through my wardrobe.”
After the irreproachable woman had gone, I sat
down in a dejected manner with my jfalms turned
outward, and thought over my past life. I became
even more depressed, and said humbly, but with a
sad inflection : “Yes, I am a bad woman. I
have frivolled. I have been too easy-going. I
will go straight—to Hell! ”
I implored Providence to teach me to become
conventional and strenuous. Really, life was a
dreary vale for half-an-hour; then the psycho-
logical man turned up, and my instinct whispered
to me that I had made a hit by looking pensive
I wonder if other women have such deplorable
instincts! My case is hopeless. “I follow the
road that I feel I must, and rather than otherwise
like the dust.”
K.E.
The Federal scheme of Government under
which Canada now works was drafted by Charles
Gavan Duffy for a proposed Federated Australia,
in 1859. Australia was not ready for Federation,
but the Duffy scheme was taken up by some of
his compatriots in Canada, and, with very few
changes, was carried into law.
When the figures are counted the direct
Liberal and Freetrade party in the United
Kingdom received 2,741,000 votes at the recent
* ’* . , TT • •*.
election, while the direct Unionists, who are
steadily drifting towards Protection, got close up
to them with 2,336,000. The “ Freefooders ”
have a stupendous majority in Parliament;- they
got only 400,000 more votes than their opponents
out of 5,000,000, but if you have 1000 co’nstituen-
cies, and 5000 voters in each, a 400 majority can
carry every one of them. It is merely a matter
of having the majority nicely spread around. On
the election figures Britain isn’t nearly so dead
sure about the Freetrade superstition as one might
suppose.


SERIOUS SIGNS.
Any sign of Kidney Complaint is Serious,
Because Kidney Trouble gets Worse
Every Day it is Neglected, and
is Bound to end Fatally.
r'.TlO
djrar
I M
Q
m
M
m
Wi
'ft
' Every
Picture
Tells
a Story.
Many people think that their kidney complaint will get
well again in time without help. But they do not know that
the kidneys can never rest from their great work of purifying
the blood. It takes them all the 24 hours of the day to do it
even when they are well, so that when they are ill the work
is bound to fall behind, and the blood cannot be properly
cleansed. The kidneys can never get well of themselves.
Be on the safe side, and begin with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills at the first sign of anything wrong —when there
is a pain or dull ache in the back, urinary disorders, bladder
troubles, uric acid, dizziness, headaches, loss of appetite ;
when the heart acts strangely; when your eyes are heavy, and
your limbs stiff; when you feel miserable, irritable, nervous,
depressed, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure you, as
they have cured your neighbors. Bead the two statements
given below.
Sydney People Know This.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan-street, Leichhardt Hill, this city, says :
“ Twelve months ago my daughter used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
they cured her of pains in the small of her back. At the time she took the
medicine her back was causing her a lot of discomfort. She could scarcely get
about, and when she sat down it was difficult to stand up again. She blamed
sitting to close to her work for causing the trouble. The Pills made a perman-
ent cure in her case. She has had no sign of the ailment since, and it is twelve
months since the Pills cured her. My husband obtained an equal amount of
benefit from the same remedy. There is a lot of backache in Australia, but
this medicine seems to get at the root of the trouble.”
Mrs. Lawson adds in February, ’O5 : —“ It is some time since I made the
above statement, and lam glad to say that my daughter is still well. It is the
most valuable medicine that I know of.”
ANOTHER LASTING CURE.
Mr. Robert Ryan, 305 Sussek-street, Sydney, states : —“Four years ago, I
made a statement that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had cured me of kidney
ailment; I have been right ever since. For eighteen years, before I used the
pills, I was a regular victim to the kidneys. It seemed to me that I was never
going to get a cure for the trouble ; I had tried so many remedies which did me
no good. As I have been right for four years now, there can be no doubt about
the lasting benefit that comes from using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I
have not needed to take the pills since they cured me.”
Mr. Ryan makes a third statement on 10th February, 1905 : —“ Since I
made the above statement, three years ago, numbers of people have asked me
about the truth of my cure. I say to them : ‘lt is all true. Doan’s Pills cured
me—to stay cured.’ A friend of mine was suffering dreadfully, and losing time
from work. To prove to him how valuable the pills were, I gave him a few—
for I always keep a box in the house. The few doses did him so much good
that he bought two or three boxes, with the result that they cured him also.
My cure still stands firm, and I know of many who have been cured of severe
backache, and other symptoms of disordered kidneys, by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street , Sydney, N.S. W.
f
sdf
sdfds
A Want of Sympathy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the story of how John Horton
lost his first wife and child. His hair is
white now, but few know that in one short
week it turned from black to grey before he was
thirty.
John was a tall, absent-minded man, inclined to
stoutness, and imprisoned in his own point of
view. Mary was an orderly, refined little woman,
armored in an impenetrable reserve that few
suspected and none pierced.
The trouble began with the coming of George
Brooke, the evangelist. John fell under his in-
fluence, and received “ an awakening.” This
referred only to the spiritual side of him ; he was
as sound asleep as ever concerning all earthly
matters. This was shown by his taking Mary to
receive an awakening too. Naturally, she only
received a shock. In all her sheltered life she had
never come close to emotion naked and un-
ashamed. She was by temperament reserved to a
fault. After listening to the hysterics of a “testi-
mony meeting,” she felt outraged.
Then came a great wave of missionary enthu-
siasm. John was caught by it and carried away.
He told Mary he had a call to the mission field.
“ And what about me ? ” she said, commanding
her voice with difficulty. “ I have no such call.”
John looked at her as from a great height, yet
tenderly, too. He took her hand.
“ He that loveth husband or wife more than
Me” he began, but Mary pulled her hand
away.
“ Oh, I will go with you,” she cried; “ I do not
put anyone above my husband ; but it is a pity—•
a pity—you ever married me,” and she ran up the
stairs half blinded by a rush of hot bitter tears.
It seemed like a long anxious dream to Mary,
all the moving and farewelling and travelling by
land and sea. When at last she woke to real life
again it was in a little wooden house set on piles
with a broad verandah in front and steps leading
down to the whitest of sandy beaches, beside a
broad stream of clear dazzling water. The river
ran through the heart of the tropical forest. Tall
mahoganies, acacias, cottonwoods, fringed its
banks, while over their massive tops waved
the feathery palms. A rough jetty ran out from
the beach into a lovely still pool starred with
water-lilies. A beautiful place. But behind the
houses on the beach were swamps breathing
miasma, in the depths of the lilied pool lurked
alligators grotesque and loathsome, and from all
the ground rose steamy heat into the blue of the
tropical sky.
The Hortons were put under the guardianship
of a Mr. and Mrs. Grey, seasoned missionaries
who could guide new-comers past many pitfalls.
Mrs. Grey received Mary with delight.
“ Now, my dear, show me your things,” she said,
and came and unpacked and admired and helped
with a childlike energy and enjoyment that won
Mary’s heart.
“ We’ll leave the heathen to the men, my dear,”
she said, “you and I shall have enough to do to
keep the homes nice.”
Mary found no lack of employment. Of course
they both had a touch of fever, and it was hard
work whichever way you looked at it. John had
a couple of Krooboys, who piloted him from place
to place by forest-path or river. He took to the
work wonderfully, learning the outlandish speech
with ease. He seemed almost fever-proof, and
the hard life suited him ; his superfluous fat dis-
appeared and his muscles hardened. He was, at
this time, in the first rush of his enthusiasm, a
“ Gottbetrunkener mann ” indeed, his head as
much in the clouds as ever, but they were, to him,
clouds of glory.
Mary never got used to the black skins. She
hated to have natives inside the house, and pre-
ferred to do all the work herself so long as she
might keep her little kingdom inviolate. She
confided to Mrs. Grey that she thought a black
man in clothes singing hymns looked quite ridi-
culous, and Mrs. Grey said : “ Well, my dear,
you can’t always tell. God does make something
of them sometimes, though not nearly so often as
they put in the reports.”
One other friend she made beside Mrs. Grey, a
lean, yellow-faced medical missionary called Hall,
whose double-edged tongue and exasperating man-
ner were belied every day of his life by acts of
unchronicJed and careless heroism. He recog-
nised—perhaps he alone—how she went through
the weary days with no enthusiasm to help her.
“That braying ass Horton,” he growled to
Mrs. Grey, “had no business to bring the little
woman out to this brutal hole.”
Then, of course, came the inevitable baby, and
the two women were drawn very close together,
for Mary threatened to die and would have suc-
ceeded but for Mrs. Grey and Mr. Hall, who,
though he patrolled about a thousand miles of the
river, stayed there all through the critical
time and fought like a tiger for her life. Then
came a great blow. Mary was not more than just
on her feet again when the Greys were ordered
home. Mrs. Grey came to tell her so with laugh-
ter and tears.
“ We’re going home ! We shall see the chil-
dren ! Only think, five years, why my baby won’t
know me,” she chattered. “Green fields —and
cool nights—and the children ! ” .
Then the other side of it came uppermost.
“ They think you two are experienced enough
to stand alone now,” she said. “Oh, my poor
child —why, you can only just crawl about ! ”
But Mary was very brave, and lighter-hearted
than she had been for many a long day.
“ You see, I have Baby now,” she said. “ He’s
such company, the dear, when John’s away, and
Mr. Hall has promised to look in every time he’s
passing.”
Warm-hearted Mrs. Grey wondered to see her
so happy, till Mary very shyly whispered to her :
“I never felt John or the heathen really
wanted me, not really you know, but Baby wants
his own mammy every moment of the time,
doesn’t he, precious ? ”
Then Mrs. Grey understood, but, looking at the
baby, apprehension laid a chill hand on her.
After the last good-bye had been spoken and the
Greys were steaming down the river, she said to
her husband : “ God keep that poor mite ! I do
believe his mother’s life depends on him.”
The baby was a poor little creature, white and
peaky. He lay quietly on Mary’s knee hour after
hour, not lusty enough to cry.
“ Such a good baby ! ” she said, fondly touching
the little downy head. Then came the rains.
Day after day the falling water drummed on the
iron roof with deafening uproar, and when the sun
broke through it only made matters worse by
drawing the stifling steamy heat from the soaked
ground. Mary herself was in distress, feverish
and miserable, but that was forgotten in her
anxiety for the little one. The heat sucked the
life out of him. She put his lips to her breast,
but the grip was gone from them. She had little
enough to give bim, but it was more than he
would take. She bathed him, fanned him, any-
thing to keep the little wasted body cool. Mr.
Hall came down the river in his canoe one even-
ing. The sun had set. and there was some faint
suggestion of coolness in the air. He found Mary
sitting on the verandah, her baby on her knee.
The bath was beside her; she was tenderly drying
one skinny little arm.
“He is really better to-night,” she said. “See,
Mr. Hall, he can smile at his mammy,” and she
stroked his little colorless chest. The little
creature stirred faintly, half opened his eyes,
uttered a whimpering cry, then drowsed again.
Hall looked at him critically ; be had seen many
such.
“ Mrs. Horton,” he began, “you mustn’t be too
hopeful” but Mary was not listening. A
bluish tinge crept over the child’s skin ; the head
fell limply in her hand.
“ Oh, what is it ? ” she cried, as slowly the little
body stiffened from neck to heel, the head drawn
back, the eyes rolled up; then every muscle
relaxed. She lifted the little thing in her arms,
caught himto herbreast,called to him, croonedover
him. “ Mammy’s own boy ; look at mammy, my
sweetheart.” Then she turned her eyes, wide
with a growing terror, on Hall as he bent over the
child.
“ My baby isn’t dead ? ” she said, speaking low,
but on a rising note. Hall nodded.
“ My poor girl,” he said, “the child never had
a chance in this cursed climate.”
He went away and sent John, who knelt beside
her and kissed her and prayed for her, but she
took no notice of either of them. All night she
sat there, the lamp burning dimly in the room
behind her, brushing the mosquitoes from the
dead child’s face. At daybreak Hall spoke to
Horton.
“The child must be buried at once,” lie said.
“I’ve sent the boys to dig a grave, and here’s a
box. Now, Horton, you must manage this.”
John came up the steps to Mary. “My poor,
poor Mary,” he began, and choked. Hall gave
an impatient groan, and came to the rescue.
“Mrs. Horton,” he said, and his voice had lost
all its sharpness, “ will you let me have your little
child ? ” John had found speech again by this
time.
“ Our little one is not here, he is with Christ,”
he said, but Mary answered never a word. She
rose and went into the bedroom. They heard her
moving about for a few minutes. Then she came
out again, all dressed in clean white, the baby
wrapped in a soft shawl in her arms.
They went out by a little path through the
trees to the sandy clearing already marked by
many white crosses where others had been laid.
The black-boys had scooped a little grave, piling
the mixed clay and sand beside it, and now they
squatted on their heels bailing out the water that
oozed into the hollow. Mary shuddered as she
looked at it. She turned to Hall.
“Where is that box?” she whispered with an
effort.
He had it ready, and she herself laid the baby
in it. Her hands clung convulsively for a moment,
then let go, and fell loose at her sides. She
turned away her eyes and never looked toward
the place again. John read the service, his deep
voice booming out the well-known words. There
was no other sound, but the endless drip from
saturated foliage on to sodden ground. When all
was done he took Mary’s hand within his
arm, but she withdrew it and walked grimly
down the narrow pathway back to the house by
herself. She went into the bedroom and shut the
door.
“ Your wife must have some sleep, Horton,” said
Hall; “ there’ll be trouble with her next.”
He made up a sedative and handed it to John.
“ A dose every half-hour till she gets to sleep,”
he said, “and now I must be off.”
John sighed heavily. “If she could but bring
her burden to the Lord, ” he began ; but Hall cut
him short.
“Don’t shirk your responsibility, man,” he
said. “ You brought her here ; you must help her
to live here.”
The sun was by this time well over the tree-
tops, the steamy morning mist had thinned away,
the white sandy shore and the water beyond
struck the eye with an intolerable glare. Hall
called his man, and together they pushed off in
the canoe. John watched them out of sight round
the first bend of the river, their paddles flashing
and shimmering in the molten-silver stream.
Then he went back to Mary.
He found her sitting still in the middle of the
room with hard, bright eyes staring at nothing.
“ My poor girl, my dear, dear wife,” he said,
“try to see God’s hand in this. You know our
child is safe in the arms of Jesus.” But she made
no sign of having heard him. He knelt beside
her and drew her to him. Then she spoke.
“Don’t touch me!” she said in a dreadful
voice, and John drew back, as if he had been
stung. She went on : “ What have I to do with
God? He has taken my baby from me.” She
stopped, and, outside, the hum of myriad insects
deepened the hot silence. John knew not what
to do. He fell on his knees beside the bed and
prayed, at first within himself, then with utter-
ance. As ever, even at this cruel crisis, he could
lose himself in prayer —when suddenly he became
aware (the fact had filtered into his consciousness
slowly, through the depths of his absorption) that
some sound had stirred the silence of the room.
He looked round—Mary was gone. He sprang to
the verandah and caught the flash of her white
dress passing swiftly across the dazzling sand out
on to the jetty. With a shout to the Kroohoy,
dozing in the shade of the house, he leaped down
the steps and raced across the beach to the water’s
edge. The river lay smooth, gleaming and
dazzling beneath his eyes save in one troubled
spot, whence circular ripples spread slowly and
lapped at his feet. Right in the heart of the
ruffled water a pale something gleamed, shim-
mered, sank. John was ever an unready man.
He stood a moment confused, the blood dinning
in his ears. Then he was just tearing off his coat
when the Krooboy caught him by the arm. Down
from the quiet upper stream came a swish and a
swirl through the water, the track of a great
creature moving just under the surface, the
glimpse of a dark scaly body.
A minute later the sound of paddles was heard,
as the medical missionary’s canoe rounded the
bend below the jetty.
“ I left my tabloid case behind,” he shouted, as
he drew near. “Why, Horton, man, are you
mad ? Where’s your hat ? ” Then, as they slid
alongside, with a glance at John’s face and a sud-
den change of tone, “Good God, what’s the
matter ? ” ’
The Ivrooboy answered: “Missy live gone in
river. Alligator catch uni,” he said.
A.W.


If you are run do wn, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
I
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating beat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
If you ire sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purities the blood first of all.
Then- your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Kemember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and langpid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “ AYER’SSarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYES & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Aver's P<l!s cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
»*»I t UX
<»*
UL
1
#
GUARANTEED
IN EVERY CASE
UNDERTAKEN
As a Sufferer, a remedy
sold on this plan must
appeal strongly to you.
We want to cure you
because we know our
Belt will do it. We
guarantee it because <
we know its virtue, and |
have absolute faith in
Its qualities. . . . Give up taking medicine, and turn to Nature’s true remedy.
Electricity will cure when all else fails. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt was
made for all such sufferers as you. Worn at night—while you sleep, it pours
a warm, soothing, rejuvenating current of new life into your blood and
tissues for hours at a time. It has cured thousands, and has the widest
reputation of any remedy in the world. Once worn, the patient becomes an
ardent advocate and supporter of its virtues.
We would like to talk with every man who feels that the lack of Nerv-
ous Energy, Vigor, and Health has kept him down. We want to have a
heart-to-heart talk with you, either personally or by post, because we know
our Belt will be worth its weight in gold to you.
Let us send you, Free and Postage Prepaid, our Handsomely-Illustrated
Book, which tells you how Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt cures—to stay
cured—Weak Back, Nervousness, Insomnia, Low Vitality, Inability to Con-
centrate your Faculties, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Paralysis, Epilepsy
Stomach and Liver Complaint, and Weakness of the Bladder. It cures
forever all Weaknesses of Men. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt carries a cur-
rent of Electricity in your body for hours at a time. It saturates every
nerve and tissue, stimulates the circulation, destroys unhealthy or worn-out
tissue, and creates new life. This wonderful appliance will restore a weak
man to his full normal vigor in three months.
Call at our office for Free Consultation and Advice. In obtaining our
Free Book you place yourself under no obligation whatever. Hours: 9 till 8.
Our Belt Effects Permanent Cures.
Sciatica anti Lumbago.
HILLGROVE, N.S.W.
Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in informing
you that after wearing- your Belt for about three
weeks the pains I was suffering from left me en-
tirely. It is. without doubt, a wonderful invention,
and it has done more for me than I expected. I
can highly recommend it to anyone suffering from
Sciatica and Lumbago as I was. Yours truly,
W. H. CRANSTON.
Debility of the Muscles.
BURNETT CREEK, BOONAH, QLD.
Dear Sirs,—Your Belt is wonderful. Before using
it I suffered untold agony, and could scarcely use
my legs, even had to be helped up from a chair. I
am now well and hearty, and consider your Belt has
been worth twenty times to me what it cost.
Yours gratefully,
PRICE WILLIAMS.
CUT
OUT
THIS
fsd
AND
POST
fsd
TO
US
fds
GOOD FOR A
TWENTY SHILLINGS DISCOUNT
The DR. McLAUGHUN GO. 100 W. Market St., Sydney
54 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. QO William Street, Perth, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—Please send me your Free Book and credit me ivith Twenty Shillings as per this Coupon
Name .
26/4/6 B.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRA
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEKftWS
mgs
torbed Sleep, and all Nervous and 'l'remb, imr Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL DIVA RLLIEI IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly in vited to try one Lox of these Pills, and cy will be acknowledged to be “ Vi/ OETH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM S PTLLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rose bud Of Health the Whole Physical Enkkgy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beechanis Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediemein
he world. lull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLANB
Sold livery where, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
06 RI CORO’s
tSSC.t* c6 of f j-j
The only InraL.bie Reiredy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 12t., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
fds
fsd
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
ai d affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
i«essi-n trr Key to Hypnotism which I send
free Ci charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi; marvelous science. It contains
be ut ful and artistic engravings, and shows
you j st what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize, lie member, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this pap r. I will also include a large
package of otlr r v lu ble, .interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. chance of a lil'er !
W.ite to-day. Address-
of a liferim«.
Idress—
fsd
?rof. n. H. BARRADEN, t}9 Pitt St., Sydney*
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagk
Street, Sydney.
spW
As,
_ x/
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 40
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name
f
ASTHMA CORE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
E1TES. Art d bv all Chemists.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYHE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every but,tie of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fec. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
AN INTERESTING
HOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood _poison a
specialty, Pt imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co. (
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S A.
DEAF
The New Patent
i SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■ and Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M.
• Collins St., Melboonu,
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medicine Practising as a Specialist
in Australasia, and holding the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If you have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being cured, CONSULT
DR. MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronic and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible on Private, Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Cure
arty Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Physician-in-Ordinary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
“ DR. MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgery, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner. He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms and in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOH: “THE DISEASES OP MEN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE.”
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all on application. The Book
contains 700 pages, over 500 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for general
.use, and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely different to the many so-called Medical
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day, or
send for specimen copy—FREE. r
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165.,
18s. cwt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^i
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREE
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
bINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA)
MAGNESI
Every Pump Guaranteed.
V
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., >-«•.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. ...
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
1 .. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and, all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
nut 11 H im uu
pTvccTC:.
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in Is. S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Bundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT .
. « i •
)
AN receipt of P.O 0.
v/ forward to an v
of our HANDSOME
ROUND wire
or M.O. for 5/- we will
addressin Australia one
9ot. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three In tials, Kell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guarantee l the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F.. Twisted Wire,
S/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to B. SIMS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
,
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
v:
f'v^
The Finest Book of
Illustrations ever
issued in Australia.
21s.
hree Hundred of 11 Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE and LUXURIOUS GIFT.
■■ ■
Ltd.
263 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
Collins St., Melbourne.
POE-
Card Concentrator.
Sperry Slimer. Rapid-Economy Stamp Mill.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills.
Rand Air Compressors. Pulsometer Company’s English Pumps of All Kind
Lister Motors and Dynamos. Electrical Machinery.
i
Panklast Dry Crusher.
Rackarock. Rend rock.
Billett’s Pat. Hot Air Tuyere.
a
Cam Brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies. I
IMevermiss Fuse. Electric Fuses. BattcJLries.
Guthridge” Gold Saving Canvas. Abbott Water //p;iter.
